THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 13. BOSTON., FRIDAY, MARCH 30, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1527.
<c01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
A NURSERY OF TREASON.
It is one of the most pregnant proofs and illustrations of the fact that we inhabit the freest country, and live under the freest institutions in the world, that, since the year 1834,there has been permitted to exist within our borders such a collegiate establishment as Oberlin College Ohio; an institutions whose teachings and inculcations, and whose influences and practical results, are all in the manifest direction of the most traitorous hostility to the Constitution and the laws of the Republic.
In the year above named, this college was founded, under the direction of a sect calling themselves Evangelical Congregationalists; their evangel being treason, and their neophytes and catechumens being a congregation of incipient traitors. The founding of this school desecrated the name of the celebrated pastor of Walbach, in Switzerland, by calling it after his name. It is located in the tract known as ‘The Western Reserve'-so long represented in Congress by the notorious Giddings-the very centre of Abolitionism, where (as truly says a late New York Journal of Commerce) the people are born Abolitionists, and where Abolitionism is taught as ‘the chief end of man,' and often put in practice. Negroes are matriculated at this institution as freely as whites, and neither age nor sex form any distinction in the admission of pupils. They are sent there to learn treason, just as in Christian communities children are sent to the Sabbath, or secular school. The use their teachers make of all the usual branches of education is to inculcate principles of deep hostility to the best interests of their country. The practical application, for example, of arithmetic, at Oberlin, is to compute the number of slaves in the Union, and their value per caput. Geography is only considered useful as teaching those who learn it the boundary lines, and those localities of slave territory supposed to be favorable to emancipation, together with the lay of the underground railroad, and the proper stations along it, at which to rest on their way to Canada. With history, at Oberlin, are learned the chronicles of the peculiar institution; and with ethics and philosophy, the ‘higher law,' and resistance to the law of the land. The end of all this teaching is well summed up by our New York contemporary as follows:-
'Oberlin is the nursery of just such men as John Brown and his followers. The graduates are Masters of Art in Abolitionism, and, with the acquirement of their degrees, are prepared to a degree or two further if occasion requires. Here is where the younger “Browns" obtain their conscientiousness in ultraist, taught from their cradle up, so that, while they rob slaveholders of their property, or commit murder for the cause of freedom, they imagine that they are doing God service.'
The last published catalogue of Oberlin College represents the institution as in a flourishing condition, and shows a total of 1,250 students, of whom 480 are females. Rev. Charles G. Finney is the president. The number of alumni, up to this year's commencement, was 277, of whom 135 are preachers. Lucy Stone and some others of the abolition sisterhood, graduated here. There are numerous teachers; and attached to the College is a liberty of 5,000 volumes. They have a newspaper and a quarterly review connected with the institution, and inculcating its peculiar doctrines.
We have been thus particular in giving the facts connected with this pernicious collegiate establishments, because we would fain have our readers acquainted with one of the most fruitful sources of those dangers to our institutions which, accumulating and gaining strength with every year's lapse, are now threatening the integrity of the Union and the best interest of our country; and because we would show that it is not political partizanship and demagoguical self-seeking alone which have brought these evils upon us, though they have not been inefficient to that end, but that it is to misguided religious zeal, heated to the extreme of fanaticism, that we are indebted for the propagation of dogmas and principles, the tendency of which is to overthrow all that is valuable in our political system.-New Orleans Picayune.

MRS. CHILD'S HUMANITY.
Whilst travelling through Pointe Coupee parish, a short time since, (says a correspondent of the New Orleans Picayune,) I learned of an event connected with old Osawatomie Brown, which I think should be published, and, accordingly, I give it, upon the authority of a most estimable lady, the lovely wife of one of the leading gentlemen of Pointe Coupee.
It is this: That Mrs. Maria L. Child, the would-be sympathizer and nurse of the old rascal Brown, had a maiden daughter teaching in the family of Col. Lee, of Mississippi, some years ago, who, after some ten years' residence in the South, became a confirmed invalid, from an affection of the spine. Perfectly unable to assist herself, and disliking to become a pensioner upon the bounty of the gentleman who had so kindly and nobly assisted her, she wrote to her mother, requesting her to furnish her with means, and send or come after and return her to her home in Boston. To this letter, and to numerous other letter from the same source, Mrs. Child paid no heed, choosing to falsily all those humane principles that she has pleaded so eloquently for old Brown, and clearly showing a want of the most common affection and humanity for her daughter.
Furthermore, Col. Lee, upon removing from the parish in which he resided at the time Miss Child was taken with this affection of the spine, upon learning that the lady could not be removed from her bed, provided in the articles of sale of his premises, that board and a room should be furnished, and appropriated to the sole use of this lady, during her natural life; that she should have the use of a servant, and be provided with an annuity of some two or three hundred dollars. This was all voluntary upon the part of the gentleman. Mrs. Maris L. child, of Boston, the would-be enthusiast and abolition sympathizer, has indeed most nobly repaid the noble kindness of Col. Lee. This statement is a fact, and abundant vouchers can be furnished, if necessary. Mrs. Child appears to have taken a very strong lesson in buncombe from Wm. H. Seward strong and his like, and has succeeded admirably in bamboozling the learned ones of the Athens City with her affected sympathy for old Brown.
Bring out the facts, and show the really conservative people of the North (and I know there are many) the true character and purposes of that class of agitators and radical reformers to which Mrs. Child belongs, and among whom she is an important and shining light. Oh! Consistency, thou art a jewel!
It is a sufficient refutation of this ridiculous and slanderous statement, that Mrs. Lydia Maria Child was never so fortunate as to have been a mother-a fact for which ‘abundant vouchers can be furnished, if necessary'-consequently, she has never had a maiden daughter, as alleged above.
<c02>
SELECTIONS.
From the North British Daily Mail, Glasgow.
AMERICAN SLAVEBY.
MR. GEORGE THOMPSON IN THE CITY HALL.
George Thompson, Esq., the well-known antislavery lecturer, and late M. P. for the Tower Hamlets, delivered an address last night in the City Hall, on the moral, religious, and political aspects of the United States, in their bearing on the question of slavery. The hall was about three-fourths filled. The following gentlemen, among others, were on the platform:-Wm. Smeal, Esq.; James Craig, Esq., of Middleton: Councillors John Taylor, Martin, and Millar;-Knox, Esq.; Rev. Messrs. G. Jeffrey, Borland, Blyth, D. Johnstone, &c. The Rev. Mr. Jeffrey was called to the chair.
The CHAIRMAN, in introducing Mr. Thompson, spoke of the valuable services he had for many years rendered to the anti-slavery cause, and of his having commenced his career twenty-seven years ago on the platform of Glasgow, where his labors and his triumphs were well known. He had been in ill health, but God had again restored him to health, and had enabled him to let his voice be once more heard where it had often instructed the inhabitants of Glasgow. He came to give them a lecture upon a very important point and crisis,-an address in regard to slavery in the United States of America. He (the Chairman) was sure the audience would give him an attentive hearing, and he was also sure that a Glasgow audience would sympathise with his views and principles. (Applause.)
Mr. THOMPSON, who, on rising, was greeted with loud and prolonged cheering, spoke as follows:—
I rejoice, after the lapse of many years, to enjoy an opportunity of once more addressing an audience in Glasgow. My joy, however, is chastened by the recollection of the many gaps which death has produced in the ranks of those with whom it was my privilege to labor, and whom I most truly loved. I see their places vacant, and cannot avert the mournful feeling awakened by the retrospect of the years that are past, when I was cheered and counselled and sustained by the noble men who have gone from us-from their philanthropic labors-to their endless rest and reward. (Applause.) I cannot stand before this audience to-night without thinking of the venerable Robert Graham, the contemporary and friend of Wilberforce: of the equally venerable Dr. Kidston-a man of whom I only do not speak as he deserves, because I am incapable of doing justice to his character; of a man, the co-secretary with my honored friend on this platform (Mr. Smeal)-the late John Murray. Nor do I fail to recollect, when I first came here, I found your city at once adorned and benefited by the labors of Ralph Wardlaw-(applause)-who, throwing associations and relationships aside, opened his house and heart to a comparatively youthful stranger, when, for the first time, he visited your city. I cannot forget others from whom aid and co-operation have been received in the good cause. Among them, let me make honorable and respectful mention of one, though he was not a resident in your town-I mean the late Patrick Brewster, of Paisley. There was another friend, also, whose place is now vacant-I mean the late Mr. James M'Tear. There is still another vacant place that used to be filled by a man-one of God's noblest works—Mr. James Turner. Last, but not least, there was one who had scaled the heights of science-one of the most pure and disinterested philanthropists-Professor Nichol. (Applause.) These having well performed their work are now reaping the harvest of their labors. Let us feel it to be more incumbent upon us to enter into the work, let us see to it that we stand firmly to the principles which they advocated; and that we double our exertions in the cause for which they lived and labored. (Applause.) Since the time when it was decided I should deliver an anti-slavery address in this city, circumstances have occurred which appeared to me to render it necessary that I should direct my own and your attention to one particular and vital branch of the momentous question of American slavery. You have recently had amongst you Mr. Frederick Douglass, of whose talents I can speak with the sincere admiration, and him, whose efforts for the enlightenment of the British public in reference to the true character of American slavery-the unspeakable wrong done to four millions of his countrymen in chains, and the timid, corrupt, and time-serving policy of the churches, I can cordially wish’ God-speed.' Certain things, however, have been stated by that gentleman, here and elsewhere, which I could not allow to pass unnoticed, without failing in my duty to the cause to which I have been so long attached, and without suffering injustice to be done to that body of Abolitionists in America which I believe to be the only one acting out with perfect consistency and fidelity the principles of religion, morality, and sound policy, as applied to the circumstances of the United States. In the North British Mail of the 15th inst., Mr. Douglass is reported to have said, in the course of a lecture in John Street Church, that amongst the various antislavery parties in the United States,’ There was the Garrisonian party, whose programme was a dissolution of the Union. From these he differed entirely, and would rather draw the cords of the Union more closely, and bring the powerful and positive influence of the Northern States to bear on the slavery in the Southern States. Besides, the very object which the Garrisonian party were aiming at as the means of abolishing the evil, the slaveholding people looked to as the only salvation of slavery, and he thought they were right. Slavery could be far better preserved in these States with the Union dissolved, than with the Union continued.' On the eighth of this month. I delivered a lecture on slavery in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, in which, after referring to the great Republican party of the United States, I said: Besides this political party, there is a non-political party, of which Mr. Garrison is the founder and the head. The adherents of this party cannot vote, for the reason that they cannot elect a man to an office which he cannot assume until he has taken an oath to support the Constitution-which Constitution guarantees the slaveholder his rights of property in human beings, and pledges the power of the Federal Government to the defence of those rights. By this party the Constitution is denounced as an unholy and iniquitous compact, which must be dissolved as the first effectual step towards the overthrow of slavery. Hence they are avowedly for disunion, and inscribe upon their flag, 'No union with slaveholders; no compromise with slavery.' They do not obstruct political anti-slavery action. but they do not cooperate in it further than by the dissemination of their own high, uncompromising principles. In accordance with their settled views of what is right and necessary, they seek the separation of the Free from the Slave States.
With this party it has been my privilege to cooperate for five-and-twenty years, and with ever-increasing admiration of their disinterestedness and fidelity, I still regard them as the only party in America who, with consistency, singleness of purpose, and in the spirit of the <Illegible> of Christ, are
<c03>
carrying on the work of immediate emancipation. Well, Mr. Douglass followed me in Newcastle, and was pleased to refer to the lecture I had delivered, and in doing so is reported in one paper to have said,’ That so far from slavery being guaranteed in the American Constitution, the system might be put an end to by honestly carrying out the provisions of the Constitution.' In another report of the same discourse, Mr. Douglass is represented as arguing, at considerable length, that the Constitution and laws of the United States could not, except by the grossest perversion, be construed into the protection of slavery.' It is upon the several important points involved in these quotations that I am anxious to address you; and the discussion of them will bring out clearly the political aspects of slavery in the United States, which is, in fact, the topic announced for my present lecture.
Let us see what these points are. Mr. Douglass affirms-1. That slavery is not guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States, and that it is only by the grossest perversion that the Constitution and laws of the United States can be construed into the protection of slavery. 2. That the Constitution contains provisions which, if honestly carried out, would put an end to slavery. 3. That the abolition of slavery should be sought through the preservation of the Union, and the powerful and positive influence of the Northern States acting through the Union upon the Slave States. 4. That the programme of the Garrisonian party, of carried out to the dissolution of the Union, would lend to the salvation of slavery. 
On all these grave points I join issue with Mr. Douglass. I will now ask you to accompany me with your closest and most critical attention, while I follow Mr. Douglass through these several distinct propositions. Mr. Douglass denies that the Constitution of the United States, which is the origin and basis of the present Union, guarantees slavery. I affirm that it does. Judge you between us. The introduction of slavery into the provinces of America was part of the colonial policy of Great Britain. Long before, and at the era of Independence, it existed to some extent in each of the original thirteen States of the Union. At the time of the revolution, the evils of the institution were, by some of the States, severely felt. and its incompatibility with an honest and consistent profession of the principles of a republican government was too palpable not to be generally perceived and acknowledged. It was considered, however, the dictate of sound policy, when the Congress was convoked that put forth the Declaration of Independence, to strike out that portion of the original draft of the instrument which reprobated in severe language the conduct of the mother country in relation to slavery and the slave trade. This was the first concession to slavery. There can be no manner of doubt on this point, as we have a perfect copy, and facsimile, of Mr. Jefferson's manuscript.
Again, two years afterwards, when Articles of Confederation between the several States were adopted, the topic of slavery was carefully and advisedly excluded. In 1787, when the perils of the revolutionary conflict were over, 'and peace invited the exercise of patriotism, philanthropy, and religion in the formation of a more stable and more perfect system of government, by which were to be reconciled the jarring elements incident to a widespread country, peopled by inhabitants whose geographical position, whose education, whose pursuits, whose interests, and whose religious creeds were different, the great struggle between principle and expediency-between acting out the spirit of the Declaration of Independence and compromising its self-evident truths-took place. I have referred to the Declaration of Independence, from which all reference to slavery was expunged. I have referred, also, to the Articles of Confederation, in which nothing relating to slavery was introduced. For eleven years, therefore, the subject of slavery remained in abeyance, and during that time, the system had been abolished in several of the New England States.
I must now ask you to remark the difference which appears between the Constitution and its provisions, and the instruments just alluded to. The Declaration of Independence is silent on the subject of slavery; so also were the Articles of Confederation. While these instruments constituted the bond of union or federation, no State was pledged, or otherwise committed, to any other State on the subject of slavery. The inhabitants of the several States were responsible to themselves alone for the support of slavery, and were in no way called upon to render aid in its defence to any other commonwealth. Was the same caution observed with respect to the Constitution? That is the question. Mr. Douglass makes two important assertions on this essential point-first, that the Constitution contains no guarantees of slavery; and next, that it does contain provisions for bringing it to an end. His words are-' provisions, which, if honestly carried out, would put an end to it.' Mr. Douglass will, I hope, see and duly consider the refutation which I shall now offer to these assertions. My authorities on this subject shall be of the most unquestionable character. And, first, I will speak of the Constitution itself. Article 1, section 9, provides for the continuance of the African slave trade for twenty years after the adoption of the Constitution. Article 4, section 2, provides for the recovery from other States of fugitive slaves. Article 1, section 2, gives the Slave States a representation of three-fifths of all the slave population; and Article 1, section 8, requires the President to use the naval, military, ordnance, and militia resources of the entire country for the suppression of a slave insurrection, in the same manner as he would employ them to repel invasion. You will very justly require to know whether I have rightly rendered the true meaning and intention of these clauses, and I am bound to prove that I have. The African slave trade was continued for twenty years after the ratification of the Constitution, and was then abolished by the Congress, under the express power given by the Constitution for that purpose. Then, as to the meaning of the clause which I have said guarantees the recovery of fugitive slaves. You will be told that the word' slave' is not in the Constitution, and that it reads 'persons or servants held to service or labor.' You are perfectly aware that when an Act of Parliament is brought before our judges, that they may clear up anything that is uncertain or obscure, they invariably inquire what was the design of the Legislature in framing the particular Act, and administer it accordingly. You know, also, that judges in equity, when the wording of a will is in dispute, always seek to ascertain what was the meaning, what the wish, what the design of the testator was, and consider themselves bound to carry out the provisions of the will accordingly. Let us apply these rules to the clause now under consideration. Let us go back to 1787, and enter Liberty Hall, Philadelphia, where sat in convention the illustrious men who framed the Constitution, with George Washington in the chair. On the 27th of September, Mr. Butler and Mr. Pinckney, two delegates from the State of South Carolina,’ moved that the Constitution should require fugitive slaves and servants to be delivered up like criminals'; and after a discussion on the sub-
<c04>
ject, the clause, as it stands in the Constitution, was adopted. Alter this, in the conventions held in the several States to ratify the Constitution; the same meaning was attached to the words. For example-Mr. Madison, (afterwards President,) when recommending the Constitution to his constituents, told them that’ this clause would secure to them their property in slaves,' and that, whereas at present,’ if any slave elopes to any of those States where slaves are free, he becomes emancipated by their laws,' this clause’ was expressly inserted to enable owners of slaves to reclaim them.' I might quote many other passages from the speeches of equally distinguished men to the same effect; but I will refer you to the language of one who spoke at a much later date-a most accomplished statesman, a distinguished diplomatist, a profound student of the Constitution, and one who would have been but too glad to find in the Constitution any support of his magnificent and heroic efforts in Congress in behalf of the slave and the rights of the abolitionists. Listen to the words of the venerable John Quincy Adams, ex-President of the United States. (Loud applause.) 'Yes,' he says,’ it cannot be denied the slaveholding lords of the South prescribed, as a condition of their assent to the Constitution, three special provisions to secure the perpetuity of their dominion over their slaves,-1. The immunity, for twenty years, of the African slave trade; 2. The stipulation to surrender fugitive slaves-an engagement positively prohibited by the laws of God from Sinai; and, 3. The exaction of a representation for slaves—for articles of merchandise-under the name of persons.' He goes on to say that 'the preservation, propagation, and perpetuity of slavery is the vital and animating principle of the national government, and that a knot of slaveholders give the law and prescribe the policy of the country.' Such is the Constitution upon which the Union of the United States has rested for seventy-two years, and under which the government is at this moment administered, and must continue to be administered, until the Union is dissolved, or the Constitution, with the consent of the slaveholding States, is altered; such is the Constitution, as interpreted and invariably acted upon by the Supreme Court, the highest judicial tribunal in the country; such is the Constitution, as understood by every Congress that has been convened since its formation; such is the Constitution, as held by every political party, save one, that has ever been formed; such is the Constitution, as taught in every class-book, legal commentary, college, university, and law-court in the Union; such is the Constitution, according to the universal sentiment and acceptation of the people. Under this Constitution, the Government of the United States has been a government of slaveholders from the beginning. Washington, Jefferson, Madison, Munroe, Jackson, Tyler, Polk, and Taylor, all Presidents, were slaveholders. At the time Mr. Adams spoke the words I have quoted, the President of the United States, the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and five out of nine of the judges of the Supreme Court, were slaveholders.
Under this Constitution, thousands of slaves, having fled across the borders of the Southern States, have been captured in the Free States, and dragged to merciless punishment, and doomed to a rapid death upon the plantations of the Mississippi; under this Constitution, slavery and slave territory have extended, until the six original Slave States have become fifteen, and the slaves, less than a million at the beginning of the-revolution, have become four millions; under this Constitution, the inhuman and infamous fugitive slave law was passed; under this Constitution, the slave Burns was marched through the streets of Boston, while the houses were draped with black, and United States soldiers lined the way from the Court House to the wharf, where lay the vessel engaged to carry the fugitive back to slavery; under this Constitution, troops were sent from Washington to Harper's Ferry to shoot down John Brown and his associates, and they were United States bayonets and sabres that pierced and hacked the body of the hero-martyr, who was executed on the 2d of December last. Yet this is the Constitution that Mr. Douglass says contains no guarantees of slavery, and this is the Union the cords of which he says he would draw still closer. Has Mr. Douglass considered in what relation he himself stands to this Constitution at the very moment he is lauding and magnifying it? and what would be his fate, if he returned to his country, while yet the Union which he would strengthen continues intact? Did he not make his way to Canada to escape the clutches of the United States marshal? If he landed on the shores of the United States to-morrow, would he not be arrested on a warrant from the Committee of the Senate, and carried before an inquisition at Washington? Has he not, in the discourse from which I have already quoted, told the people of Glasgow, that the Supreme Court of the United States has 'declared that a colored man, of African descent, cannot be a citizen of the United States, and that, no matter what outrages may be committed on him, he is denied the privilege of appealing to the Courts of law'? Will Mr. Douglass, when he shall read what I this night say to you, still contend that the Constitution contains no guarantee of slavery, and those who say it does grossly pervert its meaning? Will he contradict the very words of those who framed the Constitution, who explained the meaning of what they themselves did? Will he deny that even George Washington, the president of this convention, and the first President of the Union under the Constitution, himself asserted his right to recover one of his own slaves who fled from Mount Vernon. and sought an asylum in New Hampshire? I will assume it possible he may do so-that he may scoff at the contents of the Madison papers, and sneer at the example of Washington, and deride such paltry authorities as Chancellor Kent and Chief Justice Marshall, and Story-the very Black-stone of America-and the opinions of Daniel Webster, the great expounder of the Constitution. I will therefore ask his attention, and yours, while I do so, to the following description of the beauties of his anti-slavery Constitution and the inscrutable blessings of the glorious Union-a description which cannot fail to impress his mind and yours with a sense of their value to the slave. Here is the best description of the United States Constitution I have ever met with.
[Mr. Thompson here Quoted a long and burning denunciation of some of the clauses of the American Constitution, as having been framed by the founders of American freedom, and which yet showed they were desirous of perpetuating slavery. Mr. T. proceeded]-
You will naturally be anxious to know by whose hand this most admirable delineation of the practical operation of the United States Government has been drawn. The words are those of Frederick Douglass, as delivered on two <Illegible>-first, at a great meeting in Finsbury Chapel, in London, presided over by the late Mr. Joseph Sturge, and then at a soiree, given to Mr. Douglass before his departure for America, in March, 1847. What the Constitution was in, 1847 it is now-what the Union was in 1847 it is now. Since then <Illegible> we have seen the horrors attendant upon the Fugitive
<c05>
Slave Act-the virtual repeal of the Missouri compromise-the atrocities perpetrated in Kansas-the brutal assault in the Senate, on Sumner-the Dred Scott decision in the Supreme Court-the execution of John Brown and his associates-and we now be hold the reign of terror throughout the Southern States-the enslavement of the free people of color-the banishment of others by tens of thousands, attended by the most heart-rending circumstances of separation from all they bold dear and sacred-the expulsion of peaceful and pious white settlers, traders, teachers, travellers, and ministers, and the demoniacal lynchings in all parts of the country-together with scenes of blood-thirstiness and ferocity in Congress; and yet Mr. Douglass now tells the citizens of Glasgow and Newcastle that there are no guarantees of slavery in the Constitution, and that if he could, he would draw closer, the bonds of the Union. Such is the result of fourteen years additional experience of the present Government, and I have shown you what its fruits have been during that time. Mr. Douglass says there are provisions in the Constitution, which, if honestly carried out, would abolish slavery. What they are I know not; but I have shown you that the Constitution, in all its relations to slavery, is its bulwark and defence, and that as long as it exists, he is a traitor to it who assails the institution it recognizes, guarantees, and upholds.
But we are told that the Union is necessary to enable the Free States to act with directness and power upon the Slave States. In what way? By enactment? That would be to violate and overthrow the Constitution and to dissolve the Union at once. No man better than Mr. Douglass knows that Congress has no constitutional power over the Slave States in respect of slavery. Were an anti-slavery President to slip into the Chair on the 4th of March next, the oath he would have to take before he did so would be,’ to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution'; and that, not according to his own interpretation, but as construed by the nine Judges of the Supreme Court. Were all the representatives from the Free States anti-slavery men, each would be under the obligation of an oath to support the Constitution of the United States. They could not, without adding perjury to treason, assail the rights of the Southern States in the matter of slavery within their own borders.
But, is the Republican political party an antislavery party? Does it even affect to be so? Not at all. Look at the mean, cowardly, and miserable disclaimers of these men during the recent balloting for a Speaker. Look at the language of their organs, even of the chief of them, the New York Tribune. [Mr. Thompson, after quoting the words of Mr. Sherman, a Republican, as an instance to show that the Republicans were really not anti-slavery, proceeded to notice Mr. F. Douglass's repudiation of Mr. Garrison and his party.] To the labors of Mr. Garrison and his colleagues is owing the whole of that anti-slavery sentiment, which, in its various forms, manifestations, and modes of action, now pervades the free States of America. I will borrow from Mr. Douglass, who differs from Mr. Garrison in the vital question of the Union, the words he used when speaking of that gentleman at a public meeting in London in 1847, over which I had the honor to preside. [Mr. Thompson gave a long quotation from Mr. Douglass's speech on the occasion referred to, in which that gentleman highly eulogized William Lloyd Garrison for his labors in the Anti-Slavery cause, and who had by his fearless unmasking of hypocrisy brought down upon himself the execrations of a religious party in this land.] This was a just and noble tribute, warm and gushing from a grateful heart, though eloquent lips, and was greeted, as it deserved, with an enthusiastic response Mr. Garrison is a Disunionist. He was so at the time when the panegyric I have just read was pronounced. The essence of his disunionism is found in a resolution adopted at the annual meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, at its annual meeting in May,1844, (in which secession from the United States was urged as the duty of Abolitionists.) In the light of the information I have laid before you, you will, I think, deem the logic of this resolution resistible, and that it has been abundantly supported. Under this resolution, Mr. Douglass labored for some time as an gent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and travelled with Mr. Garrison, who everywhere hoisted the banner of’ No Union with Slaveholders.' I should rejoice in an opportunity of hearing Mr. Douglass give his reasons for saying that he now entirely differs from the disunion programme of the Garrisonian party. The late Dr. Channing plainly foresaw the dissolution of the Union, as the consequence of the spread of sound anti-slavery principles, when he said-' On this subject (slavery) our fathers swerved from the right; we, their children, see the path of duty more clearly, and must walk in it. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures, nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience should demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong-doing. To this conviction the Free States are tending.' Mr. Garrison and his party have long reached this conviction; and, obedient to their sense of duty, they are walking consistently in the path of disunion. For doing so, they have been branded as a no-government body. The American Anti-Slavery Society is not opposed to Governments, but simply to the Government of the United States, while it is based upon, and is acting for, slavery. Neither does it bind any man's conscience, for the only qualification for membership is, the’ belief that slaveholding is a heinous crime. Speaking for myself, I will say, that, even did I differ from the Garrisonian party, I should honor them for their fidelity to their principles. They cannot vote for others to do that which they themselves would think it sinful to do. They cannot elect a man to an office which he can only assume on taking an oath to support the Constitution-that very Constitution that guarantees the rights of the slaveholder, hunts down the panting fugitive, and pledges the physical force of the Government to the crushing of any attempt of the slaves to win their personal freedom. Looking at the Constitution in precisely the same light as Mr. Douglass once viewed it, they bodly denounce it, as he once did, as an iniquitous compact-an unholy and most guilty compromise of all the sacred rights of a sixth part of the population; and, as he once plainly perceived, they look to the dissolution of the Union as the only effectual remedy, and as the only means of getting rid of the responsibility of participation in wrong-doing. For this, all true men should honor them, and all true men who understand them do; for the rest, it is of little consequence, either what they think or what they say. But, says Mr. Douglass, that would be the very way to perpetuate slavery. Whence has Mr. Douglass this new light? when did he make the marvellous discovery? Would slavery be more secure when all material support was withdrawn? Would fugitive slaves be less secure when the Free States were hallowed ground, on which no slave hunter could dare to place his foot? Would Virginia, Maryland, Kentucky, and North Carolina be long slaveholding States, if all northward and eastward of their boundaries were free soil? Would
<c06>
300,000 slaveholders be long able to flog into submission five millions of their equal fellow-creatures? Would not the knell of the Union be the tocsin of revolt to the slaves in the South? Is it quite certain that multitudes in the South would not get rid of their possessions, and seek safety in the Free States, secure from the horrible apprehension of midnight insurrection?(Mr. Thompson sat down amidst prolonged cheering.)
On the motion of the Rev. Mr. Johnstone, seconded by Mr. W. H. Day, a colored gentleman, vote of thanks was awarded to Mr. Thompson.
Mr. George Roy intimated Mr. Thompson had consented to deliver a second lecture next week, in which he will take up the moral and religious aspects of the slavery question.
The meeting then separated.

From the Newcastle [Eng.] Chronicle.
MR. F. DOUGLASS AND THE AMERICAN CONSTITUTION.
To the Editor of the Daily Chronicle:
 SIR,—I have observed reference made in your columns to the wide difference between the opinions of Mr. F. Douglass and those of Mr. Geo. Thompson, on the above important question; but I write to you for the purpose of pointing out the glaring inconsistencies of Mr. Douglass's own expressed views on this subject. When Mr. Douglass was in this country in 1846, he went through the length and breadth of Great Britain denouncing, with burning sarcasm and invective, that Constitution which he now so loudly extols. But he did not speak in the language of denunciation only, for nothing could be more convincing than the arguments which he employed to prove that the Constitution was a pro-slavery instrument, and that it was a primary duty of every friend of truth and freedom to repudiate this compact with the powers of darkness. I happen to have in my possession a copy of a pamphlet report of a speech delivered by Mr. Douglass in Finsbury Chapel, London, on Friday, the 22d May, 1846. In this speech I find a masterly exposition of the pro-slavery character of the American Constitution and Union. For example, Mr. Douglass says:-' The Constitution makes it the duty of the Northern States to return the slave, if he attempts to escape, to call out the army and navy to crush the slave into subjection, if he dare make an attempt to gain his freedom. The East and the West, the North and the South, the people of Massachusetts and the people of South, Carolina have, through their representatives, each in their own official capacity, sworn before high Heaven that the slave shall be a slave or die. So that while the Free States of the American Union consent to what! they call the compromises of the Constitution of the United States, they are responsible for the existence of slavery in the southern States.' Again, after asking why the three millions of slaves do not rise up and crush the three hundred thousand slaveholders, Mr. Douglass replies by stating that they do not do it,’ because the people of the United States are all pledged, bound by their oaths, bound by their citizenship in that country, to bring their whole physical power to bear against the slave if such an event should arise, and every defender of the American Union, of the compromise of the United States, no matter how much he may boast of his anti-slavery feeling, is, so far as his citizenship goes citizenship goes, a pledged enemy to the emancipation of the bondsman.'
Such were the opinions entertained by Mr. Douglass during his last visit to this country, and the views which he then disseminated far and wide among the British people. Every word that Mr. Douglass then uttered bears upon it the stamp of truth; and if this be so, then Mr. Douglass, who now upholds the Constitution and the Union, stands convicted upon his own testimony of being,’ so far as his citizenship goes, a pledged enemy to the emancipation of the bondsman.' With Mr. Douglass's personal opinions I have no desire to meddle, excepting in so far as they form a part of his public advocacy; but I must say I think that Mr. Douglass owes it to the public to afford some explanation of the reasons why he is now advocating a policy the very antipodes of that which he so eloquently expounded in 1846. It is of vital importance that the English people should have a perfectly clear view of the slavery question; but this is utterly impossible if those who profess to enlighten them, instead of planting their feet upon an immutable principle, veer round to every point of the compass.
Your obedient servant, 
AN ABOLITIONIST.
Newcastle, March 3, 1860.

From the New York Independent.
CULMINATION OF THE SENATORIAL DESPOTISM, IN THE IMPRISONMENT OF ME. HYATT.
The Slave Despotism is rapidly bringing forth its fruits. At the instigation and in the service of that Despotism, the Senate of the United States, assuming to themselves the powers and functions of a Judicial Court, without its safeguards of jury and trial for the citizen, have thrown into prison one of the citizens of a sovereign State, accused of no crime, indicted for no offence, deprived now of his libery, without one process of law, at the bare vote of a body having no authority over him, except that of their own irresponsible will! The Senate have presumed to clothe an ordinary Committee of Investigation with the powers of an Inquisition, and the character and authority of a Judicial Court. Having done this, they then assume the denial of the right and authority of such Court to compel any man to appear and answer before it, as being a contempt of the Senate, and then, assuming and affirming Mr. Hyatt to have been guilty of that crime of contempt, without trial, without investigation, they throw him into prison, themselves the accusers, the jurors, and the Judges and the Executive: witnesses being dropped out, not even the form of calling or examining them being vouchsafed.
Under this dread, indefinable accusation of contempt, no act, or word, or motion, or intention of contempt having been mentioned or proved; under this dread and awful power of accusation as for crime, of contempt against a body, to whose authority the individual so accused owed no personal allegiance, except as merely a co-ordinate branch of the general Government, and then only in specific, definite, known cases; under this comprehensive creative power of both constituting crime and punishing it at one blow, without indictment, and without trial, a free, innocent citizen of a Sovereign State has been thrown into prison, there to lie, until he shall purge himself, as the phrase is, of that crime of contempt, of which he is accused in uttering his honest conviction that the committee or Court of the Senate have no power given to them by the Constitution to compel him to answer before their bar! Until he shall purge himself of the alleged crime of contempt, by perjuring himself before God, by declaring what in his conscience as an honest man, and in his independence as free citizen of the United States, he cannot declare, namely,
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States <Illegible> a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
<illegible>' The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they <Illegible> the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FARMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.”-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
that he believes the Court of the Senate to have the authority and right, or constitutionally the power, to compel him to answer! He must lie and rot in prison, at the command of the Senate, without even the form of any trial for any crime, at the bare declaration of the Committee of the Senate, or notification of the Secretary or President of that Committee, that he is guilty of contempt!
Not that he has refused to appear, not that be has refused to answer; no such thing at all; but simply that he has averred that the Committee of the Senate have no right to compel him to appear and answer! For this, as for the crime of contempt of Court, this man is thrown into prison; not on trial, not even to await any trial, nor permitted to be tried, or to answer for himself, or to have a jury to pronounce upon his guilt or innocence, but the guilt concluded and declared, the accusation, the conviction, the sentence, and the punishment, and, we may add, the previous creation of the crime, all began and completed at once, all at one blow! Under this dread, indefinite, comprehensive power of accusation, sentence, and punishment, without statute, without investigation, without jury, without witnesses, without answer, and without Judge, the party assuming to be the offended party being at once Judge. Jury, and High Sheriff, where may the reach of this despotism stop? Where is there any restraint upon it, where any protection against it? Why may it not proceed to an instant deprivation of life as the adequate determined punishment of the alleged crime of such contempt? And who is safe from being its next victim? If the Senate have power to throw a man into prison for alleged contempt, without statute, without trial, so they have to put a man to death. The same undefined, illimitable power, with an additional screw or two of the machinery, might take Mr. Hyatt's head off, before his native Sovereign State, the proper protector of his personal liberty, could have time, or would summon energy, to act in his defence. Any extreme of despotism is possible, under that despotism of the Slave Oligarchy beneath which we are now groaning. 
The progress of this act of despotism teems with warning to the people of the United States. Are they willing to have this new precedent of tyranny established? If so, then we may be sure it is only a preliminary of dreadful tragedies. The same power that could arrest Mr. Hyatt, and throw him into prison, dragging him from his family, his business, his freedom of social life and enjoyment of his accustomed civil privileges, without crime, without even suspicion or accusation of crime, and then throw him into prison for his denial of the authority of the Inquisition that has arrested him, making that a crime, and punishing him for that created crime, without trial, could proceed to any length, and will do it speedily, in regard to constructive treason. The same power could drag any clergyman from his pulpit, and put him to the torture of an inquisition as to his opinions, and if he should assert the opinion that that power is not of God, is no lawful, and cannot be obeyed, could throw him into prison. Give to that same power a single opportunity to work as the tool of the slave-despotism, with the doctrines of constructive treason for conspiring against the peace, government, and security of a slave State, in disseminating insurrectionary and treasonable opinions in regard to its domestic institutions, the security of such institutions being guaranteed, as alleged, by the Constitution, and not a minister of God who dares open his lips to denounce slavery as sin, will be safe in his personal liberty. The Senate may at any moment create a Court of Inquiry as to the causes of, or complicity with, any outbreak of violence, any case of the escape of slaves, and under pretence of authority committed to that Court, may summon and arrest, and throw into prison, any preacher of the Gospel, from Maine to Texas. C.

From the New York Tribune. 
MR. SEWARD'S TWO SPEECHES. 
Whether the impression be well founded or not, that it is better for any political party to have the Garrisonian Abolitionists its enemies rather than its friends, we think the Republican party will not lose anything if the error is corrected into which Mr. Wendell Phillips, and a good many other people, seem to have fallen in regard to Mr. Seward's last speech in the United States Senate. An appeal is made from Mr. Seward in the Capitol to Mr. Seward on the stump; and we are led to suppose, if we yield our judgment to that of these critical gentlemen, that there is some wide and irreconcilable difference between the Senator and the stump orator. We remember Mr. Phillips saying, in one of those magnificent philippics for which be is so justly noted, and which have given even to that word a new significance, and started it, as it were, from a new rootï¿½we remember his saying, referring to himself and his coadjutors, ï¿½We are nothing unless critical.ï¿½ The philosophy which dictated the aphorism is unquestionably correct, and it would be impossible for Mr. Phillips to appear in public so soon after the speech we have just referred to was delivered, and not subject it to his sharpest criticism. Not to notice it at all would be to acknowledge that his vocation was ended; to notice it in any other way than he does would be to deny his own principles.
 There is one point, however, in which we wonder that even Mr. Phillips does not see and recognize the value of Mr. Seward's speech. If we are rightly informed, it was one of the original cardinal principles of the Anti-Slavery movement that its advocates did not assume the right, and disavowed the intention of meddling politically with Slavery in the States. The impossibility of such interference under the present Constitution of the United States, and their recognition of that fact, compels these reformers, if we understand their position, to stand out in the cold, aloof from any political organization. Beyond a certain point, in the direction in which they want to go, Mr. Seward clearly indicates that the Republican Party does not propose to venture. Surely he deserves for this not the anathema, but the thanks of the uncompromising abolitionists. If they wish to recruit for their cause, they have but to point to his exposition of Republican principles to show the public that all who wish to enlist for the war against Slavery in the States must look elsewhere for leadersï¿½namely, to Messrs. Garrison and Phillips. We wonder that this point has escaped the keen eyes of the latter gentleman. 
It is said of a distinguished member of Congress, whose hostility to the extension of Slavery is exceedingly zealous, but whose Abolition friends have sometimes complained of him that he does not go further and labor for its extinction in the States, that his reply isï¿½' It will not do to be too dï¿½d virtuous.' We do not know that it can be objected to Mr. Seward that he has any weakness of this sort. Undoubtedly he disapproves of Slavery; as a political economist he knows that it is ruinous to the material wealth of the country where it exists; as a statesman he knowsï¿½which is of far more consequenceï¿½that it is wasteful of men; as a moralist he knows that it is subversive of all moral obligations; and as a Christian he knows that it is practical infidelity. But he also knows that the Federal Government has no more right to interfere with its existence in South Carolina, for instance, than it has to prohibit its establishment in this State. The abolition of Slavery at the South, or the abolition of Freedom at the North, are works which can be consummated, politically, only by the people of that section where either now exists. So long, however, as they choose to cherish these antagonistic systems, so long is the conflict between these two sections irrepressible. Neither can afford to cease striving for the power and the influence of the Federal Government, in which both have so much at stake, for so overwhelming are that power and influence that their uniform exercise in one direction must make either Liberty or Slavery paramount throughout the country. It is this philosophical statement which marked the Rochester speech of Mr. Seward, and made it the target of much fierce denunciation. it was simply saying that, in the course of human events, liberty and Slavery could not exist together and be at peace; and that, in the desperate straggle between them, he believed and hoped that Slavery would not triumph. Possibly we are dull, but we see nothing inconsistent with all this in the speech of the 29th ult. That was rather the complement than the antagonist of the speech at Rochester. As one set forth the philosophy and the morality of the conflict between the two great forces of the country, and its inevitable result, to the other marks the limit, in that contest, to which a political party can go. The one was a popular address, made to a mass meeting of the people, amid all the excitement and enthusiasm of a popular election, by a tribune of the people. The other was an elaborate easy, spoken by the most distinguished representative of his party, at a time when he could not help feeling that
<c02>
the eyes of the nation were upon him, its ears open to catch his lightest word as a possible candidate in the most important election which the country has yet been called upon to decide. On the first occasion, Mr. Seward spoke for himself; on the second, it was not possible, even had he been so disposed, to taken position so above and apart from the circumstances of the care, that the private individual should be distinguished, in the eyes of the world, from the Senator, the possible President, the representative of a great party. This veteran statesman, the man who nearly all his life has stood, in all his waking hours, the object of public attention, visibly trembled, it is said, with ill-suppressed agitation, when he rose in his place in the Senate on the 29th of February. The weight of the responsibility of that moment was too heavy even for those well- worn, iron nerves, to bear without vibration. We cannot, if we are just, forget that he weighed every word he uttered on that occasion, not in the delicate scales of private feeling and sentiment, but in the ponderous balance of political duty and party responsibility

From the Syracuse League.
HON. WILLIAM H. SEWARD.
That the speech of this gentleman, now attracting the universal attention of the nation, disappoints us, we are free to confess. We have admired the course of Mr. Seward in many respects. His bold avowal of his belief in theï¿½ Higher Law,' in an infidel and slaveholding Senate, and before, we may almost say, an infidel nation, won our admiration. 
When in his Rochester speech in relation to the anti-slavery struggle, he boldly declared that it was not an ephemeral, fanatical agitation, batï¿½ AN IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT BETWEEN OPPOSING AND ENDURING FORCES, SLAVERY AND FREEDOM,' one of which must obtain the mastery, that admiration was greatly increased. The Democratic party seized upon these expressions of our Senator, and played all the changes on them with the design to make him odious before the nation. But, in this we have seen how God takes care of him who fearlessly advocates the right. The expressions, ï¿½A Higher Law,ï¿½ ï¿½An Irrepressible Conflict,ï¿½ have become watch-words, and these fearless declarations have done more to give Mr. Seward a high moral elevation before the nation and the world, than scores of such speeches could give as the one under review, delivered on the 29th of February, on the admission of Kansas.
On taking up that speech, we instinctively looked for a re-affirmation of the doctrine of an ï¿½irrepressible conflict.ï¿½ It was natural that Mr. S. should have alluded to his Rochester speech, in view of the fact that he has been so bitterly assailed by the whole South, backed by the willing minions of slavery in the North, the Democratic party, for uttering a self-evident truth. Instead of boldly maintaining the ground he has already taken, as he had every encouragement to do, he makes not one word of allusion to it in his whole speech. His whole effort seems to be to show, after all, that there is no need for any such conflict. If the South will be content with slavery where it is, we of the North will help them to maintain it, and slavery and freedom in our country can go harmoniously hand in hand!
If this is to be the course of Mr. Seward, the anti-slavery cause has nothing to hope from him. The election of any man who shows a disposition to compromise with this great evil will have a demoralizing influence, and, instead of being a triumph of anti-slavery, will, in its effects, be as disastrous as an out and out triumph of the pro-slavery democracy. If any of our friends, or the friends of Mr. S., think we misrepresent him, or do not understand his position, we will thank them to give us any quotation from his speech to prove us incorrect. Let them give one sentence, if they can, in the whole speech, that shows the great heart of a lover of humanity, or that awakened in them any thing like an enthusiastic feeling in the right direction. We are sorry to say, this speech of Mr. Seward makes us fear he is making the same fatal mistake made by Mr. Webster and Mr. Clay, that not only lost them the Presidency, but lost them forever the character of benefactors of their race. 
When once a politician or a party betrays a great and noble position, they can never recover the stand they have lost; and so the Republican party and Mr. S. will find, unless they are warned in season.
All that was necessary for Mr. Seward was to have re-affirmed, boldly, and with the ability all concede him, the stand he has already taken. This would have inspired the feelings and strengthened the hopes of all good men. 
It seems to us very strange that leading politicians are so apt to mistake or undervalue the great heart of the masses on Whom they mainly depend for support, and rather seek to conciliate uncertain ï¿½conservativeï¿½ influences to their cost. We wish to tell Mr. S. and all such men, that nineteen in twenty of the rank and file of the Republican party are abolitionists; that they are so from earnest convictions of right; and if the Republican party does not make an earnest effort to drive slavery from our country by all legal and constitutional means, they will withhold their support. They want no man nominated for President whose record is not right on this subject. They never will vote for any man for the Presidency, who is in favor of executing the abominable Fugitive Slave Bill. Be warned in season.

AARON D. STEVENS.
The Boston Pionier, of last weekï¿½the ablest, most independent, and highest toned of all the German papers in this countryï¿½referring to the commemorative meeting at the Meionaon on the 16th, says:ï¿½
The spirit of such men as Stevens in that which must and will inspire the party of freedom. It will not remain quiet, nor will it allow itself to be confounded by the phrases of compromisers, or by the threats of men-stealers. It is propagating itself more than is supposed, and its assistants are presidential candidates as well as executioners. The words which we heard in Boston on the 16th, were something altogether new among Americans, and are not spoken here and in Kansas alone. A new ï¿½Schoolï¿½ is beginning to loom up, which might be called the Kansasï¿½or Brownï¿½School, and which laughs as well at the non-resistantï¿½ Old-School Abolitionists' as at the ï¿½New-School Republicans.ï¿½ This School must lay the foundation for a new party-organization, in which, we should like, if we could, to incorporate all free-thinking Germans, including all Gymnastic and Labor Unions. German Radicals, you who have deemed yourselves the ï¿½Pioneersï¿½ in the field of revolutionary ideas, the Americans are beginning to put you to shame, and if you are not willing to belong to the vanguard, you will again become in this field fawners and marauders. 
Let him who will still seek and behold his happiness in the Republican party, as he can best convert into money his assistance in behalf of the rights of foreigners and of opposition to slavery, or else in behalf of his money-bags and speculation for office. We shall not commit ourselves to this party.
Still to belong to the Republican party would be to us, even without the Two Years' Amendment, a self-forbidden shame, after that party has, through its highest exponents, called cannibalsï¿½ capitalists,' and planted the gallows for freedom's martyrs in its platform.

From the Cleveland (Ohio) Agitator. 
AARON D. STEVENS.
The following is an extract from a letter written us by Aaron D. Stevens:
CHARLESTOWN JAIL, VA., Feb. 28, 1860.
My DEAR FRIENDï¿½ Yours of the 20th inst. was duly received. I have often heard of you, but have never had the pleasure of seeing you. I hope you will continue to teach the truth to the world. May it see the good and grasp it, though the heavens fall. I expect to leave this world on the 16th of March. If I can, I will return, and communicate to you and others in regard to the spirit world.
I love, above all others, the spiritual theory as far as I have investigated it. I do not agree with many of the spiritualists. I like Doctor Hare's views better than any I am acquainted with. He is a matter of fact man. That pleases me. On some points I like A. J. Davis.
It is very hard for people to see truth if it conflicts with their pre-conceived opinions. But ï¿½truth is mighty, and will prevail.ï¿½ Error will gradually be driven from the earth, and all mankind will become brothers and sisters in deeds as well as words.
Give my love to Mr. and Mrs. S.-, and believe me your brother in the bonds of Love, Truth and goodwill.
Good bye, A. D. STEVENS.
<c03>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, MARCH 30, 1860.
PETTIONS AGAINST SLAVE-HUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS.
Below we give a complete list of the various petitions which have been forwarded to the Legislature of Massachusetts, at its present session, the number of signatures appended to each,(in the aggregate nearly FIFTEEN THOUSAND,) and the places from which they were sent:ï¿½
Barnard Freeman and 83 others, of Brewster.
John T. Hilton and 30 others, of Brighton. 
Daniel Otis and 100 others of , So. Seituate. 
Amory L. Babcock and 131 others, of Sherborn. 
James' O. Barney and 91 others, of Seekonk. 
R.W. French and 84 others, .of Lawrence. 
Job Kelly and 24 others, of Dennis. 
A. C. Smith and 72 others, of Cambridge. 
Albert Hewins and others, of Sharon.
E. Ring, Jr., and 60 others, of Huntington. 
Edwin Coombs and 86 others, of Barnstable. 
John D. Loring and 79 others, of Marlboro'.
L E. Wakefield (Rev.) 178 others of Marlboroï¿½.
Addison P. Brown and 24 others of Worcester.
C. D. Marcy and 60 others, of Worcester.
W. T. Hewins and 35 others, of Worcester 
Gilbert Walker and 22 others, of Worcester 
Theo. Brown and 39 others, of Worcester 
Isaac Howes and 26 others, of Worcester 
D. F. Witherbee and 36 others, of Worcester 
J. W. Mason and 29 others, of Worcester 
0. F. Harris and 28 others, of Worcester 
B.T. Howes and 23 others, of Worcester " 
Darwin Adams and 45 others, of Auburn.
N. D. George and 26 others, of Natick.
Charles Crozier and 21 others. of Washington. 
Charles Kendall and 97 others of Petersham. 
W. W. Mitchell and 350 others of Cummington. 
Jacob Bates and 240 others, of Worthington.
Thomas H. Rood and 187 others, of Goshen. 
Levi Goss and 299 others, of W. Boylston.
L. H. Cobb and 29 others, of N. Andover. 
Calvin Cutter and 81 others, of Warren. 
Augustus DePeyster and 33 others, of Boston. 
Francis Jackson and 800 others, of Boston.
Adams Twitchelland 57 others, of Boston 
E. N. Paine and 116 others, of Blackstone. 
Charles Ellis and 80 others, of Uxbridge. 
George M. Steele and 67 others, of Watertown. 
Velorous Taft and 60 others, of Upton. 
Charles Beecher and 573 others, of Georgetown.
Micah B. Allen and 567 others, of Fall River. 
Ebenezer Dean and 28 others, of Berkley. 
Elnathan Davis and 571 legal voters, Fiteliburg. 
Job Luther and 105 others, of Hanson.
Moees Knowlton, Jr. and 189 others, of Essex. 
Jacob S. Howes and 40 others, of Dennis.
Eben Howes and 83 others, of Dennis.
J. R. Munsell (Rev.) and 125 others, of Harwich. 
Samuel Smith and 58 others, of Harwich 
Elisha Hutchinson and 106 legal voters. Haverhill. 
Eliab Wight and 76 others, of Bellingham. 
Henry Elwell, Jr., and 455 others, of Manchester. 
Edward Flint and 231 others, of Leicester. 
Daniel Hosmer and 98 others of Sterling. 
Henry Abbott and 75 others, of Amherst. 
William Whiting and 69 others, of Concord. 
George W. Stacy and 41 others, of Milford. 
H. B. Tripp and 158 others, of Milford 
Benj. F. Burgess and 127 others, of Hanover.
David Standley and 125 others, of Beverly. 
Jonathan H. Riggs and 155 others, of W. Glouces'r 
Adam Gifford and 231 others, of West port.
Jonathan Covell and 82 others, of Dartmouth.
James M. Eveleth and 204 others, of Princeton. 
Erastus Dickinson and 66 others, of Sudbury.
John Clement and 109 Townsend. 
Alvan Howes and 119 others, of Barnstable.
John R. Thurrton and 111 others, of  Rockport. 
R. H. MooreKead and 128 others, of Marshfield, 
Samuel W. Gilbert and 75 legal voters Mendon.
Peter Wellington and 27 others Lexington. 
James W. Putnam and 820 others, of Danvers.
Otis G. Cheever and 104 others, of Wrentham. 
J. A. Moore and 185 others, of N.Brookfield.
David Lee Child and 297 others, of Wavland. 
M. Collester and 137 others, of Gardner. 
Elijah Hobart and 80 others, of So. Hingham.
R. K. Ashley and 112 others, of S. Gardner. 
Josiah Henshaw and 206 others, of W.Brookfield.
Henry Coggin, and 107 others, of Natick.
Asa Smith and 75 others, of Middlefield.
Jonas Fay and 157 others, of Southboro'. 
William Lovell and 75 others, of Weymouth. 
Lyman R. Forbes and 39 others, of Rutland.
MarshallG.Kimball and 116 others, of Barre.
Charles C. Breck and 37 others, of Sterling.
E. S. Atwood and 109 others, of Nredham. 
David Merritt and 156 legal voters Salem. 
D. B. Morey and 178 others, Malden. 
B. R. Downes and 12 others, of Bradford.
Richard Clap and 67 others, of Dorchester. 
A. T. Stearns and 118 others, of do. 
Abijah Stowell and 35 others, of Gill.
Alfred Bicknell and 35 others, of S. Reading.
A. Bardwell and 290 others, of Montague. 
Daniel R. Haynes and 72 others, of Leominster. 
H. M. Hagar and 24 others, of Newton. 
H. H. Darling and 112 others, of Douglass.
Fiske Barrett and 197 others, of Stoneham. 
Samuel Dyer and 501 others, of Abington. 
Philo Wright and 121 others, of Windsor. 
Ira Gray and 91 others, of Reading.
Wm.D. Scrimgeour and 126 others, of Andover. 
J. H. Stephenson and 146 others, of Newton. 
Noah Fifield and 175 others, of Weymouth. 
Samuel Jones and 84 others, of Raynham.
H. L. Broaders and 2 others, of Westboro'. 
Alanson P. Dean and 65 others, of Cheshire. 
William Phipps and 49 others, of Paxton. 
George Miles and 173 others, of Westminster.
It will be recollected that, last year, the Committee to whom similar petitions were referred, reported a bill in accordance with the prayer of the petitioners, which came within three votes of being adopted by the House of Representatives. In view of the pending Presidential election, it was hardly expected by the most sanguine that the present Legislature would decree the abolition of slave-hunting in this State, by a two-thirds rote; but, surely, no one dreamed that the Committee, having this subject under consideration, would have the cool audacity toï¿½ report that the petitioners have leave to withdrawï¿½!! Yet they have done so,ï¿½Hon. NATHANIEL H. WHITIHG, of Plymouth, alone dissenting,ï¿½and the Senate has accepted the report! Mr. Whiting moved, as a substitute, a bill similar to the one submitted last year, which he supported in a speech of signal ability, a full report of which we give in our present number. In this matter, and also in ably advocating the obliteration of all complexional distinctions in the militia law of the Commonwealth, he has shown himself as true to his anti-slavery professions in the Senate as out of it.
Of course, we do not agree with Mr. Whiting in his anti-slavery construction of the Constitutionï¿½nor does the nation; and it is an instructive commentary upon that construction, that the same Judge Story from whom he quotes to sustain his views, declares expressly in the celebrated case, Prigg vs. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvaniaï¿½'UNDER AND IN VIRTUE OF THE CONSTITUTION, the owner of a slave is clothed with entire authority, in every State in the Union, to seizeï¿½ and recapture his slave. The Constitution of the United States was designed to uphold and justify the act of seizing and removing a slave by his master.' 
And so, the people of Massachusetts, whose minds are made up that no more fugitive slaves shall be hunted among them, and who demand of their servants a law to that effect, are told by those servants that they have ï¿½leave to withdraw' their petitions: but the insolent Committee are too craven or too cunning to offer a word in support of their recommendation! 
What is the plain English of this report of the Committee? It isï¿½ 
(1) Leave for the slave-hunter still to hunt his prey from Cape Cod to Berkshire, armed with national governmental power!
(2) Leave for the seizure, at any time, of another Anthony Burns, and his rendition to slavery, at the mouth of the cannon and the point of the bayonetï¿½the court-house in chains, and the judges crawling under the sameï¿½the city threatened with bloody strife, and the Commonwealth convulsed with shame, indignation and horror
(3) Leave for the kidnapper to lay claim to any
<c04>
man, woman, or child, without regard to complexion, interposing only a jury trial!
(4) Leave for the citizen to have a conscience, if he dare, in opposition to the rendition of the fugitive slave, aid toï¿½ hide the outcast' at his peril!

SEWARDISM IN THEï¿½ RELIGIOUS' PRESS.
Here is a specimen of the sort, sad amount, of reform advocated by that very small class ofï¿½ religions' papers(most improperly so called) which even pretend to be reformatory. Theï¿½ regular' Washington correspondent of the Congregationalistï¿½commenting on the speech in which Mr. Seward lately, after defining the Republican party as a white man's party, deliberately vindicated it from the reproach of hearing about either slaves or negroes, and moreover represented the slave question as being, in its main aspect, only an economical question, the two parties to which, by a very natural diversity of opinion, were advocating, one the superior claims of ï¿½capital,' the other those of ï¿½labor'ï¿½uses these expressions:ï¿½
'One who has not heard, with shame and sorrow, the narrow, heated, vulgar philippics that have disgraced our Congressional Halls can hardly conceive the luxury of listening to the wise generalizations of a statesman, delivered with the calm courtesy of a gentleman. There was no descending to personalities. The few allusions to individuals were the allusions of one gentleman to another. Nor was there any attempt to inflame passions by a skilful use of incidental topics. All was conciliatory, comprehensive, compact, andï¿½alas! that it is a thing to be made note ofï¿½gentlemanly.
The small space allotted to the Helper book and Harper's Ferry excitement seemed to me more effective in assigning them their true importance, than any amount of explanation or declamation could have done.
Alas! when that which purports to be the ï¿½religiousï¿½ periodical literature of a country, and which is looked up to by its people as sound and wise, is divided between such direct encouragement of slavery as we find in the Observer and the Journal of Commerce, and suchï¿½ daubing with untempered mortar' as abounds in the Congregationalist and the Independent! Alas! when the man who once pointed out the ï¿½irrepressible conflict' necessarily existing between freedom and slavery, and who seemed disposed to help in bringing that conflict to a crisis, now falls back into the advocacy of ï¿½conciliatory' measures, and is praised for it by clergymen pretending to be anti-slavery!ï¿½C. K. W.

INFLUENCE OF BAD COMPANY.
Most truly are we told thatï¿½ Evil communications corrupt good manners.' 
Every one will remember the excellent anti-slavery sermon entitledï¿½ Our Country's Sin,' written by Rev. Justin Perkins,(a missionary of the American Board among the Nestorians,) and printed and largely circulated by anti-slavery people(of course not by the Board or its agents) in this country. One would have thought that a man so thoroughly convinced of the sinfulness of slaveholding would have chosen to leave the service of the Board, at least in these later years, when more and more evidence has been coming out, of the determined pertinacity of their protection of slaveholders in their churches. But instead of this, Rev. Justin Perkins is now travelling in this country in the service of the Board, addressing churches, and writing urgent appeals in the ï¿½religiousï¿½ newspapers, for the purpose of sustaining the Board, paying its large debt, and exciting a more active interest for its support. These articles and appeals entirely sink and ignore the subject of slavery! Such is the influence of the church upon its ministers and members.ï¿½C. K. W.

A REPUBLICAN ELECTIONEERING DOCUMENT.
A pamphlet has just appeared with the following title:ï¿½
'NO RIGHTS, NO DUTIES; or, Slaveholders, as such, have no Rights; Slaves, as such, owe no Duties. 'An answer to a letter from Hon. Henry Wilson, touching resistance to slaveholders being the right and duty of the slaves, and of the people and States of the North. By Henry C. Wright.ï¿½ The magazine is open, and the match will shortly be applied.' Faulkner of Virginia. Price 10 cents, or ten copies sent to one address by post, postage prepaid, for $1.
The object of the pamphlet is to test the politicians of the non-slave States by their own acknowledged principle of the right and duty of armed defence and armed resistance to slaveholders and tyrants. The nation endorses and glories in the principle and spirit that prompted to, and guided the revolution and the invasion of the Barbary States, against those bands ofï¿½ African Corsairs'ï¿½as Jefferson, Decatur, Eaton, and the entire American people call themï¿½to free the white slaves. If armed defence of human beings was ever rightï¿½as the Republican party asserts it isï¿½then is it the right and duty of the people and States of the North to invade Virginia and Maryland to free the slaves, and defend them against their enslavers. If it was the right and duty of the American people to invade Tripoli, to free slaves, it was the right and duty of John Brown and his associates to invade Virginia and Missouri to free those held in slavery by these bands of American Corsairs.
Let those Republicans who think it as much their duty to make Virginia a free State as it in to make Kansas a free State, send for this pamphlet, and circulate it among their fellow-republicans. It will greatly help to stir them up to seek, not only to prevent the extension of slavery, but to abolish it where it now exists. Republicans and the people of the North are as sacredly bound to abolish slavery in States where it exists, as to prevent its extension to other territories. The right to prevent the extension of slavery, pre-supposes the right to abolish it in States where it now exists. 

ANOTHER VETO FROM GOV. BANKS.
As was expected, GOV. Banks has again vetoed the action of the Legislature, striking out the word 'WHITEï¿½ from the militia law of Massachusetts. Of course, his reasons for so doing are but a repetition of those adduced in his former message on the same subject. Though ostensibly sustained by the opinion of the Supreme Court of the State, they are fallacious as proscriptiveï¿½clothing Congress with omnipotent power over the acknowledged, bona fide citizens of this and every other State, to insult and degrade them ad libitum,ï¿½ provided they are colored; for such conduct would not be tolerated for one moment, if exercised towards any other class of citizens. Massachusetts is bound to assert and maintain the rights of all her citizens alike, impartially, against every invidious act of Congress; and if she has neglected to do this in the past, she has been false to her duty, and ought henceforth to make all possible atonement for her injustice. That she is disposed to do this is evident from the fact, that two successive Legislatures have erased the odious wordï¿½ white' from the militia law aforesaid; and twice has Gov. Banks interposed his veto to prevent the will of the people being executed. It remains for the people to put a veto upon the official aspirations of Gov. Banks hereafter.
On our last page may be found a sketch of the proceedings of two conference anti-slavery meetings held at the Meionaon, in this city, on Friday forenoon and afternoon, 16th inst.
GEORGE THOMPSON AND FEEDERICK DOUOLASS.ï¿½ 
On our 'first page we have placed an elaborate and eloquent speech recently delivered in Glasgow, Scotland, by George Thompson, Esq., in reply to one adverse to the American Anti-Slavery Society made by Frederick Douglass, in the same city. It will amply repay the closest perusal.
<c05>
SPEECH OF HON. N. H. WHITING.OF FLYMOUTH, 
In the Senate of Massachusetts, March 23, on a motion to substitute a Bill for the Report(leave to withdraw) on the Petition of Charles Beecher and, 14720 other citizens of Massachusetts, asking for a law against slave-hunting.
MR. PRESIDENT: 
The question before us, I take it, is not so much in regard to the merits of the particular bill which I have moved as a substitute for the report of the Committee, as it is whether any affirmative response to the prayer of the petitioners is required, whether any legislation for the protection of personal liberty is needed, and whether, if such be the care, we have any power, under the Constitution of the State or nation, to engage in it. It is to this point mainly I propose to confine the remarks I shall make at this time.
To me, this is a question of greater magnitude, and of more extensive and permanent interest, than any which has come before the Legislature during its present session. It is not limbed to the material interests of the people, as shows in the incorporation of banks, railroads, manufactories and cities, or even in ï¿½the reservation or preservation of Back-Bay lands, butï¿½ it touches the vital currents in the very life of the Commonwealth. It is not a project to make free bridges merely, but free men. 
It has been with no little hesitation that I have ventured to differ from all my colleagues on the Committeeï¿½men of large experience in public as well as in private life, while I am entirely without any previous experience in legislative work; and I can truly say, I was strongly tempted to concur with them in the report they have made. But I must follow my own convictions; and the best reflection I have been able to give the subject has led me in a different direction, and brought me to different conclusions. 
I feel encouraged in my course by the knowledge that at least one State(Vermont) has already passed a law similar to the one I have offered, and that people in other States are contemplating a like course of action. But were I alone here in the views I entertain, I should still feel that I had a duty to perform, which my own sense of right, as well as my duty to my constituents, would not allow me to forsake or neglect. Nearly fifteen thousand of the people of this Commonwealth ask for the passage of such a law as will save them and the State from the guilt of slave-hunting. Against this petition no one remonstratesï¿½ no one objects to it. The number and respectability of the petitioners, and the total absence of any expressed opposition on the part of the people, should lead, us to pause long and deliberate well before we reject their prayer. But when superadded to this is the transparent truth, that the object aimed at is one which commends itself to the conscience and understanding of every just and humane man, nothing but the gravest objections, growing out of the highest considerations of public policy and constitutional obligation, as well as the dictates of Christian sympathy and absolute justice, can excuse us if we fail to comply with their demand. 
I feel confident that no one at this Board will venture to denyï¿½I think no one will wish to do itï¿½that it is the duty of the State to protect its people; that the native right, vested in every man, makes it impossible to hold him as a slave under the common law of civilized society. I affirm, then, that there can be no such thing as a slave in this State, both because slavery is against natural right, and at war with the organic law of the Commonwealth. - Before the stars and stripes of the American Union floated in the breeze, before the Constitution of the nation was ordained and established by the people thereof, Massachusetts in her Bill of Rights declared that ï¿½all men are born free and equal, and have certain natural, essential and inalienable rights, among which may be reckoned the right of enjoying and defending their lives and liberties; that of acquiring, possessing and protecting property; in fine, that of seeking and obtaining their safety and happiness.' Now, this is still a part of the organic law of the State. It is still in full force, and binding upon this people. If any obligation or agreement has been entered into at variance with its provisions and obligations, then it is void from its inception, both because of such variance, and because it is an engagement to do an unnatural and immoral act, and therefore not binding upon any one. This position rests upon the soundest principles of natural and constitutional law. 
But has Massachusetts, in her adoption of the Federal Constitution, agreed to recognize and provide for the validity of slavery within her, own borders? Has she ever entered into any arrangement with any body by which she is forbidden to make her soil sacred to every one whom she pleases to receive, not charged with the commission of crime? Has she engaged to hunt men and carry them into bondage on the plea that they are fugitive slaves? Or has she agreed to allow others to use her territory as the hunting-ground to be scoured by the bloodhounds of slavery in search of their human prey? Did she, when she subscribed to the national compact, consent to annul or reverse her Bill of Rights, and make it necessary for a man to prove he is not a slave before he can be safe in his person and property? This is the real question. 
I have sworn to support the Constitution of the United States, in connection with that of Massachusetts. When I did so, I did not feel like Desdemona, in her relations to her father and Othello, that I had a ' divided duty' before me. But, on the contrary, I thought there was between them a perfect harmony of interest and purpose. I think so still.
I wish to say here, and hope it may be distinctly understood, that the Constitution, both of the State and nation, is not a matter of history; it is not a subject of tradition; it is not to be measured and settled by precedent, like the Constitution or common law of England; but it is a substantive, tangible fact, written out on parchment, every word, and syllable, and letter of which are in the book I hold in my hand. It is not to be found in previous, contemporaneous or subsequent historyï¿½not in the decisions of the so-called courts of justice, nor the platforms of political conventions, but in this book. It is to be interpreted according to the natural, commonly received, legitimate use of words. If there is any thing in the text about which there is any uncertainty or ambiguity, the Preamble to the Constitution, which declares the purpose for which it was ï¿½ordained and established,' is the key with which we can unlock the mystery and clear up the uncertainty. In addition to this, we have the generally-received principles which govern all judicial proceedings, that all doubt in evidence or in law shall inure to the benefit of the person on trial, or whose liberty is at stake. Here is the text; there is the dictionary; now for the interpretation. Having with as the original text, the rules, the dictionary, and behind all, as an impenetrable buttress to the cause we advocate, the Declaration of Independence, let as look at this organic law which to said to carry slavery with it wherever the starry banner of the Union floats in the air.
Before I do so. however. I wish to show, by a few quotations, that the views I have assumed here in regard to what is the Constitution, are such as are held in regard to the interpretation of all written documents. I might occupy an indefinite amount of time in presenting such authorities, but I will content myself with two or three extracts from the works of that profound jurist and writer upon constitutional law, Judge Story. I do this because he has presented the subject in a terse and lucid manner, and not because the sentiments derive any real authority from him, or the Court whose mouth-piece or presiding genius he might happen to be. They would be just as true and authoritative if they had been spoken by any body else and just as true and obligatory upon mankind, if they had never been spoken or written at all.
<c06>
Speaking of the absurdity of that plea, that we are to go out of the words of a Constitution or law, and be governed by what history may say were the intentions of its authors, he says:-
'Such a doctrine would be novel and absurd. It would confuse and destroy all the tests of constitutional rights and authorities. Congress could never pass any law without an inquisition into the motives of every member, and even there they might be examinable. Besides, what possible means can there be making such investigation? The motives of many members may be, nay, must be, utterly unknown, and incapable of ascertainment by any judicial or other inquiry; they may be mixed up in various manners and degrees; they may be opposite to or wholly independent of each other. The Constitution would thus depend upon processes utterly vague and incomprehensible; and the written intent of the legislature upon its words and acts, the lez scripts, would be obliterated or contradicted by conjecture, and parole declarations, and fleeting reveries, and heated imaginations. No government on earth could rest for a moment on such a foundation. It would be the flux and reflux and every tide of opinion. Every act of the legislature(and for the same reason, also every clause of the Constitution) must, therefore, be judged of from its objects and intent, as they are embodied in its provisions.'--2d Story's Commentaries, p.534.
Again, he says:-
'The Constitution was adopted by the people of the United States, and it was submitted to the whole upon a just survey of its provisions, as they stood in the text itself. Opposite interpretations, and different explanations of different provisions, may well be presumed to have been presented in different bodies to remove local objections, or to win local favor. Every member(of the Convention which framed it) necessarily judged for himself; and the judgment of no one could or ought to be conclusive upon that of others. Nothing but the text itself was adopted by the people. 'Story's Com. on the Constitution, p.287.
But I have made enough of these quotations to answer my purpose. Let us now see what the text that the people did adopt, and which stands before us here, teaches and demands.
First, what did they say they were going to do is this Constitution, when its provisions should be fairly carried out? They said they were going ï¿½to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to themselves and their posterity.'
In the absence of direct and unmistakable evidence to the contrary, it is presumed they accomplished their object. What evidence is there that they did not? First, it is said there is history. This I have ruled out as not reliable, and never to be taken against the words of the instrument itself. Second, it is said we have the words of the Constitution, which, in the famous fourth article, provide for the rendition of fugitive slaves to their masters. This I deny. In doing this, I make no account of the negative character of the sentence composing the paragraph whose meaning is in dispute, in the declaration that no person is to be delivered up, instead of any person, & c. I say the person to be given up is one who owes service under contract, direct or indirect. It carries with it an idea of debt, or of mutual arrangement, in which there is a real consideration either express or implied. There is an undoubted quid pro quo, so much for so much, embraced both in is letter and spirit. The person--not thing, not chattel is to be held to service under the laws, and given up to the person to whom such labor or service is due. Manifestly, two parties making a contract. One fails to fulfil his part, and the law comes with its compulsory process to see that the contract is met, and the debt is paid.
In order to show that by no possibility of interpretation can the article be made to cover a slave as being the person who owes service, let us consider for a moment what a slave really is by law in this country. ï¿½He is one who is in the hands of a master to whom he belongs.' ï¿½A slave( in the words of the South Carolina law) is to be taken, adjudged and held, in law to be goods and chattels personal, to all intents, purposes and constructions whatsoever.' ï¿½He is not to be ranked among sentient beings.' ï¿½He can do nothing, possess nothing, nor acquire any thing, but belongs to his master.' In three words, 'he is property' in the hands of his owner. He can have no home, no wife, no children, no property, no country, no GOD, except as his master pleases. He may be whipped, starved, sold, and even killed, it be done, in the phrase of the North Carolina law, by the infliction of ï¿½moderate correction, or in the act of resistance to his lawful owner.' From the moment his infantile wail pierces the common air, as he breathes for the first time the breath of mortal life, until his unpaid toil is over, and he is laid away in his lowly grave to mingle again with his native dust, he is by law subject to the will and made to subserve the interest of some pretended owner, while all his posterity, to the remotest generation, and mortgaged to the same pitiless fate. It is said by many that this system, with all its untold abominations, is coiled up snugly in, and drawing its life -blood from, the Constitution of the United States. I do not believe it. If I did, I would not only, ï¿½let the Union slide' with all conceivable rapidity, but for no consideration that I can conceive of could I be induced to give it a moment's support I am pledged to sustain truth, freedom, justice for all. Slavery is neither of these; but, on the contrary, from the stand-point I occupy, from the impulses of my hear, from the convictions of my understanding, it is a monstrous lie. No constitutional provisions, no decisions of all the Supreme Courts that have been held since the confusion and dispersion of the tribes at the Tower of Babel; no trick of political or theological legerdemain, no figment of law or gospel, can make it otherwise. No, Mr. President, slavery is not true-it is false. That great English metaphysician, Thomas Carlyle, has well said, ï¿½It is in vain to vote a false image true. Vote it, and revote it, by overwhelming majorities, by jubilant unanimities, the thing is not to; it is otherwise than so, and all Adam's posterity, voting upon it till doomsday, cannot change it'
Mr. President, we are charged, in our hostility to slavery, and in our efforts to save Massachusetts from the guilt and shame of hunting slaves, with making war upon property, and encroaching upon vested rights. Caleb Cushing, in his blood-and-thunder letter to the Norombega Hall Union-saving meeting at Bangor, in which he solemnly declared that if the people of New Hampshire and Connecticut did not back square out of the cul de sac of Republicanism or Abolitionism at their next election, sundry very terrible things would happen to us all, the light of their blessed countenances from us, and then the whole North--all its millions of enterprising, thrifty and the industrious people-will be compelled to eat each other up, like shipwrecked mariners thrown out upon the stormy sea of life without chart or compass, and cat off completely from all supply of natural food-and it seems we must begin to prepare ourselves for this horrible catastrophe, for New Hampshire has already declared she will not back out, and the chances are that Connecticut is going to do likewise, -I say, Gen. Cushing tells the country we are making war upon property. But, with all due deference to this distinguished renegade, I beg leave to say that just the opposite is the fact. We are the true conservators of property, by drawing the line between that which is really property and the man who owns it, and therefore can never be its subject. It is such men as he who are the real enemies of property, and unsettle all its natural foundations, by making man and merchandize convertible terms. If slavery be right, it rests on power, and this is constantly changing hands. The slave of to-day may become the owner of to-morrow, and by his own strong right arm, or through some fortunate train of circumstances, may wrest the dominion from his former master, and turn him over to the auctioneer, or drive him to unpaid toil like the 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
MARCH 30.
horse or the ox, in whose category the slave is ever classed.  No, sir, we are the friends, not the enemies of property. But we do not believe in the famous postulate of Henry Clay, that 'whatever the law declare <illegible> to he property which, in earth and in air, can be made to aid in the sustenance and elevation of the human race. Between it and man there is a great gulf fixed, which cannot be bridged over so that they shall mingle, and become one and the samething. Through all the ages, men have struggled for this great truth-the integrity and sacredness of human nature. Far down in the history of nations we see its spirit flashing out, feebly and dimly, perhaps, yet surely and divinely-among the children of Israel, the Greeks, the Romans, at the Red Sea, at Marathon, at Thermophylse, in Leonidas and his three hundred Spartans, in the expulsion of the Tarquins, in the struggles of the Gracchi in behalf of the people of Rome, in Brutus and Cato, in Rienzi and Tell, in Sydney and Hampden, in Washington and Lafayette, and their thousand other benefactors of the race, 'who live in story and in song.’ And may we not well ask here if all those immortal spirits, the light of whose glorious example streams down upon us, toiled, and suffered, and died, on the cross, in prison, at the stake, on the scaffold, and on the battle-field, that the Fugitive Slave Acts, which require men to prove that they are not the property of some trafficker in human flesh? no better fruit than Dred Scott decisions, which declare that one race of men has no rights which another is bound to respect? no nobler sentiment than great party, which, under the attractive name of 'Popular Sovereignty,' affirms that the majority have a right to enslave the minority if they choose?
	I ask Senators at this Board, I ask the young Senator from manhood have not, I trust, yet been wholly stifled, or blinded by the corrupting influence of party drill: I ask my friend from Middlesex, (Mr. Patch. whose heart I know throbs with a grnuine love for the people-I ask the Senator from Worcester, (Mr.  Cook,) who has made himself a nest down among the Israelites of three thousand years ago,-who swears complacently by the Pentateuch, when he can find a text in it which seems to sanction human slavery, and who appears to believe that the terrible penalties denounced against the stealers and sellers of men were intended to apply mainly, if not solely to the conductors of Underground Railroads-I ask all the Democratic Senators here, if this Popular Sovereignty dodge, whose broad mantle is made a cover for crime and oppression, is to be regarded as the 'bright consummate flower' of Democratic civilization? Is this the fruit which has grown and matured through the storms of adverse and successful war, and the sunshine of peaceful industry and prosperity? Is the grand old Declaration of Independence, under whose inspring influence the people of this country waged their contest against British rule, is this to be superseded by the brutal assumption that might makes right?
	They tell us again we are enemies to law and order. To a certain extent, so far as I am concerned, this is true, but it is only the law which enables the strong to oppress the weak, the rich the poor, the wise the ignorant; which makes justice a mockery, and mercy a crime, and every man either a kidnap-per or his victim.  The order we would overthrow is that which reigned in Warssaw when Nicholas, by the aid of 'his whiskered Pandours and his fierce Hussars,' has placed his foot upon the neck of prostate and bleeding Poland, not that written in the decrees of Heaven. The law we would uphold' is that
	'Whose home is the heart of God-whose voice
	 The choral harmonies whereby
	The stars through all their spheres rejoice,
	 The rythmic rule of earth and sky.’
This law is not written upon parchment merely, but is stamped indelibly upon the Constitution of the Universe. And of this, all legitimate human enact-ments are but the approximation or the abstract. 
	We are the opponents of law, are we? I went the other day over to Charlestown, and stood upon Bunker Hill. I saw there the statue of the youthful martyr, General Warren, who fell so early in the cause of human liberty. A noble statue, looking up so calmly and yet so earnestly towards heaven, s if drawing from thence the divine inspiration-that deep trust and faith in God and right, that urged him on to the peril which ended in his martyr grave. Grazing there, it seemed as if I were transported across the intervening years, and stood on the brow of that hill on the morning of the 17th of June, 1775, and saw passing before me the second act of the great historical drama of the Revolution. I saw the preparations for there combat. It seemed indeed as if I could al-most maken a reality of Job Pray in Lionel Lincoln; and when the spectators pitched him headlong from Copps Hill, saw him launch his canoe, paddle across the river, and as he ascended the hill to join the Provincials, could hear him shout-'Let the Rake hellies come up to Breed's, the people will teach'em the law.' I saw the launching of the British troops, their formation into column, their march up the hill, their repulse and retreat and return, the burning of the village to cover their advance; could hear the rapid fusillade of the musketry, and ever and anon, from the surrounding hills and ships in the river, there thundered forth the dispason of the cannonade.' I saw the final storming of the breastwork, could hera the clash of steel, the shout of defiance, the prayer for Warren, and the retreat of the Provincials round the hill and over the neck; and, as the smoke of the battle and the burning village cleared away, the dead and the dying that strewed the ground on either side. And the terrible question presented itself then, as it does now, 'Why is all this? Why this sacrifice of life and property? Why is man thus made a wolf to man? Was it to strengthen, extend, and perpetuate human slavery, and enable Robert Toombs of Georgia to call the roll of his slaves at the foot of the monument which posterity would erect to commemorate that victorious defeat?' Certainly, from what we see and hear around us, such would seem to have been the end aim of it all, and of the seven years' war which followed. 
	They had a great meeting in Faneuil Hall, in December, to save the Union once more-to apply another layer of salt to its decaying frame.  It certainly does require very frequent applications of the saline element, which can only be accounted for by the supposition that the salt has lost its savor.  Well, at that meeting, among many other notable things, they passed and sent out the following resolution:-
	Resolved, That we hereby denounce, as worthy of the most unqualified condemnation, every expression of sentiment, whether public	
or private, tending to extenuate or apologize for the conduct or characters of the criminal actors in the late outrage in Virginin, or to make them seem other than the guilty agents and victims of a fanatical and guilty delussion; and we hold those, in whatever station, or of whatever professsion, whose opinions and exhortations, hereto-fore uttered, have manifestly tended to this great wrong and crime, as fully responsible for it and all its evil consequences before God and the country.
	Now, Mr. President, did the women of Boston and elsewhere, who, in the log-cabin and hard cider excitement of 1840, were able, by the aid of fashion and folly, to complete what patriotism alone could not accomplish,did they suppose that within twenty years the solid men would gather in Faneuil Hall, and, instead of calling them blessed, deniounce them as inocendiaties, if not murderes? And yet so it is, for that pile of granite is a perpetual sermon in favour of insurrection and blood. They are responsible, not the Republicans, for the Harper's Ferry inroad; and the judicial murders which have followed, begin
<C02>
ning with the great martyr to truth and freedom, John Brown, and ending, at last, it is to be hoped, for the honor of human nature, with the execution of Stevens and Hazlett. For, as long as that column stands there, and points its grey shaft to heaven, ay, sir, forever, while ‘the earliest light of morning gilds it, and parting day lingers and plays on its summit,' it shall testify for freedom and for man.  The lesson it shall teach will be this: 'Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God.’
	 I have lingered long on this subject. To me, it is fraught with momentous consequence to us and to posterity. Others may call it fancy legislation. It seems to me any thing but fanciful. It is an ever-present fact staring us in the face, and which in some way must be met and disposed of. Freedom or Slavery, which a hall we have? The hours of my brief legislative life are drawing rapidly to a close. I wish that the record I leave behind me shall be in harmony with the professions I make, 'Man first, everything else afterwards.' With the world, it is too apt to be, everything else first, man afterwards. I believe in-stitutions were made for man, not man for institutions. Every thing else is transient and mutable. The human race is immortal.  
 It was but the other day, where now stands this Tri mountain City, so busy in the accumulation of its material wealth, the axe of the white man first broke the silence of the primeval forests. How long will it be before this highly artificial and commercial life, which is ready to sacrifice everything for money, shall fade away, and, passing into the currents of history, shall dwell alone in the memory, with Balbec, and Palmyra, and Thebes, and Babylon, and all those places where
	'Ruin itself stands still for lack of work, 
	And Desolation keeps unbroken Sabbath'? 
	In Bulwer's thrilling but fanciful story of Zanoni, it is related that Megnour and Zanoni had discovered the secret by which to withstand the influence of decay and death, and had lived without change through the revolutions of countless years. This may be fancy for individuals, but not necessarily for nations and races. And I can see no good reason why the life of a nation may not be as permanent and enduring as the life of the human race. There is but one way in which this can be done, and that is, by the exercise of those virtues and in the performance of those duties which, while they diffuse blessings far and wide to individuals, give strength and stability to the whole.  
 
	I have spoken, Mr. President, in the interest of no party, only as that party embodies the principles upon which I stand. For the sentiments I utter, no one is responsible but myself. My appeal is made to the; heart aid conscience of every man, be he Republican or be he Democrat. I stand here as the representative of a portion of the Republican party. Henry Wilson once said he was a Democrat of the Democrats. I think I can say I am a Republican of the Republicans. I am a Republican, and, more than that, I am an abolitionist. And though I may not feel called upon, either here or elsewhere, to enter into a crusade against slavery across the boundary lines of national or municipal law, I still believe religiously in the Declaration of Independence as having its basis in the profoundest instincts and loftiest, philosophy of human nature.  
 
	I shall strive earnestly, as I may have opportunity, for the success of the Republicans in their efforts to obtain the control of the General Government; but the success for which I labor is not that which is to be measured and limited by the acquisition and pos-session of the spoils and power of office, but it is that which will shed a light upon the path, and guide safely into the haven of peaceful liberty the oppressed of every race and clime.  As one means to this end— as a beacon light a veritable 'star on life's tremulous ocean,' shining far out from every cape and headland along our rocky shores, let us make slavery an impossibility here, by declaring that on this little spot of earth called Massachusetts, if no where else, man shall be free. 

	Mr. PARKER, of Worcester, said that while he was as warm an advocate of the rights of the slaves as any other Senator, he could not support the bill, which he considered was in direct violation of his oath of office and the constitution of this State and the United States. He then reviewed the history of slavery and the rendition of fugitive slaves from 1704 to the present time, with much minuteness. He dissented from the opinion of the Senator from Plymouth that we were not bound by pledges made by our fathers. He referred to the historical allusions made by Mr. Whiting, and contended that he was very unfortunate in those he had selected, at they went directly against the idea of preventing the rendition of slaves.  
	Mr. PARKER said that while he would vote against any nullifying act, he would leave no honorable means untried at the ballot box.  He closed his remarks by expressing the hope that the bill would be rejected, and that the resolves he had offered would be adopted as a substitute for the report of the committee.  
	Mr. COLE, of Berkshire, opposed the bill, and said that he would not vote for such a bill, considering that to do so would be a violation of his oath, yet be would be willing to use every legitimate means to attain the object sought by moral suasion.  
	The debate was further continued by Messrs. HOTCH-KISS, of Franklin, and LCCE, of the Island District, in favor of the bill, when the vote on substituting the bill for the report was taken by yeas and nays, result-ting in the refusal to substitute—10 to 22.  
	Mr. PARKER, of Worcester, moved to substitute the resolves offered by him for the report of the commit-tee.  
 
	Mr. WHITING, of Plymouth, objected to the re-solves being substituted, or the ground that the petitioners had asked for a law to prohibit slave-hunting in Massachusetts, and the committee had reported on this, whereas the resolves were no answer to the petitions.
	Mr. PARKER then withdrew the resolves, and the report of the committee was accepted.
A GRATIFYING TESTIMONIAL.
FRIEND GARRISON:-
	It has afforded me great pleasure to learn that the young men connected with the model House of C. F. Hovey & Co., 33 Summer Street, have just procured, at a cost of about $75, a superb likeness of its late senior partner, our much esteemed friend and co-laborer, CHARLES F.  HOVEY, and have presented it to its present proprietors at a slight token of their regard for him who was ever, while living, giving them evidence of his deep interest in their welfare.  
 
	We understand that the gift was received with a great deal of satisfaction by the gentlemen upon whom it was conferred, and we doubt not that the influence of this honorable set on the part of the donors will be most happy upon both the givers and the recipi-ents.  
 
	The picture, which is a most beautiful work of art, and almost an impersonation of its esteemed original, is now hanging in the counting-room of their - House, where, we are informed, any of his numerous friends will be permitted to see it.  
 
	We have gazed upon it to-day with a pleasure which could only be enhanced by being permitted to see its noble subject again animated with life, and actively aiding in the great work, so dear to his heart, of elevating and saving the human race.  
	 We hope that the friends of the now immortal Hovey will avail themselves of an early opportunity to see the best likeness of him which has ever yet been executed, and which we think it will be difficult to excel. 
JUSTITIA.  
Boston, March 27,1860.  
	The portrait alluded to by our correspondent is indeed marvellously accurate and life-like.-[Ed. Lib.
<C03>
TESTIMONIES FROM SCOTLAND.  
 
GLASGOW,' March 9, I860.  
 
	MY DEAR GARRISON—The enclosed have been sent to me to be forwarded to you for insertion, in the Liberator. 
 Yours, affectionately, GEORGE THOMPSON. 
PORT GLASGOW, March 6,1860.  
To the Editor of The Liberator, Boston:-
 SIR—Herewith I send you a resolution, adopted last night at a public meeting, and trust you will give it a place in your column. With best wishes for your noble enterprise, 
I am yours very truly, 
WM. BIRKMYRE. 
	A public meeting of the inhabitants of Port Glasgow was held in the parish church on the 5th March, 1860, in reference to the subject of American Slavery —Provost WILLIAM BIRKMYRE in the chair—when the following resolution was moved by Mr. AMDREW GLENDINNING, seconded by WILLIAM CAIRD, Esq, and unanimously agreed to:— 
	Resolved, That this meeting express their abhorrence of the system of Slavery as it exists in the United States of America, and their deep sorrow in contemplation of the fact that it is practised and upheld by the majority of the professedly Christian churches of that country; and would offer to all who are engaged in the work of promoting its abolition their hearty sympathy, and best wishes for their speedy and entire success.  
WILLIAM BIRKMYRE, Provost. 

GREENOCK, March 7,1860.  
 
To the Editor of The Liberator, Boston:-
	SIR—I enclose copy of s resolution passed last night at a public meeting.  You will oblige by giving it due publicity.
I am yours truly, 
ANDREW GLENDINNING, 
Convener of Meeting. 
	At a public meeting of the inhabitants of Greenock, N. B., convened to consider the subject of American Slavery, it was unanimously Resolved, That the spectacle of four millions of slaves owned as chattels, in a land professedly republican and Christian, should excite the indignation, and call forth the remonstrances, of all who call themselves the lovers of freedom, and the friends of Christianity ; and this meeting do record the expression of their detestation of the system, their sympathy with the slaves, their condemnation of those by whom they are held in bondage, and their admiration of all in the United States who are laboring to remove from their country its scandal and its curse.  
	The resolution was moved by the Rev. JOHN GUTHRIE, and seconded by the Rev. JOHN FORSYTH, on the understanding that it be forwarded to America for publication. 
JAMES DUFF, 
Provost and Chief Magistrate, Chairman. 
EXPLANATORY AND DEFENSIVE.  
NEW YOKK, March 26, 1860.  
Editor of The Liberator : DEAR SIR—In your issue of March 23d, you give a very severe notice of a little work from the pen of Rev. W.W. Cazalet, on The Human Voice, just published by us. In that notice you  of the book, 'Its disregard of all rules of punctuation is absolute, and makes a ridiculous jumble of the reading through-out.' And then you proceed to give specimens.  
	If you had read the book with sufficient care to have learned the object and intent of the author in writing it, we are sure your notice would have been quite different. The author claims to have discovered a better system of 'punctuation' than the old one, and this work is, in part, designed as an argument in favor of the new system.  He expressly aimed, not  only to disregard the old method of punctuation, but to put forth a new method, and to sustain it by argument and by examples.  
 	This new method is, of course, a fair subject of criticism: but that the author proposes a new method, you seem to have entirely overlooked. Of course, we would not print a work thus violating the rules of punctuation, except it were put forth by the author purposely as a new system, with reasons sustaining its use.  
 	If the new system of punctuation is defective, we ask no favor for it; but pray spare us as publishers, and our proof reader, from the censure of such ignorance of punctuation as your notice, by implication, lays at our door; and oblige 
Yours, very truly, 
FOWLER & WELLS, (by S.)
	P. S.Please read the Preface, in which the author says:—'I am quite aware that the opinions I have advanced are contrary to those generally received.' We believe you tolerate new and radical views.  
F. & W. 
REPLY The 'better system of punctuation,' claim-ed to have been discovered by Mr. Caxalet, is an utter disregard of every rule yet laid down for guidancein writing and printing, and too absurd to deserve the slightest consideration.  Its only claim to originality is its folly.
LETTER OF INQUIRY. 
	We received, a short time since, the following letter of inquiry from an antislavery clergyman in a distant town in this Commonwealth:—
	MR. GARRISON : —Who is John Madison? A man calling himself by this name came to my door, one day last week, and introduced himself as an anti-slavery lecturer. I received him.  He said he hailed from New York City—had been seven years in the field had lectured in every county in New York— had been frequently through Massachusetts, over the Canadas, &c .  
	I was very busy, and had little time to converse with him, but gave him a note to the trustees of my Church, requesting them to open the house to him.  They did so with great cheerfulness. The hour for the lecture came, and I went into the church to hear a man who represented himself as a veteran Anti-Slavery lecturer. I heard, and I must indulge the hope that mortals are seldom doomed to suffer from chagrin and mortification as I did under that performance.  It was awful. It was illiterate, silly, and absurd. He made himself and the subject utterly ridiculous.  
	He is the first Anti-Slavery lecturer who has visited this town for several years. He has injured the cause, and made it difficult for a decent man to get a hearing.  
	What do you know of him? If he is what he claims to be, you must know him well.  
	 Please enlighten us. I can assure you that it would be a relief to the friends of Anti-Slavery here to know that he is an impostor. If, however, he is a well meaning man, but unfortunate, and an object of pity rather than contempt, please write me to that effect, and we will summon patience and fortitude to enable us to bear the disgrace and reproach which this man must everywhere bring upon our cause. 
	REPLY. We know nothing more of 'John Madison' than that he seems to be a strolling adventurer, going from place to place as a professed anti-slavery lecturer, pretending a personal acquaintance with leading Republicans and Abolitionists, and quartering himself upon them wherever he can, full of assurance and dogmatism, and utterly incompetent to make a sensible or coherent speech. Indeed, from all we have seen and heard of him, we are charitably inclined to regard him as somewhat demented in mind, and therefore not to be held to the strictest accountability. He appears to have originated at the South. He should receive no encouragement whatever in the lecturing field.[Ed.  Lib. 
<C04>
From the Anti-Slavery Standard of March 24.  
 
EXECUTION AND  BURIAL OF  STEVENS AND HAZLETT.  
	On Friday, the 16th inst., AA(illegable) D.STRVENS and ALBERT H ARLETT, the last of the Harper's Ferry prisoners, were put to death upon the scaffold, at Charles-town. Va. Of all the despotisms in the world, none is so implacable as the Slave Power of the United States. It knows neither justice nor mercy in any case where its prerogatives are assailed. Influential pro-slavery men at the North besought Gov. Letcher to pardon Stevens, assuring him that such elemency would promote the interests of the Democratic party, while the execution of the unfortunate prisoner, un-necessary as it was to Southern security, would feed the flame of antislavery excitement in the free States; but the appeal was in vain. Nothing less than the death of every one of those concerned with John Brown in the effort to give liberty to the slaves would satisfy the vindictive spirit of Virginia. 
	THE BURIAL. 
	In accordance with an arrangement made with the prisoners before the day of execution, and with the assent of the Executive of Virginia, the bodies were immediately conveyed to Eagleswood, near Perth Amboy, N. J. to the house of Mr.  Marcus and Mrs. Rebecca B. Spring, where the funeral services took place on Sunday last. Mr. Aaron Stevens and Mrs. Lydia Pierce, the father and sister of Aaron D. Stevens, both of Norwich, Ct., Mr. Meech. his uncle, of Griswold, Ct.and the Miss Dunbar alluded to in another account of the execution, were present. No relative of Haxlett attended. The Rev. Hiram P. Arms, of Norwich, Ct. , pastor of the church if which the father of young Stevens is a member, conducted the religious services. The house of Mr. Spring was crowded by the residents of Eagleswood, (including teachers and scholars connected with the school of Theodore D. Weld,) and by citizens of Perth Amboy. The services commenced with singing the hymn, 
	'Come unto me, and I will give you rest.' 
The Rev. Mr. Arms then read selections from the Scriptures, and made some very pertinent and impressive remarks, suggested by the painful scenes through which the deceased had been called to pass. He said he had known young Stevens only as a boy, at which period of his life he was noted for the promptness and seal with which he always espoused the cause of the weak and the defenceless. It was this trait of his character, no doubt, that led him to hate slavery, and made him willing to unite with John Brown in an effort to break the ehains of its victims. Mr. Arms having offered an appropriate prayer, Mr. Theodore Tilton, of New York, made an address, in which the topics suggested by the occasion were handled with a power that stirred every heart. Mrs. Rebecca B. Spring then read some very interesting extracts from letters written by Aaron D. Stevens during his incarceration. showing that he considered it an honor to die in the cause of liberty, and that his last days were cheered by the hope of a blessed immortality.  Oliver Johnson made a few re-marks, and Mrs. Spring read a hymn that had been a favorite with Stevens, and that he had copied for her just before his death. Mr. Spring, after remarking that the remains of the deceased were not in a condition to be seen, exhibited a photographic likeness of Stevens, taken only a short time before his execution, and asked those present to judge whether a man whose face presented so many indications of nobleness deserved to die the death of a felon. The exercises were concluded with singing the hymn, 
	'Nearer, my God, to thee.' 
	The bodies of the dead, followed by nearly alt the residents of the place in solemn procession, were then borne to the Eagleswood cemetery, where they were interred side by side, near the graves of James G. Bimey and Arnold Buffum.  
 
	Our readers will observe with satisfaction that Stevens and Hazlett followed the example of John Brown in declining the ministrations of the clerical champions of slavery. No man-stealing minister was permitted to desecrate their last hours with the mockery of his prayers and exhortations.  Their example, in this respect, was worthy of the cause in which they suffered, and it cannot fail to exert a salutary influence at the South as well as at the North. 
	FREE NEGRO BILL IN MISSOURI.  Some time ago, a disgraceful bill was passed by the Legislature of Missouri, excluding free negroes from the State—and vetoed by the Governor. At the present session, it appears, the measure was revived and repassed. The result of this second effort is found in the following report,
which we copy from the St. Louis Republican of the 18th inst
	'A message from the Governor has been announced and read. In the message he gives his reasons at length for returning the bill without his signature.  Among others, he states that he entertains doubts of the constitutionality of the measure, and is of the opinion that it would act prejudicially to the interest sought to be sustained, and that it was uncalled for, and calculated to tend to political discord.' 
	After noticing intervening discussion, the report continues: 
	'Mr. Ament then renewed his motion to consider the free negro bill; and on the question, shall the bill pass, the objections of the Governor notwithstanding, being put, the ayes and nays were called. A yen 63, nays 30.  
 	There not being a majority of the whole number of members elected voting in the affirmative, the bill did not pass.'
	 Gov. Stewart, in this instance, has done himself honor, and saved the honor of the State over whose interests he presides; and deserves the thanks of all the friends of human rights. 
	SENATOR WILSON AND THE SLAVS TRADE. The Washington correspondence of the New York Herald says:- Senator Wilson has opened the war in earnest upon the slave trade, and strikes in the right direction. He introduced, to-day, three separate propositions. First, for the construction of five steamers, of a size and armament to suit the African coast, and coating one million of dollars.  Second, for reducing the punishment of those convicted of engaging in the slave trade from death to imprisonment for life, as more likely to insure conviction, and rendering ship-owners equally liable with officers and crew.  Third, a resolution of inquiry as to the expediency of instructing the President to enter into treaty stipulations with foreign nations, for the mutual right of visitation and search of vessels found within  two hundred miles of the coast of Africa. These several propositions Mr. Wilson designs pressing upon Congress, and intends, if possible, to secure action upon them. 
	ABOLITION OP SLAVERY, &C. In the U. S. Senate, on Tuesday, Mr. Sumner presented the memorial of Samuel May, a distinguished and venerable merchant of Boston, and 400 others, citizens of Boston, praying for the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850. the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, the prohibition of the inter-State slave trade, and the passage of a resolution pledging Congress against the admission of any new slave State into the Union, or the acquisition of any slave territory, or the employment of slaves by any agent, contractor, officer or department of the Federal Government. He moved a reference to the Judiciaiy Committee. Mr. Davis moved that it lay on the table.  Agreed to—yeas 30, nays 17. 
	SLAVERY FINALLY ABOLISHED IS KANSAS.—We stop the press to announce the joyful tidings that the bill prohibiting slavery in Kansas has just passed both branches of the Legislative Assembly, by the requisite two-thirds majority over the Governor's veto, and U now the law of the land! Six years ago, the Democracy abolished the time-honored ordinance of Freedom, and threw wide open the gates of this beautiful Territory to Slavery. To-day, the PEOPLE, striding defiantly over the votes of a Democratic Federal Governor, and the votes of a majority of that party, in both branches of the Legislative Assembly, have re-established the old ordinance of liberty in these words:-
	'Slavery or involuntary servitude, except for the punishment of crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, is and shall be forever prohibited in this Territory ! “This act shall take affect from and after its passage.  
	The victory is at last won. Now let us see whether the Democracy in Congress will dare to pass a slave code. Laurence (Kansas) Republican. 

A FUGITIVE SLAVE CASE.—PHILADELPHIA, Mare) 27th, 1860.—A young negro named Moses Home was brought here last night from Harrisburg, on a charge of being a fugitive slave. He is claimed by Charles T.  Butler of Virginia. The case was before the United States District Court, Judge Cadwallader, this morning, but at the request of the fugitive's counsel, it was postponed until this afternoon.  Considerable excitement exits among the Abolitionists in regard to the matter.  
 	At the hearing of the fugitive slave ease this after noon, George H.  Earle, counsel for the prisoner, objected to the transcript of the proceedings of the Jefferson County Court, the name of the prisoner being spelt in various ways, and there being numerous alterations and erasures.  
	Mr. Brewster, counsel for the owners, produced evidence proving the identity of the slave, after which the hearing adjourned till morning. 
<C05>
LOUMVIELE Mateh 27. A man named Hanasos. who was recently expelled from Berea, Madison country, Ky., with J. G. Fee, returned to Berea, where-upon a committee waited upon him, for the purpose of again ordering him from the county. Hanson, flea, fired upon the committee, but without injuring any one. Hanson's party then retreated, and barricaded themselves in a house. The committee, which is composed of twenty-five or thirty men, are armed, with revolvera. A military force has been ordered from Lexington, and it is thought the disturbance will soon be quieted. 

	REVOLT OX BOARD A COOLIE SKIT.We are inform-ed that letters have been received from Capt, Winsor, of ship Viking, of this port, at Hong Kong, December 30th, leading Coolies, stating that they had revolted, but were subdued after firing among them several times, and confining them in the hold for three days. —New Bedford Standard. 

	What's in the Wind!—A special despatch to the Charleston Courier states that private advices from the Northern and Eastern States mention the receipt there of large orders for light ordnance and improved small anna, including revolvers and bowie knives.  In most cases they are to be delivered for shipment from the American Gulf ports, the orders coming from agents of Spanish and Mexican houses. 

	In Prussia the Minister of the Interior has ordered that the bastinatio, as an instrument of punishment for prisoners, shall be abolished. 

	 Mr. Monroe's bill to prevent slave holding and kidnapping in Ohio, came up for final action in the Senate on the 23d, and was passed by a vote of 20 to 12. 
	 It is proposed in Atlanta, Ga., that a subscription be raised by the females there, for the relief of the white girls and women in Massachusetts who are asking for higher wages. The person who makes the proposition offers to contribute one hundred dollars to start with. 
	An elderly gentleman was cowhided by a lady in Union Square, New York, on Sunday evening. She held him tight, whipped him soundly, slapped his face, and then walked away. Supposed to have been a bloated aristocrat and an injured woman. 
	 The widow of the late Rev. Robert Hall died at her residence, near Bristol, England, on the 15th ult., at the advanced age of 74. 
	The Slave Trade. It is rumored at Savannah that the steamer City of Norfolk, recently plying between that port and New York, has been sold to parties in the latter city who intend to make alterations to in-crease her speed, and then send her to Africa for a cargo of negroes. 
	Three, brothers named Bunker, residing near Des Motnes, were hanged in the woods of Tarn a county lowa, recently, by a number of persons from whom they had stolen horses. It appears that a Mr. Small, member of the City Council of Des Moines, and Sea-man, a constable of Des Moines, were the chief actors! in this lawless deed of vengeance. Small and Seaman were arrested, but mad* their escape from the sheriff. 
	The friends of Judge Bates have given publicity to the statement that he has emancipated his slaves. Says the St. Louis Evening Post 'So far from this being the case, it is undeniable that they ran away from him, and he used every means in his power to recapture them. 
	'Over Three Hundred Shipwrecks.From the commencement of the hurricane on the night of Oct.  24th last, which swept the cause of England and Ireland, to the 9th of November, three hundred and twenty five vessels were wrecked, and seven hundred and forty eight lives were lost. The work of destruction was unparalleled in the maritime records of England. 
	The Atlanta (Georgia) Southern Confederacy, ‘an ‘ extreme pro-slavery organ, sums up an estimate of Senator Seward's speech, thus: ‘On the whole, the late speech of Senator Seward is an able effort, candid, manly, and bold; and it will be read with pleasure by his friends, and should be read and pondered on by his political foes.’
	NEW SERIES OT ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS. We announce  with much pleasure  the issue of three new and valuable Anti-Slavery Tracts. They consist of the freshest and most interesting matter, and we invite to them the attention of all our readers. As they are to be sold at the simple coat, (or less,)v we hope that orders for them will be numerous. The series is to be continued, from time to time. The three already published are as follows:-
No. 1. Correspondence between Lydia Maria Child and Governor Wiee and Mrs.  Maeon, f Vir-28 pp. 

No. 2.Victor Hugo on American Slavery, with letters of other distinguished individuate, viz., De Tocqueville, Mazzini, Humboldt, Lafayette, &c. 24 pp. 
No.8.An Account of tome of the Principal Slave In-turrectiont during the last two Centuriet. By JOSHUA COFFIN. 36 pp. 
	Price of the first two of the above, five cents tingle; 50 cts. the dozen: $3 50 the hundred. Of No. 3, six cts. single; 60 cents the dozen; $4 the hundred.  
	To be had at the Anti Slavery Offices, 5 Beekman street, New York; 107 North Fifth street, Philadelphia; and 21 Corn hill, Boston.  
	The AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY has also just published, in a neat pamphlet form, the able and eloquent speech of THEODORE TILTON, Esq, of; New York, in reply to Rev.- Henry Ward Beecher, on ; the American Board of Foreign Missions. Orders for! these should be sent to the Secretary's Office, No.  5 Beekman street, New York. Price, three cents single; $2 50 per hundred. 
	BEAD THIS.  
	The subscriber can now furnish copies of the Photograph of LYDIA MARIA CHILD, with auto- graphic facsimile, executed by Ormsbee, at the low price of 50 cents.  Also, the few remaining Litho-graphs of JOHN BROWN, at $1. 00 each; and will receive orders for the handsome Colored Engraving, 20 by 28 inches, of the BOSTON MASSACRE—on sheet, $1.60; gilt frame, $3.50. As the stone on which this design was drawn has been accidentally destroyed, this is a rare chance for purchasing, as the stock on hand is very limited.  
 	All the above will be mailed safely without additional cost.           WILLIAM C. NELL, 
	Boston, March 12, 1860.21 Cornhill. 
	 Donation to Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, at Annual Meeting:—From RICHARD CLAP, of Dorchester, $10. FAST DAY.OLD COLONY.A regular quarterly meeting of the Old Colony Anti-Slavery Society will be held on Fast Day, April 5th, at DUXBURY, in the Universalist Meeting-house, commencing at half-past 10 o'clock,A. M., which all persons are invited to attend. Members of the Society, and friends of the Anti-Slavery Cause generally, are especially request-ed to come.  
	WR.LLOYD GARRISON. CHARLSS L.REMOND and other speakers are expected to be present. 
BOURNE SPOONER, President. 
SAMUEL DYER, Sec'y. 
	 ESSEX COUNTY.A quarterly meeting of j the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society will be held at GROVELAND, in the Free Church, commencing Saturday evening, 31st March, at half-past 7 o'clock, and continuing on Sunday, April 1st.  
 
	ANDREW T. FOSS, Bini C. WRIGHT, and CHARLES L. REMOND, will be present. 
CHARLES L. REMOND, President.  
 Mosss WRIGHT, Secy. 
	WM. WELLS BROWN will lecture in Haydenville, on Friday, March 80; and in Cumming-ton, on Sunday, April 1. 
 	SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agant of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will  lecture as follows:—
	East Templeton, Sunday, April 1. 
	Templeton Tuesday, April 3. 
Baldwinville, Thursday, April 5. 
	 DIED—In this city, March 19, Mrs. MART L., wise of Deacon COFFIN PITTS, aged 62; same day, WILLIAM, son of JAMES and ANN FLINT, aged 10 years.  
 	In Reading. Mass., March 22, of consumption, VA-MENUS A.  O.  D.  G.  HARTSMORN, aged 23 years. 
<C06>
DR. CHEEVER'S GBEAT WORK. 
The Guilt of Slavery, 
AND THE
CRIME  OF SLAVEHOLDING,
DEMONSTRATED FROM THE HEDREW AND GREEK SCRIPTURES. 
BY REV. GEO. B. <illegible>, D. <illegible>
This work embraces an examination of all the passages in the Bible on the subject of slavery and Slaveholding as a sin against God and man.  It contains a thorough analysis of the Mossic laws of domestic service, as well as of tributary subjection; and of the national history in illustration of the laws The hmmtd author has spent years of research upon this work, and it is without doubt the ablest effort of his life, and the most thorough demolition of all pro-slavery arguments, based  upon the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments.  
PRICE, $1 25.  
JOHN P. JEWETT AMD OOMPANY. 
 PUBLISHERS,
 No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON.  
March 9. 6 wis
Mrs. Lydia Maria Child's
LIFE OF
ISAAC  T.  HOPPER,
THE DISTINGUISHED  QUAKER PHI-
LANTUROPIST,
Is one of the most inteuaely interesting and useful biographies of MODERN TIMES. 

 His was emphatically
'A  TRUE  LIFE'
 A  NEW  EDITION
THE TWELFTH THOUSAND
Is just published. No library is complete without the record of this TRUE LIFE—a life spent in deeds of the most active philanthropy and benevolence. 
PRICE,  $1 25. 
 JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.
 PUBLISHERS,
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON. 
 March 9. imis
CHARLES  HAZELTINE.
PIANO-FORTE  TUNER  
AND
 REPAIRER. 
Orders may be left at Russell k Tollman's, 391 Washington street, and at the  Neponaet Post-Office. 



	Mr. H. has permission to refer to Thomas Ryan, Wulf Fries, and their fellow-members of the Mendelssohn  Quintette  Club:  also,to  Woodward & Brown, and Win. Bourne, Piano-Forte makers,B. F.  Baker, and W.R. Babcock.  
Nov. 4. 6m
The Herald of Progress
EDITED BY
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS. 
THIS new Journal of Practical and Spiritual Reform is commended to the favorable notice of all interested in any of the progressive movements of the day. Its columns are open to well written articles upon any and all Reform questions. Unlike most Spiritual papers heretofore published, its circulation at the South is limited by the sentiment there which declares it among 'incendiary documents.  
Its tolerant spirit towards every question of human interest, should commend it to all. 'who love their fellowmen.' 
	Terms—$2 per year. To be had of all news agenta. 

 A. J. DAVIS Co., Publishers,
 M30 3t 274 Canal street, New York. 
CARPETING. 
'All the Year Round.’
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO. 
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET. 
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by St sum sis and Packets from Eng-land, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels.  Tapestries, Threeplys, Hidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa. Mattings. 
— ALSO —
AMERICAN CARPETING. 
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES
For cash or approved credit. 
Sept 16				
THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114& 116 WASHINGTON ST. 
 Mch16 it BOSTON, MASS.

A.H.HOWLAND & CO.,
AGENTS FOR THE SALE OF
WHEELER &WILSON'S
Sewing Machines,
— ALSO —
WADE'S PATENT RUNNING ATTACHMENT,
(First Door from Main,) opposite Mechanics' Hall,
WORCESTER, MASS.
Meh 30. 
PHRENOLOGY. 

BY urgent request. Prof. N.WHEELER, well known as a scientific and truthful Phronologies, has opened rooms at 99 Court street, comes of Hanover, Boston, where he will make Phrenological Examinations, give written delineations of Charecter, and furnish Charts: heel the sick, impart instructions relative to health and habits, and the management of children. It. March 4. 

	
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THE VIRGINIA MARTYRS.
Suggested by the Execution, at Charlestown, Va., on March 16th, 1860, of Stevens and Hazlett, the last of the Harper's Ferry Insurgents who have been captured by the State. 
The last bloody act in the drama is o'er,
The martyrs have gone to their rest, 
To be where the wicked shall trouble no more,
Where the faithful forever are blest.
They for others have lived, and for others have died,
The poor and despised of our race; 
The tyrants of earth they have boldly defied—
In heaven they now have a place.
Virginia! ere long thou wilt see them again, 
Though their bodies repose with the dead,
Where they shall be free from all sorrow and pain, 
And their presence shall fill thee with dread.†
Thou It remember the scene at the Arsenal, when 
Thou didst kill and imprison the just;
The scene in the Court, where, surrounded by men, 
John Brown at oppression did thrust. ‡
Thou’lt remember the scaffold--the modernized cross--
Where died thy first victim alone: 
Thou wilt know was not he who then, suffered a loss,
And wish for his death to atone.
Thou wilt likewise remember those noble young men, 
Who, like him, all thy threatenings fled,
And how, like their Savior, they yielded life when, 
Like him, by their foes crucified.
Ere long there will be a much grander assize:&–
There thou with a world must appear; 
Its decisions more just, and its counsels more Wise,
Than those which these martyrs met here.
Virginia! Virginia! get ready, I pray,
Repent in the dust of thy sins;
Get ready thy victims to meet on that day–
Make haste—even now it begins! 
Boston, March 19, 1860. JUSTITIA.
*Romans, xiv. 10. †l.+I. Cor. vi. 2. +John Brown's' speech to the Virginia Court, when about to receive the sentence of death. §The six young men who have been executed since John Brown.
For the Liberator. 
THE FATAL FRIDAY. 
Again our hearts are destined to be torn,
Humanity again is set at naught; 
All our appeals the tyrant treats with scorn, 
And we behold our land with misery fraught.
Men of the North, the tocsin that of yore 
Aroused your fathers to defend their rights, 
Sounds the same’larum that was heard before— 
To boldly meet our foemen in their might.
No longer rest upon your hopes supine,
Forbearance further will destruction prove;
Stand for your rights, the oppressor's bounds define,
And from our shores the curse of slavery move.
New Bedford, March 16, 1860.		D.R.
*John Brown, executed Friday, Dec. 2, 1859; Cook, Coppick, Copeland and Green, Friday, Dec. 16, 1859; Stevens and Hazlett, Friday, march 16, 1860.
SLAVERY.
BY THOMAS PRINGLE.
O, Slavery! thou art a bitter draught, 
And twice! accursed is thy poisoned bowl, 
Which taints with leprosy the white man's soul,
Not less than his by whom its dregs are quaffed.
The slave sinks down, o'ercome by cruel craft, 
Like beast of burden on the earth to roll; 
The master, though in Luxury's lap he loll, 
Feels the foul venom, like a rankling shaft, 
Strike through his veins. As if a demon laughed, 
He, laughing, treads his victim in the dust, 
The victim of his avarice, rage, or lust; 
But the poor captive's moan the whirlwinds waft 
To Heaven—not unavenged. The oppressor quakes 
With secret dread, and shares the hell he makes.
From the Bangor Whig. 
THE CHRISTIAN BY THE POUND.
BY DAVID BARKER.
[At a recent slave sale, in one of the Southern States, the auctioneer, in a drunken humor, guaranteed the Christianity of the negro upon the block, and offered to sell him by the pound.]
He can mow and hoe, and shovel and dig,
And team, and lower, and hoist; 
His muscles are firm, and strong and big–
And he belongs to the Church of Christ!
The blood that followed the soldier's spear
Has scoured the stains of sin;
So what will you give for his body by weight,
If we throw you the spirit in?
No healthier man, no honester man, 
No piouser man is found; 
Say quick! Who bids? How much do I hear? 
How much will you give a–pound?
From the New York Evening Post. 
BIDDY O'FLAHERTY'S OPINION OF THE SOUTH.
Arrah, Paddy, my jewel, don't go to the South, 
For an Irishman there dare not open his mouth; 
If a word about nagers He'd happen to say, 
They would lynch him at once without any delay.
If he wanted a coat, they'd not let him go far 
Without giving him one made of feathers and tar; 
And they'd give him still more, without thinking it
wrong, 
Such as thirty–nine lashes to help him along.
You may talk of this country, the land of the free, 
But such freedom as that don't exactly suit me; 
And sooner than longer this way to remain, 
I'd rather go back to ould Ireland again. 
WHO ARE THE BLEST?
They who have kept their sympathies awake,
And scattered good for more than custom's sake—
Steadfast and tender in the hour of need,
Gentle in thought, benevolent in deed;
Whose looks have power to make disseusions cease;
Whose smiles are pleasant, and whose words are peace;
They who have lived as harmless as the dove,
Teachers of truth, and ministers of love–
Love for all moral power, all mental grace–
Love for the humblest of the human race—
Love for the tranquil joy that virtue brings–
Love for the Giver of all goodly things;
True followers of that soul–exalting plan,
Which Christ laid down to bless and govern man:
They who can calmly linger at the last,
Survey the future and recall the past,
And with that hope which triumphs over pain,
Feel well assured they have not lived in vain;
Then wait in peace their hour of final rest;
These only can be numbered with the blest.
WATER.
Most blessed WATER! Neither tongue can tell 
The blessedness thereof, nor heart can think, 
Save only them to whom it hath been given 
To taste of that divine gift of Heaven. 
I stopped and drank of that divinest well, 
Fresh; from the Rock of Ages whence it ran: 
It had a heavenly quality to quell 
All pain I rose a renovated man, 
And would not now, when that relief was known, 
For worlds the needful sufferings have forgons.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE MEETINGS ON THE 16th.
The morning session was intended to be a private council for consoultation as to the best modes of anti-slavery action. But, owing to a misunderstanding, many persons came at the appointed time, and, the doors being closed, went away. Finally, the hall was opened, and a small audience collected. Mr. Fowler, being chosen Chairman, briefly stated the causes of the misunderstanding, and of the meeting being so little advertised to the public. The objects of the council to be held during the day were, 1st. To consider our present relations to Slavery; 2d. To consider what anti–slavery action these relations demand.
Mr. Foster, of Worcester, being called upon, stated, in brief, his view of slavery at the present time, and its demands upon us. John Brown has created a new era in the movement. The hearts of the people are with him. They want to do something. The abolition movement has done a good work. The Garrisonian movement has been what the times demanded, to prepare the sentiment. It is still doing a good work, and he would not obstruct it; but it has made one mistake: while it acknowledges the slave to be a man and a brother, it neglects to throw around him the shield of government. He wanted his hearthstone protected by all the safeguards of government, and he was bound to extend the same protection to his neighbor,—the slave,—as he demanded for himself. This he thought the abolitionists had neglected to do, and this was their great mistake. Being unwilling to trust his own property and family to the doubtful issues of unorganized force, he demanded some more certain, reliable security for the person, property and family of the slave. He thought John Brown had done a good work; he had intensified the public feeling in behalf of the slave, and taught us the necessity of making our efforts in his behalf more practical. But his work was done. It could not be imitated; any attempt at that would meet with very little public sympathy. Slavery could not be abolished by insurrections. The people would oppose them-— he himself was not prepared for them.
Being here interrupted for apparent inconsistency, Mr. Foster said, It was John Brown of Charlestown Jail that the people admired, not so much John Brown of Harper's Ferry. He did his great work after his battle—was victorious in his defeat, and conquered his enemies while their prisoner. Had he fallen in the battle, the direct and immediate effect of his movement would have been adverse to our cause, though ultimately it would have proved beneficial.
The slaves were held in chains because the free people wish it. When the free people say to the slaves,’Go free!' their chains will fall off, and there will be an end to slavery in this country. Dr. Knox thought there were no free people in this country. If the Doctor thinks he is not free, (said Mr. Foster,) I will apply to him the old adage—'First free thyself—then free others.' He (Mr. F.) was free, and could labor for the freedom of others.
Mr. Foster proceeded to show the necessity of a radical anti–slavery political movement, having for its object the abolition of slavery by the arm of government. This legitimate and peaceable method of abolishing slavery would supercede the necessity for insurrection. The moment the abolitionists get possession of the government, slavery will be abolished without blood. The moral power of such a grand movement would abolish slavery even before the party could get possession of the government.
Dr. Knox spoke in reply to Mr. Foster. 
R. J. Hinton, late from Kansas, differed from Mr. Foster as to the possibility of successful insurrections. He thought that, had John Brown succeeded in leading into that long range of mountains which extended from Virginia to Texas, five hundred negroes, he would now have slaves flocking to his standard from nearly all the slave States. John Brown thought the Almighty had thrown up this vast range of mountain fastnesses for this special purpose, and constructed these natural forts to shield this oppressed race. Mr. Foster did not know the value of these ramparts; he did not consider the extensive ranges of swamps, almost impenetrable to the white man, but convenient for the slave. He had no doubt insurrections would come, and slavery would end by their means, and for no other.
Joseph Gardner,! of Kansas, said the abolition movement was going forward in Missouri with a rapidity almost incredible. He referred to many facts proving this to be the case. There were two broad outlets to the slavery of that State-the one Northward, towards freedom, the other Southward, towards a more cruel bondage, if possible. He narrated several very interesting cases of this Northward migration. This it was which caused the Southern migration. It was now the most common thing for the Missouri planter to find that a thousand dollars of precious stock had’come up missing,' and to receive a note to the effect that the balance would be called for at the next trip. This was appealing to the pockets of the slaveholder. Helper was also doing the same thing in another way. He thought this pocket argument the most effectual at the present time. He thought also there would be more John Browns, who would be more cautious and successful in their plans.
AFTERNOON SESSION. Mr. Fowler called the meeting to order at 3 o'clock, and resigned the chair. Dr. Knox was chosen to preside. Mr. Fowler was chosen Secretary, and proposed that the first business of the meeting be to consider the propriety of organizing a radical anti–slavery political party. The principal policy of the Republican party seemed to be success. Their first question—as they confess-is, how to poll the most votes. As there is no existing anti–slavery party, they feel sure of the votes of nearly all the most ultra voting abolitionists; hence their concessions to slavery to win votes from the Democratic party. All their late movements seemed directed to this one purpose. Seward's late speech was made for the times and the occasion. His object was to get himself elected the next President by lowering his standard to the plane of the conservative slaveholders’ vision, so that wavering Democrats would flock around it. That party had denied all sympathy for abolitionism. It had pledged itself in the strongest terms not only not to disturb slavery where it now exists, but to permit no one else to disturb it there. Than this pledge and the other, to resist all attempts to dissolve the Union, what more could the slaveholder ask? To be sure, the party is professedly opposed to the extension of slavery into territory where it does not now exist—but no more so than was all the Northern wing of the Democratic party twelve years ago. Should they elect such a President as they will nominate, and on the proposed platform, what reason have we to hope that they would be able, in Congress, to prevent the admission of New Mexico with a pro–slavery Constitution? How could a Democratic President force slavery upon Kansas, Nebraska, or any other territory where the people are determined to resist it? In all probability, the next election will not determine the fate of a single new State in this respect. It will neither give the Republicans a majority in the Senate, nor materially affect their power in the House. Should they succeed, we have nothing to hope, but everything to fear, for our cause. Their pledge to maintain slavery. where it is, is against us. It ought to drive every abolitionist from them. Their pledge to sustain the Union at all costs, and their time–serving policy, and willingness to compromise any principle, would induce them to make any concessions to the threatening South. The South see this, and are preparing for it. It will be one of their old tricks to threaten dissolution, and carry their points by terror. It seems evident that a successful Republican party would become conservative, and in four years win
<c03>
the favor of all the border Southern States, while it would tend to kill the abolition feeling North. The party that comes into power by concession and policy will not hesitate to use the same means to retain that power. On the contrary, a Democratic administration would be sure to keep alive the agitation of this subject, and precipitate the crisis. For these reasons and others, abolitionists should at once come out of the Republican party, and organize a new radical political movement, at once. Should this be done now, the movement would spring out of the people, and have not a single demagogue in it to corrupt it. Mr. Phillips said that the people would ultimately form a party upon Mr. Spooner's basis of the Unconstitutionality of Slavery, though for himself he could not accept it. If we see this to be the inevitable course of events, and can accept it, why not take it now, and commence the organization of the movement?
Mr. Stephenson, of Newton, believed in insurrections as the right of the slave and his friends, but he did not think they could succeed. He thought a radical anti–slavery political party was needed, and must come, but was not satisfied that the time for its organization was now.
Mr. Foster thought the time had come for this movement. Numbers was not of the most importance. Principle and firm devotion to the cause would be more important to us than numbers. Should we organize now, we should get only the cream of the Republican party; and as this party professes to be the cream of politics, we should get only the cream of the cream. The milk is all bad. He believed we possessed, under the Constitution, ample means to abolish slavery in the States, and thought we should have a party determined to use those means.
Lysander Spooner, being called upon, said, he was satisfied slavery could be abolished only by force; and there were only two ways of using force;—one, the John Brown method; the other, the political. He proposed the latter. The slave is Constitutionally a free man, as much so as Seward, or any one of us. It is the duty of the government to institute courts to liberate men on the habeas corpus. It is perfectly clear that every slave is entitled to a trial by jury in the original and only legal meaning of the terms-which is a trial by his peers, and on their consciences. This would free them at once. Mr. S. was very severe in denunciations of Seward and Sumner. Their influence was the most pernicious of any in the country. Every body knew where to find Caleb Cushing; but these men were deceiving the people. Charles Sumner was going to’introduce morals and back–bone into politics.' He was elected on these two principles, and had proved himself wanting in both, as he was abundantly able to show. He had satisfactory evidence,—to himself,—that Mr. Sumner believed the Constitution did not sanction slavery. If he did not so believe, how could he swear to support it? If he did believe the Constitution free from slavery, why did he not come out and say so in the contest of 1850? How could he remain so long silent with so important an opinion? Mr. Sumner's first doctrine after his election was,’State rights,' which means the right to hold slaves, if any State chooses. When asked how he could swear to support a Constitution which required the surrender of fugitive slaves, he answered, that’it did not require him, as a Senator, to return fugitive slaves'-as much as. to say,’This particular corner of the Constitution where I am lifting has no slaves upon it.'
Mr. Spooner thought the people went to the lawyers for law as they went to the doctors for medicine: that if the lawyers could be convinced that the Constitution was anti–slavery, they would compel the judges to so declare it, and the people would so believe it. He thought a political party should be formed.
Mr. Foster thought Mr. Seward the man much better than Mr. Seward the Senator—that the former was entitled to a bill of indictment against the latter for slander. He could see nothing in the late speech of Mr. Seward different from his Rochester speech. In the latter, he made some statements apparently anti-slavery, in order to take the wind out of Gerrit Smith's sails, and accomplished his ends. But then he made the same special concessions to slavery as now.
Mr. Foster thought there was another stand–point from which to view the Constitution more suited to the public mind than that taken by Mr. Spooner in his masterly and elaborate work.
Judge Preston thought the Constitution anti–slavery, and believed the time had come to act against the institution, and to form a new political party with this end in view.
Mr. Clark, from Canada, well recollected, that when the doctrine of freedom rested upon the true basis, viz., upon the manhood of every man, and not upon any parchment, the nomination of Van Buren and John P. Hale, for the sake of numbers, was the commencement of the abandonment of principle, and the downfall of anti–slavery politics. He was in the Buffalo Convention at that time, and strenuously opposed the course pursued, foreseeing and predicting the result. He thought the people were becoming tired of Republican concessions to slavery, and in every free State there were many ready for the new movement. They were already preparing for it in New York State. Such a political organization is needed, that anti–slavery men may know where to stand. He thought the time had come for it.
The following resolution was proposed by Mr. Foster, and adopted by a unanimous vote:—
Resolved, That, in our present struggle with the Slave Power, the exigencies of our cause demand the organization of a political party based upon principles of uncompromising hostility to slavery, and to every political arrangement which sustains it—a party whose avowed aim and purpose shall be the immediate and entire extinction of slavery throughout the whole country by means of the power vested in the Federal Government by the Constitution of the United States.
Though small in numbers, the meeting was large in interest and spirit.
LETTER FROM A. J. GROVER.
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., I11., 
March 16, 1860.
FRIEND GARRISON:
In the Liberator of March 9th is a letter from Earlville, with the names of four authors attached, in which Parker Pillsbury and the writer of this are called falsifiers, and other hard names. The letter reminds me of the following:—
'There are ten thousand!
Macbeth.—Geese, villain!
Answer.—Authors, sir.'
Now, of these’four authors,' it is evident there are at least three’geese,' and one gosling.
The letter in question refers to a letter of mine in the Liberator of Dec. 31st, giving some account of Mr. Pillsbury's meetings in this place. The statements which refer to Mr. P. he is fully qualified to answer, if he deems it worth his time; but some are so foolishly untrue that they are harmless. And as for myself, I do not feel the least anxiety to look after my own reputation, in the premises. There are, in every locality, small men,’in common with certain other small animals';-
'We scarce could know they live, but that they bite.' All that need be known, to insure forgiveness to such, when they trouble us, is who or what they are.
The schoolmaster who thought the sentence,’a covenant with death and an agreement with hell,'‘must have had a vulgar origin,' is evidently the writer of the letter under consideration, and the youngest’goose of the four.' He evidently, on reflection, felt that such a blunder, in public, was’worse than a crime,' and to avoid the effects of the
<c04>
former, has committed the latter, and is thus involved in the guilt and shame of both.
Were it worth the space necessary, I could send you a score of affidavits that he said just what is attributed to him in my letter of Dec. 31st. But he unconsciously betrays his own conscious weakness by getting three others to brace his denial of the truth. But let me tell your readers who these four authors are. One is a postmaster, appointed to fill the place of the vilest Douglas Democrat, because the latter was not mean enough to do the dirty work of James Buchanan. The present incumbent does this work with alacrity-
'To share his master's bread and salt.'
 Another is a little brainless boy, who has been taught to measure tape, and to put on a face for every customer, pious, profane, Methodist, Presbyterian, Democrat or Republican, and who was actively engaged in disturbing Mr. P.'s meeting. Another let his son help on the riot, while he covertly encouraged it himself. He only lacked the courage of the boy, or he would have been his companion in the mischief. The schoolmaster belongs, body and soul,’might, mind and strength,' to the Old School Presbyterian Church, which every anti–slavery man knows has reached a lower depth of moral depravity, if possible, than the Democratic party itself.
With these statements, I am satisfied to leave the question of veracity in the premises for your readers to decide.
 In making the statement that Mr. P.’ridiculed Christianity,' doubtless the quartette are sincere; for one believes Presbyterianism is Christianity, the other, Buchanan Democracy, and so on to the end of the chapter.
In regard to the charge that I have’no political or social influence,' I have to reply, that if true, it may or may not be complimentary. It is truly a compliment if, as is doubtless the case, the writers mean that I do not associate with them, or that I am not in loving fellowship with Democrats, Mobocrats, Presbyterians, and such Methodists as the preacher who so valiantly defended them and slavery at Mr. P.'s meeting. By the way, gentlemen, why did you not get the preacher to endorse your letter? In union there is strength! It looks a little like an intentional slight! I hope you are not ungrateful! There should be gratitude among mobocrats, as well as honor among thieves!
But these men complain that Mr. P. should think’he saw before him the idolatrous Jews and superstitious Pagans,' that he should be’astonished at our stupidity.' Substitute for the word ’Jews’ the word ’Presbyterians,' and for the word’Pagans,' the word ’Illinoians,' and Mr. P. certainly labored under no optical illusion. That he should be’astonished at your stupidity,' gentlemen, is no matter of wonder at all, when one of your number had made such a blunder, and has not wit enough, after this long time, to discover it!
Before closing, I wish to commend to the consideration of this mobocratic quartette the fact that they had the privilege, at our expense, of replying on the; spot to every thing which was said by Mr. P., and now, through a free paper, maintained by the Abolitionists, have the privilege of being heard again, to their hearts' content, and yet could not let the occasion pass without getting up a mob to silence Mr. P. I hope, gentlemen, (if the word is not inapplicable,) when you come to reflect upon your conduct, and the liberality of the Abolitionists, you will have the decency, at least, to be ashamed of yourselves.
A. J. GROVER.

THE BOSTON TRACT SOCIETY.
WORCESTER, March 20, 1860.
FRIEND GARRISON:
Not long ago, at a place where the American Messenger and Tract Journal are kept for distribution, I was told by the man in charge, referring to the organ of the Boston Society, ’This is anti–slavery, the other isn't.' The same claim is often set up, and the general impression in the community is that a ’separation' between the New York and Boston Societies has taken place, the ground thereof being something relating to slavery.
In the March number of the American Messenger, you will see acknowledged the receipt, into the treasury of the New York Society, of one thousand dollars from the Boston Society. Now, if the Boston Society gives its ’material aid' to the other, the ’separation' is merely one of form, not of fact, and really amounts to about nothing. Nay, it even has the look of a shrewd financial operation; as if the Boston gentlemen had said to their New York partners, ’We think there are funds in New England that we know how to draw out better than you; we will set up the claim of ”Anti-Slavery," take the money to be raised thereby, and pass it over to you.'
I have heard of a chapter in some old ecclesiastical writing headed, ’How it may be proper to use falsehood as a medicine, and for the benefit of those who require to be deceived.' This claim of ’anti-slavery separation,' taken in connection with the one thousand dollars, is pretty fair proof that the old doctrine of ’pious fraud' is not wholly discarded in these latter days. And if such is the quality of the ’anti-slavery' claimed in behalf of the Boston ’Society, Dr. Wayland's recently published statement, that' there was no abolition notion in this separation,' was altogether superfluous. The Dr. is an eminent Baptist divine. While he was making his speech, there were in his own sect more than one hundred million dollars worth of property in the bodies and souls of men. (A ’converted' slave sells higher for it.) Volumes of sermons, by one of the most noted Baptist preachers, are publicly burned at the South, a Baptist brother consenting, and casting in his mite to the bonfire. Several hundred Baptist ministers, some of them from Newton and Brown, prove the divinity of slavery from the Bible. The Watchman and Reflector, a prominent Northern organ of the sect, says, ’Nor can we understand how we have a moral apart from the constitutional right to interfere with slavery where it exists'! The italics are mine, and I quote from memory, but correctly in the main. And in our city may be found a Baptist Church member of many years ’good and regular standing,' who goes to the Charleston Convention next month to take counsel with knaves, baptized and unbaptized, as to the best means of protecting, perpetuating and extending the system of American slavery, and to select men for the highest office in the gift of the American people who will most effectually do this very work. Yet Dr. Wayland asks, (page 1 of his printed speech in Providence,) rather triumphantly, ’Where is the Christian denomination that believes in the right of man to forbid his brother to marry?'
In view of these things, I cannot help wishing that the Boston Tract Society had an ’abolition notion' in it, and that Dr. Wayland would forthwith attempt to implant such a’notion,' at the anniversary meeting now soon to be held. A. P. B.

SPEECH OF WM. H. SEWARD.
LETTER TO A FRIEND IN BOSTON.
SPRINGFIELD, March 18, 1860.
FRIEND H.,—Just one week ago, last Friday, I read, for the first time, the great speech of Gov. Seward. It gave me the chills for the next four days: the spirit that inspired it must have come direct from beyond Nova Zembla. It was almost equal to the seventh of March speech, of him whose molten image adds such glory to our Commonwealth, and such grace to the State–House grounds. I looked in it in vain for any mention of the ’irrepressible conflict.' Indeed, it was the play of the ’irrepressible conflict,' with the ’irrepressible conflict' left out, in deference to the feelings of the people in the latitude where it was spoken, and to answer a definite political purpose. And then, his reference to John Brown and his associates is little short of abominable!
<c05>
The whole thing was a cool bid for hunker votes, to help him into the presidential chair. If you think I am mistaken about the character of the speech, let me ask you how comes it that it is so satisfactory to the Boston Courier! Seward is a goner, when that sheet comes to his rescue.
And then, the action of most of the Republican Senators on the Hyatt case; the inquisitorial, Star Chamber character of which disgusted even Toombs of Georgia! How much farther have the Republican leaders got to fall, to find the level of the so called Democratic party? and how long will it take them to reach it, at the rate they have travelled for the last three months? Heaven knows, and you are equally fortunate, that it is a long time since I have been guilty of expecting much of politicians in hot pursuit of office; but, moderate as my anticipations have been, I am disappointed.
The Springfield Republican unmistakably avows its dislike of ’the rhetoric of martyrdom,' and thinks ’success a duty,' even if purchased at the expense of every consideration for which they professed to have at first waged the war; so that the contest is at last reduced palpably to a mere scramble for the spoils of office—a fight, toward the result of which, every man, not an office–seeker, must feel as indifferent as the woman did when she saw her husband contending in a death–grapple with a bear.
Then, again, I have been obliged to contemplate, once more, that half–civilized people, called the State of Virginia, consummating their third most’ hellish meal of good men's' blood, since the first day of December last. With what disgusting relish they hang their betters!—men, the latchet of whose shoes they are not worthy to unloose; and how the insatiate cannibals still gnash their teeth, and howl for more victims!
It is a thousand pities that the great Mr. Perham, (I think that's the name,) and the Boston Courier, failed in their attempts to induce that conclave of pirates, yclept the Legislature of Virginia, to visit Boston, and our own great General Court; for, aside from the Union–saving aspect of the affair, it would have been worth something to have seen a body of men, who so stoutly refused to listen to the demands of mercy in favor of the liberty–loving heroes of Harper's Ferry, when, by so doing, they would have done probably about the only redeeming act of their public lives, and thereby secured a little capital on which to have commenced a better life.
E. W. T.
THE HARPER’S FERRY INVESTIGATION. Mr. Horace White, of the Chicago Press and Tribune, was summoned to Washington to testify before the Senate Committee of Investigation into John Brown's affairs, and presents the following as the results of his observations and investigations:—
'1. That this government is not administered on economical principles. This morning, Senator Mason handed me an order on the Secretary of the Senate for two hundred and ten dollars—in return for which he has twenty pages of foolscap nothing, at ten dollars and fifty cents a page. For a similar amount of equally valuable rubbish, Richard Realf received over six hundred dollars, Federal currency. Augustus Wattles took about three hundred and fifty dollars in mileage; Arny a like amount; and so it goes. The investigation will not cost less than one hundred thousand dollars when the bills are all footed, and the net results will not be worth one hundred red cents.
'2, That the committee will not be ready to report before the Presidential election. All the evidence taken thus far washes the Republican party clean of John Brown and Harper's Ferry. This is not the entertainment to which the investigators invited themselves. They will manage to stave off the printing of the testimony, on one plea or another, till next winter. They will pretend that important witnesses are still wanting. They will not give the country a glimpse of their report this season. They will not contribute that electioneering document to the Republican side, ’if the Court understand herself.'
NON–INTERCOURSE. No State has been more loud in demanding non–intercourse with the free States than Mississippi. It was expected that its people would have been enthusiastic in their support of home manufactures if they had any other object than the success of a political party in their clamors against dependence upon Northern enterprise. Now read a significant fact, which we copy from the Vicksburg Whig:—We learn there is a large manufactory of ’russet shoes' at Brownsville, in Hinds county, which is about to be discontinued because there is no sale for the shous. Samples may be seen at the store of Wm. Cox, in this city. They appear to be of the very best quality. It, at least, speaks louder than anything we can say of the hypocrisy of the times. Here is a home manufactory, of articles which are usually imported from Massachusetts, in the very heart of Mississippi, which does not receive patronage sufficient to keep it going.'
A SUBSTANTIAL COUPLE. — The Easton (Pa.) Express says: ’Mr. and Mrs. Annin, residing near the High Bridge of the New Jersey Central Railroad, are supposed to be the largest couple in this country.-The gentleman's weight is 700 pounds, and the lady's weight is 500. Mr. Annin's age is about 45, and Mrs. Annin's about 40. It requires six yards of cassimere for Mr. A.'s pants, and nine yards for a coat. He and his wife keep a public house at a place called Peg's Pebble. It is said that the New York. Museum offered the couple $1,500 per year, and their expenses, if they would come to New York; but they refused, on the ground that they did not wish to be looked at so much. They began to increase in size about seventeen years ago.'
In the canton of Vaud, Switzerland, a society has lately been organized, having for its object the collection of money to be applied in purchasing and freeing slaves held in this country. The sum of $409 was received a short time since by a Swiss clergyman acting for the society, at Highland, Madison county, Illinois, and appropriated in purchasing a colored Methodist minister of St. Louis. The liberated minister will depart for Liberia, where it is his intention to labor in establishing schools for the enlightenment of his race.
A gentleman, who has some eighty slaves in his employ, informs the New Orleans Picayune that forty–two of that number, in spite of his vigilance, are intemperate; and that of the whole of the male servants he has owned during the past twenty years, more than one–half have died of delirium tremens. If this is so, whisky is a worse foe to the planters than the underground railroad.
A VALUABLE SLAVE.—The Greenville (S. C.) Enterprise states that at a sale of negroes last week, one of them, George, a likely fellow, said to be a good joiner and carpenter, brought the enormous sum of thirty–five hundred dollars! He was purchased by the Rev. J. P. Boyce. Mr. Boyce was afterwards offered four thousand dollars for him! There are precious few white men of our acquaintance who would bring so high a price if they were put up at auction.
REMRKABLE LONGEVITY.—Capt. John Rice, and his wife Elizabeth, residing in Dover, Vt., both departed this life on the 7th ult., within a few hours of each other, the former at the age of 88 years, 3 months and 25 days, the latter, his wife, at the age of 91 years, that day being the anniversary of her birth.
 Mrs. Wm. Arms, of Napoli, in central New York, died about the 1st inst. The day before her death, she fell into a trance, and had a vision of her own death, funeral, and burial, of which she gave a miunte description on awaking. She died soon after, and all the events which she had described were fulfilled. The same mourners attended the funeral, the same minister preached from the same text, the same sexton prepared her last resting place, just as she had indicated, and without any knowledge of her dream.
Mr. Seward's speech is printed in German, and is being extensively circulated by the Republican National Committee.
SHOCKING. The dwelling–house of Humphrey Owens, a few miles north of Salem, Ohio, was destroyed by fire on the morning of March 13.Five children perished in the flames.
Gov. Stewart has refused to sign the bill lately passed by the Missouri Legislature for the exclusion of free negroes from the State.
The Senate of Tennessee have killed the bill to compel free negroes to leave that State.
Gov. Morrill, of Maine, has appointed April 5th as a day of humiliation, fasting and prayer in that State.
Gov. Buckingham, of Connecticut, has appointed Friday, April 6, as a public fast in that State.
<c06>
Is there any virtue in 
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
TO THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:–'My age is sixty-One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen's ’Restorer,' No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.'Rev. M. THACHER,
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N.Y., Nov. 22, 1855. 
President J. L. EATON, LL. D., Union University, Murfreesboro', Tennessee.
'MADAM–I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of ’Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Restorer,' &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its, effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.’
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W.. CLARK,
Editor ’Ladies’ Repository,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufacture for the hair, I feel no hesitation, in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor ’Christian Advocate,' Buffalo, N. Y. 
'Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,' &c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D. D., Cor. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.'
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor ’Christian Era,' Boston Mass.
'Having used numerous specifies to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bald nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed. ’Guide to Holiness,' Boston 
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its. good effects.'
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro', Mass.
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the ’crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co.,N. Y.
'My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England.
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,–not the wig–like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye. I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTL
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,)Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed.’Presbyterian Witness,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till see know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert advertisement,' &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greene county, N. Y. 
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.' 
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulster county, N. Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N. Y.
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev. M. C. KLING, Lewistown, Pennsylvania.
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.'
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N. H. 
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.' 
Rev. Mrs. E. S. ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N.Y.
In consequence of her long residence in a forenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allen's, she writes to the ’American Baptist,'–'I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefitted me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.'
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always INSIST on having these.
 These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe. 
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 871/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to ’Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, No. 355 Broome Street, New York.' The Genuine has ’Mrs. S. A. Allen,' signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottles–none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgary, and will be prosecuted by us as a crim in a offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOOD DEALER.
Oct 14. lyeop
