THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMIND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. NO. 48. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1865. WHOLE NO. 1817.
<c01>
Selections.
THE NEXT STEP FORWARD.
The Democratic party has now no Northern
State; the Republican, no Northern adversary. What a day brings forth! The election demonstration that the strongest party ever known to American politics could be crumbled like a great rock into fine dust. The overthrow is final. And as the Prince of Orange laid his hand upon the corpse of Charles V. and exclaimed, "Dead? Then let it remain dead!" so be it said of a party that struck as Liberty and destroyed itself!
Mouldering in the same crave is the last cowardly excuse of the Republican party against lifting the banner of Equal Rights! For three months past, mild-mannered gentlemen have accosted us at street corners, saying, "Beware lest you rend the Republican party!" To whom we now reply, "Beware lest the Republican party send you!" The grandest sign of the times is, that American liberty is growing stronger than any American party. Political equality is now no longer proclaimed by only a few voiced crying in the wilderness. The finest minds, the warmest hearts, the stoutest wills, chosen from all the nation, are gathering day by day, like men at a bugle-call, and marshalling themselves into a Knighthood for the Rights of Men. This is the party of the future. Its spirit is progress; its creed is justice. It shall express the people, and govern the government. Its victory will not tarry, for its battle will end at noon-day. The man who will not say Equal Rights shall not have the next presidency. The party that will not repeat the cry shall not inherit the next administration! 
The slave, a man: the man, a citizen; the citizen, a voter!
Is this high ground? No. It is the lowest possible ground-the letter A in the alphabet of Democracy. Faintly is a man baptized into the spirit of American ideas, who does not recognize the principle of Equal Rights as inherent in our institutions. How momentous a practical issue hangs now upon accepting or resisting this single principle! Four millions, citizens of the Republic, are denied those civil rights which all the other millions enjoy. Shall this nation now make to these sufferers a restitution of their rights, or shall it continue its robbery? This us the pith of the question. What a commentary on American liberty, that this should be a question at all, in such a country, and in such an age! To recognize the sacred rights of human nature ought to be as easy as to breathe. Nevertheless, how staggering a labor it is to some Republicans!
But if the Republican party refuses to stand for Equal Rights, then for what purpose shall that party continue to exist?
In years past, political parties have, been formed on questions of tariffs, or banks, or internal improvements, or other issues of civil economy. But, in this generation, no political party can proper except through the animating vitality of a moral principle. The Republican party never won a victory except by borrowing strength from the enthusiasm excited by moral principles. It won its late victories not by reason of its political schedules, but of its moral principles-for the platforms in the various States only half expressed the convictions of the people. Every orator who addressed a Republican audience during the late political campaign bears testimony that the pulses of the people were every where for Equal Rights. When Mr. Beecher sat in a private box of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, at the late stupendous meeting addressed by Logan and Kilpatrick, he witnessed the wholesome spectacle of half his congregation cheering the very opposite views which he recently preached at Plymouth of New Jersey, "that we emphatically approve President Johnson's policy, and emphatically oppose Negro Suffrage." To which New Jersey responded at the ballot-box, saving. "Even I, a half-repentant sinner, will not discredit myself by an Amen."
The former aims of this Republican party are ended. Did it advocate the non-extension of Slavery? That was accomplished. Did it advocate the Prosecution of the war? That was accomplished. Did it advocate the Proclamation of Emancipation? That was accomplished. Did it advocate the Constitutional Amendment? That of the past. They do not survive. If now the Republican party accepts no new principle, it will have none at all, if it have none at all, it will perish. Are the friends, therefore, or the enemies of that party, when we warn it against its own destruction? A national party must have a national issue. The nature issue before the nation is Equal Rights. The Republican party cannot escape it. If the President shall decline it, then Congress must accept it. If Congress shall decline it, then the next Presidential canvas will lay it at every man's door for Democratic ascendancy is this: If the rebellious States be speedily readmitted without Equal Suffrage, and if Suffrage become the next Presidential question, the entire South will coaleace with the possess the Government. It rests with the Government to determine in advance whether the eleven reconstructed States shall, in the next Presidential debate, be Democratic or Republican. If the negroes vote in South Carolina, that State will be Republican; if only their masters vote, it will be Democratic. Thus the Government may fan again to a flame the old hostility between North and South. Is it not folly to suffer such a reconstruction? But is not such s reconstruction inevitable, unless the Republican party make haste to set the Declaration of Independence back to its original place as the corner-stone of the Union? In the days of our fathers, black men voted in every Stale of the Union, except South Carolina. Had they then voted in South Carolina, there had been now no disrupted Union, with its two halves quarrelling over the negro. Let it never be forgotten that the Constitution of the United States was ratified by the votes of black men, as well as of white. If Negro Suffrage was a law respected by our fathers, shall it be a bugbear feared by their sons? Has modern Connecticut reversed her ancient example? The Government cannot quote Connecticut! That State went astray because the Federal Government misled it. The Federal Government, therefore, can find, not excuse, but condemnation, in the bleating of that wandering sheep! Suppose New Jersey had gone Democratic, and refined to ratify the Constitutional Amendment. Would the President have been allowed to say, "I cannot require the Southern States to accept what a Northern State rejects?" Let Connecticut grind her nutmegs and negroes, and let the Federal Government reconstruct the to be copied as a pattern? Then let her five States, and not her sixth, be the exemplar! The South
<c02>
has need, not of New England's faults, but New England's virtues.
Meanwhile, on with the agitation! God forbid that any man shall ever keep quiet in this country, till he has his civil rights! Four millions American citizens now say to the Government: "When other men were traitors, we were loyal; when others were your enemies, we were your friends; but now you honor your assassins, and dishonor your protectors; you reward disloyalty with civil privileges, and fidelity with disfranchisement. Wherefore we protest before Mankind and God!"
Shall this protest be heeded or scorned? White and Anglo-Saxon, we refuse a white and Anglo-Saxon Republic! The Republic is for all its citizens alike. So we add our voice to swell louder the appeal of the oppressed. Let the cry be heeded by the President,-by Congress, by the "Republican party. But if by none of these, what then? Then "shall not God avenge His men fleet, which cry day and night unto Him, though he bear long with them? I tell you he wilt avenge them speedily!"-Independent.

THE MEANING AND SCOPE OF THE GREAT AMENDMENT.
Congress, by a two-thirds vote in either House, has initiated, and already twenty-five States have ratified, by a majority vote in either branch of their respective Legislatures, the following important Amendment to the Federal Constitution:-
"ARTICLE XII.
SEC. 1-Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction.
SEC. 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this Article by appropriate legislation."
The States which have thus far ratified this amendment are as follows:-
Illinois, Feb. 1, 1865. Virginia, Feb 9.
Rhode Island. Feb. 2. Indiana, Feb. 13.
Mary land, Feb. 3. Nevada, Feb 16.
Massachusetts, Feb. 3. Louisiana. Feb. 17.
New York, Feb. 3. Missouri. Feb. 24.
Pennsylvania, Feb. 3. Wisconsin, Feb. 23.
West Virginia, Feb. 3. Vermont, March 9.
Michigan, Feb. 2. Tennessee, April 5.
Maine, Feb. 7. Arkansas, April-.
Ohio, Feb. 8. Connecticut, May 4.
Kansas, Feb. 8. Iowa, Juno 30.
Minnesota, Feb. 8. New Hampshire, Juno 30 SOUTH CAROLINA, Nov. 13.
South Carolina having thus given the ball a fresh impetus, we may confidently expect to see it farther impelled by several of the States which reluctantly followed her into the Rebellion which dug the grave of the "peculiar institution." New-Jersey-whose late Legislature was induced to reject the. Amendment-has in consequence chosen one which will surely and speedily accept it. So, we trust, will Oregon and California. Delaware would probably do likewise, now that her soldiers are at home once more, if a new Legislature were now to be chosen; she will do it, if needful, next year.
But it will not be needful. Even if we count Colorado a 37th Stale, and thus render twenty-eight States requisite to perfect the ratification, the number will soon be made up. We should gladly celebrate this consummation on our approaching National Thanksgiving; but, if the privilege he then denied us, we can wait a little, not doubting that the end is secure.
South Carolina, it will be noted, hesitated to ratify until spurred thereto by a sharp message from the President through the State Department-not because, she had any lingering hope of being enabled to retain or restore slavery in name, but from dislike to sec. 2 of the Amendment, and apprehension that it, would be held to bar her enactment or retention of any such "Black Code" as her late rebels still hanker after. The grounds of her reluctance to ratify are very fairly set forth in a recent Richmond Enquirer as follows:-
"But the Constitutional Amendment has not been adopted, because the people of Virginia will not consent to give to Congress the right to legislate for and control any part of her people. This may be State rights, and as such, may be very obnoxious to the Radicals. But, suppose the State persists in her refusal, what then? Gov. Pierpont is not a Provisional Governor; he is a Governor by election. Virginia has her Legislature, not by the grace of President Johnson, but by the provisions of the Federal Constitution. Her people are in the Union, though her Representatives may not pet into Congress, and her people can live outside of Congress. It is a matter of opinion and choice, whether or not a State shall ratify the Amendment; if it is compulsory, it is not binding, or it is binding only so long as force compels a pretended acquiescence in it. It the force it to be always exerted, then the Constitution is destroyed, and the Republican Government a failure."
The Enquirer seems ignorant of the fact that the (loyal) Legislature of Virginia did ratify the Amendment last winter, so that no further action is required of that State. It is now desired only that a few more of the same sort shall follow her excellent example.
But, presuming the success of the Amendment assured, how much shall it be held to mean?
The N. Y. Times-which is currently believed to be occasionally inspired from the State Department-says of the recent action of South Carolina:-
"It will be noticed that the Legislature hesitated in its action, not from any desire or purpose to retain or restore slavery, but because it feared Congress might, under the second clause of the Amendment, claim the power to legislate for the negroes after their freedom had been established. Gov. Perry presented this matter to the President, who replied, through the Secretary of Slate, that he regarded it as 'querulous and unreasonable.' The President holds that Congress, under this clause, has no power to make laws concerning the negroes, except for the purpose of carrying their emancipation into effect. After they are free, Congress can do nothing except to maintain their freedom. With this explanation, the Legislature took prompt action on the object, and ratified the Amendment."
The Press (Philadelphia) has an "Occasional" Washington letter from its editor (Col. Forney) on this subject, which says:-
"The reluctance of the original seceders to sanction this drastic and searching Amendment, illustrated in the South Carolina Legislature, a few days ago, was produced by the fair construction given to the second section of the new Article. The South Carolina leaders saw that their slaves were not only set free by the Constitutional Amendment, but that Congress was empowered to legislate to 'enforce' the universal decree. They were not misled by the absurd theory, born of tome weak or scheming brain, that under the second section, they could apply to Congress for remuneration or compensation for their ' property!' The legislation of Congress is to 'enforce' abolition-to perfect emancipation-not to pay the old slave-masters. And when Mr. Seward telegraphed to Gov. Perry that his objections to this section were 'querulous and unfounded,' he meant that the duty of Congress was too plain to require an interpreter."
<c03>
We hold the Press entirely right in the premises, and trust it faithfully reflects the views of the President of the United States. The Constitutional Amendment aims at the absolute, unconditional abolition of slavery throughout the United States; but it does not stop here. Hitherto, the personal liberty and civil rights of each citizen were held and enjoyed under the protection of the States respectively; hereafter, they are to be upheld and guarded by the Nation. Hitherto, a State might cruelly oppress any portion of her own people; hereafter, Congress is charged with the duty of protecting in the full enjoyment of his liberties each inhabitant of our country, and clothed with the power requisite to its fulfillment of this high obligation. Ours must henceforth and forever be a Union of Free States and a Nation of Freemen, or Congress will be grossly delinquent and culpable. Gov. Perry's objection to the second section of the Constitutional Amendment may, indeed, have been, "querulous and unreasonable," since it is unwise to resist the inevitable or to object to the strongest possible guaranties of individual and general liberty; but we. cannot regard his construction of the great Amendment as strained or illogical. If Congress shall forbear to "legislate for the negroes," or for others, it will so forbear simply because the States act so wisely and justly that no further legislation is needed.-N. Y. Tribune.

SIGNIFICANT HINTS ON RECONSTRUCTION.
The action of Southern conventions and officials in the work of reconstruct ion is indicative of a spirit which only needs to be "let alone" to bring back all the worst features of Southern domination. Mr. Seward expressed the opinion that reconciliation could be effected, by a judicious system of "pressure and persuasion"; but it is fully apparent that the, time has not yet arrived to relinquish the "pressure" portion of the operation.
As a slight illustration of the strength with which old habits cling to the re-constructionists, and of the tenacity with which they adhere to the old social system, under a slight disguise, it may be mentioned that the special commission appointed in South Carolina to draw up a code for the freed population of the State, have reported a long series of regulations, which are now under examination in the State Legislature. The new code lays down that all having less than seven eighths of white blood are to be deemed persons of color. It gives to them the right to hold property, real or personal, to sue, and be sued, all to have all such legal remedies as whites are entitled to. It establishes the, relation of husband and wile among them, and that of parent and child, but provides that the person contracting with a freedman is to be known as the master, and the freedman as the servant. Children of freedmen may be apprenticed by their parents to respectable white or colored persons until they are twenty-one, and the master is to be entitled to the services of the apprentice, may recap; are him if he runs away, and may chastise him moderately, and is also to leach him some trade or occupation, and if there is a school within convenient distance, to send him for six weeks, at least, in every year.
The Daily Advertiser very pertinently suggests that the South Carolina people could save themselves a world of trouble by merely repealing a part of their present legislation, and striking out the reference to color in the rest.
President Johnson is manifestly of the opinion that although much has been done towards the restoration of the insurrectionary States, much yet remains undone, and continued "pressure" is necessary. At a formal interview with members of the North Carolina Convention on Friday, alter expressing, his pleasure at receiving a ropy of the Proceedings of the Convention, and cordially reciprocating the conciliatory spirit they manifested in their address to him, he added, significantly:-
"The Convention of North Carolina has done much and well toward restoring that State to her proper national relations, but something yet remains to be done to render that restoration immediately practicable. An acceptation of the Congressional Amendment abolishing slavery throughout the United States by the Legislature of North Carolina is, in my judgment, practically important to the successful restoration which is so much desired by all. Without answering specifically the question you have proposed to me, it will be sufficient to say that my action must depend upon events, and that Mr. Holden will be again instructed to continue the exercise of his functions as Provisional Governor until he shall have been expressly relieved by orders to that effect."
There is still another significant indication that the President is not to be deceived by the attempts of the old Southern aristocracy to palm off upon him mere form for real substance. He has instructed the Provisional Governors of his own appointment to continue in office until he directs to the contrary, showing that he does not mean to be so hasty in conceding everything to the unrepentant rebels, as they evidently flattered themselves he would. "Works meet for repentance" he demands now, as he has demanded from the first, and he will be satisfied with nothing less. The following is a copy of a telegram addressed to His Excellency, B. F. Perry, Provisional Governor of South Carolina, on Friday:-
"Your letter of the 4th is just now received. While much has been done in South Carolina that is conducive to peace and restoration, the President still thinks it is impossible to anticipate events. He expects, therefore, you will continue to exercise the duties heretofore devolved upon you as Provisional Governor of South Carolina until you shall be relieved by his order. He observes with regret that neither the State Convention, nor the Legislature, lifts pronounced the debts and obligations contracted in the name of the State for unconstitutional and even rebellious purposes to be void. He equally regrets that the State seems to decline the Congressional amendment of the Constitution of the United States abolishing slavery. I telegraphed to you yesterday as follows:
'The President directs me to write to you that an early adoption of the Congressional amendment of the Constitution of the United States abolishing slavery by the South Carolina Legislature, is deemed peculiarly important, and especially desirable with reference to the general situation of the Union.'
I have now only to say that the President's opinions before expressed remain unchanged.
WILLIAM H. SEWARD.
The country will hail, with the Greatest satisfaction and admiration, these manifestations of firmness, discretion, and justice, on the part of the President, serving, as they do, to strengthen and confirm the confidence which the people have reposed in him.-Salem Register.

THE GERMAN TURNERS ON RECONSTRUCTION.
The National Committee of the United "Turners" of America are circulating the following petition for signatures, to be presented at the ensuing session of Congress:
To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:-The undersigned
<c04>
citizens of-, State of-, respectfully submit for the consideration of your honorable body:-
1. That the people, viz: the inhabitants of the late rebellious districts, having by their own acts vacated, overthrown and forfeited their rights as citizens and as State organizations, and having, by act of Congress, been declared alien enemies, have as yet no right, and are improper persons, to be represented in Congress.
2. That the policy of the Executive, in assuming to restore civil authority through military governments, without the aid and advice of Congress, is contrary to the spirit of our institutions.
3. That it is the right and duty of Congress at the earliest possible moment to assume control over the late rebellious districts, and to provide provisional governments for the same, in order that civil authority may be restored at an early period, and a truly republican form of government be guaranteed to every State.
4. That before recognition of the late rebellious districts as States, and their admission to the National Councils, a due regard must be had for the rights of the loyal people, and for security for the future, which cannot be obtained by oaths.
5. That while we may renounce indemnity for the past, irreversible guarantees for the future must be insisted upon, and should be, obtained before re admitting rebels to equal rights with loyal persons.
6. That the States actually cooperating and supporting the national government, as represented in Congress and in Legislatures, constitute at all times a constitutional quorum to make laws and to amend the Constitution, any number of ex-States, having no constitutional representatives and legislatures, notwithstanding.
7. That emancipation is not complete as long as the black codes exist.
Therefore, your petitioners pray that your honorable body immediately take measures to provide provisional civil governments for the late rebellious districts, and, as security for the future, to exact irreversible guarantees, among which should be:-The Unity and Sovereignty of the Republic; Enfranchisement and Equality before the Laws; Security of the National Debt; The rejection of the Rebel Debt; Compulsory Education; National peace and tranquility by Impartial Suffrage.
And your petitioners will ever pray.

CONDITION OF TENNESSEE.
A GRAPHIC PICTURE, BY GOVERNOR BROWNLOW.
STATE OF TENNESSEE, EXECUTIVE DEPT, NASHVILLE, Nov. 13.
Editors Cincinnati Gazette:-In your paper of Saturday, I find this notice:-
"Gov. Brownlow wag robbed of $500 and his watch by some highwaymen near Nashville, while he was riding out with Hon. Horace Maynard, on Friday evening."
This is a mistake. It was my son, the Adjutant-General of the State, who was riding in a buggy with; a son of Horace Maynard. I am too prudent a man to ride out on any road leading from or coming into Nashville, other than a railroad. This whole country abounds in thieves and refiners, any of whom would murder a man for his watch or for a $5 bill. Despite of all the vigilance exercised by the civil and military authorities, murders and robberies are of daily occurrence-both in Nashville and the surrounding counties of Middle Tennessee. As loud and as numerous as arc the complaints against East Tennessee by the papers of Nashville and a certain class of politicians, there are five of these outrages perpetrated in Middle Tennessee to every one that occurs in the eastern division of the State. To be candid, there is almost as much disloyalty in Middle Tennessee now, as there was in 1861. And this is so of the whole South, minus the number of disloyal men who are under ground! Tennessee is in a much better condition than any one of the seceded States, and she has great room for improvement. Six or seven out of her eight representatives in Congress are true and loyal men, and for the good of the State and nation, I should like to see them admitted to seats in the approaching session. But this I cannot say of the other Southern Slates. They will not elect loyal men to Congress, nor can a loyal man be elected Governor of one of those States. Their conventions and legislatures are overwhelmingly rebel, and will be for years to come. Their candidates for Governor, Congress and the Legislature, as well as for county offices, urge their claims for voles on the ground that they had done all in their power to aid the rebellion. They are for assuming the rebel war debt, and they are for legislating Northern men out of the South!
In a word, the rebels of the South have by no means abandoned this long-cherished idea of separating the government. They are looking to this end; and more, they are organizing with a view to this result. They do not propose to dissolve the Union by the use of the sword and bayonet. They have tried this in a wicked war of four dreary years, and signally failed. Their purpose is to accomplish their infernal plans through the ballot-box in Congress, and they look to the copperhead democracy and other Northern traitors to aid them. Thank God, the recent elections at the North have blasted their hopes for the present, and taught them that the real people, the loyal masses of the great North, are all right!
My hopes for the future are in the goodness, the obstinate loyalty and determined purposes of the republican majority in Congress. I pray God they will not admit rebels into Congress indiscriminately, because they have taken the amnesty oath, or obtained the Executive pardon. As President Johnson said, let them occupy the back seats for a few years.
I am one of those at the Sooth who believe this war has closed out two years too soon! The rebels have been whipped, but not whipped enough.
For saying these things, I expect to be abused by all rebel papers South, and by all treacherous sheets at the North. Let them say out; I am able to stand their abuse. I am for the American Union, regards less of the bate of sections, the war of parties, or the malice of individuals.
I have the honor to be, very truly and sincerely, W. G. BROWNLOW.

HOW WILL IT WORK.
The President was visited, last week, by a delegation from the North Carolina Contention, asking two unreasonable things, viz: that he should issue a proclamation declaring the State of North Carolina practically restored to the Union, and that be should use his influence to secure the repeal of the test oath, as soon as Congress cones together. It should be remembered that the day before, a State election was held in North Carolina, and that the returns from twenty-one precincts showed that Gov. Holden had been outvoted by his rebel opponents by nearly two to one, and that every Union candidate for Congress
<c05>
in the State, who could take the oath, had been defeated. Under the circumstances, the mission of these North Carolina gentlemen to Washington seems to be to induce the President to extend the! protection of United States authority over that political usurpation which carried the State out of the Union, and to secure the immediate recognition of its representatives as against those who kept the faith and remained loyal. The President's reply gave them no encouragement. But even if North Carolina had done all that the President asked of her, and had favored the choice of representatives whose presence at the capital would not have been an insult to every patriot there, the application of such a rule as they asked for would have been equally impracticable. Take Virginia, for example. She had the shell of a loyal government before the rebellion collapsed. It was at once recognized as the lawful provisional government of Virginia, after that event transpired. Whatever has been done toward resuming friendly relations with the Union has been done under its auspices. Yet of the eight members elect to the next Congress, four only are eligible under existing laws. Those who are ineligible were elected with the full knowledge of that fact, and with the expectation that they could successfully defy the law. Mississippi is in a still worse: condition. It is well known that Judge Fisher, the Union candidate for Governor, was defeated by a rebel General. Four of the five representatives elect were either officers in the rebel army, or held important civil trusts under the confederate usurpation. Or take Louisiana. There are some who regard this State as a kind of New Atlantis, and Gen. Banks insists upon having its representatives admitted without inquiry and in defiance of all general principles. But how does Louisiana stand? The State election took place there last Tuesday. Gov. Wells, the incumbent, was re-elected. But the rest of his ticket was made up of unequivocal and unrepentant rebels to the last. The rebel Gov. Allen, who is now a fugitive in Mexico, and, if the despatches are true, allegiant to Maximillian, was: brought into the field at the last moment, and if the election had been deferred a week later, the defection from Gov. Wells's supporters would have been fatal to his hopes. The disloyalists in New Orleans boldly and publicly organized a party to advance his interests. "The idea that Gov. Allen is ineligible," they said, "is entirely erroneous. The taking of the South of allegiance will qualify him to accept any office whatever. He requires neither presidential pardon nor amnesty. Rally, then, round the standard of that Bayard of the South, Henry Watkins Allen! Let the good work go on!" The young chivalry of the city and country, which had scarcely yet discarded its traitor uniform, leagued together to bring back the fugitive as the executive head of their Commonwealth. Their organ in New Orleans, speaking like the Richmond journalistis when the war was at its highest, warned the "enemies " of Henry Watkins Allen that it they persisted in running counter to the broad and deep currents of human nature-whatever that might mean-they were destined to be overwhelmed. With such an element as this rampant in Louisiana, and sure to triumph the moment the general government gives way to this audacious Southern pressure, it is little less than sedition to ask that the only tests of loyalty shall be repealed, and the mild restraint of the central government removed. These Stales are the most advanced of those which have gone through the forms of reorganization. What, under such circumstances, would the repeal of the test oath be but offering a premium upon treason, and inflicting still another blow upon that stricken loyalty which in no Southern State has yet dared to raise in head?-Worcester Spy.

A LETTER FROM PRESIDENT LINCOLN,
The following letter from President Lincoln, written before he was nominated for the Presidency, has just been brought to light:
SPRINGFIELD, May 17, 1859.
DR. THEODORE CANISIUS:
DEAR SIR:-Your note, asking, in behalf of yourself and other German citizens, whether I am for or against the Constitutional provision in regard to naturalized citizens lately adopted by Massachusetts, and whether I am for or against a fusion of the Republicans and other opposition elements for the canvass of 1860, is received.
Massachusetts is a sovereign and independent State, and it is no privilege of mine to scold her for what she does. Still, it from what she has done an inference is sought to be drawn as to what I would do, I may, without impropriety, speak out. I say, then, that, as I understand the Massachusetts provision, I am against its adoption in Illinois, or in any other place where I have a light to oppose it. Understanding the spirit of our institutions to aim at the elevation of men, I am opposed to whatever tends to degrade them. I have some little notoriety for commiserating the oppressed condition of the negro; and I should be strangely inconsistent if I could favor any project for curtailing the existing rights of white men, even though born in different lands, and speaking different languages from myself.
As to the matter of fusion, I am for it, if it can be had on Republican ground, and I am not for it on any other terms. A fusion on any other terms would be as foolish as unprincipled. It would lose the whole North, while the common enemy would still carry the whole South. The question of men is a different one. There are good patriotic men and able statesmen in the South, whom I would cheerfully support, if they would now place themselves upon Republican ground. But I am against letting down the Republican standard a hair's breadth.
I have written this hastily, but I believe it answers your questions substantially. Yours truly,
A. LINCOLN
In Kentucky, the split in the Presbyterian Church grows wider. The contest between the loyal and disloyal increases in fury and bitterness. The immediate cause of this fend was the declaration adopted by the Presbyterians of Louisville, condemning the loyal utterance of the General Assembly. Upon the meeting of the Synod last week at Louisville, this action was brought up by Dr. Breckinridge, who moved that the members of the Louisville Presbytery be excluded from the Synod. Dr. Breckinridge charged that the declaration of the disloyalists is heretical, schismatical, contemptuous, defiant, and in open rebellion to the Presbyterian Church, and that either he (Dr. B.) or the authors of that document most go out of the Synod. The contest will be fierce, and it a apprehended that the disloyal party will sustain the action of the Louisville-Presbytery. This would carry the matter up to the General Assembly, which meets in St. Louis next May. In any event, a division in the Presbyterian Chorea in Kentucky seems inevitable.
<c06>
NORTH CAROLINA ELECTION. The Raleigh Progress of Saturday last says that not a single one of the candidates elected in North Carolina for Congress can take the oath. As to the gubernatorial election, and the sentiment of the people of the State, as a majority, the same paper says:-
"But few returns have been received from distant counties, and the Governor's election is in doubt. Mr. Worth leads Governor Holden in the railroad towns, with which we can communicate by wire, but as most of these were known to be strongly secesh, no other result was expected. The rural districts, it is thought, especially in the vest, will go largely for Governor Holden, and if so, he will be elected. The Vance and Davis leaders fused and marshaled their forces against Governor Holden, as they would against any other man who had denounced the war and the Confederate leaders, and hence the large vote against them. If Governor Holden is beaten, the same men who have done it would vote for Jefferson Davis or Zebulon B. Vance, against Andrew Johnson.
There must be a great change of heart in North Carolina before Andrew Johnson, as a candidate for the Presidency, can carry it against any prominent leader in the rebellion who may oppose him. We feel confident that it is but too true that a majority prefer to vote for a rebel hero to an ultra, unconditional Union man. These things are unpleasant to those of as who want civil law, and a place in the Union, but as they are true, we owe it to our self to state them. The whole people were very loyally disposed, apparently, in May and June, when the bristling bayonets of many battalions gave them gentle and constant reminders of the necessity of good behavior; but as the pressure was withdrawn, the disaffected became more and more insolent, until now, men, women, and children, on bended knees, are imploring Andrew Johnson to restore to them their darling pet, Jefferson Davis. These infatuations may be sweet and pleasurable now, but if we mistake not, they will become terribly bitter before the March winds shall have ceased their requiems. We regret to speak thus, but widespread and increasing disaffection compels as to do it. The supporters of Wade Hampton and Mr. Worth are the enemies of Andrew Johnson, and will be as long as he is the enemy of treason, and foe to traitors; and when the time comes when they can strike him a blow, they will do it."
REBELLIOUS SPIRIT IN THE SOUTH. A letter of a recent date from a gentlemen in New Orleans contains the following:-
"I may say that I apprehend the reign of secesh is gradually reinstating itself here, and that New Englanders may, ere long, be left out in the cold."
After stating threats that had been made in his presence against Northern men, and that it was no place for them in that city, be proceeds:-
"I hope the President and Congress will so act as not to encourage this spirit to any great extent. I fear there is danger of running candidates into the ground, and it may be that the only hope of us exotics is in the speedy arrival here of man of the same sort. We shall need this sort of vegetation to absorb and render harmless the assiduous gas and poison of slavery and secession which begins to cloy the atmosphere.
The Picayune, True Della, and Crescent (the latter just revived) are all edited and managed by men from the ' Confederacy,' and in fall sympathy with the spirit of rebellion. The cloven foot is already disclosing itself, even in the face and eyes of Gen. Canby. What it will be when the military rule ceases remains to be seen, but I believe that unless Congress sets its shoulder against the present tide, the spirit of the South, impatient for nobler game, will concentrate itself in hatred and every possible proscription of the negro and his friends.
A MIXED CASE-A WHITE AUNT AFTER A BLACK NIECE. A special despatch to the Cincinnati Gazette, of the 20th inst., says:-
"A girl nearly white visited the quarters of General Brisbin and claimed military protection from her aunt, a white woman, who claimed her as a slave, and demanded that the girl should either pay four hundred dollars for her freedom, or return again to bondage. The girl is the daughter of the lady's brother, and has lived with her aunt, Mrs. X., for sixteen years July last. The girl, whose name we will call Sally, thinking she had worked long enough for Aunt X. without any pay, came to this city, obtaining a pass from General B., and has since continued to live with her husband, who is a hard-working, thrifty black man, and provides his Sally with a good house and comfortable living. The aunt claimed Sally under the Mayor's proclamation, as a negro slave, and sought to return her to servitude. When the case came up before Gen. B., he decided that it was improper for relations to hold each other in bondage, and, therefore, advised Aunt X. to go in peace. She departed. Aunt X. may thank the worthy Mayor for this development of Southern chivalry.
We learn that Hon. Garrett Davis filed a petition in the Bourbon Circuit Court against the Kentucky Southern Railroad, and Generals British and Palmer, claiming $10,000 in damages, for earning several of his slaves out of the State, under Palmer's and Brisbin's orders. This is to be a test case, and will lead to many more if permitted to progress," 
In happy contrast with the arctic resolution of the Episcopal Convention are the warm and outspoken utterances of one of the Lutheran Synods, held, a few days since, at Easton, Pa, in the words following-to wit:
Resolved, That, as a Synod, we deem it our duty and privilege to record our deep and hearty gratitude to Almighty God for the restoration of peace to our beloved land, in the sudden and complete overthrow of the rebellion, against white, in past Synodical deliverances, we have borne testimony.
Resolved, That ire accept it as another illustration of the retributive justice and judgment of God, that the iniquity of SLAVERY, which lay at the root of this rebellion, has been smitten to extinction in the death of the rebellion, which had been wickedly inaugurated is its interest and promotion.
The Vicksburg (Miss.) Herald opposes the ratification of the Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery of the Legislature of that States, on the ground that by the amendment, Congress will have power to interfere in favor of the class thus released from bondage. The Nashville Press says:
"The cotton States will consent to ratify the Constitutional Amendment, provided they can do it in such a way as to retain power to reestablish
into Congress, and they have obtained full control over their local governments. It is well that they have disclosed the cloves foot so early. The loyal States will be on their guard, and the administration and Congress will thrust the insolent oligarchs back to their proper places."
PRES. LINCOLN ON NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
The following is an extract from an unpublished letter from the late President Lincoln, addressed to Gen. Wadsworth, taking strong ground in favor of universal suffrage:-
"Your desire to know, in the event of our complete success in the filed, the some being followed by a loyal and cheerful submission of the South. it universal amnesty should not be accompanied by universal suffrage. 
Now, since you know my private <illegible> as to what terms should be granted to the South, in the contingency mentioned,-I will here add, that if our success should thus be realized, followed by such desired results, I can't see-if universal amnesty is granted-how, under the circumstances, I, can avoid exacting to return universal suffrage, or, at least, suffrage on the basis of intelligence and military service. 
How to better the condition of the colored race has long been a study which has attracted my serious and careful attention' hence I think I am clear and decided as to what course I shall pursue in the <illegible>, regarding it as a religious duty, as the nation's guardian of these people who have so heroically vindicated their manhood on the battle-field, were in assisting to save the life of the republic, they have demonstrated in blood their right to the ballot, which is but the human protection of the flag they have so fearlessly defended." 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
CLEMENCY AND COMMON SENSE.
[From an article by Charles Sumner in the Atlantic Monthly for December.] 
Two verses saved from the wreck of a once popular poem have become proverbs, and one of these is very famous. They inculcate clemency, and that common sense which is found in not running into one danger to avoid another. Never was their lesson more needed than now, when, in the name of clemency to belligerent traitors, the National Government is preparing to abandon the freedmen, to whom it is bound by the most sacred ties; is preparing to abandon the national creditor also, with whose security the national welfare is indissolubly associated: and is even preparing, without any probation or trial, to invest belligerent traitors, who for four bloody years have murdered our fellow-citizens, with those Equal Rights in the Republic which are denied to friends and allies, so that the former shall rule over the latter. Verily, here is a case for common sense. 
The lesson of clemency is of perpetual obligation. Thanks to the mediaeval poet for teaching it. Harshness is bad. Cruelty is detestable. Even justice may relent at the prompting of mercy. Do not tail, then, to cultivate the grace of clemency. Perhaps no scene in history is more charming than that of Caesar, who, after vows against, an enemy, listened calmly to the appeal for pardon, and, as be listened, let the guilty papers fall from his hand. Early in life, he had pleaded in the Senate for the lives of conspirators; and afterwards, when supreme ruler of the Roman world, he practised the clemency he had once defended, unless where enemies were incorrigible, and then be knew how to be stern and positive. It is by example that we are instructed; and we may well learn from the great master of clemency that the general welfare must not be sacrificed to this indulgence. And we may learn also from the Divine Teacher, that, even while forgiving enemies, there are Scribes and Pharisees who must be exposed, and money-changers who must be scourged from the temple. But with us, there are Scribes and Pharisees, and there are also criminals, worse than any money-changers, who are now trying to establish themselves in the very temple of our government. 
Cultivate clemency. But consider well what is embraced in this charity. It is not required that you should surrender the Republic into the hands of pardoned criminals. It is not required that you should surrender friends and allies to the tender mercies of these same pardoned criminals. Clearly not. Clemency has its limitations; and when it transcends these, it ceases to be a virtue, and is only a mischievous indulgence. Of course, one of these limitations, never to be disregarded, is the general security, which is the first duty of government. No pardon can be allowed to imperil the nation; nor can any pardon be allowed to imperil those who have a right to look to us for protection. There must be no vengeance upon enemies; but there must be no sacrifice of friends. And here is the distinction which cannot be forgotten. Nothing for vengeance: everything for justice. Follow this rule, and the Republic will be safe and glorious. Thus wrote Marcus Aurelius to his colleague and successor in empire, Lucius Verus. These words are worthy to be repeated now by the chief of the Republic:-
"Ever since the Fates 
Placed me upon the throne, two aims have I 
Kept fixed before my eyes; and they are these,-
Not to revenge me on my enemies, 
And not to be ungrateful to my friends." 
It is easy for the individual to forgive. It is easy also for the Republic to be generous. But forgiveness of offences must not be a letter of license to crime; it must not be a recognition of an ancient tyranny, and it must not be a stupendous ingratitude. There is a familiar saying, with the salt of ages, which is addressed to us now:—" Be just before, you are generous." Be just to all, before you are generous to the few. Be just to the millions only half rescued from oppression, before you are generous to their cruel taskmasters. Do not imitate that precious character in the gallery of old Tallemant de Reaux, of whom it was said, that he built churches without paying his debts. Our foremost duties now are to pay our debts, and these are twofold:-first, to the national freedmen; and, secondly, to the national creditor. 
Apply these. obvious principles practically. A child can do it. No duty of clemency can justify injustice. Therefore, in exercising the beautiful power of pardon at this moment, in our country, several conditions must be observed. 
1. As a general rule, belligerent traitors, who have battled against the country, must not be permitted at once, without probation or trial, to resume their old places of trust and power. Such a concession would be clearly against every suggestion of common sense, and President Johnson clearly saw it so, when, addressing his fellow-citizens of Tennessee, 10th June, 1864, he said: I say that traitors should take a back seat in the work of restoration. If there be but five thousand men in Tennessee loyal to the Constitution, loyal to freedom, loyal to justice, these true and faithful men should control the work of reorganization and reformation absolutely."
2. Especially are we bound, by every obligation of justice and by every sentiment of honor, to see to it that belligerent traitors, who have battled against their country, are not allowed to rule the constant loyalists, whether white or black, embracing the recent freedmen, who have been our friends and allies.
3. Let belligerent traitors be received slowly and cautiously back into the sovereignty of citizenship. It is better that they should wait than that the general security be imperiled, or our solemn obligations, whether to the national freedman or the national creditor, be impaired. 
4. Let pardons issue only on satisfactory assurance that the applicant, who has been engaged for four years in murdering our fellow citizens, shall sustain the Equal Rights, civil and political, of all men, according to the principles of the Declaration of Independence; that he shall pledge himself to the support of the national debt; and, if he be among the large holders of land, that he shall set apart homesteads for all his freedmen.
Following these simple rules, clemency will be a Christian virtue, and not a perilous folly.
The other proverb has its voice also, saying plainly: Follow common sense, and do not, while escaping one danger, rush upon another. You are now escaping from the whirlpool of war, which has threatened to absorb and engulf the Republic. Do not rush upon the opposite terror, where another shipwreck of a different kind awaits you, while Sirens tempt with their song of death Take warning: Secking to escape from Charybdis, do not rush upon Scylla.
Alas! the Scylla on which our Republic is now driving is that old rock of concession and compromise which from the beginning, of our history has been a constant peril. It appeared in the convention which framed the National Constitution, and ever afterwards, from year to year, showed itself in Congress, until at last the Oligarchy, nursed by our indulgence, rebelled. And now that the war is over, it is proposed to invest this same Rebel Oligarchy with a new lease of immense power, involving the control over loyal citizens, whose fidelity to the Republic has been beyond question. Here, too, are Sirens, in the shape of belligerent traitors, suing softly that the Republic may be lured to the old concession and compromise. Alas! that, escaping from Charybdis, we should rush upon Scylla.
The old Oligarchy conducted all its operations in the name of State Rights, and in this name it rebelled. And when the Republic sought to suppress the Rebellion, it was replied, that a State could not be coerced. Now that the Rebellion is overthrown, and a just effort is made to obtain that “security for the future" without which the war will have been in vain, the same cry of State Rights is raised, and we are told again that a State cannot be coerced-as if the same mighty power which directed armies upon the Rebellion could be impotent to exact all needful safeguards. It was to overcome these pretensions, and stamp E Pluribus Unum upon the Republic, that we battled in war; and now we surrender to these tyrannical pretensions again. Escaping from war, we rash upon the opposite peril,-as from Charybdis to Scylla.
Again, we are told gravely, that the national power which decreed emancipation cannot maintain it by assuring universal enfranchisement, because an imperial government must be discountenanced,-as if the whole suggestion of “imperialism" or “centralism" were not out of place, until the national security is established, and our debts, whether to the national freedman or the national creditor, are placed where they cannot be repudiated. A phantom is created, and, to avoid this phantom, we rush towards, concession and compromise,-as from Charybdis to Scylla. 
<c02>
Again, we are reminded that military power must yield to the civil power and to the rights of self-government. Therefore, the Rebel States must be left to themselves, each with full control over all, whether white or black, within its in borders, and empowered to keep alive a Black Code abhorrent to civilization and dangerous to liberty. Here, again, we rush from one peril upon another. Every exercise of military power is to be regretted, and yet there are occasions when it cannot be avoided. War itself is the transcendent example of this power. But the transition from war to peace must be assured by all possible safeguards. Civil power and self-government cannot be conceded to belligerent enemies until after the establishment of “security for the future." Such security is an indispensable; safeguard, without which there will be new disaster to the country. Therefore, in escaping from military power, care must be taken that we do not run upon the opposite danger,—as from Charybdis to Scylla.
Again, it is said solemnly, that” we must trust each other”; which, being interpreted, means, that the Republic must proceed at once to trust the belligerent enemies who have for four years murdered our fellow-citizens. Of course, this is only another form of concession. In trusting them, we give them political power, including the license to oppress loyal persons, whether white or black, and especially the freedmen. For four years, we have met them in battle; and now we rush to trust them, and to commit into their keeping the happiness and well-being of others. There is peril in trusting such an enemy, more even than in meeting him on the field. God forbid that we rush now upon this peril,-as from Charybdis to Scylla!
The true way is easy. Follow common sense. Seeking to avoid one peril, do not rush upon another. Consider how everything of worth or honor is bound up with the national security and the national faith; and that until these are fixed beyond change, agriculture, commerce, and industry of all kinds must suffer. Capital cannot stay where justice is denied. Emigration must avoid a land blasted by the spirit of caste. Cotton itself will refuse to grow until labor is assured its just reward. By natural consequence, that same Barbarism which has drenched the land in blood will continue, to prevail, with wrong, outrage, and the insurrections of an oppressed race; the national name will be dishonored, and the national power will be weakened. But the way is plain to avoid these calamities. Follow common sense:; and obtain guaranties commensurate with the danger. Do this without delay, so that security and reconciliation may not be postponed. Every day's delay is a loss to the national wealth and an injury to the national treasury. But if adequate guaranties cannot be obtained at once, then at least postpone all present surrender to the Oligarchy, trusting meanwhile to Providence for protection,. and to time, for that awakened sense of justice and humanity which must in the end prevail. And, finally, take care not to rush from Charybdis to Scylla. 

JAMAICA AS AN EXAMPLE. 
We print the greater part of an article with this title, in the New York Evening Post. The more the facts come to light in regard to the recent insurrection in that island, the more evident becomes the tyrannical conduct of the planters, the culpable negligence of the home government, and the absolute need of a thorough change in the laws and government of the island.
"The recent disturbances in Jamaica do prove that the blacks, like the whites, will not always endure oppression; and, rightly regarded, the story of Jamaica since-and before-the liberation of the slaves, teaches an important lesson to us. More than four years ago, we pointed out the fatal mistake which was making in Jamaica. The condition of that island is in many respects similar to that of our Southern States. It is underpopulated; it has large quantities of uncultivated and cheap land; it has a staple product, sugar, but, is also capable of producing many other articles valuable in commerce. It has for more than half a century been under the rule of a planting aristocracy, wasteful in their habits, idle, and selfish.
This small class has shaped the policy of the 'island; and that policy has ruined not only the island, but themselves. This ruin they charge upon the blacks; but what are the facts of the case?
During the ten years after emancipation, the black and colored population of the island decreased at the rate of ' nearly a hall per cent.;' but before emancipation, under slavery, the annual decrease was at the rate of two and a half per cent.! Many sugar estates have been abandoned since emancipation-true, but during the most prosperous seven a years under slavery, over one hundred sugar estates were abandoned; during the fifty years preceding emancipation, over two hundred of these estates were deserted. Why? because of the wasteful living of the proprietors, who ate up not merely their profits, but their capital.
But free labor is said to be more costly than slave labor. What are the facts? With slave labor, it costs three cents in Cuba to produce a pound of sugar; it did cost four and thirty-seven-hundredths cents with slave labor in Jamaica; with free labor, it costs now but two cents per pound in Jamaica, but one and seventy-two one-hundredths in Trinidad, and but one and two fifths in over-populated a Barbadoes.
From the date of emancipation to this day-in all the English islands, more or less, but in particular in Jamaica-the planters have arrayed themselves against the laboring class; holding the power in their own hands, they have sought in every way possible to keep them in ignorance, poverty and dependence; in short, they have never changed from that aspect of enmity to labor, which is the natural condition of capital in a slaveholding community, If they had been wise men, equal to their great part in this drama, they would have seen their account in fostering by all means the intelligence and industrious habits of the freedmen. Instead of that, they invented as a first step the oppressive system known as 'tenancy-al-will,' by which those who consented to labor for them became at once serfs, little less oppressed than when they were slaves. Under this practice ' 'a laborer has a house and land allotment on an estate, for which he pays a stipulated rent; but he is under an engagement besides, as a condition of renting, to give to the estate a certain number of days' labor, at certain stipulated wages, varying from one-sixth to one-third less than the market price. The rate of wages for field labor in Barbadoes is about twenty-four cents per day; but the laborer, lettered by the system of tenancy at will, is compelled to work for his landlord at twenty cents per day. He is, therefore, virtually a slave; for if he resists the conditions of his bond, be is ejected by summary process, and loses the profit he hoped to reap on his little stock.'
Is it surprising that the negro, feeling himself for the first time his own man; not unnaturally disliking plantation labor, as reminding him of his former condition, ('no inducement could bring a “colored" man to work on a sugar plantation' to this day,) and naturally eager to try on his liberty, should be fatally repelled from the task which these aristocrats purposely made as hateful as possible to him? In Barbadoes, where of 106,000 acres 100,000 are cultivated, where, land is worth $500 per acre, and where the proportion of population to land is 'nearly one and a half persons to each acre,' the rascally 'tenancy-at-will' system still grinds the laborer down. In Jamaica, which has but one. person to eleven acres, the negro did what the white the man would have done in his place-set up for himself. Fifty thousand able-bodied men were thus driven from the plantations, and are now small proprietors; and it is a creditable fact, that they worked on the plantations till they had earned money enough to buy them a piece of land.
Of course, it was the best men who were thus repelled, and we are not surprised that the state of morality among those who remain on the estates as 'tenants-at-will' is infinitely lower than among the independent farmers and tradesmen; marriages fewer, births lewer, crimes more frequent, mortality greater, and intelligence and property less.
Planters complain that they cannot get men to work steadily for them, and we admit that they have cause for this, the negroes taking certain times to attend to their own property, not unnaturally preferring that to the planter's. But these men work steadily on that the roads-labor infinitely more severe than field work-in the mines, also more severe; and if you inquire of the overseer of the road, this is the explanation: '‘Well, you see that laborers on the road are paid regularly once a week, while laborers on the estates often have to go two and three month, without their wages, and the men do not like that. Sometimes, too, they loss, their pay altogether.' Mr. Sewell, from whose 'Ordeal of Free Labor in is the British West Indies' most of our facts are taken, instances a case where twenty men were induced to
<c03>
go on an estate, thirty miles off,. by the promise of thirty-six cents a day,' worked three months without receiving any wages, and at the end of the time were paid off at the rate of eighteen cents per day.'
'The planters, themselves admit that they can always get men to dig cane-holes the severest plantation work. But this is a definite and specific job. The negro contracts for the payment of so much money for so many cane-holes, and if he does the work, he cannot be deprived of his due, except by open dishonesty.' 
Finally, in a population of 441,.264, in 1862, only 2,022 persons were allowed, in 1862, to vote at an election for forty-two assembly men to represent the twenty-two parishes into which the island is divided. The result of this exclusion is, that the Assembly two years ago passed
'-an act which, under the pretence of punishing larcenies, would have introduced the apprentice system again into the island. All kinds of penalties have been increased in severity, and punishable offences multiplied. Immigration laws for the benefit of the planter, which have entailed no end of debt on the island, have been passed very freely, and the negro has had to pay his share of the taxation imposed for an object intended to displace his own labor and to reduce his wages. A paltry sum of lees than £3.000 a year is devoted to the purposes f education, while upwards of £90,000 a year are spent on salaries for local officials.'
The end of all this is, as it must be, deplorable; the prosperity of the island has been fatally injured; the people are discontented; even the planting class, the authors of these evils, have not been benefited. They have cut their own throats. The story of Jamaica ought to warn the leading men of the Southern States against the fatal mistake of supposing that any interest in a country can profit by the degradation of the working class. The freer, the more intelligent, the more prosperous the mass of men are, the more prosperous and secure will be their leaders and chiefs. Instead of inventing laws to 'keep the negroes down,' let the legislatures of the Southern States provide schools to make them intelligent; let them encourage the blacks to live comfortably, to wear good clothes, to read books, to acquire property. Let them arouse, in the minds of the negroes the desire for all those things which civilized white men use; and with these new wants will arise the habits of persevering industry and economy. The blacks of the South number over three millions-suppose every one of them to spend twice as much, free, as it cost to keep him in osnaburgs and pork and hominy as a slave, will not Southern commerce, and manufactures be, immensely benefitted? Suppose, by increased intelligence and industry, they are enabled to produce twice as much, will not this immensely profit the whole country?"“ 

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1865.
THE LAST QUARTER.
The Liberator is now on its last quarter, prior to the final close of its publication. It is not only desirable, but necessary, therefore, that those who are indebted to it should promptly remit what is due; as the expenses of the paper have been greatly increased, and its receipts lessened, during the present year; and as every farthing will be needed-and more-to enable us to complete the volume.

MR. GARRISON AND THE LIBERATOR. 
The last week of the present year will be an occasion of mixed emotions to that peculiar people,-zealous, we are sure, of good works,-the public of THE LIBERATOR. To most of its members, THE LIBERATOR has been an important part of their moral life for many years. All of them have enrolled themselves under its banner from their hearts' desire to serve in the great cause is whose behalf it was first unfolded. It has had no popular favor, no craftiness of adaptation to prevailing prejudices, no arts of meretricious allurement to entice support. It has been followed and sustained, as it was first raised and carried forward, in the strength of faith in great principles, and an earnest desire to remove mighty evils from the land through their might. They who joined themselves more than a generation of men ago to
"The youth who bore, through snow and ice,
The banner with a strange device,"
and they who have recruited the thinning ranks as death and desertion told upon them, had no more expectation of personal advantage, or even of sudden specific success, than their leader. It was a sense of duty to be done that inspired and supported the one and the other. That leader, happier than the visionary youth of the poet, has survived all the hardships and exposures of the icy world he undertook to subdue, and has seen his banner planted on the Capitol, and his watchword the motto on the escutcheon, of his country. He has finished his course with joy, and is reaping all the reward of victory which he ever wished for,-the sight of the trophies that tell that it is indeed won. And all of us who have for so long looked to his pennon in the heady currents of the hundred fights of this Thirty Years' War as our surest guide, even while we must needs miss the sight of it, may well rejoice that it has not gone down in defeat, but is hung up for a monument of the victory which has crowned its leading.
This paper has had a singular, and, we might almost say, a romantic history. We doubt whether it has a par, allel in the annals of any reforming or revolutionary movement. Established by one man, alone, without pecuniary resources of his own, and with no popular party or rich society at his back, against the advice of the men esteemed the best and wisest in their generation, to overthrow a system of iniquity which rallied to its defence the passionate fanaticism of all that was ambitious or self-seeking or cowardly in the country, it has continued unto the end without swerving a hair's-breadth from the line of conduct laid down for it at the beginning, and now ceases to be because, the end it proposed to itself being accomplished, its mission is finished. During the thirty-five years of its existence, begun in this solitude and poverty, and continued in the face of the fiercest hatred and the bitterest scorn, it has gone forward without the omission of a single number, its strength having ever been even as its day. This was, of course, owing to the character of its editor, which inspired confidence and attracted friends and supporters who made themselves one with him in his work, and were resolute that the lever with which he proposed to move the world should not fail for lack of ground on which to stand. This singleness of eye and heart which made him see clearly above all his contemporaries the abominable and fatal nature of slavery, and the enthusiasm and entire self-devotion with which he gave himself and all be had or was to the task of abolishing it, were precisely the characteristics to separate by an unerring magnetism from the mass of society the finer particles, and draw them about him as the natural centre of their affinities. It is the old story of the progress of all revolutions. The central idea, at first rejected of all, then accepted of the few, gradually spreads from mind to mind, until the passions And necessities and selfishnesses of men are compelled to obey its behests, oftentimes even in is spite of themselves. THE LIBERATOR was the instrument with which the great revolution which is now happily accomplishing itself was put in motion. This has never been denied by any friend or enemy to emancipation,-,—never, at least, while its success was doubted or dreaded. That success secured, the revolution passed the point at which it is possible that it should go backward, the staff that first awoke the commotion in the elements that cleared the air hanging over this continent of the foul infection which loaded it, and made it fit to breathe, may fitly and with dignity be laid aside as having answered the purpose of its being.
Whenever in the course of events the fullness of time has come when a great change is to take place in the condition of a nation or of the world, that very state of things creates or summons the man who is to initiate the revolution. The revolution is not due to 
<c04>
the man. He could not refuse to obey the divine or human necessity which compelled him, perhaps reluctantly, to his office of leadership. But without him, the revolution would have come to pass in another <illegible> and with different concomitants. The Reformation would have occurred, had Luther never been born, and our Revolution, had James Otis died in his cradle. So slavery would have been abolished without Garrison. But in this instance, as in those others, Divine Providence, or the omnipotence of events, found or made the Man for the Hour. All the mental and moral qualities of Mr. Garrison were precisely those demanded by his task. A deeply religious nature, without a shade of fanaticism, a clear perception of duty, and a devotion to it which never conceived the possibility of disobedience to its dictates, an enthusiasm that never flagged, tempered by a practical common sense that next to never made a mistake, a sagacity as to measures that was never at fault, and a penetration into men that was seldom deceived at all, and never long, and above all, an ablute superiority to the consequences of his course to his safety, his reputation, or his worldly condition, these were among the essential qualities he possessed for his work, and without which he could not have done it. Added to these, his clearness of conception and forcible and logical expression, whether by pen or voice, the infinite variety of his treatment of the great theme which possessed him, but which he mastered beyond any living man, enforced by the weight of his character and the instinctive feeling of all whom he addressed that he was himself the last object in his own thoughts, all together made him the man of men to begin and promote the astonishing revolution in the presence of which we stand, and the extent of which we are but beginning to discern. 
This truth is now generally acknowledged by all men intelligent of the facts of the history of the last thirty-five years. Mr. Garrison has the rare felicity of living not only to see the great work of his life accomplished, but to enjoy the fame that should accompany great actions, but which is too often with held by mankind from their benefactors until they are beyond its reach. “There is nothing so successful as success," and the amazing contrast between the small beginnings of his movement against slavery and the splendor of its ending is one to strike most forcibly on the imagination. An obscure youth standing up before a mighty nation and defying it to the combat on this momentous quarrel, declaring-” I am in earnest! I will not equivocate; I will not excuse; I will not retreat a single inch; and I WILL BE HEARD!”—and after a lifetime in fulfilment of his now, while yet in the full activity of life, seeing his work crowned by the act of the nation, and his part in it recognized by the most illustrious of its Chief Magistrates, is one of those rare spectacles which appeal to the universal human heart, and impress themselves indelibly on the memory of mankind. We apprehend that there is no living public man for whom there is felt so sincere and so general a respect. This is largely and justly owing to his sagacious and statesmanlike conduct during the last five years. He saw the end from the beginning with a clearness of vision vouchsafed to few of us. He was considerate of difficulties and patient of mistakes, through his discerning of spirits, in circumstances which made many of us almost despair. Though ready to criticise public men and their acts, when occasion called for it, it was never in a factious or dogmatic spirit, and he was ready always rather to help than to hinder them. His readiness, moreover, to perceive when his specific work was done, and to give way to the new instrumentalities which the changed state of affairs demanded, made it patent to all the world that his heart was centered in his cause and not in himself. Justice is already done to his unselfish labors, and the sense of them will not grow less as time goes on. The memory of mankind is impatient of many names. One or two it as many at it will usually consent to connect indissolubly with the most beneficent of revolutions, and the name of Garrison can never be separated from that which has struck the chains of slavery from the whites as well as the blacks of America. And those blacks are destined to increase and multiply into a great multitude which no man can number. The afflictions under which they now suffer, though grievous to be borne, will pass away and give place to equality before the law and in the career of private prosperity and public honors. In that future, when the cruel prejudices of the past and the present shall be but the half-doubted traditions of barbarism, Garrison must needs be the hero of the black race. Or, at least, he will divide their gratitude with but one name, whose beneficent glory eclipses every other in our history. In the history, the traditions, the songs of that mighty nation, the names of Lincoln and of Garrison will be forever revered as those of the Moses and the Aaron of the great Exodus of their race.
The approach of the close of THE LIBERATOR seems to make this imperfect tribute to the services of its editor proper, while his absence from his post makes it possible E. Q.

EDIST0 ISLAND-THE FREEDMEN-GEN. HOWARD'S RECENT VISIT.
We have been privileged to read a series of letters from Edisto Island, S. C., written by Miss E. B., a lady of Springfield, in this State, connected with some of the best families in that city, a lady of education and refinement, and who has been acting since last winter as a teacher in the schools on that island established by the Freedmen’s Aid Societies. None of these letters were written with any view to publication; but, having casually come to the knowledge of them, we have sought and obtained leave to publish some extracts, which follow here. A more particular account, than that given below of Gen. Howard's visit to the island, on his recent mission from the President to the freedmen, we have reason to expect, will appear from the same hand, shortly. The circumstances, as we have heard them related by the friend to whom Miss B. wrote, were of the saddest kind. It being announced on the island that Gen. Howard was coming to visit and speak to them, the freed people, in great numbers, men and women, assembled in one of their churches, and a cavalcade of eighteen of them, (oddly mounted enough,) rode to the landing to meet him. He came with two of his staff, and also two of the old (rebel) proprietors of the island. Major Whaley and Mr. Seabrook. The visitors entered an ambulance, but already the sight of the former rebel proprietors had evidently awakened terrible misgivings in the minds of the escort. At the church, by degrees, the nature of the errand was made known,-with many expressions of regret, but, as was said, by order of the President. It was represented that lands of other pardoned rebels had been restored, and the President wished to act by the same rule to all. It was wished to make some arrangement, which should be for the benefit of both parties, the former owners and the laborers, fair wages being secured to the latter, with schools, &c., and full protection. Much feeling was manifested, and responses of strong dissent made. A vote was taken, and a few voted to go to work for the old masters, and a few against it,-the great body refusing to vote at all, but seeming borne down by grief and indignation. Gen. Howard appeared much affected, and said nothing would be decided until their wishes were fully known. One of the rebels, (Maj. W.,) at Gen. H's request! addressed a few words to his old slaves and the others. It was represented that he had been a hard master, leaving his slaves to the mercy of a most merciless overseer. No agreement or settlement was had at that time.
We add, as we have already before expressed ourselves in these columns, that we most solemnly trust the American Government will never settle this question against the freed people, to whom these lands were assigned by Gen. Sherman, and which they have cultivated and <illegible> ever since. This country can bear a great deal of taxation, and of injustice from foreign countries, and of treachery from rebels, &c., but
<c05>
it is not strong enough to bear the ignominy of breaking faith with these simple, confiding people. Even if it have “promised to its loss,” let it” make its promise good."-M.
"EDISTO ISLAND, June 26, 1865.
"Our life here is of course very different from that at home, or anything I have ever before experienced, but it has already become very interesting to me. Living almost entirely without any white society, we have become so accustomed to the colored people that It does not seem strange now to associate daily with them, and I have entirely lost all repugnance to them on account of their color, which at first I could not help feeling. The children show quite as much capacity as white children, and you would be surprised to see how quick some of them are. All the children of the house where we live attend our school, except little Margie, who is too young. George, the oldest, is reading such words as “Jane, the rose bush you gave me is full of buds,” &c., and does not need to spell the words as he goes along, but spells all without the book. He is about sixteen, and when he came here but a few weeks before was ignorant of any alphabet. Each, the next, of fourteen, is a little behind him, as he is more full of play; but he is quick and is now growing ambitious. Ann, about ten, is the brightest of all, and comprehends the minute we explain to her. Then follows Ben., about four and a half, and he can tell all his letters, and is beginning to put them together. He is a comical child, and makes very shrewd remarks. I made a bandage for a woman who was suffering dreadfully from an internal trouble, and she came to me about a week ago, looking like a different person. Her face had lost its look of painful misery, and she expressed so much gratitude to us that I felt as if I was repaid for coming here, if I reaped no other reward than to feel I had done her so much good. It was a little thing to do, but has afforded her great relief.
I can hardly realize that we are living in the midst of a people who have so lately been slaves, and been so suddenly thrown into freedom. For everything is as quiet and orderly as if they had always been accustomed to it, and they take care of themselves as readily and handily as if they were always free. Their crops are large, and beautifully cared for, and they work indefatigably at them, resting only in the hottest part of the day, when the heat of the sun is too intense for any human being to work, but in which they were formerly compelled to toil. In every instance in which we have conversed with them,-and we take every opportunity to do so,-they express the greatest joy for their freedom, and feel it is the greatest boon possible, and always end by blessing the Lord for it. They feel that the Yankees have been their good friends, and that President Lincoln did much for them. They all say they knew of the Emancipation Proclamation before it came, but began to fear the good time would never come in their day. "It was so hard waiting," they say. One of their hymns ends, every verse, like this,-" Nobody knows the trouble I see, nobody but Jesus,”-and sometimes, “Nobody but God;" and Sarah, our woman, often says, “Nobody but God knows what we have all suffered."
In a letter dated August 29, she speaks of the value of the cotton crop on Edisto Island asbeing over $100,000, if no injury came to it; but already the worm, (which attacks the cotton in puite raiy seasons, had appeared, and anxiety was beginning to be felt. “We have picked some of it in the bolls, and we are going to have some rice, which is now commencing to ripen. There is but a small quantity raised in this iland, but in Johossee, just above, a large quantity is grown. It is Gov. Aiken's old plantation, and a very large one, covering the whole island, and it is feared he may regain it. Many of his old slaves are there, and they declare they will all leave if he comes back.
“Our acquaintance with Mr. A. [Superintendent of Freedmen] is a very pleasant one; he has shown ur much kindness, and we feel new courage for our undertaking. No liquor is allowed to be brought here. Mr. A. is very strict upon that point, and enforces the rule. Tea and sugar are given only in cases of sickness. Stout men and women will go out early in the morning to work in the fields without a mouthful to eat, and come in at ten o'clock, and eat nothing but hominy or a corn-meal cake, and then lie down and sleep on the piazza till afternoon, when they go out again, and eat another meal of the same kind when they return at night. And this they do, day after day. They seem to be strong enough, till sickness comes, which prostrates them at once, and they die with fevers, after a day or two of illness. But Mr. A says there have been but few deaths in proportion to the population, when it is considered that many here came from the interior, and are not acclimated. Lately, there have been new regulations made about their marriages, and there have been some serious quarrels in consequence. One man came here on Sunday to see Mr. A. who had two women claiming him and they had fought him and each other, and he wanted 'the fuss settled.' Mr. A. referred him to the three Commissioners, black men, who settle all such cases."
"EDISTO ISLAND, Oct 26, 1865.
"We are fast getting settled in our new home, which we find very pleasant, and shall commence our winter school on Monday. The season has been very late, and sickness upon the island so severe, that we did not dare to move earlier. Now we have been obliged to have a thorough scouring of the school-room, in which several people have died. We have received a call from Misses S. and K. since we came here, and they report their school in a flourishing condition. We are daily expecting the advent of eight more teachers.
"I wrote to mother a long account of Gen. Howard's visit to this island, which is deeply interesting to us, as affecting the vital welfare of these people. The feeling of reluctance to work for their former owners still continues among them, and they declare they will never do it. They have held several meetings, and drawn up a petition to the President, which is very well expressed, but in their peculiar manner. Mr. A. has it to revise and correct, and I intend to copy it. It was written by one of their number, and of course the spelling needs much correction. I do not believe they will ever submit to work for the rebels again, and they say they will leave the island first. We have talked with several,-among others, with old J., who was formerly a slave belonging to Mr. Wescote. He said, if he worked for any of them, he would prefer his old master, who was always kind to him, but he would not work for any of them,-he did not want to see them, they were not to be trusted. Some of their arguments are quite remarkable. I cannot blame them for feeling as they do, or say a word against it. I feel that the Government will be guilty of lying to them, if it returns these lands to the old rebel owners. I am ashamed of the vacillating and weak course of the Government. One woman said to me, 'The rebels will laugh at the Yankees now.' I don't think it was very wise in Gen. Howard to bring those two rebels here with him, [Whaley and Seabrook, former proprietors,] and I don't believe their necks would have been safe, but for his protection. The feeling of Indignation grows stronger every day. But this question of the lands is not yet decided. I see that all the papers state, that the Bureau of Freedmen is a short lived one,-to cease very soon; but Gen. Howard made a great point here of the freed people always having a friend in it, and in its head, which he at present represents. What protection will they have, when that ceases? If the Government has deceived them in one thing, will it not again, and how can they trust it? This is our great anxiety and chief topic of conversation, and I cannot avoid it in my letters.
"Mr. A. thinks the cotton crop very fair, taking into consideration the sickness, and lateness of the season when a large proportion of the people came.
<c06>
here. The portion of the island nearest the bay is almost entirely self-supporting,-very few of the people having drawn rations from Government. Many of them have laid up money, own horses and wagons and houses. This side of the island is very poor; there has been fearful mortality, and the crops have fallen short for want of care, because of sickness. Another year would put their capacities to the test with much more correctness. Even now, people arrive here, just escaped from rebel masters, and destitute of everything. One master, who professed to be for the Union, hired some of his former slaves, promising them a portion of the crop. Now he has turned them away without giving them anything, and they arrived here a few days since, sick and starving, without anything. Mr. A. has done everything he could to relieve their wants, but Government allows no rations now, and it is difficult to get anything for them."

NEW PUBLICATIONS.
"THE AMERICAN WAR: Facts and Fallacies. A speech, delivered by Handel Coesham, Esq, at the Broadmead Rooms, Bristol, [England,] on Friday, February 12th, 1864. New York: 1865."-pp. 24 Mr. Cossham-one of a party of English gentlemen who have lately been travelling in this country for commercial and other purposes-has complied with the request of some American friends by printing the speech which he delivered (as above) in England, while the slaveholders' rebellion was yet pending. He gave a neat and effective reply to the allegations then currently made among his countrymen against the United States Government, and the course of the North, and proved himself truly our friend when so many Englishmen turned against us.
"YOUTH'S CASKET AND PLAYMATE. A Magazine for Boys and Girls: Edited by Mark Forrester. October, 1865. William Guild & Company, 33 School Street, Boston, Mass.”-pp. 40.
This well-conducted juvenile Monthly has now entered upon its twelfth year. It seems prosperous and deserves prosperity.
THE SOUTH CAROLINA LEADER. Allen Coffin, Editor, is a lively and spirited paper recently established in Charleston. It takes a vigorous stand in behalf of the rights of colored men, and makes good suggestions in regard to the reconstruction of the South. It is to be devoted to the interests of” Free Labor and General Reform."
"THE FREEDMEN'S RECORD Boston. (No.8. Studio Building,) November, 1865."
"THE FREEDMEN'S BULLETIN. Chicago, November, 1865."
These two monthly publications, representatives of Societies laboring in aid of the freed people of the South, state the facts most important to be known respecting their condition and prospects, and present the claims which these facts make on the benevolence and justice of the Northern people.
"SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL CATALOGEE and Report of the New England Medical College. Boston: 1865."-pp. 23. 
This Report, which is to be had gratuitously at the College, No. 30, Canton St., contains lists of the Trustees, the Faculty, the Students and Graduates of 1865. and all the graduates since the commencement of the institution. The Report of the Secretary, Dr. Gregory, sketches the history of the College thus far, and announces that it is proposed at once to commence the raising of a building fund of $100,000.
HARPER'S MONTHLY for December contains the following articles:-
Making the Magazine; A Common Story; The Royal Portraits; First and Last; A Retrospect; Names of Men; Sally's Disappointment; Aspirations; Armadale-by Wilkie Collins; Our Thanksgiving; Death; Our Mutual Friend-By Charles Dickens; At Christmas Time; A Village in Massachusetts; Happy and Unhappy Marriages; Editor's Easy Chair; Monthly Record of Current Events; Editor's Drawer.
This is a good number of Harper. Its articles are good and its illustrations excellent, especially those to the first article, descriptive of the immense building in which the Magazine is made, and the various departments of labor which it involves. Dickens's tale, "Our Mutual Friend," is finished in this number, which is for sale by A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington street.
The ATLANTIC MONTHLY for December gives us an attractive table of contents, as follows:
Griffith Gaunt-or, Jealousy; The Parting of Hector and Andromache; William Blackwood; The Chimney Corner; The Forge; King James the First; The Sleeper; Doctor Johns; Books for our Children; Dios Te De; Mode of Catching Jelly-Fishes; Adelaide Anne Proctor; Beyond; Clemency and Common Sense; Reviews and Literary Notices.
"King James the First" is a spirited and charming sketch, by Gail Hamilton, of one of those young rulers of the household, whose commands every subject of that narrow realm delights to obey. She does not find “total depravity" in little Jamie. In his presence, it is a doctrine hard to be understood. “Honestly speaking, he does not appear to have any more depravity than is good for him-just enough to make him piquant, to give him a relish." Fathers and mothers, uncles and aunts, will enjoy reading this article. 
"Clemency and Common Sense" consists of two parts; a curiosity of literature and a moral. Its author, Charles Sumner, gives in the first a narrative well suited to interest the lovers of old, rare and curious books; and drawing a lesson for the present time from the popular proverb which he has traced to its home in a forgotten Latin author, he depicts with skill and power the dangers that beset our coming reconstruction. The latter portion of this fine article may be seen in another column. 
The November number of the CHRISTIAN EXAMINER contains the following articles:-
I. Mill's Review of Hamilton; II Palgrave’s Arabia; III. Dr. Newman's Apologia; IV. Pioneers of France in the New World; V. English Colleges and Schools; VI. The President's Reconstruction; VII. Review of Current Literature.
All these are interesting articles, and most of them excellent, making an exceedingly favorable specimen of the work. The political article, however, the one that most needed strength and vigor, seems lacking in soundness. Its author's view of” The President's Reconstruction," and of the present state of our country generally, seems much more rose-colored than existing facts will warrant. This writer congratulates us prematurely on a cessation of” the period of violent crimes, to which we were reconciling ourselves as we might, a few months ago, as the necessary brood of war, and the inevitable train of a disbanded army." Crimes of violence are more numerous among us than ever before, and are increasing rather than diminishing. Highway robbery, complicated with the hideous crime of “garroting," and with the infliction of brutal personal violence after the robbery, is common is and around Boston. Neither men nor women are safe in our streets. The end of the war is not yet.
As little fitting is it to say that “the present Administration stands with a clean, an honorable, a glorious record." While a large proportion of the four millions of Southern blacks are left in distressing uncertainty as to their future, having no land by the cultivation of which to support themselves, knowing that they will be cheated if they take employment with their old masters on the promise of future payment, seeing the effort all over the South to restore the” black code belonging to slavery, even after 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
slavery itself is abolished, and vexed with various and contrary rumore in regard to their future, without the power of assuring themselves which is true and which false-under these circumstances, I say, <illegible> justice, humanity and wise policy agree in de<illegible> that the head of the nation shall directly ad<illegible> these poor people, casting upon their darkenss <illegible> way of light as to the course which they should <illegible>, assuring them of some relation which the Government and the officers of law are benceforth to hold to them, and directing them to some method of <illegible>redness for undeniable wrongs and injuries. Un<illegible> this shall be done, the Administration will not stand with" a clean, an honorable, a glorious record." The Christian Examiner (much to the diecredit of unitarians) is now to go to New York for an Editor and a Publisher. Rev. Henry W. Bellows, <illegible>, will assume the former function, and James Miller 522 Broadway, the latter. What effect these <illegible> will have on the character and vitality of the <illegible> remains to be seen.
THE RADICAL: A Monthly Magazine, devoted to <illegible>. No. III, November, 1865. Boston: For <illegible> by A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington St., A. K. Loriag, 319 Washington St.; J. J. Dyer, 35 <illegible> Street. New York: David G. Francis, 506 Broadway, Price, 20 cents."
In the number, as in its two predecessors, The Radical gives the most advanced religious thought of the present age. In avoids alike Scylla and Charybdia, being free both from superstition on one hand, and from religious indifference on the other. True to its <illegible> goes to the root of the matters with which it undertakes to deal, welcoming the deepest thought and the <illegible> analysis that can be applied to them. To <illegible> seems disposed not to shirnk from the work of ungiving shan's nad refusing falsehoods. But his work is not merely, nor chiefly, a negative one. He <illegible> essential religious truth, insisting on the <illegible> of God, the Brotherhood of men, and the <illegible> in regard to the friendly cooperation of human beings which necessarily flow from these. Let the <illegible> gave serious hearing to this new claim on <illegible>; and let all who desire the diffusion of <illegible> truth read the Editor's words on the third page <illegible>, and act in accordance with them.
For the <illegible> of Contents, the list of Contributors, <illegible> of subscription, &c, &c., see the advertisement to another column.-C. K. W.

<illegible> POEMS by OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
Messrs Tucknor & Fields have added these piquant <illegible> Dr. Holmes's to their series of "Companion Facts for the People," and have illustrated several of them quaintly and funnily. Among these, we may<illegible> the illustration of the first peice in the Look <illegible> Ballad of the Oysterman." That ballad is a <illegible> among a circle of (shall we say?) boys <illegible> and we imagine the special pleasure they will <illegible> <illegible> it illustrated. We had often tried to <illegible> to a correct notion of that submarine <illegible> shop, but were never able to get more than an <illegible> vision, until now.-M

MEMORIAL STONE TO THEODORE PARKER. Theodore Parker was born in Lexington, on a farm which had been in the Parker family for an hundred and fifty years, and is still owned by his only surviving brother, <illegible> parker. The house in which, as he says, in his <illegible>. "on the 24th of August 1810, early <illegible>>, sweltering morning, I came into this world of joys and sorrows," was long ago removed, and one a little more modern built within a few feet of the old one.
During the past week, Mr. John R. Manley, the “indefatigable" clerk of the Twenty-eighth Congregational Society of Boston for many years, the faithful friend of Mr. Parker during his life, and one of the executors of his will alter his decease, placed a memorial stone on the site of the old house, to indicate the birth place of Mr. Parker, and as a testimonial of the <illegible> in which he holds his memory.
The stone is of light, Concord granite, finished on all sides, three feet square, three and a half feet high, and resting on a base four feet square and one foot high. On the front face, in raised letters, is the simple inscription:

BIRTH PLACE OF THYEODORE PARKER. 1810.
The monument is highly creditable to the Granite Company by whom it was wrought- a fine specimen of one of the principal products of New England; and there is no reason why it may not endure for a thousand years, when the memory of the common men of the age shall have been forgotten. It was furnished by the "Granite Railway Company."
The Parker farm is on Spring street Lexington, <illegible> the Waltham boundary line, and on the road between those two towns, distant about two miles from the centre of each.

CORRECTION.
MR. GARRISON, In a recent number of the Liberator, a paragraph was copied from the Commonwealth which stated that a lady residing in Florance, an artist and a Bostonian, had refused to receive Miss Edmo <illegible> Lewis, and returned the letter of introduction which had been sent by the lady sister. The explanation is as follows. There are two houses on Lung 'Arno, of the same number; the letter was sent to the wrong place, and unceremoniously returned to Miss Lewis. The lady addressed was entirely unaware of the whole matter until she received a letter from Boston, requesting an explanation of the report circulated here. A most kind and generous note was instantly written by the lady to Miss Lewis, explaining the mistake, and assuring her that the letter of introduction had never reached its destination, offering to Miss Lewis every attention, artistic and social, and welcoming her cordially.

COLORED HOMESTEAD ASSOCIATION.
NASHVILLE, Tenn., Nov. 15, 1865.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,-I have the honor to inform you that the officers of the 13th Regiment U. S. Colored Infantry, and 500 enlistred men of the same, have formed an Association, called " The Kansas Homestead Colonization Association," the object of which is to take homesteads together, in some country in Kansas, where we can have homes. It is a well- known fact, that there is not in the slave States a place where a discharged colored soldiers can go and be safe; and in order to sustain our men on their homesteads, we will need some help by subscription the first year, and should we not be able to attain this, we propose to buy our farming implements, &c. &c., on credit. This Regiment has been in service since August, 1863 I myself since the breaking out of the rebellion. We have lost nearly two hundred of our men killed dead in action since the organization of the Regiment.
Should our plan meet with your approbation, and if in your power, will you help us?
With highest consideration,
Yours, very respectfully,
L. S. HART,
1st Lt. 13th U. S. C. I., and Sec. K. H. C. A. Address, Box 242, Nashville, Tenn.
Reference, Hon. J. M. ASHLEY, M. C., Washington, D. C.
We hear from New York State that Sallie Holley is holding interesting and successful meetings in Tompkins Co. and its vicinity. Her subject is-"Justice to the Freedmen." The Dryden Weekly News speaks of the earnestness, eloquence and pathos of her address in the Presbyterian Church in that place, and urges a full attendance on her subsequent meetings.
There negroes have been shot by returned rebel soldiers within a month at Alexandria.
<c02>
ADDRESS OF THE American Freedmen's Aid Commission.
This organization but been called into existence by an obvious necessity. Its primary purpose is to simplify and give national unity to the operations comprehensively known as the Freedmen’s Aid Movement.
Co-extensive with the country, it includes in its composition all the State Freedmen's Associations already established, and their auxiliaries, with provision for the addition of such others as may hereafter be formed.
Its ultimate object it indicated by its name Freedmen's Aid Commission. It is to aid the newly-liberated blacks to overcome the difficulties of their new position; to assist them in the trials of their transition state; to help (in cooperation with the Government's Bureau) to place them in a condition in which further help shall not be needed.
The measures on which it depends for the accomplishment of its object are chiefly the provision of material supplies for the relief of extreme physical want, and the maintenance in service of competent teachers to give instruction in rudimentary learning.
For the purpose of procuring these supplies and supporting these teachers; of purchasing the books, slates, stationery and other accompaniments needed in the work of instruction; the Commission relies upon the liberality and patriotism of the American people.
The adequacy of the measures described to the end proposed has been abundantly proven. The elevating effect of the Freedmen's School, wherever established, has been immediate and palpable. Its indirect influence upon the people around has been quite as striking as its direct action upon its immediate pupils. The lessons of the school are repeated in the cabin; the effect upon the cabin reacts upon the school; and thus the two, by their mutual action and reaction, improve and elevate each other—to the benefit of all concerned.
In proof of this, and illustration as well, we refer to the history and results of every Freedmen's establishment in the Southern States.
In South Carolina, where the work was first begun, and where, its subjects were among the least promising, the results have been such as to convince the most skeptical. Herds of human chattels, impelled by force, have been converted into communities of human beings, regulated by law. Ten thousand ignorant blacks, degraded to the to lowest point within the, power of slavery, have been lifted up to a condition of comparative intelligence. These now constitute a self-supporting, law -abiding, wealth-producing community; and one more orderly, or better behaved, may not easily be found. While the able-bodied among them have helped to fight our battles in the field, others, not fit for military duty, have raised food and forage for the army; the children, meanwhile, being in the schools, fitting themselves for the graver responsibilities yet in reserve for them.
Receiving wages for their labor, many of these people have acquired property, and some of them comparative wealth. A few have become planters on their own account. A Freedman's Bank has been established in Beaufort, in which, on the first of July, six months after it was started, upwards of $150,000 were placed on deposit by men who but a little while ago were plantation slaves. It is noticeable as was to be expected that in proportion as these freedmen rise in the scale of civilization, they acquire its wants. As slaves, their needs were comprised in a few rude articles, absolutely necessary to maintain existence. Now they are indefinitely extended by the opportunities and desires which are furnished and stimulated by freedom.
Stores have been established among them by Northern capital, at which goods are sold, amounting in the course of the year, to hundreds of thousands of dollars. A single one of these stores, established by a gentleman in Boston for the benefit of a single neighborhood, sold goods in the last year amounting $90,000.
What has been said of the Freedmen's enterprise in South Carolina may be asserted with equal truth; of every other similar undertaking in the Southern States. In a late authenticated report from the Freed men's Bureau, it is stated that "in Mississippi, nearly 10,000 acres of land are being worked exclusively by freedmen on their own account. At Davis's Bend, the families are organized into a laboring community, with an allotted portion of land for each. They have established courts for themselves, choosing the officers at large; and the decisions of the judge have been carried into effect by the superintendent of the colony The plan hat worked well, and the people take great interest in their elections. They choose their best men; and they have recently elected a school board to serve six months. Their industry has been stimulated by their own ambition, without the control while men, or threat of punishment. Physicians who practise among them receive their pay as among whites. The shopkeepers are colored. The Government rations are being repaid by crops.
It is not claimed that all the improvement noticeable in the condition of Southern blacks is due to the Freedmen's Aid Associations. The necessities, the opportunities, the sufferings, even, incidental to the condition of freedom, have been sure allies in the work of education.
Nor would we derogate from the credit due to the Freedmen's Bureau for much of the progress that has lately been made in this good work. On the contrary, we join heartily in the testimony generally borne to the usefulness of this department of the Government, and are ready to do what we can to strengthen the hands of the gentleman who is at its head. But that we do not over estimate the efficacy of our own instrumentalities, we have that gentleman's emphatic testimony. In a recent published letter addressed to this Commission, he says "Education underlies every hope of success for the freedmen. Everything depends on the youth and the children being thoroughly instructed in every industrial pursuit. Through education, embracing moral and religious training, the fearful prejudice and hostility against the blacks can be overcome. They themselves will be able to demand and receive both privileges and rights that we now have difficulty to guarantee. Therefore, I earnestly entreat benevolent associations to leave no stone unturned to give them the opportunities for gaining knowledge"
In dwelling at such length upon the importance education, we would not be understood as depreciating the necessity of physical relief. Such relief, for a little while, at least, is imperatively called for. The period of transition from Slavery to Freedom is, under any circumstances, embarrassed with difficulties; but when it occurs amid the desolation of war, and with a people despised and hated, the difficulties must of necessity be greatly aggravated.
The coming winter threatens to bring upon the freedmen extreme suffering. Added to the many other caused of this, is the restoration to their former owners of abandoned lands and confiscated estates. This will deprive thousands of confiding loyal people of homes, and of the fruits of their industry, on which they were depending for support.
A condition of things such as this makes appeals to the humanity and sense of justice of the people, which cannot be allowed to go unheeded The people most be helped in this their trying hour. Much of this help must come from the North. It is the work left to us from the war. It is necessary in order to restore to the blacks and whites, and to the whole country, the full blessings of emancipation. It is a sure step in the way of reconstruction. It is essential to the proper reorganization—civil, social and Individual—of Southern society, and to the interests and honor of the nation.
All classes of people are interested in the success of this work, and we invoke the aid of all. We call upon the ministers of religion to present its claims to
<c03>
the people, and upon the churches to contribute liberally to its support. We call upon the editors of newspapers—religious or secular, literary or political to give us the benefit of their assistance. As conservators of the public weal, this matter concerns them intimately. We call upon merchants and manufacturers-upon artisans and capitalists—for their hearty cooperation: for this is a work which has its well-defined commercial aspects, not less than its philanthropic attractions. We call upon all classes of people, invoking them by their gratitude for services rendered, and their shame for wrongs inflicted, to aid in this great work of humanity and justice. Let it be remembered that these people slaves by our concurrence came forward in the nation's trial hour, and by their bravery helped to turn the tide of battle in our favor. Shall we repay such generosity with neglect and indifference? The thought of such baseness is not for a moment to be endured! What has already been done in this behalf forbids any such apprehension.
During the past year, one thousand teachers have been maintained among the freedmen, giving instruction to 100,000 pupils. Sunday schools, evening schools and industrial schools have been established in addition, while not less than twenty asylums have been maintained for the benefit of colored orphans.
These are encouraging facts, but they are but the beginning of what needs to be done. The number of teachers and schools should be multiplied seven-fold, and the other instrumentalities in proportion; and that without delay. For the means of doing this we look to the people. No further argument need to be added. The case once fairly understood and fully appreciated, the desired results will be sure to follow.
We cannot suppose that such an opportunity for the advantageous investment of large sums of money will escape the attention of the many good men of ample means and generous purposes, who constantly illustrate the annals of philanthropy with wise and noble benefactions. Probably in no other direction can the benevolent now look with just expectations of so prompt and gratifying returns for means invested. The eager zeal with which these rapidly rising millions seize upon every aid to betterment, their unprecedented and almost incredible desire to be taught all useful learning, indicate a soil ready for good seed, as soil is rarely ready, and from which no wise husbandman can will retrain his open hand.
Contributions may be addressed to GEORGE C. WARD, Treasurer, 56 Wall street, New York. Correspondence may be addressed to the Secretary, at the General Office, in Washington.
MATTHEW SIMPSON. President.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, First Vice-President.
CHARLES G. HAMMOND, Second Vice-President.
JACOB R. SHIPHERD, Secretary.
GEORGE C. WARD, Treasurer.
HUGH L. BOND, Pres't Eastern Dep't 
J. MILLER MCKIM, Sec'y Eastern Dep't.
CHARLES P. MCILVAINE, Pres. Western Dep't 
JOHN M. WALDEN, Sec'y Western Dep't.
General Office, 444 Fourteenth St., Washington, D. C.
LETTER FROM AN ENGLISH FRIEND.
BRISTOL, England, Oct. 26, 1865.
TO WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR—I most gladly avail myself of the opportunity presented by the return of Dr. Gannett to offer to you, first and chief of all the friends of all the friends of the oppressed colored race, now no longer slaves, my most true and grateful congratulations on the blessed termination of your more immediate work. I have not ventured to write to any of my friends in New England since the commencement of that horrible war, because I feared that I might say something that would annoy them, without doing any good. I did not believe in the North, as anti-slavery, nor even Boston; the rendition of Burns and Sims made me certain that they regarded the Union more than the rights of God's children, and so as a people I did not trust them, and held to your grand doctrine, No Union with Slaveholders! The victory is not yet completely won,. and the tried and devoted friends of the colored race will have a long and difficult work, in closely race will have a long and difficult work, in closely watching the government, so as to prevent any concession to the powers of evil, and in using every endeavor to help and to raise the colored race. I hope you know me too well I to suppose that I shall ever feel the slightest abatement of interest in the cause, or that I ever have done so. I never have.
And now I feel the greatest happiness in learning from the Report of the Boston Aid Association, that you are all working together; you with Dr. Gannett on the same Committee. Our Anti-Slavery work is ended; we now work with you all for the Freedmen. I shall hope to send over a box of clothes for them every year, and to send annually $5 towards the expense of a teacher, unless we find that we can unite together here to send a larger sum. Farewell!—may every blessing be with you and your noble old fellow-workers! I do not know where they are, but please to convey to them my warm greeting.
Yours, most truly

MARY CARPENTER. GOVERNOR PARSONS OF ALABAMA AT THE UNION CLUB.
The conversation at the Union Club House, in this city, on Tuesday evening fortnight, between Senator Sumner, Henry Ward Beecher, and Gov. Andrew, on the occasion of the visit of "Gov." Parsons of Alabama, and Gen. Swayne of the Freedmen's Bureau, has gained so wide a comment, we are disposed to let a little further light in upon the matter, as one, really, of public interest. The recital will possibly prove a benefit to some of the "reconstructed" gentlemen now at the North.
Gov. Parsons was introduced to the company, consisting or sixty or seventy gentlemen, in the parlors, of the house, and proceeded to state the circumstances in which Alabama found itself at the close of the war. There was nothing, he said, in its treasury save a few dollars and some valueless confederate bonds; there were not funds enough to pay the ordinary expenses of the State government. The waste of the war had been terrible; and there was a large proportion of the population, whites as well as blacks, that would suffer greatly, the coming winter, unless some assistance should be derived elsewhere
Mr. Beecher said he would add a few words, which, possibly, would not be proper for Gov. Parsons himself to state. A plan had been devised of aiding Alabama by subscribing to a loan to the amount of $1,500,000, at 8 per cent, interest, the bonds there for to be guaranteed by the faith of the State. In New York, several leading capitalists had indicated their willingness to take such securities, provided the whole amount was made up; and the practical question now was whether the moneyed men of New England would join in this method of relieving Alabama of its difficulty. To ascertain this, the Governor had visited Boston at this time.
Senator Sumner, as a leading representative man, was naturally looked to for a response, and he calmly remarked that he thought that what the gentleman, from Alabama needed was candor, as well as cash. Speaking for himself, alone, he was free to say that he did not believe a dollar would be invested by New England in Alabama bonds, so long as that "State" denied civil and political rights to nearly one-half of its population.
Mr. Beecher replied that it was evident the gentleman last up was not prepared to take any of the proposed bonds, but he would present the case again to practical business men. If the bonds of Alabama were not good, neither were those of any State denying suffrage to colored men,—Ohio, Indiana, and New York, for instance, (Connecticut, Mr Beecher's native State, was not mentioned.) Alabama could not be expected to give equal rights to the colored people when our own Northern States declined to do it.
Mr. Sumner rejoined, that he had endeavored to speak with frankness, without giving offence, and in a spirit of the utmost kindness towards the people of Alabama. He would add, that he had carefully read the Constitution of that State, sent him by Gov. Parsons, and by it he was further convinced that no aid of the kind asked for should be rendered a "State” that was founded on sand. Without justice, there was no security; and security was the first requisite for such negotiations.
Gov. Andrew said the last gentleman had in his remarks violated a rule of the club, which provided that no political topics should be there discussed. Gov. Parsons had come to Boston, recommended and endorsed by the Secretary of War, and he had hoped he would be treated by gentlemen as a gentle-
<c04>
man. That we should aid the South by means and emigration was evident, and no more wise method of setting our national difficulties could be devised. He had all his life been in antagonism to the South, and when they attempted a war in the interest of slavery, he was for a vigorous prosecution of the war. He was now in favor of an equally vigorous prosecution of peace.
 Mr. Sumner replied that he was not often with the club, and was not familiar with the rules, but he accepted the rebuke of the Governor in the spirit in which it was given. If he had violated the regulations, he regretted it, and apologized to the company; but he thought it a little singular that the Governor should do exactly that for which he (Mr. S.) was rebuked. What he had said, be deemed it best frankly to state to the gentleman from Alabama, that be might not be deceived in expecting aid where he was confident it would not be offered; and this in no spirit of unkind ness to the gentleman or his friends present.
The matter was then dropped, and the company dispersed, little knots of friends, however, gathering about, and generally thanking Mr. Sumner for saying only what they thought.—Commonwealth.
For the faithful discharge, above recorded, of an unpleasant duty, Mr. Sumner has again merited the thanks of Massachusetts. It is much to be regretted that Governor Andrew chose to place himself in opposition to the influence of a plain statement such as Mr. Sumner made; a statement which it demanded, by manly candor, from all lovers of liberty in Massachusetts to all the ex-slaveholders of the South, until they shall intent to treat the blacks justly. If, under present circumstances, Alabama bonds are to be taken in New England, let Mr. Beecher and the other Connecticut people take them.—C. K. W. 

DISTRESS AMONG THE FREEDMEN. 
We print below a letter from one of the Secretaries of the American Missionary Association, which shows the pressing necessity for immediate action on behalf of the freedmen of the South. We learn that our respected fellow-citizen, Mr. Charles Tappan, to whom the letter is addressed, has undertaken to collect clothing, blankets and supplies of all kinds, for this object Mr. Tappan will take charge of and forward such supplies or money as may he sent to No. 114 Washington street, and confided to his care for this purpose. 
AMERICAN MISSIONARY ASSOCIATION, NEW YORK, NOV.24, 1865. CHARLES TAPPAN, Esq.:
MY DEAR SIR,-Yours of the 221d instant was duly received, and we are rejoiced to learn that yon are once more ready to devote your time, without compensation, for the benefit of the freedmen of the South. Let me assure you that there never was a time when such help was more needed. The following extracts from a document recently prepared by one of the secretaries of the association will present the facts which justify the generous efforts you propose to make, and call loudly for the benefactions of the philanthropist and Christian.
 From the superintendents of schools, from officers appointed by Government, and others, alarming reports relative to the condition and prospects of the freedmen have claimed our attention, and demand immediate action.
 The restoration of abandoned and confiscated lands is fast rendering houseless and homeless and helpless thousands of these families. In one district in Virginia, the present superintendent say that probably fifteen thousand people, will be turned away from their homes, and left with no means of support. On one plantation or firm called Acretown, because each family had one acre assigned it, were three hundred families, many of them wives and children or widows and orphans of colored soldiers. This farm is ordered to be cleared.
 In another district of Virginia, it is estimated by those befit qualified to know, that not less than twenty thousand persons will be thus made homeless, and the superintendent of schools in that State, under the Assistant Commissioner of the Bureau, says, that in Eastern Virginia, at a low estimate, the number who are thus being ejected from the farms, which are being repossessed by late rebel owners, cannot be less than 70,000, and that the great majority of them will be left not only utterly homeless, but without any possible means of support, just at the beginning of winter. Disease and death have already commenced their work, and we dare not trust ourselves to state the number of those who, it is estimated, must perish before the opening of spring, unless the kindness of government or an abounding charity bring swift relief.
 Like causes are coming into operation in South Carolina, and elsewhere, and thousands upon thousands, unless government interposes in their behalf, will be driven from their little homes, and left by former owners to perish.
Wishing you great success, I am,
Very respectfully, yours, &c.

GEO. WHIPPLE, Cor. Sec
THE SOULE ASYLUM.  The following, from a New Orleans paper, in regard to successful efforts in behalf of colored orphans it that city, made by a lady well known and highly esteemed in Boston, will interest her friends and the friends of humanity :—
"We hear with satisfaction that Mrs. Louise De Mortie has succeeded in saving the children of the Soule Asylum from the clutches of apprenticeship that is to say, from bondage. The Asylum renounces all support from the Freedmen's Bureau, and under this condition will continue independent of all Government authority. It is now for the colored population to sustain that benevolent institution.
 We cannot bestow too much praise upon Mrs. De Mortie for the firm stand she has taken on that occasion, as the guardian of the children entrusted to her care. She was responsible for them, and would have been unfaithful to a sacred duly had she delivered her pupils into an apprenticeship, unknown and un authorized by our laws.
Gen. Fullerton issued, yesterday morning, the following order :— 
HEADQUARTERS, BUREAU OF REFUGES, FREEDMEN AND ABONDONED LANDS, STATE PF LOUISIANA.
NEW ORLEANS, OCT.26, 1865.
 Madame Louise De Mortie, having mule arrange merits to render the Orphan Asylum in the Soule Mansion self-supporting, and not at all dependent on the Government, the order of apprenticeship, issued from this Bureau, so far as this Asylum is concerned, is hereby withdrawn. J. S. FULLERTON,
Brevet Brig. Gen. and Ass't Commissioner, state of Louisiana.
ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN GEORGIA. 
"Dixon," the Southern correspondent of the Boston Adcertiser, thus describes the passage of the bill abolishing slavery in the Georgia State Convention :—
"The question of the terms in which slavery should be abolished and prohibited, which occupied one long and exciting day at Columbia, have scarcely occupies one minute. In the new Bill of Rights, as it came from the committee of sixteen. is this clause :—
'The government of the United States having, as war measure, proclaimed all slaves held or owned in this Slate emancipated from slavery, and having carried that proclamation into full practical effect, there shall henceforth be within the State of Georgia neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, save as a punishment for crime alter legal conviction thereof; provided, that this acquiescence In the action of the government of the United States is not intended to operate as a linquishment, or waiver, or estoppel of such claim for compensation of loss, sustained by reason of the emancipation of his slaves, as any citizen of Georgia ma hereafter make upon the justice and magnanimity of that government.'
The clause was reached at exactly five o'clock this evening. The clerk read it in his high monotone.-holding the paper in one hand and a candle in the other, for the hall is low and dark,—the President responded, as he had nineteen times before in the last hall hour, ' If there be no objection, and the chair hears none, the clause will be considered as agreed to and the clerk will read the next in order.' There was no objection, and the clerk went on with his reading. So, without a word to warm the blood of friend or foe, the great Empire State of the South took as the banner of liberty, and fell into the ranks of progression.
ENTERPRISE. A number of colored men belonging to a Florida regiment, whose term of enlistment soon to expire, have organized a company for the purpose of doing business without the assistance of any white man. They intend to establish large stores in the States of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, and supply the necessaries of life from the New York market on as reasonable terms as any other parties. The number of Florida is to be brought to the markets of the world by this company. One or more steamers will be employed in the business which they will undertake, to ply between New York and the State above referred to. Sufficient capital can be had, and laborers abundant. To make the enterprise a success. There is room enough, and capital enough, to warrant the organizations of other enough, to warrant the organization of other similar companies, and we hope to see more in operation.—South Carolina Leader.
<c05>
THE PRESIDENT'S INSTRUCTIONS TO GOVERNOR HUMPHREYS. Owing to the meagerness of the statement in the despatch from Mississippi, recently published, purporting to give the substance of President Johnson's instructions to Governor Humphreys, the National Republican gives a full copy of the despatch as follows:-
"WASHINGTON, Nov.17, 1835.
To B. G. Humphreys, Governor elect of Mississippi:
The troops will be withdrawn from Mississippi when, in the opinion of the Government, peace and order, and the civil authority, have been restored, and can be maintained without them. Every step will be taken to enforce strict discipline and subordination to the civil authority. There can be no other or greater assurance given than has heretofore been on the part of the President or government.
There is no concession required on the part of the people of Mississippi, or the Legislature, other than a loyal compliance with the laws and Constitution of the United States, and the adoption of such measures, giving protection to all freedmen or freeman in person and property, without regard to color, as will en title them to resume all their constitutional relations in the Federal Union.
The people of Mississippi may feel well assured that there is no arbitrary disposition on the part of the government to dictate what action should be had, but, on the contrary, to simply and kindly advise a policy that, it is believed, will result in restoring all the relations which should exist between the States comprising Federal Union.
It is hoped that they will appreciate and feel the suggestions herein made, for they are offered in that spirit which should pervade those who desire peace and harmony, and a thorough restoration of the Union. There must be confidence between the government and the people, and while the government confides in the people, the people must have faith in the government. This must be mutual and reciprocal, or all that has been done will be thrown away.
ANDREW JOHNSON,
President of the United States.”
PRESIDENT JOHNSON'S POLICY. Brig.-Gen. C. B. Fiske, of the Freedmen's Bureau-whose fidelity to the cause of freedom and the country has been constantly approved throughout this war and since its conclusion-gave the substance of a conversation with the President, in a speech at Brooklyn, on Tuesday evening. Gen. Fiske said:
"He ought to tell the audience that he had some hope for the future. Yesterday, he had a talk with the President, who said to him that he ‘felt the great responsibility committed to him. People say some times I was born South, and I will not treat the negro as a freeman, but I mean and desire to carry out the views of the great and good Abraham Lincoln, and to see that these people have a guarantee of their freedom. I may not believe with you in their ultimate attainments, but I mean they shall have a fair chance. I wish the people of the North knew what I had to stand between. Daily I receive telegrams and letters from all parts of the South of dreadful import. if they could but see the difficulties of my position, they would pity me and give me their prayers.' This he said with tears in his eyes; and I asked him if the Freedmen's Bureau was to be discontinued my resignation being already in his hands—and he said to me: Go back, go to your work, and see justice done to both white and black. The Freedmen's Bureau will only cease to exist when the Southern States are resolved to deal honestly and justly by these freed men.' And I came away from his presents will more of faith and hope in Andrew Johnson than I ever had."
DESTITUTE FREEDMEN.
General Saxton has issued the following circular:
"BUREAU OF REFUGEES, FREEDMEN AND ABANDONED LANDS,
CHARLESTON, S. C., November9, 1865.
The freed men in the States of South Carolina Georgia are in most cases, in a destitute condition as regards clothing and blankets to protect them during the ensuing winter, and donations of such articles are earnestly solicited from all who feel inclined to aid these poor people.
All letters in regard to this muttermatter should he adbe at dressed to Captain J. P. Rutherford, A. Q. M. Charleston, S. C. who has charge of the distribution of clothes to the freedmen in these two States. The best channel of transmittal for donations is through the nearest Freedmen's Aid Societies, who have the facilities for transportation, and will gladly take charge of all such contributions.
All articles of clothing, such as shoes, stockings, coats, pantaloons, dresses, shirts and under-clothing, for men and women, and children of both sexes, would be acceptable, and would be a charity well bestowed.
By order of Bvt. Maj. Gen. R. SAXTON,
Assistant Commissioner.
H. W. SMITH, Asst. Adj. General."
DIED-In Jamaica Plain, Mass., Oct. 15th, Rev. JOHN DAVIS, aged 76. Since leaving his native State,. North Carolina, where for many years he labored to elevate those identified with him by complexion and condition, he has occupied pulpits in Canada, Boston, and elsewhere. He was a member of the Baptist denomination.
PEACE MEETING.
An informal Conference concerning Peace will be held on Tuesday, December 12th, at 10 o' clock, A. M., in Room No. 4, 158Washington street, Boston. Distinguished friends of the cause will be present, and all interested to unite in an effort for the immediate abolition of War are cordially invited to attend.
A NEW RELIGIOUS MAGAZINE
The Radical.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY S. H. MORSE BOSTON, MASS.
THE publication of THE RADICAL was commenced in obedience to a recognised aced for a popular Magazine which should be devoted to the discussion and presentation of the advanced religious convictions of the present time. The encouraging response which has already greeted the publisher, from a large number of people, in all parts of the country, is the assurance that the publication was well timed.
THE RADICAL is a Magazine presenting the thoughts of able and disinterested writers. It has no sectarian bias, but welcomes truth from whatever source it may come. "It is," as a city journal has stated," a Magazine for all people who are not too closely wedded to their own ideas to tolerated freedom of inquiry and earnest discussion."
The following writers, among others, are engaged as regular or occasional contributors: 
Rev. JOHN. WEISS ROBERT MOORE.
Rev. SAMUEL JOHNSON MYRON B. BENTON.
Rev. D. A. WASSON. Rev. D. H. MONTGOMERY.
Rev. ROBERT COLLYER. Rev. J. C. lEARNED.
Rev. J. K. HOSMER. Rev. J. B. MARVIN.
Rev. JOHN W. CHADWICK. Rev. M. D. CONWAY.
Rev. JOHN SAVARY. Rev. SAMUEL LONGFELLOW.
Rev. EVERETT FINLEY. Rev. EDWARD C. TOWNE.
Rev. SILAS FARRINGTON. HENRY JAMES.
Rev. FRED. MAT HOLLAND.T. W. HIGGINSON.
C. K. WHIPPLE. Rev. O. B. FROTHIGHAM.
Rev. F. E. ABBOT. Rev. W. H. FURNESS, D. D.
S. H. MORSE, EDITOR.
TERMS: Single subscriptions, Two Dollars a year. Single copies, 20 cents. United States bills preferred.
dress, S. H. MORSE, at HAVERHILL, MASS. Send 20 cents for specimen numbers.
CONTENTS OF THE DECEMBER NUMBER.
1. Real and Imaginary Authority, by Samuel Johnson.
2. Not in Word, by W. H. Furness.
3. The True Light, (poetry,) by J. K. Hosmer.
4. Do Men need Salvation? by C. K. Whipple.
5. The Lord's Supper, by Daniel Bowen.
6. How I turned "Parkerite," by Fred. May Holland.
7. Enlightenments.
8. The Lost Thought (poetry).
9. England at the Grave of Palmerston, by M. D. ConwayCosway.
10. Letter from James Freeman Clarks.
11. "The Works of Epictetus"-Book Notice.
The December number will be ready for sale in Boston on Monday, 4th inst., by A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington street; by A. K. Loring, 319 Washington street; J. J. Dyer, 35 School street.
Among the articels contained in back numbers are the following:
Holiness of Helpfulness, by Robert Collyer; Address, by R. W. Emerson; Boad and Free, by Samuel Johnson; Dr. Scars on Modern Naturalism, by D. A. Wamson; The Old and New Religion, by Henry James; Review of Dr. Hedge, by John weiss.
DR. DIO LEWIS'S FAMILY SCHOOL
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
LEXINGTON, Mass.
TWENTY superior Teachers, among whom are THEO-DORE D. WELD, formely Principal of the Eagles-wood school, New Jersey, and I. N. CARLETON, formerly of Phillips's Academy, Andover. 
Send for Catalogue and circulars to Dr. LEWIS.
$2000 A YEAR
MADE by any one with $15<illegible> Tools. No experience necessary. The Presidents, <illegible> and Treasurers of three <illegible> the circular. Sent free with samples. Address the American Stenell Tool Works, Springfield <illegible>,
<c06>
FOR THE YEAR 1866!
"THE COMMONWEALTH,"
(BOSTON, MASS.,)
Is an independent Republican
ANTI-SLAVERY JOURNAL,
Giving attention, also, to LITERATURE, ART and NEWS.
Close observance will be had of the issues pertaining to the settlement of the great civil contest.
TERMS: $3.00 per annum. Subscriptions received for six months. Specimen copies sent gratis on application.
CHARLES W. SLACK.
EDITOR AND PUBLSIHER,
8 Bromfield Street, Boston.
LESSONS IN ORNITHOLOGY.
PARLOR CLASSES.
GRACEANNA LEWIS will give Instruction in the NATURAL HISTORY OF BIRDS, to Schools and Private Classes of Ladies and Gentlemen.
It is not intended, by these Lessons, merely to interest and amuse the learner, but white these objects will be kept in view, efforts will also be made to use the feathered tribes in all their beauty and attractiveness, as a means of affording an insight of the wonderful Order found in every portion of creation.
The familiar Habits of Birds; their Manner of Flight; their Migrations; their Songs; their Guiding Instinets; their Affections; their Nests and Eggs; their Plumage, with its exquisite colors and <illegible>; Examinations of the Down of the Young, and the General Structure and Classification of Birds, will be treated of, as well as the relations of Physical <illegible> to the Residences of Birds; their Geographical Distribution, and their importance to Agriculture.
Geology, in its connection with Oruthology, will also be considered; and the position of the Class of Birds in the Progressive Order of Creation, so far as revealed by Modern Science, will be made apparent.
Many of the most beautiful or remarkable Birds of the World will be noticed, and their location in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, designated.
These Lessons will be finely illustrated by numerous Elegant Engravings, and Specimens of the majority of our common Song Birds may be seen by the Class during the continuance of the Courses, while the subject will be further elucidated by Charts prepared for the purpose.
TERMS, for a Course of Six Lessons, $3.00 each.
Liberal deduction made to schools and classes of over fifty persons. Those who desire lessons will address
GRACEANNA LEWIS,
Care of EDWARD PARRISN,
South west corner of Eighth and South Sts.,
PHILADELPHIA.
TESTIMONIALS:
The undersigned have great pleasure in recommending the Lectures of Miss Graceanna Lewis, as in all respects worthy the confidence and encouragement of persons disposed to study Natural History, and especially Ornithology.
JOHN CASSIN,
Vice-President of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, and author of " of "Birds of California and Texas," &c., &c., &c.
T. C. PORTER,
President of Franklin Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa.
ISSAC P. TRIMBLE, M. D.,
Author of " Insect Enemies of Fruit and Fruit Trees,'
and Entomologist of the State Agricultural Society of New Jersey, Newark, N. J.
VINCENT BARNARD
Kennet Square, Chester Country, Pennsylvania. April10th, 1865.
The undersigned, who have enjoyed the pleasure of Graceanna Lewis's instructions on Ornithology deem it due to her to testify to the interest with which she succeeded in clothing the subject, and the clear and lucid method adopted in her Lectures. We greatly desire that she may find a widewind field for her valuable and elevating instructions.
DILLWYN PARRISE, E. H. CLEVELAND,
HELEN LONGSTRNTN, MARGAREY J. BURLRUIGE,
ANN PRESTON, EDWARD PARRISE,
MARTHA KIMBER, CALES S. HALLOWELL,
EDWARD TOWNSEND, E. M. DAVIS.
J. G. HUNT, M. D.,
Philadelphia, 7th mo., 1865.
Ayer's Pills.
ARE you sick, feeble and complaining? Are you out of order, with your system deranged and your feelings uncomfortable? These symptoms are often the prelude to serious illness. Some fit of sickness is creeping upon you, and should be averted by a timely use of the right remedy. Take Ayer's Pills, and cleanse out the disordered humors-purity the blood, and let the fluids move on unobstructed in health again. They stimulate the functions of the body into vigorous activity, and purify the system from the obstructions which make disease. A cold settles somewhere in the body, and deranges its natural functions. These, if not relieved, react upon themselves and the surrounding organs, producing general aggravation, suffering and derangement. While in this condition, take Ayer's Pills, and see how directly they restore the natural action of the system, and with it the buoyant feeling of health again. What is true and so apparent in this trivial and common complaint is also true in many of the deep-seated and dangerous distempers. The same purgative effect expels them. Caused by similar obstructions and derangements of the natural functions of the body, they are rap idly, and many of them surely cured by the same means. None who know the virtue of these Pills will neglect to employ them when suffering from the disorders they cure, such as Headache, Foul Stomach, Dysentery, Bilious Complaints, Indigestion, Derangement of the Liver, Costive-ness, Constipation, Heartburn, Rheumatism, Dropsy, Worms and Suppression, when taken in large doses.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them easily, and they are surely the best purgative medicine yet discovered.
AYER'S AGUE CURE,
For the speedy and certain Cure of Intermittent Fever, or Chills and Fever, Remittent Fever, Chill Fever, Dumb Ague, Periodical Headache, or Bilious Headache and Bilious Fevers; indeed, for the whole class of diseases originating in biliary derangement, caused by the malaria of miasmatic countries.
This remedy has rarely failed to cure the severest cases of Chills and Fever, and it has this great advantage over other Ague medicines, that it subdues the complaint without injury to the patient. It contains no quinine or other deleterious substance, nor does it produce quinism or  injurious effect whatever. Shaking brothers of the army and the West, try it, and you will endorse these assertions.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & Co., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Oct. 13 2m.
CLARK'S SCHOO L VISITOR,
VOLUME X.
A DAY SCHOOL MONTHLY.
THE VISITOR will commence its tenth volume with the January number, 1866. This is the only Day School Periodical published at SEVENTY FIVE CENTS A YEAR!
Magazine form, beautifully illustrated. New type, new features; Readings, Music, Speeches, Dialogues, Stories, Puzzles, Enigmas, Rebuses, &c., from the very best writers 
The VISITORS has the largest circulations of any educational Journal published. Now in the time to form clubs.
The Publisher, in order to reach all parts of the country will send the VISITOR one year FREE, to one person (who will act as an agent) at any post-office in the United States.
Address, with five cents for particulars,
J. W. DAUGHADAY, Publisher, 
1308Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
Exchanges copying the above, and sending a marked copy, will receive the " Visitor" for one year.
Nov. 10.
IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET 
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none- to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and here of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative. and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they say they can get nothing abroad like them.

CARTBAIX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
PRINTING MATERIAL FOR SALE.
TWO founds of Long Printer, of about 300 pounds each, can somewhat were, the other quite good, and small founts of Minion and small, Plea, are for sale at this office, very low for cash. Also, imposing stones, <illegible> galleys, &C.-the usual material of a newspaper office.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
TO THE THIRTY-NINTH CONGRESS.
"To Congress we must look as the guardian under the Constitution of the national safety."-CHARLES SUMNER.
Yes, Head of the nation! from almost despairing,
From doubt and from dread that the strongest hearts chill,
From the old slumbering arts, with their wily ensnaring,
We turn to you, Voice of a Free People's Will!
There is but one question, for thought as for feeling,
The same that the cannon-shot answered so well;
Is Lethe again o'er our drowsy powers stealing?
Your unresting vigor must master the spell.
No fost-hold-held for traitors-no matter what guises
Make comely the features they turn to your view;
No matter how plausible sound their devices-
You rebuild but on the Eternally True!
That stone the first builders so madly rejected
Must be of our Temple the chief corner-stone;
That primal formation, long spurned or neglected,
The granite of Justice basis alone.
Then rear the broad structure, with columns and arches
And dome reaching up to the star-brooding blue;
‘Tis Humanity's Zion-in far fainting marches
The sight of that dome shall its spent powers renew.
Room, room in its courts for the wronged of each nation,
But first for that race whose blood cements its walls;
Two conditions alone-loyal hearts, education-
Ere Freedom her sons to their noblest work calls.
AMERICAN CITIZEN! Henceforth, forever,
That name be the noblest the moving world knows;
Bought and sold for base ends again? Never, O, NEVER,
While memory's light o'er our history glows.
Yes, Head of our Nation, no more of despairing,
No more doubt and dread shall the patriot heart chill-
No more the old arts shall have power for ensnaring,
If you are but true to a Free People's Will!
Boston, Nov., 1865. ALMIRA SETMOUR.

WONDERS AUTUMN TIME.
O Ruler of the waning year!
How calm, while summer lingers here,
Is thine enchanted sleep!
When murmuring woods are full of songs,
And all green leaves are whispering tongues,
And fields grow rich and deep:
Till wakened by the shrilling SOULD
Of the sharp seythe along the ground,
Through Nature's flowering heart;
Or shouts of jocund harvest-home,
That down the echoing valleys come,
From laughing hills apart.
How calm a splendor ever lies
Within thy royal waking eyes,
O wondrous Autumn time!
Like the glory round a good man's head
When angels 'light about his bed,
And waken thoughts sublime.
And who could dream that yon sweet light
Were herald of the year's dark night,
And north wind's stormy breath-
That all these tints of red and gold,
Burning through every starry fold,
Were signs of Nature's death!
Ah, me! thy coming stirs the sense,
At every portal calling thence
The troops of awe and fear.
We think perforce of days gone by,
And days that a'l as swiftly fly-
Knowing thine errand here.
We cannot with the swallow flee,
And shun the gloomy days that be
So full of winter snow;
We pass into our Orient land
Across dark seas, where some bright hand
Calls from the deeps below.
Thou art the gloomy spirit of all
The wondrous years that rise and fall
Within the glass of Time:
Thou wert in fair Creation's bound,
When first the child-like earth swung round,
Exulting in her prime.
Born when the black pine crowned the hills,
And violets pierced the soil that fills
The elm tree's ragged spars:
When wore the thorn her snow-white crown,
And chestnut spires fell softly down
Among the golden furze.
Still thy dread pinions, as of old,
The sylvan hills and vales enfold
O'er all the spreading land;
And earth's sweet face, once bright and mild
As the fair forehead of a child,
Is seared as with a brand;
And still Man's conscious spirit feels,
While far and wide the east wind peals,
‘Tis God Almighty's breath;
(While as in prayer all heaven is bowed)
O'er hill and valley blowing loud,
The Autumn-blast of Death.
WESTBY GIBSON.

NATIONAL THANKSGIVING HYMN.
BY EDWARD P. NOWELL.
[Copies of the following Hymn of Praise for choir and congregational use on our National Thanksgiving can be had at cost (75 cents per hundred, set to familiar music) of J. P. MAGEE, 5 Cornhill, Boston, or by addressing P. O. Box 814, Portsmouth, N. H.]
Praise the Lord, O, ransomed nation!
Praise Him all, from sea to sea;
He hath built a firm foundation,
E'en the rock of Liberty!
Futile was our best endeavor,
Till we turned from wrong to right;
Gloom had shrouded us forever,
But for Heaven's redeeming might!
Then with <illegible> sing God's praises,
Now and through all coming time;
Love which manhood's standard raises
Merits gratitude sublime!
Hope and Trust at length victorious
Over trembling Doubt and Fear,
Call for rapture, holy, glorious,
Living faith, and constant cheer.
Infinite Jehovah! aid us,
While we in Thy favor stand,
Te remember Thou hast made us
A regenerated land!
And while time shall with us linger,
May we love the Just and Right,-
Seeing Freedom's guiding finger
Pointing to eternal light!

BROADCAST THY SEED:
Broadcast thy seed!
Although some portion may be found
To fall on uncongenial ground,
Where sand, or shard, or stone may stay
Its coming late light of day;
Or when it comes, some pestilent air
make it droop and wither there-
Be not discouraged; some will find
Congenial soil and gentle wind,
Refreshing dew, and ripening shower,
To bring it into beauteous flower;
From flower to fruit, to glad thine eyes,
And fill thy soul with sweet surprise.
Do good, and God will bless thy dead-
Broadcast thy seed.
Chambers Journal.

For the Liberator.
PROGRESS-THE GOOD OF ALL.
True Progress, in its varied stages,
Will much depend on Work and Wages;
For crafty fraud and speculation
Exmisuth not a man or nation;
This truth will stand when empires fall:
THE GOOD OF EACH, THE GOOD OF ALL
<c02>
The Liberator.
RELIGION,
AND THE RELATION THAT HELPFULNESS BEARS TO IT.
I wish to state some thoughts suggested by a Discourse of Rev. Robert Collyer, entitled "The Holiness of Helpfulness." As this discourse has been delivered in several places, and printed in The Radical and elsewhere, many of the readers of the Liberator have probably read or heard it. For those who have not met with it, I shall sufficiently describe the parts upon which I wish to comment.
The meaning and purpose of this discourse are well expressed in its title-"The Holiness of Helpfulness." The author teaches that our great business in this world is to help, (of course taking care not to hinder); that he who does this accomplishes the chief purpose for which he was placed here by the Creator; and that leading a life of helpfulness entitles him to be reckoned a religious man in this world, and to receive "salvation" in the next.
Taking the eminently useful life of George Stephenson, the father of  the Railroad system, as an illustrative specimen, Mr. Collyer compares or contrasts it with the life of one of the representatives of the Church idea, namely-one who has spent a long life in evil courses, but who, six months, or six weeks, or six days before his death, had repented of his sin, led a good and pure life, adopted religious ideas like those commonly held, and said clearly that he believed God had pardoned his sin, and would take him to heaven. Admitting the Church's claim of salvation for the latter, (though on a ground entirely different,) Mr. Collyer claims the religious character, and the salvation belonging to it, also for the former, and represents Stephenson as presenting his locomotive before the throne of God as his title to salvation, and God as accepting it.
The right to make this new claim, while acquiescing in the claims previously made, seems to be placed by Mr. Collyer on the ground that religion is a vast, a boundless thing, that the views of it taken by other systems (however correct as far as they go) do not exhaust it, and that Stephenson's right to be sheltered under its wing is as clear as that of the Church's repentant sinner. Mr. Collyer is so thoroughly a liberal Christian, that he admits the claim of all existing churches to be representatives, to some extent, of Christianity, in spite of their diametrical differences from him and from each other.
Mr. Collyer, though not defining religion, assumes everywhere that it is helpfulness, or that helpfulness is synonymous with it. But if he is correct in this, he is wrong in representing the popular churches as correct teachers of religion, since they take a ground not merely different, but opposite. They teach that, what ever excellent uses helpfulness may serve, it is not religion, and that religion is something of an entirely different character. The salvation which they allot to their repentant sinner is not in the least on the score of a final fragment of his life spent in good or helpful works, but on a ground utterly and essentially different. They accuse Mr. Collyer as heretical, the teacher of "another gospel," not from ill-will, but because their system absolutely requires them to do so. The liberality, therefore, which prompts him to recognize the representatives of these diverse sects as sound religious teachers, is more like good-natured weakness than strict adherence to truth. If his system is the right one, theirs is not the right one. If theirs is, his is not. A discerning liberality will acknowledge such good things as the opposite system contains, but it will not ignore the difference between opposites.
Mr. Collyer gives a good general rule as to connection with the church, (on the whole, the best that can be given,) namely, go to that one which helps you. And yet even this rule will not lead the majority of men in a right direction, since their minds have been poisoned, from childhood, with an utterly wrong and false idea of what their spiritual need is, and what their true spiritual help should be. The Church has taught them, from their earliest years, that their chief need is to escape from hell, and that the only way of escape is found in acceptance of its terms. Of course, in accepting those terms, the sinner feels a vivid sense of relief and aid. Of course, those who join the Orthodox Church, and those who are confirmed by the Episcopal Bishop, and those who receive absolution from the Catholic priest, all feel themselves helped in the most essential manner. They have obtained salvation. But salvation is recognized as help only through a previous belief in the Church's assumption of the necessity of it; and the persons who obtain help in this way do not learn from their spiritual advisers the great lesson that Mr. Collyer teaches, of helpfulness to others as the preeminent duty. These churches point towards their first duty in an entirely different direction.
Mr. Collyer taught his sick soldier that God, the Father of all, is the Father of each of us after death just as much as before it, and may confidently be looked to with that anticipation. But most of the churches that Mr. Collyer has enumerated as good and helpful teach precisely the opposite. God, according to them, is to be the enemy, throughout eternity, of those who do not, before death, accept their terms. Is it wise, is it right, believing as he does, to send men to such sources for help?
The ground upon which Mr. Collyer claims "salvation" for Stephenson leads us to another difficulty. How many people are there who, not possessing the Church's certificate of admission to heaven, can show a life of eminent usefulness by way of claim to it? Few of us have been so "helpful" as Stephenson, and most of us have more counterbalancing faults or vices than his record shows. The Church admits to heaven a small number of mankind, with special tickets of dogma believed and observance fulfilled. Let us suppose that as many more get in, with Stephenson, as eminent benefactors of their kind, in one way or another. But what is to become of the hundreds of millions? The great mass of men and women are still left unprovided for. Wanting both piety and active helpfulness, how are they to get into heaven? How are they to attain that indispensable thing, “Salvation”?
What is "Salvation"? Unless we have an accurate idea of what it is, we cannot talk or think understandingly about it.
The Church's earliest direction to those who are outside its pale is to attend first, and most earnestly, and above all things else, to the saving of their souls.
How comes it that their souls need to be saved?
The Church answers, "Because they are lost, lost, LOST."
From what do they need to be saved?
The Church answers, "From’ hell, from eternal fire, the inevitable doom of all who are not saved."
Looking further into the matter, we find it maintained by the Church that this "hell" and this awful “doom" have been established by God. Inquiring further about God, we learn from the Church that he is the Creator of all men, and thus their Father; and that he practically shows himself their Father to this extent, namely-that he takes providential care of them in this world, and gives each of them a chance to be saved from the hell which be himself has established beyond the grave, and provides eternal happiness for such as are "saved," remaining truly their Father forever; but that, to the immense number of persons who are not "saved," be ceases to be a Father as soon as their bodies die, and acts towards them with dreadful severity, precisely as their worst enemy would do, thenceforth, forever.
All this is really the doctrine taught by an immense majority, say ninety-nine in an hundred, of all the churches in the world that call themselves Christians. That which is above described is what all the clergy of these churches teach, and all the attendants on them receive, as the meaning of the word "salvation" 
In this country, where true Christianity and reason have made more progress, the proportion is less. Per-
<c03>
haps only nineteen in twenty of the churches that call themselves Christian teach this horrible doctrine. But this is still an immense majority. And all the clergy of these churches teach as true, and all the attendants on them receive as true, that which is above described as the meaning of the word "salvation."
What is to be said of the representation thus made by the churches?
If we look at it in the light of that reason which the true God, the real Father, gave to be our guide, and in the light of those sympathies and affections which He-the dear Father-has implanted in the heart of each one of us, we shall be constrained, by the force of truth, to take the following positions, namely:-
The assumptions upon which this Church idea of "Salvation" stands are a mass of falsehood. Of course, a proportion of undeniable truth is mixed with it in the teaching; of course, things obviously true are craftily warped so as to appear to support the falsehood; but the dogmatic assumptions upon which this hypothesis called "Salvation" is reared are thoroughly and absolutely false.
1. God is not the odious mixture of good and evil that this scheme represents Him. He is the genuine Father and Mother of each individual of the human race, caring for each with all the wisdom and all the tenderness belonging to those relations, and extending that wise supervision and tender help through the whole-existence of each. Consequently-
2. Man is not "lost." He is as much within God's power, and under his protecting Fatherly care, as on the first day of his creation. He has never been beyond that power nor severed from that care. He is just where God expected and intended him to be, in the first stage of an immense and beneficent system of education. In other words, God, the all-wise and all-powerful, has not been overpowered or outwitted by any hostile being in the execution of the beneficent purposes which we must suppose Him originally to have had in the creation of man. Consequently-
3. There is no need, there was never any need, of a "Plan of Salvation" for man; and, of course, there never was any such supplementary "Plan" in God's economy. The original purpose of the Infinite Father still holds. It never "repented Him that He had made man." The All-wise saw from the beginning all the experimental trials among good and evil that His children would make in the course of their education; and their temporary choice of evil is so far from surprising or disconcerting Him with whom a thousand years are as one day, that He has made the results of such choice eminently useful in their education. Since, then, nothing has occurred to disturb God's original purpose of progressive providential education for man, it further follows that-
4. God has never established any such horrible thing as that which the Church calls "Hell”; unspeakably horrible, whether it be imagined a place of never-ending bodily torment, as the Church generally teaches-or a state of never-ending spiritual suffering, as Henry Ward Beecher teaches. Not only would it be a libel on the Father to suppose never-ending evil or never-ending suffering a part of His purpose, but there is no reason whatever to suppose the necessity or the existence of any such thing, whether place or state. The idea originated in times of comparative ignorance; it has been continued and perpetuated partly by men who were base enough to make their living out of the fears inspired in the community by the supposition of its truth, and partly by the well-meaning dupes of such men; and it is now used by the clergy to drive into their net those who cannot be otherwise drawn into it.
These things being so, we are assured that, there being no such thing in existence as that which the Church calls "Hell," there is no such thing needful to man as that which the Church calls "Salvation." Of course, I use the term in the Church's meaning, which is the meaning accepted among the Church's pupils, otherwise called the Christian world; for all the Catholics, all the Greek Church, and an immense majority of the Protestants, accept and believe this hypothesis about Salvation.
Now, Mr. Collyer does not believe in the Minotaurish being, half Father and half tyrant, that the Church puts in the place of the true God. He believes in the Perfect Being who is true Father and Friend to every man, as much after the death of his body as before it. He believes that God's original plan continues, and will continue, to work with prosperous beneficence, never having so failed or come short as to make an amendment, a Plan of Salvation, necessary. Why, then, does he use that damaged phraseology? Why, wishing to teach the truth, does he continue to use the word that is founded on a group of falsehoods, and that conveys to ninety-nine in every hundred of those who hear it the false idea preached everywhere by the Church? Would he not do better, should not we all who worship a God of love do better, to dispense with the word "Salvation,” and use some expression which shall convey our meaning without at the same time conveying a meaning different from ours?
We, children of the Heavenly Father-in virtue of our humanity, undoubtedly His children and His children no less even if we are prodigal sons-we do not need salvation. We have no more need of a contrivance to escape from hell than from purgatory. The idea of the necessity of attempting such an escape, and the methods of accomplishing it, would only divert us from the real work which God has set before us in this world-the progressive improvement of ourselves and our fellow-men. This is evidently God's plan, the education of His children in wisdom and goodness; and our business in this world is to be workers together with Him.
We are now in God's primary school. Our duty in it is to do its work faithfully, day by day; not to spend our time in speculating as to what our positions will be in the grammar school, and the high school, and the college, and in such other departments of instruction and discipline as are yet to come. A very moderate allowance of faith would teach us that He, the Superintending Father, will provide for that; and a moderate exercise of reason ought to teach us that faithful attention to the duties of this department is the very preparation needed, and the best preparation possible, for entrance upon the next. Let us love God, trust Him, and work with Him in the effort to improve ourselves and others. This is the whole duty of man.
But, it will be asked me-Do you leave out of consideration the ugly fact of sin? the fact that many of us often, and all of us sometimes, are accustomed to work not with God but against Him?
I answer-I do not forget or disregard this fact. Every teacher of a primary school knows that no scholar is perfect, that some are wilfully disobedient, and that some persist in wilful disobedience. Of course, this state of things is to be provided for.
Our teachers, too, are imperfect, as well as their children. Some try one method, some another, for overcoming the evils of disobedience. Some have more success, others less. None of them are wicked enough to burn the unruly scholar alive, as the Church makes its God do with his refractory pupils; but, being limited in power, and wisdom, and time, they are sometimes obliged to yield to the difficulties of the situation, and to turn the bad boy out of school. What I claim for the true God, the loving Father, is, that being unlimited in power, and wisdom, and time, the difficulties of the situation are never too great for Him. He will accomplish His benevolent purposes in regard to the ultimate holiness and happiness of men without a single failure. Sooner or later He will succeed in persuading every sinner voluntarily to turn from sin and to choose righteousness. Is not this plan better than the one which (though called a "plan of salvation") provides for a hell of blasphemers to be eternally roasting, or a hell of sufferers eternally agonized by unavailing remorse? I say that our God is higher, nobler, more worthy of veneration, affection and obedience than the Church's God. He will not laugh at the sinner's calamity, and mock when his fear cometh He will encourage and accept repent
<c04>
ance and the attempt at amendment in the next world, and the next, and the next, no less than In the present one. He is to be loved and honored because He is obviously worthy of love and honor.
This is the way in which God deals with sin. But how are we to deal with it in ourselves? Each of us is conscious of yielding to temptation, of doing wrong actions, of indulging evil affections, of choosing, for the time, something opposite to God and goodness. Now, even if there be no hell existing, and no salvation from it needed, do we not need a mediator to reconcile us to God, and an atonement to wash away our sin?
I answer, we do not need either. Though we may have been alienated from God, God is never alienated from us. He is always ready and glad to welcome the repentant sinner. Whoever is sincerely trying to cease to do evil and learn to do well has God already on his side. What men need is to be assured of this fact, and thus to be encouraged never to give up striving for self-improvement. Error and sin are to be expected of human frailty. When a man does wrong again, after repenting and reforming, "no strange thing has happened to him." He has repeated the experience of all men, even the best, that have gone before him. It is the invariable lot of humanity. I say this not by way of excuse, least of all as suggesting indifference or easy assent to the repetition of sin, but as recognizing a fact in human life and human character. This verse states the fact and gives the remedy:-
“The wisest have been fools,
The surest stumbled sore;
Strive thou to stand; or, fallen, arise!
I ask thee not for more.”
What we need is to recognize the fact that every sin is an act of folly as well as of wickedness, to turn from it with hearty repentance, to make such amendment to any wronged fellow-man as the case admits of, and to watch, and pray, and strive against a repetition of the sin. If you fail again, be not discouraged, but still try. Try, and keep trying, and never cease trying, to avoid the things you know to be wrong, and to do the things you know to be right. This is the whole duty of man. The religious teacher can teach this just as easily, and can make it just as clear to his pupil, as what he now teaches about putting trust in a mediator. The pupil can make the effort of offering his sincere penitence to the Father, the Being against whom he has sinned, and to whom he wishes to return, as easily as to a mediator. This is the right course, and it has the further advantage of being a direct, instead of a circuitous course.
As to the pretended need of a mediator, is there any one nearer to a father than his child? Did the Prodigal Son need a mediator? Jesus teaches us in that beautiful parable how to go to God, namely, in person, and not by deputy. The Prodigal Son would have committed a new error if he had applied to the obedient elder brother, or to anybody else in the universe, to intercede for him. His application directly to the Father is the best proof of the sincerity of his love and the heartiness of his obedience. And the Father so receives it. He asks no atonement, no sacrifice, no process of purification following the return and confession. The act of returning in penitence was the purification. the Father, who had been ready, every day and hour since his son's departure, to welcome his return in this same manner, says immediately-“Bring forth the best robe and put it on him." He is again and at once a son, with all the rights and privileges of that relation, according to the instruction that Jesus himself gives us.
The return of the Prodigal Son is a good illustration, to my mind, of what religion is; and this agrees with the definition given by Theodore Parker of religion, namely- “Voluntary obedience to the will of God." Voluntary obedience! The motive is the essential thing. I do not find Mr. Collyer's statement a correct one, that the life which is helpful to one's fellow-men, in such manner as Stephenson's, is therefore, necessarily, a religious life. Religion necessarily implies, does it not, a purpose towards God; and it may or may not combine with this purpose towards God the attempt to do something for man.
It will not do to say that the Indian Fakir who spends his life in fulfilling his vow of self-torment- and that the Spanish monk who divides his life between masses at the altar and prayers in his cell-have no religion. Their religion is so real a thing to them, that they sacrifice the comfort of their whole earthly lives to its supposed requirements, and would die at the stake rather than disavow it. Nobody could possibly exemplify the purpose and effort to be religious more really than these men. And yet the lives of neither of them add one particle to the sum of human welfare. Moreover, the religion of both takes its peculiar character from a gross delusion, a complete misunderstanding of what God is, and what He requires. These errors, however, great and injurious as they are, do not prevent those who hold them from being sincerely and thoroughly religious men. The habit of wishing and trying to do the will of God, as they understand it, constitutes their full and valid claim to the religious character.
On the other hand, helpfulness may exist, and in a very high degree, without religion. During the whole of that eminently useful life which George Stephenson passed, after turning away from the Methodist meeting one Sunday morning, as Mr. Collyer relates, he did not seem to be actuated by any religious purpose, or motive. Even his helpfulness seems to have been an indirect result of his labors, rather than the controlling motive that urged them. He seemed moved rather by a scientific longing for discovery and attainment, the joy of subjecting matter and the laws of matter to his will, than by satisfaction in the relief given to the labors of men by these discoveries and inventions. Useful as he was, the special element that constitutes religious character did not appear in him, from that Sunday morning to his dying day.
A still stronger instance is Robert Owen, who led a life of very eminent usefulness, all the time undervaluing, disliking, and opposing religion. He thought it an injury rather than a benefit to the world. He thought the time wasted which men spent in following its dictates. And the reforms which he wished and labored to introduce into society, included, always, a disuse and discouragement of religion. Yet his helpfulness was of the active, voluntary kind. He loved man even more than science. The zealous labors of his whole life, and many special acts of noble disinterestedness, were done with the express desire and purpose of helping his fellow-men to easier, higher, and better lives. He wished to lighten labor, to facilitate education, to raise the standard of attainment, to elevate the laboring classes materially, mentally, and morally, and to increase, as far as possible, the sum of human welfare. There can be no doubt of his hearty wish and purpose to do all these things, and yet he was an opposer of religion.
Here we have the peculiar and remarkable phenomenon of two men going on from early manhood to old age, not thinking of God, not mindful of their obligations or their duties to Him, and yet doing, in regard to their fellow-men, just the things that He would have them do. No doubt, as Mr. Collyer says, the coal-pit and the machine-shop were Stephenson's proper place. He could do more for the progressive improvement of the human race in the department of mechanical invention than in any other. Nay, more. Considering what sort of churches he had the choice of, he did well to disregard them. His time would have been wasted in going to them. He was better employed in the midst of his tools and books. No doubt Robert Owen, too, was precisely in his proper place, in striving to improve and elevate the laborers of New Lanark. He improved them as individual human beings; he improved them as members of civilized society; and even the Sunday occupations he suggested for them were vastly better than the things taught the religion in the parish churches. But if these two good men had added to their good works the habitual thought of the Father who had crowned them with blessings, constant gratitude for His favors, constant mindfulness to refrain in their own persons from
<c05>
thoughts or actions displeasing to Him, and efforts to point Him out as the Father and Friend to those who were spiritually destitute, or spiritually destitute, or astray, they would have added lustre and usefulness even to lives so beneficent as theirs. Very likely they were prevented from doing so by a too easy credulity, taking for a true picture of religion the absurd ideas and superstitious observances represented by the clergy as constituting it.
Helpfulness, aid towards the welfare and the improvement of human beings, is, no doubt, the great practical duty that God requires of us. But it befits rational and immortal beings to recognize the duty, and the appropriateness and beneficence of it, and the excellence of Him who enjoined it, and the satisfaction of being workers together with Him in loving help to those who need. The doing of the good works in question is a great point gained, even if they are done thoughtlessly and mechanically, as the ox eats grass. But how much better is it to do them intelligently. Beneficence is good; but the beneficence that inquires and discriminates is better in every way than that of the sailor on pay-day, who is quite as much bent on getting rid of his money as on relieving distress. What we all need is to conform ourselves to truth, to fact, to the realities of God's universe. We can no more afford to ignore the fact that God is entitled to our love and obedience, than any other fact belonging to our existence here. Good as they were, Stephenson and Owen would have been better, helpful as they were, they would have been more helpful, if they had kept this fact in mind.
More helpful. The enlightened religious man can give spiritual as well as material help, and how often does each of us need it! Our lives arela series of alternations of hope and fear, joy and sorrow, exultation and despondency. He who can, in the moment of need, give the confident assurance to one who has lost sight of it, or to one who never knew it, that God is his best friend, that he is neither forsaken nor forgotten, that he never needs to despair, that there is a right and a safe way out of difficulties even as great as his, and that all things will work together for good to him who with persevering faith keeps himself on God's side-such an one, I say, bestows help infinitely more valuable than the payment of a debt, or the gift of a farm. To help an ox out of a pit is good. To relieve a man from bodily suffering or necessity is better. But to minister to the necessities of the highest, the noblest, the most characteristic part of man's nature, to help his soul's need, to confirm his soul's health, this is the highest and best of human works. This is what the clergy and the churches falsely pretend to do. This is what helpers on the merely material plane come short of doing. This is what the enlightened religious man can do.-C. K. W.

THE SPANISH SLAVE TRADE. The Queen of Spain has taken a step towards abolishing the infamous system of slavery and slave-trading which remains as a stain upon Spanish civilization. The authorities of the Spanish Government, particularly in the American and tropical colonies, have been guilty of many crimes in dealing with the negro. Cuba has been made a depot for kidnapped negroes, from whence they were brought into the United States. Now it is directed that all negroes taken in Africa and brought to a Spanish colony as slaves, shall be made free, with the option of remaining in the colony and working under contract or returning to Africa Other negroes in the Spanish provinces of the Antilles will be protected in their freedom by Spanish authority, as soon as the present arrangement of an apprenticeship of five years shall cease. "From the moment," says the Queen's minister, " the Government leaves the emancipated negroes in complete liberty to dispose of their actions, nothing can be allowed to trammel their freedom.” Thus we find that while Spain, as a Christian Government, stamps the slave trade "with the seal of the most absolute reprobation," it also uses all its powers to prevent those violations of treaties and connivance with wrong which have made Spanish honor bear a bad name.-N. Y. Tribune.
CHURCH AND STATE IN ENGLAND. J. Stuart Mill, during the recent canvass, in answer to the question whether he was in favor of the separation of Church and State, replied, that though he was in favor of this separation as an abstract principle, he should very much question whether the present were a good time to apply that principle. The State now is the more liberal and powerful of the two, and is liberalizing the Church, and protecting Colenso and others in their freedom of inquiry; and while he would favor an immediate abolition of Church rates, he was not sure but complete separation might throw the great institutions of learning wholly into the hands of such bigots as those who were at that moment driving Mr. Gladstone away from Oxford.
On the other hand, Dr. Pusey, and also several of the leaders of the evangelical party in the Church, have turned their faces towards a separation as the best means of preserving the purity of old doctrines. The recent Church Congress discussed the propriety of taking away the power or limiting the jurisdiction of the Privy Council.
So THEY Go. The Democratic leaders, finding that they cannot manage President Johnson, have dropped all their honeyed compliments, and resumed their old-fashioned style of abuse. Thus, the Eartford Times says of the President's demand that the seceded States shall ratify the Constitutional Amendment:
We protest against all this. Every Democrat and truly conservative man in the country will protest against it, for the President has no such Constitutional authority, and it is the way to destroy the Union, not to reconstruct it in a manner that shall be of real benefit to the people of both sections of the country."
SOUTHERN FEELING. A St. Louis letter to the Chicago Tribune says:
"An officer of the army, who is said to have been on a private confidential mission to the South during the last four weeks, passed through the city on route to Washington on Friday last, and though he gave no clue to his mission, he was outspoken as to his own opinion of affairs in the South. He said plainly the Provisional Governors were humbugs, and the leading amnestied rebels in the South were fully committed to the policy of providing hereafter, not only for paying the State debts created to help the rebellion, but also to support in some manner the wounded rebel soldiers and the families of rebel soldiers dead."
THE CONGRESSIONAL GLOBE. There is a great demand from Southern politicians for the Congressional Globe of the last four years, that they may read the debates on the war. It is a pity that they could not be made to commit to memory some of the speeches on slavery that have been made, as they would then have a better idea of the temper of the Northern people than they can gather from the sycophantic demagogues who now urge reconciliation and restoration at any price-even the freedom of the blacks and the honor of the whites.
ROBERT E. LEE. This distinguished rebel General has again taken the oath of allegiance. He first swore allegiance to the United States when he entered West Point; when he was mustered into the army as a lieutenant, he again took the oath. How much more reliance can be placed on oath Number Three, than on Numbers One and Two! Of what has he repented!-Watchman.
Governor Bradford, of Md., has offered a reward of $500 for the arrest of the incendiaries who destroyed the colored Methodist Church at Middlington, Kent county. The motive was that the building was used as a day school for colored children.
WORKING MEN AND THE REPUBLICAN PARTY. The Working Men's Central Committee in Lowell have adopted the following resolution:
“That we have good reason to hope that the reforms we seek to bring about can be accomplished at no distant day, through the Republican party, and therefore it is inexpedient to organize an independent party or present a separate ticket at the State and city elections to be held the present year, nor until the party which has the power to pass our measures proves unwilling to pass them."
Gen Augur has issued an order forbidding the whipping of colored men, under any law of Virginia, within the limits of his department.
THE SEA ISLANDS. A letter from Charleston says a telegram has been received there by the Assistant Commissioner from the Secretary of War, suspending all action in regard to the Sea Islands now occupied by freedmen.
Gov. Hahn, who has just arrived from Louisiana, represents that the reconstructed rebels in that State are acting very badly. In one pariah, they met in convention and re-established slavery by formal enactment and resolutions.
Last week, one of the civil courts sentenced a negro to be whipped under the old Virginia code. General Augur promptly annulled the sentence.
<c06>
Tire Most Wonderful Incention of the Age
MORRILL'S
PETROLEUM STOVE
One of the Most Brilliant Triumphs of American Genius.
IT COOKS, WASHES AND IRONS WITHOUT COAL, WOOD, OR GAS'DOES the work easier, quicker, better, and with as little expense as any known method; and in its use, without a radiator, does not perceptibly affect the temperature of the room, while it may be used with a radiator to heat a room in a very short time. It is also perfectly free from soot, ashes and smoke, and makes no unpleasant smell.
Warerooms No.36 Bromfield St., Boston, Mass.
Baking in these stoves, instead of the old imperfect process, is rendered a certainty; the bread comes out of the oven in thirty minutes, with a fair brown crust, neither burnt nor dough, for the heat can be instantaneously regulated. Potatoes and large joints of meat are "done to a turn."
Broiling:-Mr. Morill, the inventor, to use his own language,
“CHALLENGES THE WORLD
to produce a method by which a steak can be broiled that will compare with the Patent Broiler,” which always leaves the steak juicy, making even a tough one tender. Not a drop of the fat or juice can possibly be wasted, although it is broiled by the pure sweet blaze coming in actual contact with the meat. Ironing is accomplished quite as <illegible> torily; the heat being communicated to the interior <illegible> the iron, there is no roughness or dirt to trouble, as in iron heated on the face; and in the summer the heat is confined to the iron alone, instead of sweltering the ironer. Washing-day is bereft of half its troubles,-the stove, light and portable, can be carried out-doors even, in good weather, and the steam and disagreeables of washing in the house avoided. In fact, every kind of household labor can accomplished with more certainty and economy and with far less labor, than with coal or wood. To those confined to rooms requiring cooking done at home, these stoves must prove an invaluable blessing, the Petroleum costing less by one fourth than gas at two dollars per thousand feet, while the work is performed infinitely better. Young men out all day, wanting a quick heat on returning to their rooms,-families with children needing instant fire at night,-mechanics wanting early breakfasts, and HOT BISCUITS in thirty minutes' time after lighting the fire,-housekeepers wanting heat in rooms without flues,-country houses,-in fact, all who value their time or money or the health, comfort and convenience of themselves, wives and families, must eventually buy these stoves.
If you wish to save time, trouble and expense, buy the
MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE.
READ THE FOLLOWING TESTIMONIALS.
From Messrs. E. D. and G. Draper, Manufacturers, Hopedale, Mass]
The undersigned have used Morrill's Patent “Erovapor Stove" in our families, and have thoroughly tested its merits in cooking, and many other families of our acquaintance have it in use, and are well satisfied with it. We consider it a very valuable improvement, and cheerfully recommend it for general use, especially for a <illegible> cook-stove. We think it has never been surpassed for broiling and baking meats and baking bread, and is the best stove for heating flats for ironing we ever saw.
E. D. & G. DRAPER.
Hopedale. Mass., May 6, 1865.
[From Dr. J. Cheever, of Charlestown, Mass.]
CHARLESTOWN, May 24, 1865.
MR. MOORE-Having fully tested the Erovaper Cooking Stove purchased of you two months since, and promised at that time to give you my opinion of it, after becoming fully satisfied with its merits or demerits, as the case may prove, I now, without hesitation, pronounce it far superior to any cooking apparatus I have ever seen. It not only proves to be all you recommended, but infinitely more, for not half of its advantages were named. In fact, it does not fail in any particular in being all that can be reasonably desired by any one after acquiring a little experience in its use.
JOSEPH CHEEVER, M. D.
[From Mr. Edward Perkins, Proprietor of the large Eating Establishment, Nos. 37 and 39, Congress Street, Boston.]
BOSTON, May 27, 1865.
TO THE AGENT OF THE MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE CO.:
DEAR SIR-Having fully tested the new petroleum Stove made by your Company, I am happy to bear testimony to its merits. I have them in use in my eating house, and find them superior to anything I know of for cooking purposes. It bakes biscuits and broils steaks splendidly, and indeed performs most admirably all that is claimed for it.
Wishing you every success, I remal yours, truly,
EDWARD PERKINS.
[From Rev. T. C.  Porter, Pastor of the Methodist E. Church South Reading, Mass.]
SOUTH READING, MASS., May 29, 1865
TO THE PETROLEUM STOVE CO.:
Allow me a place upon your circular to make the following statement:-For several weeks my family have been testing the uses and economy of your "single burners," and find that for the common purposes of a family it excels everything else of the kind we have ever seen. In point of economy it has cost us less than one and one-fourth cents per hour. My wife can do her ironing in less time than with a common stove, and avoid the necessity of being tortured with excessive heat. We have absented ourselves from the house for hours, and returned to find our beef or beans nicely baked, and ready for the table; and for baking all kinds of pastry, steaming, broiling, and toasting, I do not hesitate to say that I never have seen its equal. I intend to use it as a heater for my study, sparing it to the kitchen a short time when called for to prepare our meals. I have had no experience in the use of the "double burner,” but should judge its utility must be in a corresponding ratio.
T.C. POTTER,
Pastor of M. E. Church.
[From Rev. J. P. Cushman, Pastor of Orthodox Congregational Church, Brighton, Mass.]
BRIGHTON, June 2, 1865.O. F. DEAR SIR-After a brief experience with your stove, it gives me pleasure to say that it gives great satisfaction.
For baking, it answers better than any stove or range with which we are acquainted: for broiling, it is perhaps unsurpassed, and the arrangements for ironing prove very convenient, while the escape from the heat given out by an ordinary fire must, in the summer, make your stove a great comfort in the kitchen.
Very truly yours, J.P. CUSHMAN.BOSTON, August 10, 1865.
MESSRS. MORRILL & Co.:
GENTLEMEN-I am often asked how I like my "Petroleum Stove." I would here state that it works admirably and it much. I have been a housekeeper more than forty years, and have. during that time, used nearly half the same number of cooking apparatus, such as ranges, cook-stoves, &c., but have never found any thing equal to this for summer use, and see no reason why they may not be used equally as well in winter. We can get breakfast with it-viz.: boil tea-kettle, make tea, and cook steak, while a person would be building a fire in a range. We have used ours since early in June, and have never found the least difficulty whatever. Certainly there is nothing that equals it in baking biscuit, bread, or pies.
Yours, truly, V. H. HEWES,
No. 3 Tremont Place.
MOUNT WASHINGTON, August 23, 1865.SIR: I do certify that, with the thermometer at freezing point, (32 degrees,) I heated my office (ten feet by seven) with one of Morrill's Petroleum Stoves, in five minutes, to such a degree that I was obliged to open the office door. And I would recommend them as the best and cheapest, most portable and safest stove for warming offices or small rooms that ever came under my observation.
Yours, & C.S. A. BATTISON,
Telegraph Operator, Summit of Mt. Washington, N. H.

WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Jr.,
WOOL COMMISSION MERCHANT,
No. 6 Channing Street, Boston
WITH every facility for selling Wool to the best advantage, a good store, situated in the centre of the Boston trade, and an extensive acquaintance with manufacturers,-I respectfully solicit consignments.
No market offers greater inducements to the Wool Grower than this. It is the headquarters for New-England manufacturers; here are their agencies, and here it is most convenient for them to buy. My terms for selling are as follows:
WHEN ADVANCES ARE NOT REQUIRED,
One per cent. per pound, and one per cent. (and government tax of one-tenth of one per cent.) on sales.
WHEN ADVANCES ARE REQUIRED,
Five per cent. (and government tax) on sales. These charges cover all expenses after the Wool is received in store, for three months,-labor, storage, insurance and selling. If required to carry it over three months, additional expenses will be charged. Interest on advances and other disbursements reckoned at the legal rate of this State.
I shall aim to keep my consignors thoroughly informed; and all Wool sent to me will be carefully graded to suit the market. Letters, asking information, will be promptly answered. Address P. O. Box  1861.
References:
Messrs. HALLOWELL & COBURN, Boston.
Messrs. HALLOWELL, PRESCOTT & Co. New York.
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & BANES, Philadelphia.
Boston, August, 1865.

THE RADICAL.
A JOURNAL FOR SOCIAL AND RELIGIOUS CULTURE.
PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY S.M. MORSE, BOSTON.

