THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS–Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents –one square for &1.00
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMOND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 38. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1499.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION. 
<c01>
From the Washington Constitution.
SLAVE PROPERTY AND THE CONSTITUTION.
The Constitution does not establish slavery in the territories, nor anywhere else. Nobody ever thought said so. But the Constitution regards as; sacred and inviolable all the rights which a citizen may legally acquire in a state. If a man acquires property of any kind in a State, and goes with it into a territory, he is not for that reason to be stripped of it. “Our simple and plain proposition is that the, legal owner of a slave or other chatted may go with it into a Federal Territory, without forfeiting his title.
Who denies the truth of this, and upon what ground it can be controverted? The reasons which support it are very obvious and very conclusive. 
It is an axiomatic principle of public law that a right of property, a private relation, condition, or status, lawfully existing in one State or country, is not changed by the mere removal of the parties to is another country, unless the law of that other counts be in direct conflict with it. For instance: A marriage legally solemnized in France is binding in .America; Children born in Germany are legitimate here, if they are legitimate there; and a merchant who buys goods in New York, according to the laws of that State, may carry them to Illinois, and hole them there under his contract. It is precisely so with this status of a negro, carried from one part of the United States to another; the question of his freedom or servitude depends on the law of the place to which he came from, and depends on the law of the place where he came from, and depends on that alone, if there be no conflicting law at the place to which he goes or is taken. The Federal Constitution, therefore, recognizes slavery as a legal condition where wherever the local governments have been chosen to let it .stand-un-*abolished, and regards it as illegal wherever the laws of place have forbidden it. A slave being property; and his master has all rights of a Virginia master whenever may go, so that he go not to any place local law comes in conflict with his right. It will not be pretended that the Constitution itself furnishes to the Territories a conflicting law. It contains no provision that can be tortured into any semi balance of a prohibition.
The dispute on the question whether slavery or freedom is local or general, is a mere war of words. The black race in this country is neither bond nor free by virtue of any general law. That portion of it free if free by virtue of some local regulation, and the slave owes service for a similar reason. The Constitution and laws of the United States simply declare that everything done in the premises by the State-governments is right, and they shall be protected in carrying it out. But free negroes and slaves may both find themselves outside of any State jurisdiction, and in a Territory where no regulation has yet made on the subject. There the Constitution is equally impartial. It neither frees the slave, nor enslaves the freeman. It requires both to remain in statu quo until the status already impressed upon them by law of their previous domicil shall be changed by some competent local authority in a Territory, Will be competent local authority in a Territory, will be elsewhere considered.
The Federal Constitution carefully guards the rights of private property against the Federal Government itself, by declaring that it shall not be taken for public use without due process of law. Slaves are private property, and every man who has taken an “oath of fidelity to the constitution is religiously, morally, and politically bound to regard them as such. Does anybody suppose that a Constitution which acknowledge the sacredness of private property so fully, would wantonly destroy that right, not by any words that are found in it, but by mere implication from its general principles? It might as well be asserted that the general principles of the Constitution gave lane and Montgomery a license to steal horses in the valley of the Osage.
The Supreme Court of the United States has decided the question. After solemn argument and careful consideration, that august tribunal has announced its opinion to be that a slaveholder, by going into a Federal Territory, does not lose the title he had to his Negro in the State from which he came. In former times, a question of constitutional law once decided by the Supreme Court was regarded as settled by all, except that little band of ribald infidels, who meet periodically at Boston, to blaspheme religion and plot rebellion against the laws of the country. The leaders of the so-called republican party have lately been treating close on the heels of their abolition brethren.
Slaves are regarded as property in the southern States. The people of that section buy and sell, and carry on all their business, provide for their inheritances on the assumption. It is manifest to all who know them that no doubts ever cross their minds about the rightfulness of holding such property. They believe they have a direct warrant for it, not only in the examples of the best men that ever lived, but in the precepts of Divine revelation itself; and they are thoroughly satisfied that the relation of master and slave is the only one that can possibly exist there between the white and the black race without ruining both. The people of the North may differ from their fellow-citizens of the South on the whole subject, but knowing, as we all do, that these sentiments are sincerely and honestly entertained, we cannot wonder that they feel the most unspeakable indigestion when any attempts is made to interfere with their rights. This sentiment results naturally and necessarily from their education and habits of thinking. They cannot help it any more than an honest man in the North can avoid abhorring a thief or a house-breaker.
The jurists, legislators, and people of the Northern States have always sacredly respected the right of property in slaves held by their own citizens with in their own jurisdiction. It is a remarkable fact, very well worth noticing, that no Northern State ever passed any law to take a Negro from his master. All laws for the abolition of slavery have operated only on the unborn descendants of the Negro race, and the vested rights of masters have not been disturbed in the North more than in the South.
In every nation under heaven, civilized, semi-barbarous, or savage, where slavery has existed in any form at all analogous to ours, the rights of the masters to the control of their slaves as property have been respected; and on no occasion has any government struck at those rights, except as it would strike at other property. Even the British Parliament, when it emancipated the West India. Slaves, thought it was legislating for a people three thousand miles away, and not represented, never denied either the legal or natural right of the slave owner. Slaves were admitted to be property, and the Government acknowledged it by paying their masters one hundred million of dollars for the privilege of setting them free.
Here, then, is a species of property which is of transcendent importance to the material interests of the South-which the people of the region think it right and meritorious in the eyes of God and good.
<c02>
men to hold—which is sanctioned by the general sense of all mankind among whom it has existed-which was legal only a short time ago in all the States of the Union, and was then treated as sacred every one of them—and which is guarantied to the owner as much as any other property is guarantied by the Constitution. 

From the Boston Bee.
A REPLY TO WENDELL PHILLIPS'S LETTER. 
We gave an insertion, a few weeks since, to a letter of Wendell Phillips to Chief Justice Shaw and President Walker. It created a considerable excitement and interest, and nearly all our cotemporaries copied it from the Atlas and Daily Bee, most o them forgetting to state where they found it. Our columns have ever been open to a reply to or criticism of that remarkable, sharp and personal arraignment of these venerable gentlemen. We happen to observe in the Newport correspondence of the N. Y. Tribune a sort of a review of and reply to that letter, which into exceedingly graceful and forcible that we transfer it to our columns with pleasure. Neither of the gentlemen addressed by Mr. Phillips have ever taken any public notice of the attack—we did not suppose they would—but this letter copied below is really so well put that we cannot keep it from our| readers. Perhaps Mr. Phillips may find in it something worthy of his attention. The writer says:—
‘But here they bring me, not roses, but as thorny a garland as was ever flung at a venerable head. This was not meant for mine, be it understood, but it stings my temples as sharply as if it were. It is the Times, with Wendell Phillips's letter in it to the good Chief Justice of Massachusetts, and to the President of Harvard College, indicting them both for having been present at the dinner given to Paul Morphy, at the Revere House, Boston. Read it, my soul, and learn charity, learn modesty, by looking where they are not. Learn how strangely spite can transform the most well-known objects—changing an orderly and respectable hotel into a grog-shop a pleasant dinner of wits into a midnight revel, ant two of the most esteemed citizens of the Common wealth into culprits, brought to the bar of public opinion and sentenced, without being heard. Lean that virtue does not consist in villifying the actions and motives of others, that sincerity does not require the calling of things by the vilest names that ingenuity can attach to them. Learn, finally, that there art humanitarian bullies, as well as pugilistic ones, and that the vocation of either is unblest. 
The example of denunciation in this sort was firs set by Theodore Parker, in the case of Judge Loring, and, though I quote his name with reverence, 1 think the precedent one liable to abuse. Judge Loring was arraigned for executing a law. Judge Shaw is indicted for breaking one, according to Mr. Phillips's view of things. Now, allowing one Ian to lie malevolent, and the other benevolent, still, if you make it a penal duty to break the law in one case, you are bound at least to allow liberty of private interpretation in the other. May I go a little further, and assert that a vocabulary of filth helps no cause, however holy? May I say that Mr. Phillips and his friends have too long ignored the old legends of good feelings and good manners, and have brought into vogue a vulgar and arrogant style of abuse, which has neither the fairness of criticism nor the dignity of censure. May I say that m Christian gentleman should transcend the limits of what is Christian and gentlemanly, to give prominence to whatever opinions, to avenge whatever supposed offences? 
I have said it, and I hope that you, Tribune, will allow it to stand in your columns, even if it should be more the language of my feelings than of yours. Every one knows that I am not the Tribune, but only a poor little correspondent, whose province is not the weightier matters of the law, but the anise and cummin of social life. Still, a child is sometime allowed to fire off a heavy gun, and if it should perchance hit the scarlet plume of an elevated popinjay, those even who did not direct the shot would applaud it. So let me spread my little apron before the bulky forms of the Judge and the President. Could it flutter upward and become a flag would inscribe upon it these words: 'Charity courtesy, and gentle usage for gentle blood.' 
Facts in my next. I am going abroad in search of them this very day. Saw a considerable display of flounces, yesterday, but as it was Lord's day did not of course regard them with secular eyes Considered the long line of coachmen outside the church, as I went in, and wondered what would become of their souls, every bit as immortal, I suppose, as our own. Thought some one had better come out and preach to them. 'Wages of sin, a good subject for hirelings of fashion. Hear Brooks preach on Lord's Prayer—triad to forgive Wendell Phillips his trespasses—couldn't.' 

SELECTIONS. 
[Correspondence of the Temperance Visitor.] 
MR. PHILLIPS'S LETTER-THE LAST REPLY
Passing along State street last Monday, I was attracted by the following words in large letters ‘Reply to Mr. Phillips’s Letter to the Chief Justice; and the President of Harvard College; and supposing, as no notice had been taken of the very lengthy reply by the 'Clergyman and reformed teetotaller, some other person more ' peculiarly qualified for the task' had written one, 1 procured copy of the paper containing it. It seems to be portion of a letter copied from the New York Tribune, and the Atlas and Bee says it ' is so exceedingly graceful and forcible, that we transfer to our columns with pleasure,' and that it ' is really so well put that we cannot keep it from our readers.' Of course, after such an introduction 1 expected something eloquent, argumentative, forcible and graceful. It is very short, and I send to you. 
I read it over twice, and then read Mr. Phillis’s letter, which I had previously read several times I tried to find who had changed ' an orderly and respectable hotel into a grog-shop', and came to the conclusion that it must be those who sold ‘grog’ there—neither Mr. Phillip, nor the writer of the reply but the Proprietors of the Revere House. 
The dry goods dealer, whether doing a large business or small, is ranked in the Directory the same. The rum-seller, whether at the Revere House or in North street, is in the same business, and it his occupation is a moral and legal one, should not be ashamed of it. ‘A pleasant dinner of wits into a midnight revel'-there seems to be no argument here; but the general impression in community at the time of the banquet seemed to be, that there was more revel than wit, and that the whole thing was more of a farce than an honor to any one. Two of the most esteemed citizens,' &c, into culprits.' They are charged with being present at a table of revellers;’ their friends do not deny it 
<c03>
because the charge is simply true, and the only defence that can be made is to justify their presence No one has yet done this. 
‘Judge Shaw is indicted for breaking' a law, according to Mr. Phillip’s view of things,' and I may-add, according to Judge Shaw's ‘view of things' too, if his legal opinion is accounted his private interpretation ' of the law.
‘A vocabulary of filth helps no cause, however holy.’ True, and all know that Mr. Phillips never indulges in any thing of that kind. 
The writer asks if he may ' say that Mr. Phillips’ & c.—I would remark that I think he had batter not say it. as some parsons might see fit to deny it. 
His last request seams very reasonable, and we think he may not be afraid to say what he so prettily asks to be allowed to say. S. W. H. 
At a meeting of the State Temperance Alliance held at the Tremont Temple, Boston, on the 14th instant, it was 
Resolved, That the thanks of the Association be tendered to Wendell Phillips, Esq., for the recent and most valuable service he has rendered to us and to the State, by calling public attention to the injury inflicted upon the cause of good morals and public virtue, even by great and good men, when they forget their obligations to the laws of the Commonwealth, and the great social reform of our age. 

From the Independent. 
THE NOVEL COMPBOMISE OF SWAPPING ROGUES FOR INNOCENT MEN. 
BY REV. GEORGE B. CHEEVER. 
The recent compromise enacted in Ohio, by which three or four men, accused and arrested for the crime of kidnapping, and committed for trial, were suddenly let off without trial, without reprobation, without punishment for So great a wickedness, demands some explanation. It seems these guilty men, guilty of one of the highest crimes known in barbarous or civilized, in savage or Christian society, were swapped off in exchange for four or five times as many innocent men, accused of the crime of ministering a cup of cold water, according to the command of the Savior of the world, to the outcast and the fugitive. The guilty men were let off as innocent, on condition that the innocent men might not be subjected to trial as guilty. 
It was a species of exchange of prisoners in this war now waging for freedom, between the people of the United States and the Slave Power. 
How the innocent men themselves have submitted to the exchange is a mystery; for it certainly savors of degradation, and the baseness of a .bargain, for some of fifteen good Samaritans, condemned for an act of pure benevolence, to be put in the: scales, and weighed against four man-stealers, it being intended that neither party shall kick the beam; but, poised in air by American justice, they are exactly on a level, So that, provided the wretches guilty of men-stealing can be let off free of the gallows or of Stats prison the Christians charged; with the sin of pitying the stolen man may be set at large in like manner. 
It seems, then, that the sin of aiding a poor fugitive in our country is on a par with the crime of r kidnapping a man; that any day a kidnapper may be Secure from any punishment in his villany, provided that only the government happen to have on hand in their possession a prisoner of humanity to I offer in exchange. And the people of Ohio seem to have come to that degree of humiliation, that they; accept with joy and exultation, as if it were a great triumph, the release of soma fifteen innocent Christian man, charged with crime in having had compassion on an oppressed fellow-being, on condition, (as an offset for the in mercy of such deliverance) that they let go unscathed the four apprehended men-_stealers! The men-stealers, as we understand it, were in charge of the State of Ohio, having been found, in the language of Gov. Chase, in the act of making war against the State, and being accused of; the crime of kidnapping.
The innocent man were accused of bowels of compassion, in attempting to protect the injured victim of such kidnapping, cruelty and violence, and were in power and charge of the United States; and these two sovereign parties and powers propose a cartel, or exchange of prisoners; we know not from which, side the proposition came, but so it is, or was; the exchange was proposed, and has been effected; a noll. pros, on the one side, entered as an equivalent' for a noll. pros, on the other, and so the whole difficulty settled. We know not whether to call this a tragedy or comedy of injustice; it is a farce, a disgrace, both to Ohio and the Federal Government, to dignify it with the name of justice
For if the fifteen men, arrested and thrown into prison for having compassion on the trembling fugitive, were guilty of a crime against the just and constitutional laws of this country, they ought not to be let off on a bribe, on a bargain; they ought to receive the punishment due to their crime. If the sovereign State of Ohio could not justly and constitutionally protect them, it ought not to consent to their being released; the people at the same time going into hallelujahs for this event, as if it were a great act and triumph of patriotism. 
But if these men were unjustly accused and imprisoned, if the Federal Government had seized them by act of tyranny, under contrivance of a slave bill, and with pretence of rightful law, such law being unconstitutional and void, they being free citizens of the State of Ohio, and subject in this matter only to her jurisdiction, and amenable to her laws and courts, then it was the duty of the State of Ohio to have protected them. It is the least and lowest thing that any sovereign State can do for its citizens, to protect them from being seized by a foreign power on their own soil, hurried away from their families,' thrust into jail, and held for trial before a tribunal that has no rightful authority over them, on an accusation for a crime, the very allegation of which, and the forcible proceedings in consequence, were unconstitutional. If a sovereign State cannot protect its citizens from such violence, what is its sovereignty worth, what is it good for? If a sovereign State will let its own free citizens be snatched up in this ignominious and oppressive way, and will tamely consent that its own judges shall refuse even the writ habeas corpus for releasing the citizens thus wrongfully captured out of the grasp of such tyranny, and placing them for trial, at least, under protection of the State courts, we see not what prerogative of sovereignty it has left which is not a mere sham, a laughing-stock. 
John Randolph's toast concerning State Rights s. may be drunk by the slaveholders over the dead body of such a sovereignty, with a hip and a hurrah. De mortuis nil nisi bonum. Indeed, nothing need be e said, good or bad, concerning such dead stuff. The Slave Power can-afford to give such a State, that t will thus sacrifice the personal liberty of its citizens at the bidding of an infamous unconstitutional Federal slave bill, the largest liberty of the yard, the fattest pasture, and the longest tether. A State that will bury its State rights beneath the lids of such a sepulchre, and then receive as a boon and release of its innocent citizens from the Federal prison,, by itself releasing a gang of robbers and kidnappers, 
<c04>
whom it was under sacred obligation to have punished–a State that will buy as a good bargain, or accept as a boon from tyranny, what belonged to it by freedom and justice, what it ought to have extorted as its simplest right, its indisputable authority and possession–a Stats that, for the sake of such a bargain, such a gracious condescension of the Slave Power, will agree to stand by and see the violation of its own State laws with impunity—a State that will consent to dismiss a gang of kidnappers from its prisons unharmed, on condition that its own free citizens , unrighteously imprisoned, may be unbound and let off without trial—such a State may be indulged by the Federal government, and the Slave Power enthroned over it, in any of the most extravagant, jubilant anthems concerning the opening of the prison doors, and letting the oppressed go free; in any freaks and sallies of speculative demonstrations, in conventions, in resolutions in speeches all blazing with the pyrotechnics and thundering with the detonating powder of the highest republican and democratic liberty. The grander such harmless, ineffective enthusiasm, the safer for the slave tyranny; the more sublime the flight of the spread eagles of State eloquence, the more abject and spiritless will such a people be, whose ardor in the cause of freedom is afraid to assert the right, and bribes the wrong; whose zeal shuns the form and cost of brave deeds, and expends itself in speculative toasts and hallelujahs. 
There being no intention nor any danger of going beyond the form of mere speculation concerning liberty, it coats nothing, as Burke said of the flights of hypocrisy, to have it magnificent. And our slave-drivers need not be afraid, though Banker Hill Monument itself should, one of these Fourth of Julys, be rammed full with powder, and the charge wadded with all the glittering generalities of the Declaration of Independence, and the column started and fired down South, with the huge, hissing, red-hot ball flaming from its granite throat, that all men are born free and equal, black or white, and that property in man is a lie, a curse,—and an impossibility. 
On the other hand, if the four men (we believe there ware four) imprisoned in the State of Ohio for the crime of kidnapping, were really guilty of that crime), they should have been tried, sentenced and punished for it. Where was the authority, either in law or justice, to let them off? If they had not been guilty of the crime, then their accusers, or those who threw them into prison, ought to have been tried for slander and false imprisonment. If they had been guilty of that crime, being one of the most atrocious offices that can be committed against society, a capital crime, denounced by God himself as worthy of death; and by our own laws, when committed in Africa, as piracy; and even in this country, as robbery and malignant violence; if they had been so guilty, then the State of Ohio was guilty in letting them go free.
It would seem that while slaves cannot go free, criminals can. Bat by whose authority could the criminals can. But by noll. pros, in behalf of these wretches be issued or entered, and the indictment against them dismissed? Suppose that three or four rascals were taken at midnight in our streets, in the act of highway robbery, and thrown into prison for trial; where is the power, legal, judicial or executive, State or Federal, by which it could rightly be said, they shall not be brought to trial; let the prosecution be withdrawn, and let them go forth again into society, unscathed by the law or its penalty? Where is the man, or the body of men, the judge, or the personnel or political friend, the president or the government, that would dare propose the emptying of one of the corridors of Sing, and the deliverance of the prisoners there, as a condition, a boon, a bargain, a cartel of exchange, on the ground of which those four highway robbers were released, and sent home to their dens, to plot new crimes with impunity, the public, meanwhile, mystified and astounded with such processes of justice? 
Again we ask, Why were not these kidnappers brought to justice? Is that the kind of State sovereignty which Ohio is going to teach and exercise, the right of entering a noll. pros, in behalf of vile criminals, on condition that her own free citizens may not be oppressed by the Federal Government, or brought to trial for their humanity by the Slave Power? Is the right of delivering men-stealers out of prison without trial, without punishment, a State right which Ohio can exercise, while her judges dare not rescue her own injured citizens from despotism? Are the people of Ohio willing that the deliverance of their citizens from unjust imprisonment shall be bargained for, bought by the shelter and release of rogues and villains that deserve to be hanged? 
There is a greater outrage still in this shameful proceeding. We see it noted that Judge Wilson of the United States Court, in pronouncing sentence against young Bushnell for obeying God rather than man, in disobeying an unjust law, declared 'that if the standard of right is placed above and against the laws of the land, those who act up to that standard are anything else than good citizens or good Christians.' 
What insolent defiance of God and his word, God and his righteousness, by such a judge! The standard of right is God's law God's Word: and here we have a judge of the United States Court declaring the laws of the land superior to it, and to be obeyed rather than the right, and that he who acts rightly, when the right is against the human law, is any thing rather than a good citizen or a good Christian! What a teacher of injustice and immorality by law, in our highest public tribunals! What denial of the common law, common sense, common liberty and common piety of all Christian communities I The teaching by a judge upon the bench that unrighteous law can make wrong right, and bind the conscience to subjection, is the destruction of public, private and personal morality; it corrupts the very fountain of our principles, and constitute! itself a fountain of debauchery and wickedness. It subverts the foundations of our freedom, destroys the very possibility of resistance against tyranny, perverts and palsies the conscience and the heart, which alone can justify, under instruction of God's Word, and impel and sustain such resistance, in reliance upon God. It is treason against the country and against God. It is extra-judicial insolence and impiety; but it is perfectly consonant with the equally impious and intrusive dictum now bethrust upon the country as the highest law, that black men have no rights that white men are bound to respect!
SECONDED.
When the Oberlin Rescuers were released—when they and the indicted kidnappers simultaneously went free, a jubilant shout arose, and was re-echoed throughout the North, and trumpet tones proclaimed the glorious triumph of justice, and the defeat of federal tyranny—to us the result seemed brought about by a ‘Compounding of Felony,' and as such we characterized the act in an editorial at the time. Much as we had desired the enlargement of the prisoners, we were grieved by the disgraceful compromise by which it was effected. In this view of the matter, none agreed with us. editorially, so far as we know, for we cannot recall to memory a single ex-
<c05>
change, of an anti-slavery tendency, which regarded the transaction in the light in which we did. Upon a question of such importance, and involving, what seemed to us, a palpable violation of principle, we 1 did not anticipate being entirely alone, and we confess to a sadness which grew out of the knowledge of the fact. It is therefore a source of no small satisfaction to find an article from Dr. Cheever in the Independent, in which he expresses the name views which we gave to the readers of the Bugle nearly two months since. 
We hope the Republican press of Ohio will universally copy what Dr. Cheever has to say on ‘The Novel Compromise of swapping Rogues for Innocent men. Those of our readers who wish to see the article will find it on the first page.-Ohio Anti-Slavery Bugle. 
So cordially did we agree with the view of this transaction, taken by the Bugle, 
that we promptly published it entire in our columns.—[Ed. Lib. 

From the Vermont Chronicle.
THE TRACT CIRCULAR.
MESSRS. EDITORS:—I was much gratified by your remarks (Aug. 16) on the Circular of the New York American Tract Society. It is an important: document. As quite an imposing array of respectable names from Boston and vicinity are attached to it, and as some in our churches still patronize that Society, it seems desirable that the Circular should receive more than a passing notice. I therefore send you the following communication in review of it, for insertion in the Chronicle, (if you think best,) in the belief that the subject has manifest bearings on ' the interests of vital godliness and sound morality' which it becomes the friends of religion carefully to consider.
The example of those who have spoken in your columns, on the position of the Society, shall be my apology for appending my name.
One thing worthy of observation in the Circular, is its 'liberality' I have noticed only one word which, on the side of strictness, might not be expected in a similar document from the American Unitarian Association, the Convention of Universal lists, or the adherents of Rome, or from a Tract Society in which the three clashes were united. The word alluded to is ' Evangelical.' It occurs three times.
But as this term, in view of this Society, includes slaveholders, (who, by the Presbyterian testimony of 1703, as well as by Exodus 21: 16, are men-stealers,) the members of those denominations may not perhaps be greatly distressed by exclusion from such ‘evangelical' fellowship.
2. In the fourth paragraph of the Circular, they say: It,' the American Tract Society, 'has never pledged itself to publish on all ethical and religious
subjects.'
The answer to this is, that if the Constitution of the Society does not pledge it to publish on all ethical and religious subjects which have direct and palpable bearings on ' the interests of vital godliness and sound morality,' there is no meaning in language; the Constitution itself is a farce, and its framers were Jesuits rather than Christian men.
3. In connexion with the above, they say: 'It has regarded itself as interdicted, by the terms of its organization, from publishing on questions of morals and religion, which are in dispute among Christian men, who compose its constituency.'
Answer.—In their list of publications we find near forty, containing in all more than six hundred pages, on the subject of Temperance, many of which advocate the following doctrines: 1 It is wrong to use intoxicating liquors as a beverage. 2. The traffic in intoxicating drinks is an immorality. 3. This traffic ought to be suppressed by law.
These doctrines have ever been, and still are, in dispute among Christians. We all know that this Society was a mighty pioneer in the Temperance Reformation, when, all over the land, it had to encounter decided and earnest opposition from Orthodox ministers, deacons, and church members.-These facts are indisputable. It cannot, therefore, but be a matter of astonishment that a declaration like the above should be put forth, so utterly at variance with the truth of history, and with the well-known and approved policy of the Society, during at least the first dozen or fifteen years of its existence.
4. As to the organs of a Society formed 'to promote the interests of vital godliness and sound morality,' and thus pledged to publish the whole gospel bearing on this point, they yet refuse to rebuke sins which stand most directly in the way of these interests, and then, ' confess themselves unable to discern in all this, any compromise of Christian principle, any unmanly, unchristian subserviency to sectional prejudice.'
This is their view of the case. But how differently the matter is viewed by others, appears from the adverse action of ALL the large Congregational Bodies in the land, and from such expressions as the following from the Newspaper Press, both secular and religious.
The Southern Citizen says: 'We are wholly against such a commercial, pettifogging Tract Society; religion and morality, which have a single eye to Southern custom, do not suit us.’
The Vermont Chronicle says, in reference to this action of this Society, in respect to slavery and the slave trade: ‘No Society aiming to diffuse an Evangelical literature can, without shame and guilt, ignore a subject like this, when the most monstrous practical error is making its way in community, polluting public sentiment, and threatening to draw into its embrace the very elect.'
The Boston Transcript, alluding to the leaving out from one of its volumes of a sentence condemning the slave trade, puts the question: 'Can an instance be named so unworthy a literary committee, and so utterly disgraceful to a religious Society, as the above garbling of a volume, that has the words, Love to God ' on its little page?'
The Columbus City (Iowa) Enterprise has this:—‘Next to the part, the greatest humbug, in this country, is the American Tract Society. We regard every man as a fool who contributes anything to it.’
The American Presbyterian refers to 'the timid, pandering position of the officers of the Society.'
The National Era speaks of' its base truckling to Slavery, lest it should offend the Legrees and Laman of the South.'
The Congregational Herald says:—' The Society has failed to maintain itself at the level of common morality, add has sunk into the mire of Antinomianism; divorcing doctrine from duty; making piety antagonistic to philanthropy, and has ceased to be a representative of evangelical religion, and its imprint is no longer reliable as a guarantee of sound doctrine and irreproachable morals.'
Many other secular and religious papers have spoken to the same effect.
5. In the same paragraph they say: ' It is the fundamental principle of this Society, that men who disagree on many subjects, and those of gravest importance, may combine together for a certain other purpose in which they do agree—THE SALVATION OF THE INDIVIDUAL SOUIL BY THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST.' 
<c06>
What is the meaning of this? Is it a self-evident self-contradiction, asserting that men may agree in respect to the one thing, which ALONE is or can be 'of gravest importance; ' and yet, that there are other things of gravest importance, that is, of importance equal or superior to that of the soul, concerning which they may disagree? 
Or, is it intended to assert that Evangelical Christians regard the things in which they differ from each other to be of gravest importance,' that is, of greater importance than the salvation of the individual soul? 
Or, thirdly, was it intended to insinuate, to convey the idea into the mind without directly, asserting it, that Christiana who agree in respect to salvation of the soul, and what necessarily pertains to it, may yet disagree in matters of gravest importance in respect to Christian morals? 
If the first was intended, it needs no refutation; if the second, it is a most injurious and slanderous misrepresentation of the degree of importance which Evangelical Christians attach to the points about which they differ; and if the third, it is a pure Antinomianism, teaching that the salvation of the soul is attainable without gospel morality.
If there is another possible meaning to this declaration consistent with truth, I am unable to discover what it is. And THIS IS THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE OF THIS SOCIETY
6. The seventh paragraph has this sentence:—‘Had objections to any publications sanctioned by them been made from legitimate sources, it would have been regarded as a good and valid reason why this should not be issued.
From this, it appears, that God's commission to ‘preach the preaching that-HE bids them,' does not in their view warrant any publication whatever from this Society, any longer than it shall have permission from 'Evangelical' slaveholders. The Constitution of the Society wisely commits the veto on publications to the members of the Publishing Committee, in expectation, of course, that no one of them would be so awed by the wicked, as to withhold rebuke from their sin, even though by assuming the name 'Evangelical,' 
-‘they steal the livery of heaven
To serve the devil in.' 
But here we find this constitutional provision practically nullified. And in allowing this, the conductors of the Society virtually accept, as the true 'Basis of Catholic Christianity,' the lowest and most corrupt standard of piety and morals (because it tolerates slavery and its incidents) which is anywhere to be found among so-called Evangelical Christians. And, as if this were not enough, they here advertise their readiness to recall their rebukes of sin heretofore uttered, and to put down the standard, if possible, still lower, if requested to do so by Evangelical Christians, whether merely of the tobacco using, dancing sort, or also of the wine-bibbing and rumselling, or whether they have experience in all these practices. If Solomon had had his eye on this very thing, we could account for his language in Prov. xxv. 26. 
This is not caricature. It is the actual moral position in which the Society is placed by its 'fundamental principles,' as they are stated in this Circular.
Now let the conductors of the Society act openly on these principles. In the spirit of a suggestion of Coleridge for a volume of Unitarian Tracts, let them label all their volumes, 'SALVATION MADE EASY;' and let every issue from their presses bear the imprimatur, 'PUBLISHBD BT PERMISSION OF A SLAVE-HOLDING CHEISTIANITY' Then nobody will be deceived, and every one may purchase their waxes that wants them. 
Let these strictures be subjected to the severest scrutiny. If there is not substantial justice in all that is here written, let some one who is able point out the error either in statement or reasoning. But if there is just ground for these remarks, as I most sincerely believe there is, it surely deserves the earnest attention of the true friends of vital godliness and sound morality.
It is painful thus to animadvert on a document apparently endorsed by so many good men. It is impossible, however, to believe that many of them have carefully examined it.
But we must not be led away by the names of the great and good, in opposition to the word of God. To me nothing is more certain than that the doctrines of this Circular, and the policy which it defends, and which is based upon these doctrines, tend inevitably to obliterate moral distinctions as resting on the law of God, which is written on the heart, or which is revealed in the Scriptures. The far reaching influence of these doctrines and of this policy to debauch the conscience, and to corrupt morals, is well set forth in the words of Scripture just referred to, with which I will close, asking you, unless your own judgment otherwise directs, to place them in capitals: 'A RIGHTEOUS MAN FALLING DOWN BEFORE THE WICKED, IS AS A TROUBLED FOUNTAIN AND A CORRUPT SPRING. 
CEPHAS H. KENT. 

FURTHER EVIDENCE ON THE MULTILATION OF MRS. GRAHAM’S MEMOIR.
We have no thought of re-opening a discussion which closed so satisfactorily to The Independent, about a year ago. And certainly if we had anything controversial to say, we should not bring it forward in. the absence of a gentleman (Rev. Dr. Bethune) who took a lively interest in that discussion. The evidence we now have to offer confirms Dr. B. 's recollection upon a single point and relieves somewhat the emphasis of his contradictions, while it thereby gives conclusive testimony to our main position.
We called attention to the fact that a passage characterizing slavery, which was contained is the previous editions of Mrs. Graham's life, was concealed in that issued by the Nassau-street Tract Society. Dr. B. insisted that his honored mother, Mrs. Joanna Bethune, prepared that edition far the Society, and that she must have made this omission, as she omitted many other things, for convenience or condensation. To his recollection on this point, was opposed the published statement of the Committee of the Society, that they bad 'prepared' this edition under the sanction of Mrs. B. We noticed at the time, however, that Dr. B. referred always to the edition of 1342; whereas that of the Tract Society was issued in 1843. It is to the solution of this difference that we now call attention. 
We have lately found an edition of Mrs. Graham's life, published in 1842, not, however, by toe Tract Society, but by M. W. Dodd. This k styled an ' abridged edition,' and the copyright stands in the name of Mrs. Joanna Bethune. In the introduction to this edition, we find the following statement: 
'The well-grounded hope that the record of such a life may be beneficial to the young and rising generation, has induced s near relative of Mrs. Graham to abridge the original memoir, and it is now offered to the Christian public in this form, as a volume well adapted for Sabbath-school libraries.
This edition corresponds in all respects lo that described by Dr. Bethune. It was prepared by his 
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
The United States, Constitution is covenant with death, and an agreement with hell’
The free States are die guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some essential for communication, when under a <illegible> impulse they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without <illegible> in aiding other states in binding on <illegible> unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, See the path of duty more clearly than they and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking Christian resolution …No blessing of the Union can be compensation for taking part in the enslaving perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate the it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.’ –WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
mother, rearranged, condensed, as he says, from 'three books' upon the same subject, and it was first published in 1842, the date which he assigned to it. But it was not prepared Mrs. Bethune for the Tract Society. It was issued in her name by a private publisher. If Fr. B. had had a copy of this edition, he would not have said that the story of the St. Domingo family was abridged for it by her own hand. This edition contains is full the memorable passage on slavery. For the sake of comparison, we cite that passage from two editions: 
LIFE OR ISABELLA GRAHAM. (5th edition.) New York: Kirk It Mercein, 22 Wall St. 1819. 
P. 45ï¿½'Oh slavery! thou bitter draught! the oppressor's chain becomes, at length, the murderous steel, sharply and secretly whetted by the oppressed! Then there it confusion and every evil work.' 
The same occurs verbatim in the edition published in this city in 1816; and also in the abridged edition 1842, as follows: 
LIFE OF MRS. ISABELLA GRAHAM. By her Daughter, Mrs. Joanna Bethune. New York: M. W. Dodd 1842. 
P. 66-'Oh slavery! thou bitter draught! the oppressor's chain becomes, at length, the murderous steel, sharply and secretly whetted by the oppressed! Then there it confusion and every evil work.' 
Dr. B. was correct in his statement that Madame Bethune had prepared in 1842 an abridged edition of the Memoir; but he probably confounded this with the edition of the Tract Society. The very next year, 1843, the Memoir appeared from the press of the Tract Society, the copyright transferred to them, and m this edition the above cited postage was omitted. At whose suggestion, by whose hand, was this done? Will anybody believe that Mrs. B. proposed it? Did the South demand it? What was it but the timid policy of the Publishing Committee of the Society?ï¿½N. Y. Independent. 

From the Providence Tribune, 17th inst.
WEBSTER'S STATUE.
This is a holiday in Bostonï¿½a double holiday. Two things, or rather two dissimilar subjects, are to receive public honorsï¿½the settlement of Boston being one, Daniel Webster the other. The first there is no objection to, it being fit and proper to celebrate, by suitable ceremonies, the anniversary of the city's birth. But as to the second, the inauguration of the Webster statueï¿½is this fit and proper when viewed in its bearing upon the great cause which Massachusetts and all the New England States profess to have so much at heart? Are the honors which will this day be shown to the memory of the great man who prostituted his mighty intellect to sustain one of the most barbarous laws, calculated to bring about that reformation in public sentiment so indispensable for the repeal of that law? The inconsistency is so palpable and so glaring, that the most superficial observer is struck by it. Savannah might consistently bend her knee and lift up her hands in gratitude to the great Northern champion of Southern wrongs. So might Charleston, or New Orleans, or Mobile. But that Boston should do this thing, and do it while the events of the Simms and the Burns cases are still fresh in her recollection, cases in which the legislative work of the man they now deify were execrated and trodden under foot, is, to say the least, passing strange. For nine years, New England, Massachusetts, Boston, have been trying to shake off the fetters which this man riveted upon themï¿½have been bravely stemming the pro-slavery flood which his strong arm sent over themï¿½and now, they swim in and with the current, and set up his image like another Memnon, to mark the rising tide. 
In this view of the proceedings in Boston to-day, will they not be hailed with applause by the Choates, the Winthrops, the Halletts, the Stephenses, the Browns, the Douglases, and the Buchanans of the country, as evidences of the downward progress of Boston to the pro-slaveryism of Southern cities? 
To Daniel Webster's intellectual greatness, all classes instinctively render that homage which it necessarily elicits. But there is a greatness far above this which it never reached or aspired to, nay, which he positively derided. Is it wise, then, in this generation, thus to revere the memory of one, who, while living, did so much to bring into disrepute that' higher law,' which the most perfect religion known among men calls upon us to regard and obey? Surely, if it is right to honor those who have consecrated themselves to the cause of human freedom, it cannot be right to apotheosise him whose latest yean and strongest powers were prostituted to the service of Freedom's enemies. 
The humiliating act of inaugurating the statue of Daniel Webster took place in Boston on Saturday last, bat not exactly in accordance with the programme; for a violent storm rendered it impracticable to hold the exercises in the open sir, on the State House grounds, in front of the image itself, as was originally contemplated,ï¿½broke up the order of procession, and rendered it ludicrous as to numbers and appearance,ï¿½and made a resort to Music Hall, for the delivery of the addresses, the only alternative. Of course, the hall was crowded to its utmost capacity; for curiosity alone, without any reference to Mr. Webstar's merits, would bring together s full house to witness the proceedings. Prayer was offered by Rev. S. K. Lothrop, of the Brattle Street Church. Prof. Felton in behalf of the Committee of One Hundred, presented the statue to the city of Boston, in a brief address. Mayor Lincoln received the statue in behalf of the city, and surrendered it to the keeping of the Commonwealth. Gov. Banks, in receiving it for the Commonwealth, made a speech warmly eulogistic of the recreant statesman, concluding his remarks in the following ridiculous strain:ï¿½'May this statue stand upon its firmly planted pedestal as long as monuments shall stand, until the earth crumble, and the dome and column of the capitol mingle in the dust together! It will stand there only so long at the people of the Commonwealth are lost to all self-respect, and the Senate and House are filled with huckstering politicians. The proceedings were concluded by an oration by Hon. Edward Everett, which was elaborately eulogistic of the character and services of Mr. Webster, and the delivery of which occupied one hour and three quarters. In it, no reference was made to the last four years of Mr. W. 's lifeï¿½s most significant omission!
The Republican (!) Legislature, now in session in Boston-to cap the climax of the infatuation of the hoarï¿½on Monday unanimously invited Mr. Everett to repeat his oration in front of the State House. The next Legislature, it is to be hoped, will be compelled to carry into effect the petition (now widely distributed through the Commonwealth) for the removal of the statue, by an irresistible popular demonstration.
Mr. Everett assigned Thursday (yesterday) afternoon as the time for re-delivering his oration, but again the stormy elements baffled his purpose, and fresh appointment must be made. Ominous! 
MISS SARAH P. REMOND.
We have just had a letter from a well-know friend of the anti-slavery cause in Bristol, informing us that Miss Remond is now in that ancient city, and that site has delivered her first lecture there to very general acceptance. During part of her stay, she was the guest of the eminent philanthropist, Miss Mary Carpenter. We have all heard from another source that, during the latter part of Miss Remond's residence in London, she was an inmate with William and Ellen Craft, who are comfortably settled near the great metropolis, where Mr. Craft supports his family respectably by the sale of some useful articles of which he is the importer or inventor. While Mr. Craft's guest, Miss Remond was called down stairs one day by the servant, who told her that an old gentleman had some in his carriage to see her, and was waiting for her in the parlor. This ' old gentleman ' was no other than the most illustrious man in England that world's wonder, Henry, Lord Brougham, who at the patriarchal age of eighty still maintains his habits of marvellous personal and intellectual activity, of which the history of our race presents few more astonishing examples. Lord Brougham remained for about an hour in conversation with Miss Remond We have not heard what they talked about, or what they thought of one anotherï¿½but in certain that, of the thousands of white ladies who annually cross the Atlantic to see the ' lions' of the old world, very few indeed on their return can boast of having had such an interview with such a man ï¿½London Ant-Slavery Advocate.
<c02>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, SEPTEMBER 23, 1859.
A DOUBLE BEREAVEMENT.
DEATH OF E. L. CAPRON AND SAMULE PHILBRICK.
In the Providence Journal of Saturday last, we find the following announcement: 
'Died, in this city, at the residence of Dr. G. L. Collins, on the 16th instant, EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON of Worcester, aged 68 years' 
Thus has pawed away to a higher and better sphere, a one of the earliest, truest, most clear-sighted, and most reliable and devoted, of all those who have given their adhesion to the Anti-Slavery cause. His death is indeed a surprise to us, for we had received no intelligence of his illness, and it is but a short time since we had the pleasure of grasping him by the hand in this city, time seeming to have made no perceptible impression upon him during the last thirty years. 
It is difficult for us to express our estimate of his worth. He abounded in all that makes up excellence of character, in its most perfect symmetry. Gentleness, benignity, firmness of purpose, moral intrepidity, the soundest judgment, a generous sympathy, a world-wide humanity, the largest conscientiousness and reverence, admirable circumspection without feebleness or faltering in the performance of duty, radical without rashness, blending gravity with geniality, manly strength with womanly modesty, an ever-progressive spirit with an even frame of mind,ï¿½these were his distinctive traits, commanding the implicit confidence and the highest respect of all who had the privilege and the pleasure of his intimate acquaintance. 
We had published but a few numbers of the Liberator, in an obscure upper chamber in the old Merchants' Hall, Congress street, when, one day, a grave-looking Quaker entered, and inquired if we were present. Answering him in the affirmative, he scrutinized us silently for a few moments, then turned away, overcome by his emotions, and left the room. Soon afterward he reappeared, and expressed his wish to become a subscriber to the paper; and from that hour till his decease, regularly received the Liberator. That person was EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON. In referring to that visit, almost at our last interview with him, he said he was led to seek us out by a strong curiosity, excited by the distorted representations of our object by a malignant pro-slavery press; and finding us, if not a marvellous proper man,' at least without any hoofs or horns, and no monster at all,ï¿½almost a beardless youth,ï¿½his feelings found relief in tears. 
Through all the trials and mutations of the Anti-Slavery cause, he has clearly apprehended every difficulty, serenely met every issue, stood his ground uncompromisingly. Let who might hesitate or waver, he was always erect, discriminating, inflexible. His was not a nature to be indifferent to the good opinion of his fellow-citizens; but he had such an absorbing and abiding love of the truth, and such an unquestioning faith in the right, that, like an apostle of old, he 'never conferred with flesh and blood,' but adhered to his conscientious convictions at whatever cost.
Doubtless, his severest struggle was in withdrawing his sympathy and fellowship from the Society of Friends, of which he had been for many years a much respected member, and to which he was tenderly and strongly attached. A primitive Quaker in his spirit worthy of Quakerism in its purest and most vital period, he was sorrowfully convinced, after a long and painful experience, that humanity had nothing to hope from the organized body, as such, which, conforming to the corrupt and time-serving spirit of the age,ï¿½especially as pertaining to the Anti-Slaver movement,ï¿½was clearly incapable of grappling with the prevailing sins of the times, or giving an effective testimony against popular wrong-doers. 
From the earliest period he has been on the list of managers of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and Vice President of the Massachusetts, and President of the Worcester County (South Division) Anti-Slavery Societies. His name has been familiar to abolitionist throughout the country, though he seldom uttered word on the Anti-Slavery platform. He was a pattern of devotedness and punctuality, ever at his post and making a regular attendance upon all local meetings, and at every anniversary, for the furtherance of the cause of the enslaved, a part of his abolition duties. The presence of no one will be more missed at our gatherings than his own, which was a benediction in itself. 
He was not only an abolitionist, but interested in every truly progressive or reformatory movementï¿½a thorough teetotaller, a consistent non-resistant, warmly interested in the struggle for equal rights, without regard to sex as well as complexion, and the advocate of unfettered thought and inquiry concerning all religious dogmas and speculations. The all-abounding spiritual phenomena of the age also received his careful attention, and where he felt satisfied of their authenticity, he was not afraid or ashamed to testify accordingly. From that source he derived much satisfaction, based upon rational evidence, which was to his own mind conclusive; for credulity was no part of his nature. 
Among the sterling hand who, in the midst of a fiery persecution, assembled in Philadelphia, in December, 1833, for the purpose of organizing the American Anti-Slavery Society, was EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON; and his signature was promptly appended to the DECLARATION OF SENTIMENTS, which was adopted at that time. Of the sixty-two persons who signed that famous instrument, nearly one-third have ceased from their labors, and entered into rest. 
Our departed friend ever made us a welcome guest under his hospitable roof. We shall miss his pleasant greeting and his kind attention on visiting 'the hear of the Commonwealth'; but the magnetism of his blessed spirit will be felt by us as long as our earthly life shall endure. We humbly trust for a personal reunion beyond the grave, in God's good time, and companionship together throughout eternity. 
The painful duty now devolves upon us of announcing the removal of another widely known and highly respected friend of the Anti-Slavery causeï¿½SAMUEL PHILBRICK. He died at his residence in Brookline, on Monday morning last, aged 70 years and 7 months with all possible serenity and peacefulness. 
In the Liberator of Ang. 9th, we published a letter from him to the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, of which he had long been a member, resigning his office as Treasurer of the Society, on account of his increasing bodily infirmities. It was accompanied by a strong testimonial, on the put of the Board, to his great personal worth, and the value of his long-continued services. That office he filled for nearly twenty years, with a skilfulness and fidelity which cannot be surpassed. He had rare business talent, consummate judgment in all financial matters, and the most perfect order and method,-for the lack of which, benevolent associations not unfrequently suffer in their management. In this particular, especially, his loss will be severely felt, and also as a wise and sagacious counsellor in all deliberations of the Board. 
Like our departed friend, E. L. CAPRON, he was formerly connected with the Society of Friends, (having been a birth-right member,) of which his father was a much esteemed minister. But, at a comparatively early period of his life, his independence of mind and deep religious experience led him to take an outside position, and he never again connected himself with any sect. His individuality was strongly developed, but there was nothing enthusiastic, impulsive, or wayward in his nature. In whatever he did,
<c03>
he endeavored to keep 'a conscience void of offence,' to most all his engagements and discharge all the duties life in the spirit of exact rectitude. His marked characteristic was INTEGRITY. He abhorred every thing that bore the semblance of dissimulation, and appreciated at its true value an ingenuous, straightforward course of conduct; being himself a pattern of trust-worthiness, and remarkable for his frankness and plainness of speech, without respect of persons, in all his dealings. 
Mr. Philbrick was a native of Seabrook, N. H., but commenced business life in Boston, became a leather merchant, and, having acquired a competency, retired in 1836ï¿½since which he has been publicly identified with our great struggle. He has been a director in the Eastern Railroad, and also in the Atlantic Bank, and held other honorable positions in the business community.
'Angels, guard the sainted dead! 
Memory loves to view the spot 
Where their living presence shed 
Blessings on our earthly lot. 
Then the graves wherein they rest 
Shall no more the spirit view;
From the mansions of the blest 
Gleam the faces old and true!' 

DEATH OF EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON.
LEICESTER, Sept. 20, 1859.
DEAR MR. GARRISON: 
Your heart has been sorely grieved, I feel very sure, at the most unexpected tidings of the death of our ear and venerable friend, EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON. To you, I doubt not, it was as altogether sudden as to me. No knowledge or intimation of his illness had to reached me, when, late law Saturday evening, and quite accidentally, I learned of his death. It took place at the house of his son-in-law, Dr. Collins, of Providence, on Friday last, 16th inst. 
The funeral services were had yesterday at Uxbridge, his place of residence in early and middle life. Quite a large number of his friends came from other towns, and at half-past one o'clock, a long procession, accompanying his lifeless body, moved from the house of his brother, John W. Capron, to the Congregational meeting-house, which had been kindly granted for the occasion. A very large number of the citizens of Uxbridge, who had long known and respected Mr. Capron, were gathered there, and the house was filled. The services were strictly after Friends' custom, I cannot dwell upon them, for the whole service was a trying and a painful one to me. I do not like to call it formal, or cold; but there was the least possible allusion to our dear old friend's marked and noble characteristics of life, and apparently an entire absence of sympathy with all those objects which had possessed his heart for nigh thirty years, even with those great questions of humanity, which, as the very essence of Christian faith and duty in our day and land, had claimed and held, during all that time, the homage of his deepest convictions, of his warmest feelings, and his most steadfast labors. That was the saddest of all! It was a sore bereavement to very many present to know that he had departed, and hardly could we admit the thought that we should see his face no more, for we felt it was very hard to lose him from our side in the great contest with Slavery and its multiform abominations; and yet for him we were glad. We knew that he was ready to go, and entirely willing. We knew ' he had fought a good fight, and had kept the faith.' We knew that peace, and honor, and the approval of the just and gracious God whom he served, were his, if ever mortal man could attain such glorious reward. And, for him, we could be reconciled, yea, grateful to God, whose strengthening spirit had sustained him through every trial and difficulty, and brought him to the end, firm in his integrity. But that, in the hour when his friends, filled with affectionate and respectful thoughts and memories of his upright, pure and benevolent life, stood for the last time around his remains,ï¿½that then there should be scarce a recognition of those great causes of humanity and God, which had been so dear to his soul, to which he had given the warmest and strongest testimony of his life,ï¿½this was indeed hard to bear, for we well knew this would, to him, be the unkindest and most unpardonable act of all.
The services consisted of a prayer, and a discourse from a speaker of the denomination of Friends, and were closed by a prayer by another member of the same body; after which, I did myself feel so strongly moved, that I could not do otherwise than arise and express the wish to offer a few remarks, if consistent with the order and proprieties of the occasion. No objection being made, I endeavored, in the brief time which I felt it right to occupy, to say a few of those words, and bear a portion of that testimony, which I well knew our departed friend would earnestly desire should be uttered, making mention of the singular constancy and fidelity with which he had kept his first vows to the Anti-Slavery cause, and also to other causes which came to him with all the force and beauty of Christian truth and Christian duty, and especially speaking of the completeness of his own self-emancipation from those cords of sect, which so often become chains. And having thus spoken, I expressed my deep regret that you, his long-cherished friend, were not present, to speak your own convictions of his character, and some words of solace to his surviving children and friends. I expressed the belief that you would have been there, had you received information of the event in season to enable you to do so; (1) for I well knew that your regard for him was that of a brother, and that you would feel his loss as coming very close home to your heart. 
The disorder which terminated our friend's life was a low typhoid fever. It seems to have approached him in a way which caused no particular apprehension in his own mind, or that of others. He kept his house in Worcester for upwards of a week, and then was removed to Providence, to the house of one of his daughters. There he was ministered to with all tender and assiduous care. But the disease had got too firm a hold to be dislodged. Some three or four days before his death, he fell into such wandering of the mind as to recognise no one, not even his children. Among the few last names which he uttered, in this unconsciousness, was yours. And so he went forward to that hitherto unseen state, in which he devoutly and thoroughly believed, and where he trusted to find those, so dear to him, who had been lost on earth. 
And, while I write these lines, there comes to me the intelligence of SAMUEL PHILBRICK'S death! For this I was not unprepared, indeed, so very feeble has his health been; but yet the sense of our loss, and of the loss our good cause suffers, becomes painfully realised. An eventful period indeed has been the last year and a half to those who are associated in the Anti-Slavery work. SABAH H. EARLE, CHARLES F. HOVEY, ASA CUTLER, EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON, and now all SAMUEL PHILBBICK, all prominent, active, able, and most reliable friends of uncompromising Anti-Slavery, have gone from amongst usï¿½not to speak of others in remoter parts of the land; and we are fain to cry, as of old, ' Help, Lord, for the godly man ceaseth; the faithful fail from among the children of men.' 
'Lo! fast they fall, the wise, the good, 
Whole ranks are down in front; 
Up, with a holy hardihood, 
And meet the battle's brunt!' 
Such is our duty,ï¿½to renew our devotion to this best of all causes, to 'strengthen the things which remain,' to lose not one jot of hope, or faith, or courage, and, enduring faithful to the end, do what we may to ensure and hasten the certain triumph of all Truth and Righteousness.
Sincerely, your friend, SAMUEL MAY, JR.
(1) We thank our friend Mr. MAY for giving this assurance on our behalf, as well as for his testimony-at the funeral, which we should certainly have attended, had we had seasonable notice of-[Ed. Lib.
<c04> 
AN APOLOGY SIFTED.
'No man has ever acted from more conscientious motives than he.'
This is what Mr. George S. Hillard says of Mr. Rufus Choate. Rather strangely, some other statements in the same letter, ( Courier, Aug. 29th,) which more obviously accord with the course of Mr. Choate's life, tend toward a different conclusion. For instance:-
'His mind was not judicial. He needed to have a selected and a post assigned; and then, in behalf of that side, in defence of that post, all his to splendid powers were summoned. His conduct of a jury cause was from beginning to end a matchless and consummate piece of art.'
Who is it that selects the side, that assigns the post, to be taken by a lawyer engaged for the defence in a criminal trial? Who designates the object in port of which all his powers, splendid or otherwise, are to be exercised? Is it any party who has at heart the interests of truth and justice? any one solicitous that right, honesty, liberty, the true welfare of the community, should receive no detriment? So from this, it is the accused, who is undoubtedly, a large proportion of cases, the guilty party! him whom the public interests imperatively require retributive justice to be applied! him against whom good order and sound morals importunately cry out, timing restitution for his past, or security against his probable future, or both! 
As a matter of fact, every one knows that Mr. Choate's post has been assigned him, times without number, by such men at these; that he was accustomed to exert all his splendid powers in their favor; and that the result of his 'matchless and consummate' specimens of legal art was, in many cases, to event that restitution which justice would have acted from his clients, to release them from the restraints which a wise and just law had begun to impose, and which the welfare of the community required, and to let loose known malefactors to a probable renewal of their depredations upon society. 
Is this a specimen of action from conscientious motives? Is a course of professional life voluntarily spent under such direction a thing to be eulogized? 
It has been asserted by a distinguished member of e Boston bar, that a lawyer has no business with a conscience. Mr. Hillard uses a different formula to express his idea, but does it not come to the same thing in the end? In what particular would Mr. Choate's cases, for the last twenty years, have been differently managed by an able lawyer without a conscience? 
But this claim for conscientiousness on the part of Mr. Choate is preliminary to a plea in justification of is pro-slavery position. Rather strangely, his eulogist begins this plea by saving of Mr. Choateï¿½'No man's nature was more opposed to slavery than his. And here the exigencies of the case require the eulogist to interpose the significant word 'but.' What motive does this 'but' introduce, of power sufficient induce Mr. Choate to resist his nature by upholding so base a thing as slavery? Mr. Hillard does not hold, with the South-side pastor of his friend, hat his nature was corrupt, vile, totally depraved. Mr. Hillard believes that his friend's nature was given him by God, not by the devil, and feels bound to apologize for that gross perversion which could end it to the support of slavery. And this is the meagre, miserable, disgraceful attempt at extenuation:ï¿½ 
'But his love of the Union, and his sense of nationality, were the dominant and controlling ideas in his mind; they called forth his most fervid eloquence; they were the convictions that struck their roots deepest into his mind; and under their inspiration he spoke and acted as he did.' 
Is it possible that this is put forth, by a friend and ally, as a defence of Mr. Choate? What could an open opponent say worse of him, than that he loved he union with South Carolina better than the rights and the honor of Massachusetts; confederacy with he infamous Brooks in the use of lynch law for the support of a bad cause, better than maintenance of the rights of his own fellow-citizens, Samuel Hoar and Charles Sumner, in their legal and proper execution of a charge given them by his own State! If he former members of these contrasts really struck heir roots deepest into his mind, displacing the latterï¿½if his conscience had really become so warped, under a quarter of a century of South-side sermons, is to prefer Union, with, and by. and for injustice, to Justice at the risk of disunionï¿½what shall we say of its intelligence, of his wisdom, of his clear-sightedness, of his statesmanship? It is upon this point that Mr. Hillard next comes to the rescue. He saysï¿½seeking help for Mr. Choate from the principle that 'a man is known by the company he keeps'ï¿½
'The wisest and most far-seeing men in New England have been opposed to the anti-slavery agitation: I mean Judge Prescott, Mr. Mason, Mr. Webster, and Mr. Choate.' 
Mr. Webster? Do we see the name aright? Does he mean that Daniel Webster, whose corruptness as a Senator equalled his profligacy as a man; whose course in public life was so absolutely directed by selfish considerations that he changed from the line of policy he had spontaneously chosen to the very opposite, under the influence of manifest bribery; drawing repeated sums of $50,000 and $100,000 from wealthy constituents whose pecuniary interests were to be aided by his public policy; but who nevertheless died heart-broken, a disappointed and defeated man, seeing his party die with him, and thus compelling those of his old associates who, like Mr. Choate, were determined still to defend slavery, to do it by alliance with the Democrats, their natural antitheses, their diametrical and most bitter opponents! It may be fit that Mr. Choate, able and unscrupulous, and turncoat in political life for no better reasons than those above assigned, should be placed by the side of Mr. Webster; but we see not how he can receive credit from the companionship, either in regard to conscientiousness or sagacity. 
But let us see the next assertions of Mr. Hillard immediately continuous with the sentence last quoted:ï¿½ 
'It was a striking proof of Judge Prescott's sagacityï¿½than whom New England never gave birth to a wiser or better manï¿½that when the first anti-slavery resolutions were passed by the Massachusetts Legislature, he expressed his regret, and said it was the beginning of mischief. This fact could be met only in two ways: either that these men, whose judgment would have been deemed of the highest value, if no absolutely conclusive, on any other point, were mistaken in this; or that, from some base and unworthy motive, they suppressed their real convictions, and expressed those which they did not believe to be true.' 
Not to dwell upon the absurdity of speaking of Mr. Choate's 'judgment' as ' of the highest value, if not absolutely conclusive,' after having admitted that 'his mind was not judicial; he needed to have a side elected and a post assigned'ï¿½let us take the case of Judge Prescott; that one, of Mr. Hilliard's chose four, whom he claims to be a good as well as a wise man. Was not his nature, as much as Mr. Choate's opposed to slavery? And did he not resist and violate that better nature, the primal instincts of justice and humanity, when he sought to subordinate the higher law of Right to the selfish and temporary purposes of a party? And the mischief which he feared from the passage of the first anti-slavery resolution in the Massachusetts Legislature, was it any thing else than such discordance as was naturally to be expected from grafting justice and righteousness, to serve a local and temporary purpose, upon the policy-
It should not be forgotten that Preston Brooks the cowardly assaulter of Charles Sumner, bore an active part in that mob of gentlemen of property and standing who violently expelled Mr. Hoar and his daughter from the city of Charleston, South Carolina, in 1844, and that the unanimous applause bestowed by his native State upon the first of those outrage probably encouraged him to commit the second. 
<c05>
a party habitually regardless of both? The feet that Judge Prescott opposed this small beginning of amendment in the Whig party, instead of availing for the defence of the party, is conclusive evidence against his own virtue, as far as his political action in concerned. And as to his wisdom and sagacity, as one of the leaders of a party-where in the party now? It soon returned from those 'mischievous' deviations towards honor, justice and humanity; it followed the counsels of Prescott and Webster, shut its ours t o the cry of the poor and oppressed, shut its eyes to the outrages inflicted on Massachusetts in the persons of Hoar and Hubbard, and continued to live until it died, a pro-slavery party! Are we really to concede to the leaders of such a party the claim of being wise, sagacious, far-seeing men?
Posterity, says Mr. Hillard, will do justice alike to the conduct and the motives of Mr. Webster sad Mr. Choate. No doubt it will; and the justice will be a verdict of 'guilty,' in regard to both the conduct and the motives of both, as far as their relation to slavery is concerned. The genial and attractive manners, the various estimable traits which endeared them to a large circle of friends in private life must not blind us, and will not blind posterity, to the unscrupulous character and pernicious influence of their public course, Both to party gave up what was meant for mankind, Both misused great natural gifts in making the worse appear the better reason. Both sought the favor of politicians by a systematic exaltation of the lower law above the higher. And both incurred the fearful responsibility of employing a persuasive eloquence in opposition to truth and right, to justice and humanity.ï¿½C. K. W. 
THE STATUE. 
'But the Lord sent out a great wind into the sea, and there was a mighty tempest in the sea, so that the ship was like to be broken.' Jonah 1:4. Notwithstanding all the preparations which were made to celebrate the inauguration of the statue of Daniel Webster on Saturday last, in the most imposing and magnificent style, they were entirely frustrated. By the providence of God, a violent East wind prevailed, accompanied by a drenching rain, which entirely broke up the arrangements which had been made for this ceremony. Instead of occupying the seats which had been constructed for them in front of the State House at great expense, the procession had to go to the Music Hall to attend the services of the occasion. Instead of a long and imposing procession, the number in it was comparatively very small, who, with the military escort, were completely drenched by the rain. And instead of the assembled multitude surrounding the statue to hail and welcome it, and bow down before it in homage and adoration, there it was left, solitary and deserted, to be pelted by the pitiless storm, as the original had been, four years before, in the Presidential contest. What a melancholy finale to the projected ovation!
Can any one doubt that the hand of God was in this occurrence? Can any one rationally doubt that He intentionally sent the East wind and the rain to frustrate the plans of its projectors, and thus signally to rebuke them with his displeasure, as he did in the case of Jonah? Here, then, are three several instances in which God has manifested his displeasure in relation to Mr. Webster, which cannot be well misinterpreted. The first was in the terrific thunder storm, attended by the most vivid and incessant lightning, through the whole night preceding the dinner given to him about thirty years since, at Faneuil Hall, at a season when thunder storms are unusual, and with out a drop of rain; the second, when the vessel which carried the first statue was wrecked, and, with the statue, was plunged to the bottom of the ocean; and now by a severe rain storm, which almost entirely frustrated the intended celebration of the inauguration of the statue. Surely, it behoves the Christian and the man of piety to ponder on these occurrences! To a man who believes in the direct and immediate agency of God in all the operations of nature, as I myself most sincerely and devoutly do, and in doing which I consider myself justified by a sound philosophy as well as by Scripture, particularly in the verse quoted above, there is but one conclusion at which I can arrive, and that is, that these several occurrences were the work of God, to mark his special displeasure at the proceedings at which they were aimed. 
Such being the case, what becomes the duty of the Legislature who have the control of the statue, and I the power to remove it? The answer is, instantly to remove it, as being an offence both to God and man, lest He visit it and them with a more signal and severe mark of his displeasure. DAVID, 

ANNIVERSARY OF THE WESTERN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
ALLIANCE, (Ohio.) Sunday, Sept. 4, 1859.
DEAR GARRISONï¿½I am in the Ohio big tent, in a beautiful grove in this town. Before me are at least 2500 men and women, listening to John M. Langston, pouring out his indignant soul against those who, by silence or otherwise, sustain slavery, and slave-hunting, and the rendition of fugitive slaves. He commands the rapt attention of the vast audience. Parker Pillsbury, C. L. Remond, Dr. Fussell of Pennsylvania, Charles Langston, Benjamin and Elizabeth Jones, Marius Robinson, and a host of true and tried friends on the platform and around it, giving effect to the meeting by their faithful testimony.
I wish all the friends of the slave in Boston and vicinity could be here, and witness this scene. Oh, what a change! Indeed, Anti-Slavery has made great progress. One has but to see this tent, and its present contents, to feel that Anti-Slavery, as originated and fostered by yourself, has done more to educate the heart and head of the nation in justice and humanity, than all the churches and political parties of the nation.
We have come up to this Mount Zion to worship the God of the oppressed. How is it that this multitude of men and women have turned their backs on the popular worship, and come here, on the Lord's day, (for it is the Lord's day, therefore we use it to abolish slavery,) to listen to the burning eloquence that flows from this platform? It is a sublime sight. I see and worship God as manifest in the flesh in these living men and women.
I have attended many grove meetings in Ohioï¿½great and triumphant gatheringsï¿½but I never have attended but one that surpassed this in numbers, earnestness and power. I believe this day the masses of eastern Ohio and the Reserve are ready to redeem their State from the visitations of official kidnappers, but their political leaden keep them from acting out their impulses and convictions in favor of liberty, and against slavery.
All the resolutions will come to you in due time. I write this that the friends of the slave in the East may know and feel that the friends in the West are alive, and ready to do what may be done to deliver the nation from the sin and shame of a slave-hunting and slave-trading religion and government. Be assured that this Convention is a glorious testimony against slavery, and in favor of freedom in Ohio, showing conclusively that the people are ready, to a great extent, for revolution in favor of freedom; ready to dissolve the Union with slaveholders, and form a Union with the slaves.
A UNION WITH SLAVES! Yes, that is what the people of the North will shortly demand. Let every movement towards such a Unionï¿½a Union between the North and the Slaveï¿½pledging itself to take sides with the slave in all his efforts, whether by flight or insurrection, to free himself from the hell and horrors of American slavery, as sustained and administered by American Christians and republicans.
It is 4, P. M. The sun is bright; the boughs and foliage of the grand forest that, with such verdure, grace and beauty, move over and around us; the deep and rapt attention of 2500 men and women to 
<c06>
the remarks of Pillsbury, as he exposes the corruption and compromises of the Ohio Republicans; the revolutions going on in the North, which must an long dash in pieces and consume forever, slavery, and all religions, parties, churches and governments the sustain the ' sum of all villanies';-these all impress me with deep and mighty thoughts and feelings.
In the morning, at 4, I leave here to attend the Yearly Meeting of the Friends of progress in North Collins, Western New York.
Yours,
HENRY C WRIGHT.

ARE WE UNITED?
FRIEND GARRISON:-This question, to my mind, is pregnant with great interest to Abolitionists. At no time in our warfare was it ever more so. And I am not in reference to the right and wrong of our crusade against slavery-for there is no right to oppression-but in respect to our modus operandi, we may honestly differ. And yet even here, it seems to me there are certain position which are self-evident. One is, the sin of slaveholding must and shall be attached, and the sinner, agent, or wrong-doer connected with this evil shall be duly and personally exposed, And this for the simple reason, that there cannot be sin without a sinner. Where are we now tending, and how closely and unitedly can we set?
I am led to make this interrogation from a careful perusal of Adin Ballou's editorial, copied in your last issue, entitled 'Christian Anti-Slavery.' As you say, the spirit of this article is excellent, and some of its criticism are worth of consideration. It express, I presume, the honest convictions of Mr. Ballou from his stand-point; and with the rest of us, he must stand or fall to his own Master. But it does seem to me there are some positions taken by the author in question, not only far-fetched and untenable, but is conflict with the constant testimony which we have all felt called upon to bear against the giant evil of oppression.
Personality is complained of as an unchristian and carnal weapon. If this be true, then we are all in condemnation, and from the beginning have mistaken our calling. And the most guilty brother of us all is WENDELL PHILLIPS. Witness his faithful, personal rebuke to sinners in the cause of temperance, as well as Anti-Slavery. Words of criticism are absent, and our hearts warmly ejaculate, 'God bless him for his manliness and direct personality!' We may be splenetic and vindictiveness in the use of this weapon, but never should we cease to use it when the cause of truth demands its application. The wrong-doer is not unwilling that we should rebuke sin in the abstract, and grandiloquently expatiate upon unrighteous deeds, provided we let him alone. 'Let us alone,' is the exclamation of the sinner. But our reply is to every recreant like Nehemiah Adams in the Church and Nathaniel P. Banks in the government, we cannot spare you, but for the sake of the slave, must be sharply personal. If we are wrong here, our work of repentance should be immediate; for we have sinned from the beginning of our warfare, and have piled up volumes of personalities.
And again, Mr. Ballou speaks of Abolitionists who make the church and clergy the cause of Slavery. He cannot mean this precisely. We do not say so. But we do say, and prove it too, that with few exceptions, the church and clergy of the 'bulwark' of Slavery. Is not this assertion patient to every honest mind? Of course, the cause of oppression goes back of church organizations, and is the product of the depravity and selfishness of the human heart; but when we charge a pro-slavery church and a false interpretation of the Bible as being in alliance with the sin of slavery, we but utter an undeniable truth. And shall we be counselled with caution on this point, or rather with a command to 'cry aloud and spare not'?
Again it is said by Mr. Ballou-'We know of no kind of religion, religions society, or religious ministrations, that can justly be considered worse than none.' We are frank to take issue here, and most emphatically to say, we believe there are religious societies and religious ministrations altogether worse than none. Who would not, for himself and others, rather live and die outside all such religious influence as follows the administration of South-side Adams? can such a ministry or such a religious society be worth anything to a humane soul? Is not evil, and only evil, and that continually'? Hear the confession of Rufus Choate, who, for so many years, was stupified in consistence and hardened in his crime of inhumanity. What is the influence of every pro-slavery minister at the North, but a fortress of the devil to work out the destruction of souls? 'Worse than none?-yes, they are. It will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah, in the day when God shall make the demand, 'Where is thy brother?' than for any such religious societies, or religious ministrations. God deliver us from their unhallowed and corrupting influence! Better, for time and eternity, that we have no such societies or ministrations! Let them perish! They are stumbling-blocks, impeding the progress of 'liberty, holiness and love.'
In saying this, I acknowledge the need of true religion. I feel daily the deep want of my soul crying for the bred of heaven. I would go, and not be weary, to serve and mingle with those who 'fear God, and keep his commandments.' I love prayer, and praise, and true worship, and cannot be happy without these aid, and pray for their enjoyment. But all this in full realization that there are many religious societies, so-called, and ministrations, far 'worse than none.' And may the good God in his mercy spare us and our children from their blighting influence!
But my sole reason for calling in question the article of Adin Ballou, is the jubilant feeling it has inspired in the hearts of our most inveterate hunkers, and good hatters of what they call 'Garrisonianism.' They are congratulating each other, that the scales have at last fallen from the eyes of Mr. Ballou, and that he can no longer approve of his abolition associates. I do not believe Mr. B. intends to give any aid or comfort to our despisers, or to lessen his testimony against the sin of slavery; but it is to be feared the criticisms here noticed, while they contain much that we all should heed and profit by, are also in part the offspring of a mistaken charity, or delicacy not to be aggressive, when truth and right demand that, with the old prophet, we should say, 'Thou art the man.' In the 'rough and tumble' of our battle, we have sometimes, doubtless, erred-this is human. God grant that we may profit by every word of friendly criticism! Let us differ in good-will, determined to maintain a free platform, and endure a thousand grievances side by side, with no wish of escaping in retirement the hottest of the battle.
With many of us, the present is an hour of trial deeper than usual. In urging the claims of our petition to put an end to SLAVE HUNTING in Massachusetts, we are met with a tirade of bitter vituperation and scorn. Our opposers, like drowning men, 'catch at straws.' If they can divide us, or do anything to crush out the love of a free platform, where their corrupt political and religious tricks are exposed, they are in ecstasy. I love the principles of peace and forgiveness, and pray that, by this spirit, right any triumph. Still, I see my way clear to ask the wrong doer to take his rude feet from the heart-strings of his victim. If this is not in accordance with Mr. Ballou's 'practical Christianity,' he must be his own judge. But he need not retire from us because sneered at Whoever sneers at honest scruples, is in the wrong; and he, I think, cannot be right, who, to avoid such sneers, hides his light under a bushel.
GEO. W. STACY.
MILFORD, Sept. 19, 1859.
The article in the 'Refuge,' on our first page-so palatable to the Atlas & Bee-entitled 'A Reply(!) to Wendell Phillip's Letter,' is said to be from the pen of Mrs. SAMUEL G. HOWE, of this city.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
H. W. BELLOWS AND THE UNITARIANS.
In a recent article on the Unitarians and the Address of H. W. Bellows before the Alumni of the Divinity School, there was space to notice only the first two 'reasons' for the 'suspense of faith' in the Unitarian denomination.
It is proposed now to look at the 'third reason,' and the remedy suggested in the Address. This is presented as 'the still more fundamental or psychological reason of this pauseï¿½the universal,' and is thus stated:ï¿½'There are two motions of the spirit in relation to God, this Creator and upholder, essential to the very existence of generic or individual Manï¿½a centrifugal and a centripetal motionï¿½the motion that sends man away from God, to learn his freedom, to develop his personal powers and faculties, relieved of the overawing and predomination presence of his Author; and the motion that draws him back to God, to receive the inspiration, nurture and endowment, which he has become strong enough to hold.' This theory supposes that man starts originally under the 'centrifugal' force of 'natural religion,' on a journey away from God; then, by the 'centripetal' force of 'revealed religion,' is drawn back to God. 'But, within the domain of revealed religion, and in Christendom, the same centrifugal and centripetal forces continue to act'; 'and, within the Church, these two forces have been at work, under the names of Romanism and Protestantism. Romanism representing the centripetal force of Christianity, Protestantism the centrifugal, Romanism standing for external or divine authority, Protestantism man's aspiration towards perfection; Romanism leading to worship, Protestantism to work.' Several pages are occupied in developing this notion, and in bending history and the human soul to meet it. It is no where very clearly and simply stated, but generally wrapped in the mist of the metaphor as it came from the author's brain, like a child born 'with a veil'ï¿½the membrane's unbrokenï¿½neither its from nor its sex can be distinctly seen. I strongly suspect, if the metaphor should be ruptured and the veil removed, there would be found a child of the 'Orthodox' theology, differing only in complexion, and in having been born of a Unitarian mother.
I do no propose to discuss this theory, but only to express the conviction that this new 'universal, psychological' law is specially got up to account for the 'suspense of faith, and to give aid and comfort to the remedy. But, as the 'suspense' can be fully accounted for on old established principles, as illustrated by the parable of the Talents in the New Testament, it is unnecessary to seek elsewhere for a reason. That the Unitarians have 'refused to apply to life the ideas and sentiments entrusted to them' is a sufficient reason for their loss of faith. I believe their faith in the great moral and religious ideas of the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man, the dignity of human nature, and the nearness of God to the soul, would have grown stronger, and their interest in perpetuating and spreading them would have increased, had they set about earnestly in applying them to slavery, for example. They turned away from the means God offered whereby their faith could grow.
'Straws show which way the wind blows.' The 'Year Book' issued annually by this denomination contains a list of 'Missionary, Charitable and Literary Societies of interest to Unitarians.' No Anti-Slavery Society is on the list; but we find the 'Massachusetts Colonization Society.' Neither the American Anti-Slavery Society nor any other is mentioned though for twenty-five years it has been open to them, and a few of their own denomination have been zealous co-workers with it. The fair inference from this fact and their general deportment is, that Unitarians, as a body, have no 'interest' in Anti-Slavery, though we are glad to remember the few names of Parker, Furness, May, Stetson, Tilden, T. T. Stone, J. Freeman Clarke, &c., noble exceptions.
No wonder the Sect is at 'the apogee of its orbit'ï¿½alienated from God. It is the legitimate result of unfaithfulness: yet Mr. Bellows has the effrontery to set up this result of human natureï¿½a kind of spiritual, centrifugal, irresistible, natural force, thus lulling the conscience with an opiate put up in an attractive form, and labelled with a scientific name.
As if a convict in the State's prison should elaborate a new theory of education, assuming that, according to a universal law, a 'centrifugal' journey to Sing-Sing, or Charlestown, and residence there, was the normal process of development for the race; whereas it is really a place of punishment for those who have broken the laws.
But this 'universal reason' is invented (perhaps unconsciously and instinctively) not merely to cover up and excuse a lack of active faith, but for the ulterior purpose of a support to the remedy proposed. Many pages portray the extensive diffusion of this latest form of infidelity. The writer finds no faith any where in Protestant Christendomï¿½(the Unitarians especially deficient,) instead, 'vulgar credulity and as vulgar infidelity,' 'unspirituality and spiritism'ï¿½'no faith in the Old Testament, and interest in the Mormon Bible and the Spiritual Telegraph.' Many, however, are 'longing for a revival of the ages of Faith.' Already Newman and Brownson have 'gone bravely back into the Catholic Church'ï¿½(whither Mr. Bellow protests he is not going)ï¿½'and with them hundreds of the worshipful, tender and thoughtful young men and women of Protestant Christendom.' Then he comes to consider the 'form in which we may hope that faith will rally and go on'; which, after much tramping through the tangled obscurities of his paragraphs about the 'Gospel,' the 'Holy Ghost,' and the 'Church,' we find to be the external Church, whose special business is to revive the faith now in suspense. To quote again: 'What, then, have we to do to reanimate the Church, but heartily to recognize the existing religious institutions of Christendom as the chosen channel through which the divine Word is seeking to descend into Humanity and the world?' Again he demands 'the organic, instituted, ritualized, impersonal, steady, patient work of the Churchï¿½which, taking infancy into its arms, shall baptize it, not as a family custom, but a Church sacrament and give back to the communion service the mystic sanctity which two centuries has [have] been successfully striving to dispel a new Catholic Churchï¿½a Church in which the needed but painful experience of Protestantism shall have taught us how to maintain a dignified, symbolic and mystic Church-organization without the aid of the State, or the authority of the Pope,' &c.
That the Address should culminate in such a product surprise the Unitarians, who had waited to the end in expectation of some remarkable, if not actually miraculous, remedy for their present condition. They must feel like the farmer who, having heard his favorite hen cackling all the morning, at night found in her nest only the old nest-egg which had been there as long as he could remember. In the next 'Year Book,' on the list of Institutions, &c., 'of interest to Unitarians,' shall we find 'the Holy Catholic Church'? We can see now that the new-vamped theory of 'centrifugal and centripetal forces' was fabricated in part as a prop to the 'new Catholic Church.' The theory is but a rehash of the old doctrine which separates faith and works;ï¿½which sets apart a place, or a temple, or a book, or an institution, or a people, and assumes that God is peculiarly present therein, and that supernatural and superhuman influences flow therefrom. Again and again have these assumptions been framed into idols for the people, standing only till some strong man, seeing truth face to face, dared front the miraculous bugbears, and knock the superhuman out of them.
This new-fangled notion assumes that religious faculty of man cannot be developed and cultivated, pari passu, with the moral and intellectual. M a
<c02>
must team off on a tangent from God, under the 'centrifugal' law of his being, in order to grow freely; then most return and imbibe religion through the nurse-bottle of the Church. Hence it represents Protestantismï¿½as alienation from God.ï¿½the Unitarians, leading off, are the most alienated,ï¿½and the necessity of return to foster their faith. Return to what? To obedience to God's requirementsï¿½a manly discharge of the divine duties of to-day? Not at all; but to a 'new Catholic Church.' 'commemorative days,' 'holy symbols,' baptism, the 'mystic sanctity of the communion service,' 'The Church is to be content with its religious function and office.' This is only the old monastic system, which assumes that we can get nearer to God by shutting ourselves out from active duties, and in to certain houses and forms called sacred, and that, without these, we cannot grow in the knowledge of God. Never was a greater mistake made. Whatever service these may hare done, or may still be doing, they are, as a means of religious culture, not to be compared with, much leas made a substitute for, the demands of duty in the present hour. Yea, duty may demand that we nail a protest on the door of the Church, and shake off its hollow symbols, its cramping creed, or its corrupt morals. 
God has given human life as the means of culture of all human faculties. In that life we must work, if we would grow symmetrically. We have had enough of those nurseries of pious feeling which produce sentimental saints who are afraid of dirtying their fingers; with man-loving deeds, unless respectable, or of tarnishing their reputation with unpopular philanthropy; who are oppressed with ennui, and exclaim, as does Mr. Bellows, ' We are weary of the toil, the speculation, inquiry, and self-sustaining energy we have put forth.' 'Moreover, having enlarged our faculties, we want a use for them; having achieved our freedom, we know not what to do with it; having cultivated our wills, consciences and intellects to the utmost at present possible, they cry out for objects that they do not find.' 
Here we see, again, the result of cooping men up in Scriptures and sacraments and holy days and churches, labelled 'Supernatural,' 'Superhuman,' to seek religion; instead of sending them to do the duty that lies nearest themï¿½into the very presence of the living God, who is ever with us to will and to do through the minds, consciences, earnest aspirations and hearty endeavors of his children. It is as if, when we wished to strengthen our nerves, enlarge and toughen our muscles, we should periodically visit a temple dedicated to Sthenos; ponder the wonderful powers of, Hercules and Samson,ï¿½elevating the record of their lives into canonical Scriptures, counting their feats of strength superhuman, instead of wielding a sledge in the smithy, striving to fashion an instrument useful to man; or holding the plow in fresh out-door air to lay the furrows for the precious seed that shall yield food for the race. 
To read of the power of mighty men of old may be stimulating, but we must raise our own right arm, before a fibre of the biceps can be made stronger, or consciousness of muscular might become real. There is nothing that will increase a man's faith so much as to go to work,ï¿½to use the limbs and the faculties God: has given him. Infinite resources open before hit labors; showing hitherto unconceived vistas of truth, use and beauty. The man who begins a moral reform with a halter round his neck, and a bounty on his head, is not by any 'centrifugal force' spun off from the great soul of the universe, though striving ' to learn freedom ' and give it to a race; but he knows by experience what it is to be alone with Godï¿½one with love and truth. The blessing of the reviled and persecuted is upon him. The woman who, defying feminine customs, ministers to the victims of war and pestilence, or pleads for the down-trodden, or pulls at the oar to save human life, finds God, and draws faith and strength from the inexhaustible source. Does Mr. Pease in his ministry at Five Points suffer from a 'suspense of faith?' Was Elizabeth Fry an infidel? Is Miss Dix an Atheist?
Individual faithï¿½a personal trust in Godï¿½is not diminished by growth in 3.. individual liberty, and devotion to social progress. On the contrary, it is nurtured and strengthened. We can call to mind, this moment, a man who, cradled in 'orthodox ' theology, and anointed by its ministers, has steadily progressed beyond the largest liberty of the freest sect; who, for his devotion to social reform and freedom of speech, has been ejected from a Unitarian pulpit; whose classical style and literary culture and liberal ideas fit him for any metropolitan pulpit, did not his love of the slave, and outspoken word in his behalf, cause metropolitan church-goers to leave him to labor humbly and faithfully in an obscure country parish. This Christian man has continued to grow in freedom and love to man, protesting always against despotism, and spite of the 'centrifugal force,' has kept the child's love of God so sweetly nestled in his heart that, amid persecution and poverty and misrepresentation and heroic performance of duty, he moves on and up serenely trustful, with faith merging into vision. 
But, says Mr. Bellows, the Church is an outgrowth of human nature,ï¿½an institution founded on the needs of the human soul, as much as the family and the State. We cannot educate whole men without itï¿½'Man is a domestic, a social, a political, and ecclesiastical being,' &c If by this he means simply that associated life is stronger, wiser and more natural than isolated; that man must be developed in harmonious groups, arranged more or lees according to noble and natural affinities and conditions for use and mutual service; if the whole head and front of the 'divine right' of the Church lies in this, well and good; here may be union and freedomï¿½an acceptable basis of action. But when he goes on to say,ï¿½' The Historical Church for the time being, and the place in which it organizes the Word of God, and institutes the channel of divine grace, is a divine institution, connection with which is the normal, not the only condition of salvation;' that 'God speaks to individual men, but the Holy Spirit is God coming into the world through his wordï¿½which is neither communicated to individuals, nor from individuals, but from the Church to humanity;' when he affirms, 'the Church is to be maintained and upheld in its external form as a separate and distinct, a precious and in dispensable interest of humanity; all the tendencies to merge it in other interests and organizations, to break down the barriers that define its sphere, to extinguish the lineaments of its supernatural origin and superhuman functions, to secularize (I do not say to liberalize) its sacred day, to rationalize its teachings, are to be resisted;' and when he 'defines' the 'sphere' of the Church in these words, 'The Church is to be content with its religious function and office'ï¿½excluding 'general culture,' 'science and art and social progress'ï¿½meaning that the Church shall merely suck the thumbs of its religious sensibilities until it becomes inane, and fruitful only in thorns and thistles, we protest. It is the dog returning to his vomit. It is the fruit of a faithless sect, 'weary of toil,' having 'faculties and freedom,' but 'knows not what to do with them.' 
It is not the Church of the future, not the Church which, organizing love to man as the expression love to God, under the broad canopy of individual freedom, shall find its true work in freeing the slave, reforming the criminal, restoring the inebriate and licentious, educating the ignorant, and specially, in so reorganizing society as to prevent Slavery and crime and drunkenness,ï¿½uprooting the causes of these offences, which lie deep down in the structure of society as well as in the functions of the human heart. Neither shall there be less love of father, mother, sister, wife, husband, children, because there is more love of humanity; for the marriage relation shall be purified and its blessings extended. Woman shall be raisedï¿½shall elevate herselfï¿½from her present position of inferiority. Her mind and heart shall more directly influence society, and share the responsibilityï¿½not to
<c03>
the neglect of domestic dutiesï¿½often now we see her in public with her knitting, showing that the little foot at home is not forgotten, the mother's heart will ever be sacred. 
The Church of the future will no doubt have its meetings for mutual counsel, encouragement, discussion and work; its spoken and written words, its hours of trust and aspiration, but will not put on airs of superiority, and assume 'supernatural' or 'superhuman' authority. It will not trample on reason, conscience and the religious sentiment, demanding that those natural faculties shall rust in disuse, lest they might question the inspiration of church and scripture. It will have its 'commemorative days' also, remembering when 800.000 chattels were changed into men, its symbolic 'branded hand'ï¿½chains and court-house, etc.,ï¿½but it will not appoint its day of feasting,' and thank God we are born in a 'free country,' while every sixth person is a slave. Its ministers will not boast on their twenty-fifth anniversary that they have never introduced 'exciting topes' (meaning popular sins) into their pulpits; nor will the legal saints stroke down the backs of the clerical saints with congratulations of similar import. It will not boast, on the 4th of July, of the heritage from the fathers, forgetting that Slavery was entailed upon the children. It will rather humble itself, as in sackcloth and ashes, striving strenuously to remove the stain of sin they have inherited and perpetuated. 
This Church is operative now; yea, organizingï¿½ here a 'Free Church,' there Friends of Progress, filled with love to man and faith in God, WORKINGï¿½ applying the truth and love they now possess to every department of life; conscious of co-operating with God and angels and good spirits; honoring Christ by keeping his commandmentï¿½love one another; trustful of the truth, and courageous to speak and apply it, they find enough to doï¿½the field white for the harvest, or ready for the seed; they are not troubled with a 'suspense of faith.' Let us commend to the Unitarians this work. It will nerve their faith,ï¿½put fibre into their religious feelings. H. O. S. 

MISS HOLLEY IN MAINE. 
FRIEND GARRISONï¿½Allow me to notice Miss Holley's lectures in Ellsworth, which have stirred up the fountains of sympathy for the poor slave, and awakened an interest in the Anti-Slavery cause, that priests and creedists have failed to do hitherto. 
Miss Holley came to us, accompanied with her worthy companion, Miss Putnam, to preach the beautiful gospel of universal freedom; and a more able advocate of the great love principle and humanitarian sentiment enunciated by the despised and murdered Nazarene, has not yet visited our village. 
Her theme, of course, was the right of the slave to himself; and his enslavement by the Government, by the Church, by the North, is a complete crucifixion of Jesus afresh. Such preaching is to the hungry soul like an oasis and well of water in the arid desert of creeds and churchism; and, truly, the Methodist congregation, who, by the courtesy of their pastor, Mr. Mitchell, gave up their house to Miss Holley, got at least a Sabbath day's journey nearer the kingdom of God, while the Congregational pastor refused to even read a notice which I sent him, of her meeting. 
That Miss Holley has scattered the seed of Abolitionism, which shall spring up and bear fruit, I have no doubt; and her no less sacrificing and courageous companion, Miss Putnam, has done her work of love, in distributing Anti-Slavery tracts, soliciting subscribers to the Liberator and Standard, and personally talking with the minister in his study, and with the lady of ease in her wealth and refinement, upon this great and all-important subject, the freedom of four millions of human chattels in Christian America.
Oh, what a burlesque the religion and liberty of our country are upon the freedom and religion which Jesus preached! How can we call ourselves Christians, and not be abolitionists? Yes, as Miss Holley says, 'we must place man above everything else in the universeï¿½above the government, above the Union, above the church, above the world, above the sun and stars in the firmament, yea, and above life itself; for he lives when the sun and stars grow old and change, our world a wreck of ruin made, and Church and State and Union gone eternally in the forgotten past; but roan, even in the most degraded Southern slave, lives on, the eternal breath and representative of Jehovah.' God speed the Abolition movement! 
ELLSWORTH, Me. G. W. M. 

WILBERFORCE CELEBRATION. 
DEAR MR. GARRRISONï¿½I have just returned from Washington County, (N. Y.) where I have spent the last fifteen days. I attended the Wilberforce Centennial Celebration, which took place at Easton, on Saturday and Sunday, August 27th and 28th. The meeting wag advertised to be held in the grove, near the Friends' Meeting-House, but the weather was too cold; consequently the people occupied the Church on both days. 
The audience on Saturday was large, the house being filled. Mr. Pillsbury, Mr. Powell, Mr. Black-well, Miss Susan B. Anthony, and Mrs. Blackwell, made able and eloquent speeches, to which the people gave the strictest attention. 
On Sunday, the first meeting came together at 9 o'clock, so as to adjourn at 11, to give the house up to the Society for their regular meeting. 
Mr. Pillsbury occupied most of the time during the forenoon, and I never heard him when he acquitted himself better than on that occasion. Although the Convention closed its session at 11 o'clock, and the Friends commenced their meeting, the Anti-Slavery cause, nevertheless, was attended to; for Mr. Powell and Miss Anthony, being themselves Friends, were moved to speak, and did so to good purpose. 
The afternoon meeting was very fully attended, hundreds being unable to get standing-room in the house. To accommodate these, Miss Anthony and I took the stump in the field, where we had a large and attentive company, who, though facing a cold breeze, stood their ground to the end of the meeting. 
From what I heard after the Convention, I should think a good work had been accomplished. Every one seemed to be happily disappointed in the numbers, and the interest manifested by all. 
On Sunday, after speaking two hours in the open air, I went to Union Village, eight miles off, and lectured to a full house in the evening. I spoke several times during the week, and on Sunday last held a meeting at Quaker Springs, in Saratoga County. The meeting at this place was to have been in a large school-house, but that was found to be too small, and the people went to the Friends' meeting-house, near by, which was soon filled in every part. 
I went to Victory Mills, a distance of six miles, and lectured in the evening to as many as the hall would hold. Yesterday I had a meeting at 2 o'clock, in Friends' meeting-house in Pittstown, in Rensselaer county, and although it was a week day, the farmers turned out in great numbers, and paid good attention to what was said. 
From what I have seen and heard thus far, I should judge that New York is an excellent field for labor. 
Twelve years ago, Dr. E. D. Hudson and myself passed through this section of the State, and in many instances had to speak to empty benches, and felt ourselves fortunate if we were allowed to do this unmolested. It is indeed gratifying to see the onward progress of the cause of freedom. 
Yours truly,
WM. WELLS BROWN.
ALBANY, (N. Y.) Sept. 10, 1859. 
The nomination of Gov. Banks for re-electionï¿½to the office he now holds was unanimously confirmed at the State Republican Convention, held at Fitchburg on Monday last. So much for eulogizing the Defender of the Fugitive Slave Bill! 
<c04>
BEWARE OF AN IMPOSTOR.
FLORENCE, 9th mo. 15th, 1859. 
FRIEND GARRISON:
On Wednesday of last week, a man came to this place, representing himself to be a runaway slave just escaped from Baltimore, and wishing aid to pursue his journey to Canada. His story, and the answers he gave to questions, made me suspicious almost to a certainty that he was not what he pretended to be, and I wrote immediately to Philadelphia, telling the substance of his story, and asking if the persons it through whose hands he said he had passed there knew any thing of such a man. I have just received an answer from our friend McKim, confirming my suspicions. He says: 'There is no truth in that pretender's story. William Still [one of those on whom the man said he had called] says he is an impostor, whoever he may be.' 
As he is probably somewhere in this State or near it, trying to defraud the benevolence of the people, it seems proper that public warning should be given against him. He is a man of medium size, quite dark but not purely black, has the woolly hair and beard and very thick lips of the African type, but in other respects, his appearance seems to show a mixture of European blood. He wears his beardï¿½but rather shortï¿½on his chin and upper lip. His age I judged to be not far from thirty, perhaps rather over than under. He is a somewhat fluent talker, running on smoothly when not embarrassed by cross-questioning; his tones pretty deep and his utterance distinct. He was what would be called very respectably dressed, in dark cloth garments, suitable for the season, and apparently not much worn. His story was that he was a slave of Oliver Lowe, formerly Governor of Maryland; that he left Baltimore twenty-two days, and Wilmington, Del., seventeen days, before his arrival here; that he walked to Wilmington, (narrowly escaping capture by his pursuers, on the way,) andï¿½his feet having become very soreï¿½stopped in W. four or five days with 'a man named Garrett,' whom he described as a man about fifty years old, and rather slender in form; that he was forwarded thence by horse and wagon to Philadelphia, was set down at the bridge of the Baltimore and Philadelphia Railroad, and thence walked into the Anti-Slavery Office, and saw there 'a colored man named Still, who, having three or four other cases in hand, sent him to a Mr. Williamson, who had had some trouble about helping slaves'; that he was thence forwarded, by Camden and Amboy Railroad, to Burlington, N. J., crossed thence to Bristol, Pa,, and walked to Newark, N. J., whence 'a Mr. Frelinghuysen' provided him a conveyance to Jersey City; that he crossed to New York, and took boat for Troy, whence he went (I think on foot) to Williamsburg, where he was entertained by a 'Professor Bascom,' of the College, (at whose invitation, I understood himï¿½given at some place on his route where they had chanced to meetï¿½be had gone thither,) was taken thence to North Adams, and sent, with a free pass, by railroad to Pittsfield; and thence had come to this place on foot. To questions, put at suitable intervals along the course of his narrative, he gave answers which (without his appearing to be aware of it) shortened his time between here and Wilmington from the seventeen days he had named to six; for he said he was only three hours on the way from W. to Philadelphia, [distance 28 miles, but he called it 18,] stopped in Philadelphia only three or four hours, I reached Burlington at 8 o'clock the same evening, ( walked from Bristol to Newark [distance about 60 miles] between that time and the next afternoon, the precise hour he could not state, but early enough to ride thence in a carriage to Jersey City, and cross to New York by ferry in time for the evening boat of that day for Troy, reached Troy next morning, and went directly to Williamston the same day, and that day the Saturday before his arrival here. This, as you see, would make his departure from Wilmington to be about noon of the preceding Thursdayï¿½crowding his seventeen days into six, and allowing but about thirty hours, at the utmost but thirty-one or two, for a ride of about 55 miles, (only about 19 or 20 of it by steam,) and a walk of nearly or quite 65, from Wilmington to New York city. Other discrepancies and inaccuracies which I observed in his story I need not stop to specify, for you will doubtless deem these sufficient to justify my suspicions. 
He called himself Thomas [his surname, as I understood] when here; whether he keeps that name elsewhere, I cannot say. He had nothing which could be properly called credentials from any of those who he pretended had helped him on his way, but he made some little parade of several loose slips of paper on which were written the names of some of those persons, and of some others on whom he said he had been directed to call. He had also 'at his tongue's end,' as the phrase is, the names of a few prominent abolitionists and persons connected with the Underground Railroad, which he used where he thought they would make his tale look probable. He could name also some members of Congress, of whom he professed to have gained a knowledge while visiting Washington in attendance upon his master. 
After the interview in which these statements were made to a few of us here, we sent him word that a letter of inquiry would be written to Philadelphia, and if the answer should confirm his story, he should have the help he sought. But he was in such haste reach Boston that he could not wait for that, so he left the place on the next morning, professedly to go to B., where, he said, he expected to find letters giving information concerning his wife, who had escaped about nine months before, and where also he expected to receive some clothing which the friends in Philadelphia had promised to forward for him, to the care of 'a Mr. Quincy.'
Out of what I have written above, you can perhaps make such a notice of the impostor as may put your readers on their guard against him; and perhaps it would not be amiss to request other papers to copy the substance of your statement of the case.
Yours, truly,
C. C. BURLEIGH. 
MEETINGS AND CONCERTS AT THB WEST END. Rev. E. P. Rogers, a colored citizen of Newark, N. J., delivered his original poem on the Dred Scott Decision last Tuesday evening, in this city, at the Joy Street Church; but, we are sorry to say, that owing to several meetings being held at that time, his audience was a small one. He promises, however, to return soon, when we hope a full house will greet him. 
On the same evening, the Sedgwick Operatic Troupe gave a very successful concert; and the desire is general that they should repeat it in some more central part of the city. 
Their musical talent commends them to public patronage. N. 
DEATH OF MRS. WEBB. Mrs. Webb, the accomplished colored lady whose dramatic readings of passages of 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' are pleasantly remembered by many of our readers, and who went to England, a few years since, by the advice of Mrs. Stowe, who felt a deep interest in her, died at Jamaica, of consumption, on the 17th of June last. We find the announcement in the London Anti-Slavery Reporter for August. 
THE FRATERNITY COURSE OF LECTURES, as advertised in our columns, presents the strongest attraction of any that has ever been delivered in this or any other city. The tickets are rapidly selling, and, doubtless, before the course is opened, will be at a premium. Those who mean to procure them at the reasonable rate at which they are put, should lose no time in doing so. 
In selecting lecturers worthy to be heard, we hope lyceum committees will not overlook Mr. C. H. DAU, of this city, whose lectures in relation to the claims of her sex have been prepared with marked ability, and cannot fail of giving general satisfaction 
<c05>
THE OXYGENATED BITTERS. 
The qualities of this medicine have placed it upon imperishable foundation. In destroying disease. id inducing health, it has no parallel. 
For the following complaints these bitters are a Specific, viz.:ï¿½Dyspepsia, or Indigestion, Heart Burn, Acidity, Costiveness, Loss of Appetite, Headache, and General Debility. 
In many sections of our country, this preparation is extensively used by physicians in their practice, and seems to have restored many to health who were apparently beyond the reach of the healing art. 
Subjoined are a few tributes from well-known physicians: 
MANSFIELD, TIOGA., Pa., Aug. 86,1858.
I have used the Oxygenated Bitten in my practice with decided success in debility and general prostration, &c, and confidently recommend it in General Debility, and diseases of the digestive organs. 
F. H. WHITE, M. D. 
AUBURN, N. Y. Sept. 6, 1848. 
Gentlemen:ï¿½I have been in the drug business the 1st fifteen years, and have never sold a medicine which has given such great satisfaction in cases of Dyspepsia as the Oxygenated Bitters, and in this disease I always recommend it. H. G. FOWLER.
BURLINGTON, Vt., Nov.42, 1854. 
Gentlemen:ï¿½I am pleased to state that I have tried the Oxygenated Bitters for Indigestion and Debility, and found immediate relief from using only a part of bottle. I have the greatest confidence in it as a cure or Dyspepsia and General Debility, and recommend it with much pleasure. Yours, &c.,
JAMES LEWIS, M. D. 
Prepared by S. W. Fowle & Co., Boston, and sold by dealers everywhere. Sept. 23 
TO PERSONS OUT OF EMPLOYMENT.
SEARS' PICTORIAL WORKS FOR 1859. 
The attention of the reader is solicited to the advertisement of Agents wanted for the series of Pictorial looks issued from the press of Mr. Sears. These books are popular and saleable throughout the Union, and the five most saleable publication ('THE PICTORIAL FAMILY BIBLE 'RUSSIA ILLUSTRATED','CHINA AND INDIA,' 'THRILLING INCIDENTS IN THE WAR OF THE UNITED STATES,' and 'WONDERS OF THE WORLD,' second series,) are in every way equal to the other works in point of attraction and interest. What has wishes to obtain is, competent Agents in every section of the country. The readiness of their sale offers great inducements for persons to embark in their disposal, and, as they are of a high moral and unexceptionable character, there are none who cannot conscientiously contribute to their circulation. 
Circulars, containing full particulars and instructions, with a complete list ot our publications, with wholesale and retail prices, will be sent to any iddress, free of postage. 
Address ROBERT SEARS, 
181 Williams St., New York.
sep 16 2w 

FRATERNITY LECTURES. 
SECOND SERIES. 
TREMONT TEMPLE. TUESDAY EVENINGS. 
THE FRATERNITY or THE TWENTY-EIGHT CONGREGATIONAL SOCIETY respectfully inform the public that their SECOND COURSE OF LECTURES will commence on TUESDAY EVENING, Oct. 4, 1859, at the TREMONT TEMPLE, on which occasion, 
A POEM will be read by 
RUFUS LEIGHTON, JR., 
Followed by an ADDRESS from 
WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
The succeeding exercises will consist of LECTURES in the following order:ï¿½ 
Oct. 11ï¿½GEORGE SITMNBR.
Oct. 18ï¿½EDWIN P. WHIPPLB. 
Oct. 25 ï¿½GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS. 
Nov. 1ï¿½FREDERICK DOUGLASS. 
Nov. 8ï¿½RALPH WALDO EMBBSON. 
Nov. 15ï¿½SARA JANE LIPPINCOTT.
Nov. 22ï¿½HENRY WARD BEECHER. 
Nov. 29ï¿½CARL SCHUUZ. 
Dec. 6ï¿½BAYARD TAYLOR. 
Dec. 13ï¿½THOMAS W. HIGGINSON.
Dec. 20ï¿½WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
Dec. 27ï¿½EDWIN H. CHAPIN. 
Mr. JOHN D. WILLARD will preside at the Organ. 
Tickets for the Course, admitting a Gentleman and Lady, $2.00. No more tickets will be issued than the capacity of the hall will allow. To be procured at all the Bookstores, and the office of the Temple. 
The doors will be opened at 6 ï¿½ o'clock, and the exercises commence at 7 ï¿½ precisely. 
Per order of the Lecture Committee.
Sept. 16. 
WORCESTER ANTI-SLAVERY FAIR.
This Fair will be held in Brinley Hall, Worcester, opening on the evening of Wednesday, Sept. 28th, and continuing Thursday, day and evening,ï¿½(one day and two evenings.) Donations in needle-work, fruit, and refreshments in general, are desired. Worcester, Sept. 23, 1859. 
FAIR IN WEYMOUTH.
The Weymouth Female Anti-Slavery Society will hold their annual FAIR some time in October, (time and place to be given hereafter.) In former years, we have had articles from the Boston Fair to help fill our tables. This year, we solicit contributions from friends of the cause. Articles, useful or ornamental, will be thankfully received, and acknowledged in the Liberator. 
By order of the Society, 
M. E. P. HUNT, Secretary. 
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak at 
Oakdale, Saturday, September 24. 
West Boylston, Sunday, September 25. 
Boylston, (Sawyer's Mills,) Monday, September 26. 
Holden, Tuesday, September 27. 
TO LYCEUM COMMITTEES.ï¿½DR. JOHN S. ROCK would respectfully announce to Lyceum Committees and others, that he is prepared to lecture on the following subjects:ï¿½ 
The Character and Writings of Madame De Stael.
The Unity of the Races. 
The Lights and Shadows of African Life. 
Dr. Rock is an orator, both as to style and matter, and is himself a living proof that the colored man is capable of the highest refinement and culture.ï¿½ Skaneateles Democrat. 
Please address DR. JOHN S. ROCK, Boston, Ms. 
J. H. FOWLER having returned to Cambridge, would be happy to receive invitations to speak upon Slavery, Temperance, Religion, or any other subject connected with the great interests of Humanity. 
DIEDï¿½In Southampton, (England.) August 30, whither he had gone for the benefit of the sea-voyage, JOHN L. SEVERANCE, of Cleveland, Ohio, a native of Shelburne, Mass., and brother of T. C. SEVERANCE of this city. 
Our friend and brother was one of those rare natures, in which the manly virtues are united with the most delicate womanly tenderness and purity. Gifted and genial to a remarkable degree, he won his way without conscious effort into all hearts and circles, 'making sunshine in the shadiest places'; and was lovingly attended and sincerely mourned by the strangers, made friends by so brief an acquaintance, in the foreign land where he died, after a two weeks' serious illness. 
Only in our own free, chivalric Christian land was the sanctity of his sickness invaded by discourtesy and severityï¿½where, having sought refuge in Aiken, (S. C) from the rigors of our Northern winters, he was suspected of the authorship of that trenchant description of the 'peculiar institution' which set the guilty community aflame,ï¿½from whose summary vengeance the heroic avowal of the brave woman who penned it alone saved him. 
But, after a manful and weary conflict of yean with the hereditary disease, an invalidism invaded by no repinings or discontent, he is at rest! 
His last lines speak of the probable result as 'only going home.' He has found the Heavenly Home, but has left the earthly one, alas, how dasolate!ï¿½a home to which, with the noblest generosity, the four brothers had been welcomed in their early orphanage; in which the deepest and purest love of Father, Mother and Sister, had replaced that of the natural ties so early rent; and to which he, with the two brothers 'gone before,' has left the most beautiful and cherished memories, to assuage the bitterness of bereavement.
His death was peaceful and cheerful as his life had been, and preceded by glimpses of the 'glory about to be revealed,' which the relative who accompanied him writes were an unspeakable comfort to him. 
'And so he giveth his beloved sleep.'ï¿½[Com. 
<c06>
GET THE BEST
WEBSTER UNABRIGCED
PICTORIAL EDITION!
1500 Pictorial Illustrations.
GET THE BEST.
WEBSTER'S 
UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY.
NEW PICTORIAL EDITION. 
1500 PICTORIAL ILLUSTRATIONS. 
9000 to 10,000 NEW WORDS in the Vocabulary. 
Table of SYNONYMS by Prof. GOODRICH. 
With other new features. Together with all the matter of previous editions. In one volume of 1750 pages. Price $6 50. Sold by all Booksellers. G. & C. MERRIAM, Springfield, Mass. 
Sept. 9. 6t. 
HIS LAST WORK! 
THE late DR. WM. A. ALCOTT left among his papers a most remarkable manuscript, entitled, 
Forty Tears in the Wilderness of Pills and Powders, 
OR, 
THE COGITATIONS AND CONF0ESSIONS OF AN AGED PHYSICIAN. 
This most interesting, curious and valuable book will be published by us on THURSDAY, SEPT. 1. 
It is a book for every household and every individualï¿½presenting for the benefit of others a wise man's experiences and observations in the world of medicine, illustrated with a superb portrait on steel of the venerable and beloved author. In one volume 12 mo. Price, $1. 
Tens of thousands will buy and read this bookï¿½it will therefore be a great book for Agents. All applications should be addressed to the Publishers, 
JOHN P. JEWETT & Co.,
S2 3tis 20 Washington Street. 
WEST NEWTON 
English and Classical School. 
THIS SCHOOL for both sexes is under the care of NATHANIEL T. ALLEN. It is situated in the pleasant and healthful village of West Newton, Mass., on the line of the Boston and Worcester Railroad, nine miles from Boston, and about three minutes' walk from the Station. The Course of Study embraces every branch of a thorough English education, together with the Ancient and Modern Languages; and while particular attention will be given to preparation for College, or for mercantile and scientific pursuits, a special aim of the teachers will be to impart instruction in the common branches thoroughly and correctly. A Primary Department is connected with the Institution, into which pupils of the youngest school-age are received. There is connected with the school a large and well-appointed Gymnasium, in which systematic instruction will be given. Particular attention will he given to the subject of manners and morals. The School-year will occupy forty weeks, and will be divided into two terms of twenty, or four of ten, weeks each. 
TEACHERS. 
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN, Principal. 
Teacher of Mathematics and the Natural Sciences
CYRUS PEIRCE, 
Teacher of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy. 
WILLIAM F. ALLEN. 
Teacher of the Classics, History, and English Literature. 
GEORGE F. ALLEN, ANNA C. BASSETT, Assistants.
B. F. BAKER, 
Teacher of Piano and Vocal Music. 
E. L. MERRILL, 
Teacher of Calisthenics Dancing. 
SARAH R. BASSETT. 
Teacher of the Primary Department. 
'Father Pelrce' Is at present prevented by ill health from giving instruction in his department. 
The Messrs. ALLEN will receive a limited number of pupils into their families. It is their purpose to provide for those who may be placed under their charge a comfortable and pleasant home. For further particulars, address N. T. ALLEN, West Newton, Mass 
REFERENCES 
Rev. E. S. Gannet, D. D., Win. Brigham. Esq., Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Esq., Boston; Rev. George E. Ellis, D. D., Charlestown; Prof. L. Agassiz, Cambridge. 5t Aug. 25. 

NEW ENGLAND 
Female Medical College, 
SPRINGFIELD STREET, BOSTON. 
THE Twelfth Annual Term will commence on WEDNESDAY, Nov. 2, 1859, and continue seventeen weeks. PROFESSORS: Enoch C. Rolfe, M. D., Theory and Practice of Medicine; John K. Palmer, M. D., Materia Medic A. Therapeutics and Chemistry; Stephen Tracy, M. D., Anatomy and Surgery; Marie E. Zakrzewska, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children; Frances S. Cooke, M. D., Physiology and Hygiene; Mary R. Jenks, M. D., Demonstrator. Fee, $5 for each of the Six Tickets Free tuition from State Scholarships, for students in Massachusetts. Rooms to be had by students in the College building. The College has now a Clinical Department for the practical education of its students. 
ENOCH C. ROLFE, Dean of the Faculty, 
Sept. 23. 563 Washington st. 

CARPENTING.
'All the Year Round.' 
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO. 
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 
CARPETING, 
285 WASHINGTON STREET. 
(NEAR WINTER STREET,) 
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and heat styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities). Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings. 
ï¿½ALSOï¿½
AMERICAN CARPETING. 
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT 
THE LOWEST PRICES, 
For cash or approved credit. 
Sept. 16 tf 
NOW READY. PRICE TWENTY CENTS, 
THREE DISCOURSES ON THE RELIGION OF REASON. By GERRIT SMITH. With a Letter to WILLIAM GOODELL. Orders supplied by ROSS & TOUSEY, 121 Nassau street. New fork. Sept. 16. 5t 
PROFITABLE EMPLOYMENT.
PLEASE TO READ THIS!ï¿½Agents wanted!ï¿½ Extra inducements for 1860! All persons IN WANT OF EMPLOYMENT will at once receive our Catalogue, of Books, pre-paid. by forwarding us their address. Particular attention is requested to the liberal offers we make to all persons engaging in the sale of our Large Type Quarto PICTORIAL FAMILY BIBLE, with about One Thousand Engravings. On receipt of the established price, Six Dollars, the Pictorial Family Bible, with a well-bound Subscription Book, will be carefully boxed, and forwarded by express, at our risk and expanse, to any central town or village in the United States, excepting those of California, Oregon and Texas. Our books are sold by canvassers, and are well known to be the most saleable. Address, post paid, 
ROBERT SEARS, Publisher. 
No. 181 William Street, New York.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
From the New York Independent. 
ON A PRAYER-BOOK
With its <illegible> Ary Seheffer's Christus <illegible>lator, <illegible> by the <illegible> of the black man.
BY JONN G. WHITTIER.
Oh! Ary Scheffer! when beneath thins eye,
Touched with the light that cometh from above,
Grew the swest picture of the dear Lord's love, 
No dream hadst thou that Christian heads would tear 
Therefrom the taken of his equal cure, 
And make thy symbol of His truth a lie!
The poor, dumb slave, whose shackles fall away 
In His compassionate gaze, grabbed smoothly cut,
To mar no more the exercise devout 
Of sleek Oppression kneeling down to pray
Where the great oriel stains the Sabbath-day! 
Let whose can before such praying-books 
Kneel on his velvet cushions, I, for one. 
Would sooner bow a Parsee, to the sun.
Or tend a prayer-wheel in Thibetan brooks.
Or beat a drum on Yedo's temple floor. 
No falser idol man hat bowed before 
In Indian groves, or islands of the sea. 
Than that which, through the quaint-carved, Gothic door,
Looks forth, a Church without humanity!
Patron of pride and prejudice and wrong, 
The rich man's charm, and fetish of the strong, 
The Eternal Fullness meted, clipped, and shorn,
The seamless robe of equal mercy torn.
The dear Christ hidden from His kindred flesh. 
And, in His poor ones, crucified afresh!
Better the simple Lama scattering wide.
Where sweeps the storm Alechan's steppes along, 
His paper horses for the lost to ride, 
And wearying, Buddha with his prayers to make 
The figures living for the traveller's sake.
Than be who hopes with cheap praise to beguile
The ear of God, dishonoring man the while; 
Who dreams the pearl gate's hinges, rusty grown,
Are moved by flattery's oil of tongue alone;
That in the seals Eternal Justice bears,
The generous deed weighs leas than selfish prayers.
And words intoned with graceful unction move
The Eternal Goodness more than lives of truth and love. 
Alas, the Church!—the reverend head of Jay, 
Inhaled with its saintly silvered hair.
Adorns no more the places of her prayer;
And brave young Tyng, too early called away.
Troubles the Haman of her courts no more, 
Like the just Hebrew at the Assyrian's door; 
And her sweet ritual, beautiful, but dead 
As the dry husk from which the grain is shed. 
And holy hymns from which the life devout
Of saints and martyrs has well-nigh gone out,
Like candles dying in exhausted air,
For Sabbath use in measured grists are ground;
And. ever while the spiritual mill goes round, 
Between the upper and the nether stones,
Unseen, unheard, the wretched bondman groans,
And urges his vain plea, prayer-smothered, anthem-drowned!
O, heart of mine, keep patience!—looking forth
As from the Mount of Vision I behold
Pure, just and free, the Church of Christ on earth— 
The martyr's dream, the golden age foretold! 
And found, at last, the mystic Graal I see, 
Brimmed with His blessing, pats from lip to lip, 
In sacred pledge of human fellowship;
And, over all, the songs of angels hear,
Songs of the love that casteth out all fear, 
Songs of the Gospel of Humanity!
Lo! in the midst, with the same look he wore
Healing and blessing on Genesaret's shore, 
Folding together, with the all-tender might
Of his great lcve, the dark hands and the white, 
Stands the Consoler, soothing every pain, 
Making all burdens light, and breaking every chain! 

STRIVE, AND WAIT, AHD PRAY.
BY ADELAIDE ANN PROCTOR.
Strive! yet I do not promise
The prize you dream of to-day
Will not fade when you think to grasp it, 
And melt in your hand away;
But another and holier treasure. 
You would now perchance disdain, 
Will come when your toil is over, 
And pay you for all your pain. 
Wait! yet I do not tell you 
The hour you long for now 
Will not come with its radiance vanished, 
And a shadow upon its brow; 
Yet far through the misty future, 
With a crown of starry light,
An hour of joy you know not 
Is winging her silent flight. 
Pray! though the gift you ask for
May never comfort your fears,
May never repay your pleading,
Yet pray, with hopeful tears;
An answer, not that you long for, 
But diviner, will come one day;
Your eyes are too dim to see it, 
Yet strive, and wait, and pray. 

THE SLAVE MINGO'S POEM. 
To the Editor of the Bottom Journal:
[The following remarkable poem was sent me from the South by a friend, who informs me that the author of it was a slave named Mingo, a man of wonderful talents, and on that account oppressed by his master. While is the slave-prison, he penciled this poetic gem on one of the beams, which was afterwards found and copied. My friend adds that Mingo did escape, at night, but was recaptured and destroyed by the bloodhounds. My friend promises to send other poems of his, which, he says, an in possession of Mingo's aged wife.] C. W. 
Good God! and must I leave them now— 
My wife, my children, in their woe?
‘Tis mockery to say I'm sold— 
But I forget these chains so cold,
Which goad my bleeding limbs, though high 
My reason mounts above the sky. 
Dear wife, they cannot sell the rose
Of love, that in my bosom glows.
Remember, as your tears may start. 
They cannot sell th' immortal part! 
Thou sun, which lightest bond and free, 
Tell me, I pray, is liberty
The lot of those who noblest feel, 
And oftest to Jehovah kneel?
Then I may say, but not with pride,
I feel the rushings of the tide
Of reason and of eloquence,
Which strive and yearn for eminence.
I feel high manhood on me now, 
A spirit-glory on my brow; 
I feel a thrill of music roll,
Like angel harpings, through my soul,
While poesy, with rustling wings, 
Upon my spirit rests and sings; 
He sweeps my heart's deep throbbing lyre, 
Who touched Isaiah's lips with fire. 
To Plymouth Rock, ye breezes, bear
These words from me, as I would dare,
If I ware free: Is not our God 
Our common Father?—from the sod
He formed us all; then brothers—yes;
We're brothers all, though some oppress, 
And grind their equals in the dust. 
O Heaven! tell me to this just?
The fiendish. No! I will not go, 
And leave my children here in woe! 
<c02>
God help me! Out, bright dagger! gleam, 
And find the coward's heart, and stream 
With fiendish blood! This night, this night,
Or I am free, or it shall smite 
The master and his slave, and we 
Will seek the heavenly liberty! 
There will my master's bloody lash
No longer lacerate
NOTE. The last line was, from some cause. incomplete; perhaps his feelings overcame him at the conception. I concluded to give it as it was. C. W.

The Liberator.
THE SLAVE AVOTION.
BY DR. JOHN THEOPHILUS KRAMER.
They were born as slaves, through the iniquity of men. They art redeemed to be free men, through Christ Jesus. 
[CONCLUDED.[
No. 51. Amos, field hand, a very smart and intelligent looking boy of sixteen, brings $1460, or one hundred dollars more than the poor couple sold before him. 
No. 52. Fielding, field hand, 26 years, and—
No. 53. Nelly, also a field hand, 30 years, both bring $2200. 
No. 54. George Sunday, field hand, age 22, for $1400.
No. 55. Gay, 30. and
No. 56. Hannah, 35, together with 
No. 57. Ellen, her daughter, a young girl of 13 years. Both Hannah and Ellen are crying very hard, because they are perhaps to be sold to a ruffian who made his fortune by swindling, and who will pay now $2300 for honest people, who have never dons the least harm to anybody, who are faithful Christians, and whose hearts are to be broken by an act worthy of any blood-thirsty barbarians! 
No. 58. Quash, field hand, aged 17. A black skin he has, like polished ebony, but no doubt his heart is white. How much whiter than the 'man-driver' who is going to buy him for the sum of $1400!
No. 60. John Louis, field hand, 24 years, and 
No. 61. Fine, his wife—(wife? yes, as long as her master will permit her to remain such!) age 19, and
No. 62. Collar, a plump, little boy of 3 years. The Last bid for them is $3050. Hear what the man behind my chair says to his companion:— Splendid family that! Very likely girl—fine child-but he paid a good deal of cash for them three black animals.' 
'Yes, Bob,' says the other, 'he spends plenty of money, but he will make 'em work! Holy Tschoupitoulas! they will get more lickings than tomatoes and bacon.'
Collar's mother presses her little boy to her bosom; she casts her tearful eyes towards heaven. But even heaven seems to be closed to her prayers and to her tears. Shall she doubt that there is a just God above the clouds? Must her faith in the precious redemption, of mankind, through the Savior, be destroyed in this dreadful hour? Can she still believe in the Lord and Master of her soul, when her tormentors call themselves disciples of this same Lord? Christian reader, will you not mourn while so many thousands of your humble fellow-men are groaning in chains? Can you sing and pray with a Joyful heart in the house of the Lord, when you know that the cross of your Savior is trodden upon by the feet of 'Christian slave-drivers'? 
Nations, mourn! for justice is dead, and crime is triumphant!
Let us return to the 'hall of perdition,' in mourning apparel.
No. 63. Squire, 28 years, and 
No. 64. Gertrude, cook, washer and ironer, age about 21. This fine but sad-looking pair bring $2600.
No. 65. Richard, field hand, age 19, sold for exactly $1000. 
No. 66. John, plowman, 33 years, and
No. 67. Nancy, field hand, about 30. Highest bid for both, $1760.
No. 68. Davy, 68 years, and 
No. 69. Polly, 50 years old, both sold for $500.
Five hundred dollars is a fair price for a horse, or for a valuable mule. But here we can perceive neither horses nor mules, but human beings, who, without regard to color or standing, await, like us, the hour of their call from this world to the judgment seat. Those two grey heads, of very humble looking persons, have been placed upon the auction-stand or platform. For forty years they have devoted their strength to the father of their master, and to him. They have gathered forty harvests for him—yes, for him who is now selling them for $500! They brought him ten times as much as he is now getting for their worn-out bodies.
No. 70. Frank Fortier, field hand, 36 years, and 
No. 71. Fanny, 26 years, both were sold for $1600. 
No. 72. James Pegram, field hand, 37 years. 
No. 73. Johanna, 16 years. 
No. 74. Cornelius, 8 years.
No. 75. Jane, 7 years. 
No. 76. Old Maria, 60 years.
Another tableau, which, if Mr. Keller, the celebrated performer of 'living tableaux,' should exhibit in the Academy of Music, in the Athenaeum, or in some other public hall of a ' free city,' he would certainly take the house by storm, and every nerve of his justice and freedom-loving audience would powerfully vibrate with indignation against the cold-hearted destroyers of family life and of human rights. 
Reader! imagine five persons, standing upon a platform, similar to a funeral pile erected for martyrs. Their color is darker than that of the persons sitting in front of the arena. There are eighty-three human beings, of various colors, and of different ages, bending down their heads, and looking as if they were condemned to death, and were now to be executed. Those five ' articles for sale at auction' consist of a father, three children, and their grandmother. Their mother has gone to bear witness, before the holy tribunal of the great Judge of the world, and to accuse the tormentors of her unfortunate people. 
James, a strong, intelligent-looking man, gases in utter despair upon his youngest child, who clings to him in distress. Poor little Jane! At the youthful age of seven, thou shalt already drink the bitter cup! And Johanna! O gentle maiden of sixteen summers How she coven her eyes with one tip of her head-cloth, grasping her trembling little brother Cornelius by the band! And what is their father doing? He is raising his eyes—there is one flash—a terrible one!
Tremble, O South! Though that slave is but one, and has no power as a single man, let others join him Let a million of his brothers rise against their masters' reign of terror! Let them break their chains? Then, South! it shall be too late to repent! Then thy day of judgment has come!
Old Maria—how pitiful she looks! Poor old grandma! Sixty years have passed over her gray hairs; she has done her duty—(what duty had she to do?)—she has done all she could, without murmuring. She has raised children, nursed grand-children Never as her own—no, always for her master She has been always a very mask, a very quiet, good-natured soul. But to-day—had she ever such s feeling of approaching evil? She is not quiet to-day; she trembles every time she glances at her dear family Shall asking herself, 'Shall I be permitted to go with them? or shall I be sold alone?
Hear! What said he there—that stately man with his white neckcloth, his gold chain, and large seal thereon? What said he? I do not want the old woman. Sell her alone!'
Yes! that man had the last bid. He paid $300 Car James, Johanna, Cornelius, and Jane; but he
<c03>
won't buy the old woman. No! be only wants 'young hands.' And the old mother, the kind grandma, is torn away from her dear family, and will ever see them again. She is sold for $200 to another, and all her happiness is given in the bargain!
Some people pretend that slaves are indifferent to their being bought and sold. Upon questioning, I was told by many slaves who had comparatively kind masters, that their minds are constantly troubled for fear of being sold. They would rather submit to the most cruel treatment at the hands of their masters, than to be separated. 
A very strong and valuable slave in Mobile assured me, that if his master should ever attempt to sell him, he would jump into the river. His idea of hell, he said, was a large platform of red hot iron, where bad people are to be sold. The auctioneer there is the evil. 'There is,' said he, ' a good deal more white folks sold there by the devil than black ones.' If those poor fellows had no reason like brutes—if they could not be conscious of their miserable condition— If they had no rational feeling—they might be leas unhappy; but their reason, their power of intellect, is frequently superior to that of their brutal and often drunken masters. When slaves, who have been raised by kind masters, know that they shall be sold to men of ill repute, they live in a constant state of desperation, until they are sold, when they submit themselves to their deplorable lot, or look out for some opportunity to run away.
I shall never forget an awful catastrophe which took place in a large Southern seaport while I resided here. A beautiful quadroon slave girl, of about sixteen summers, with a skin such as many a Spanish lady would be proud of, and with splendid long black curls was bought at auction for $1900 by a confirmed dissolute rascal, who forced her in the same night to stay with him.
Though she was a slave, Raimond Legrand, an honest young Frenchman, had fallen in love with her. He had sworn to buy her, and to bring her to 'la belle France,' where color of skin is never punished by imprisonment in the galleys, nor elsewhere. Unfortunately, he was not in possession of the money which her master asked for her. To procure it, Raimond went to California. During the time of his absence, the rather good-natured master of Madeline, (that was her name,) died suddenly, and his heir put Madeline up at auction. She was bought by the fellow I mentioned before, and all her happy dreams and hopes were at once blasted. Her pitiful cries and groans of anguish, in that horrible night, were heard for several houses from that of her inhuman new master. But there was no help for her, no salvation for Madeline. For the law of the State says:—'A slave has to obey in all cases his or tier master.' In the following morning, a human chase was seen down the street towards the wharf. A young and beautiful girl, with flying curls, crying piteously, and running with all her might, was followed by a man who shouted, 'Stop her! stop her!' That poor girl was Madeline, and her pursuer was her new master. A man? No, a demon in human shape! They arrive together upon the wharf above the stream. He seizes hold of the dress of his victim, exclaiming, 'Mine again! curse you!' But, in an instant, she tears herself from the grasp of her tormentor—she casts one quick despairing glance upwards—and, uttering the words, 'Adieu, cher Raimond!' she throws herself from the wharf into the stream, and was seen no more.
No. 77. Scott, field hand, aged about 19, for $1375.
No. 78. Campbell, 22 years, for $1500.
No. 79. Dennis, 26 years, brought $1600. 
Three valuable laborers, healthy and strong men.
They are condemned to ' hard labor for life reward for their good behavior and diligence.
No. 80. Frank, field hand, and excellent gardener, 22 years, for $1425.
No. 81. Gerrard, 24 years, for $1500. 
No. 82. John, 18 years, for $1375. 
No. 83. Betty, a mild-looking young girl of fifteen summers. But what kind of summers? ' Driving ' ones, of course. And what shall be her winters? We are going to learn it directly. 
No. 84 and No. 85 are placed upon the stand. Tom, field hand, about 48 years, and Old Betsy, his wife, three years older than Tom. Tom is a very honest-looking man. Perhaps he is a cousin to the celebrated 'Uncle Tom,' well known by the brilliant pen of that truth-loving writer, MRS. HARRIET BEECHER STOWE. Tom dares not to look up, for he feels dreadfully ashamed to be put up at auction, like a mule or a dog. He suffers from hernia, a complaint which he contracted while catching a barrel of molasses, which, rolling down from a hill, endangered the life of a white infant child. Tom is therefore entitled to a reward for saving human life, and particularly white life. Entitled to a reward? O, yes! There stands Tom upon the platform of a slave auction-room, and enjoys his reward—to be sold to the highest bidder for $250!
I have seen a valuable mule, which, by kicking, caused the death of a child. This animal was afterwards sold at auction for the sum of $375, fully $125 more than our generous Tom! 
No. 85. Who is No. 85? Ay, there we find poor old Betsy, kind old soul! She labored more than 40 years in her master's house. She had sung and cradled the children to sleep, carefully protecting them from all harm. She watched over those children like a mother; and if there were some particularly fine, golden oranges hanging over the porch, she had to get them down for her darling boy, her master's child. And this very child, now a full-grown man, is selling her to-day at auction for $100. 
No. 86. John Jones, field hand, (suffers from slight hernia,) 23 years old, and 
No. 87. Anna Kentuck, 22 years, and 
No. 88. Her little boy, Armstead, 3 years. All together were sold for $1950. But the stranger who had the last bid is not able to give the requisite security, nor is he in possession of cash; and the poor family is placed again upon the platform, to be resold The torture begins anew; they have again to feel the mortification of being placed in the came category with cattle. Armstead, the poor little boy, will give you the best proof that even little children can feel the atrocity of being thus sold. He begins to cry most pitifully, and hides his face under the white apron of his weeping mother.
No. 89. Louisa, and 
No. 90. Her child, a babe. 
Louisa is a splendid young woman, of about 21. Her stately form and noble features will make you believe that she is a descendant of pure royal African blood. She is, perhaps, the grand-daughter of some princess, who was stolen from her native country b some pirate who called himself a Christian! He splendid black eyes are proudly surveying the sitting assemblage, as if scorning the power of those dealer in human souls. But, suddenly, their flashing light is gone; she casts them down, and large drops are falling upon her darling babe in her arms. Picture sleeping babe and ha mother for sale at suction! To you, gentle mothers of darling babes, I am now addressing my simple words. If the heart of man should be east of iron, or carved out of granite, a loving mother's heart is soft, like pure melted wax, and always susceptible to every impression of goodness and of compassion. She alone can tell bow great is the pain to see her darling babe suffer. She alone can understand the sufferings of other unfortunate mothers.
Mothers! which among you could bear to see your own dear babe torn from your arms? But poor Louis is forced to see it! Can she bear the dreadful thought? Why is she a Christian? Can that fait] faith be a true one—can it be a just one—when they who sell her and her babe call themselves Christians? Can she still believe in the Savior of mankind?
But, be silent, and take a glance at that poor mother? Though sold for $1275, she presses her babe closer to
<c04>
her beating bosom; she raises her large tearful eyes towards heaven, from whence salvation shall come; for she believes in her Savior upon the Crass, in that Savior who shed his blood for the everlasting freedom of all human beings.
Reader, a loving mother is a prophetess; and although she foresees the dangers that shall befall her darling babe, she also recognizes its deliverance, and its final happiness, through the almighty hand of the Lord, who is the Savior of little babes, as well as the Savior of men and women.
No. 91. Yellow John, field hand, 23 years, and his companion in his life of misery— 
No. 92. Martha. Both were sold for $1800.
The kind reader will please enter a magnificent cantle, situated in a romantic province, upon the charming borders of the river Seine. The noble Count is sitting upon a richly gilded fauteuil, leaning with his arms upon a small table of rosewood. A golden goblet and two sealed bottles of the first quality of old 'Chateau-Haut-Briou' are placed before him upon the table. A footman, dressed in glittering livery, is awaiting his orders. But the Count remains silent; his eyes are wandering out through the arched window, until they are fixed upon the sublime scenery before them. The setting sun is casting its mild rays upon the beautiful landscape. The soft waves of the river are reflecting the light with the brilliancy of an ocean of diamonds. The deep blue sky is partly painted with purple, green and violet, shining with a celestial splendor. Droves of cows and flocks of sheep are descending the fair hills, and are making for home. Bright and lovely maidens, wearing upon their black, curled hair beautiful wreaths of flowers, are dancing like so many fairies upon the green, flowery turf of the pasture ground, above the stream. 
Sir Count! do you not enjoy the lovely scene before your eyes? Are you not a happy man, to be the owner of so much beauty?
But the Count hears nothing—sees nothing; his mind is absent; he is dreaming of by-gone days. Suddenly, his face seems to be troubled with a strange thought—his lips are audibly uttering the words, 'La Louisiane! Mon Dieu, que j'etais fou! Pauvre Jeannette! Comment? Non, non, c'est impossible! Ca se ne peut pas!' 
What is he saying? Is he not speaking of Louisiana? He says:'My God, what a fool I was! Poor Jane! How? No, no, it is not possible—it cannot be so!'
What cannot be so? Who is Jane? Didn't they call John's mother Jeannette, or Jane? Yes, Count! Indeed, it can be! Noble Count, while you are living in riches and plenty, master of a proud and magnificent castle, your son—yes, Count! your only son, is a miserable slave! He is standing, this very hour, upon the platform of a slave-auction room! He, your own flesh and blood! Listen, O Count! listen to the terrible story! He—your son—is sold to the highest bidder like s brute!
Count! if your heart is able to feel—if you are not a lump of ice, like the heart of yonder unfeeling slave-driver—fly from your splendid castle, and go to parts unknown; for the terrible vision of the dreadful calamity that awaits your only son will haunt you from the saloon to the sleeping apartment, and from the garden to the pinnacle of the tower.
But John, the young Count of Chateau-Brillant, is forced to await the orders of his new master—for he is a slave! 
No. 93. Moses, field hand, 35;
No. 94. Matilda, 30;
No. 95. Richard, 9;
No. 96. Mike, a bright little boy of 6.
Again a splendid family, all the members of which are 'very likely'; so says the auctioneer. 'Superior to all sold heretofore.' Moses, a strong, healthy and intelligent-looking man, is standing upon the platform, with the feelings of a father whose dear ones and himself are disposed of like dogs. See, he is strong; he is able to fight for his freedom, and no doubt could overpower half a dozen of those sickly-looking slave-driven. Well, why don't he fight to gain his liberty, and, consequently, be regarded as a man, and not as a mule? Because be is well aware that he has no power as a single man, and that he cannot combine with his other unfortunate brothers to break the yoke, as did his great namesake of old several thousand yean ago. Is he afraid of death? O no, for he knows perfectly well that his body is not his own; that the bodies of his beloved ones do not belong to themselves. Who then would suffer, in case of his death, but his money-making master? But Moses has two reasons for not avenging himself. The first is, he is sure that the attempt to excite his brothers in bondage to revolt against their masters, would not only imperil their lives, but in all probability subject them to an awful death upon the burning wood-pile. Moses is not afraid of any wood-pile, whether burning or not; but he has a good-natured disposition, and therefore shrinks from involving his brethren in so awful a catastrophe. He will continue to suffer under the whip, rather than cause the death of his fellows upon the funeral pile.
His second reason is, because he is a Christian.
Every slaveholder knows perfectly well that a Christian slave is worth much more than one who has no faith at all. Many of them are sagacious enough to teach their slaves the gospel, and particularly those words of the apostle Paul: 'Servants, be obedient to them that are your musters, according to the flesh, with fear and trembling.' Ephes. vi. 5. Here and there, a slaveholder will forbid his slaves to attend religious exercises; but he is a fool, and he will surely suffer for it.
I happened once to get acquainted with a Frenchman, an owner of slaves, who Mid to me, ' Doctor, I will be obliged to you if you will teach my slaves your religious opinions; for though they are to me ridiculous, I know very well that my slaves, once believing in your nonsense, will be worth more to me than they are now.'
Alas! poor Moses will remain s slave until death shall break his chains! But, no! His chains shall be broken before! God grant it!
No. 94. Matilda, wife of Moses, (though she is never regarded as a wife by the slave code,) seems to be a very good creature. While she is weeping silently, she presses her last-born, her darling boy, her Mike, close to her bosom. Poor child! Bitter, yes, very bitter are the tears thy unfortunate mother is weeping over thee! Alas! she fears that thou mayest be sold to a man whose gospel is ' money.' O Mike! will he order you to his infamous gambling saloon? Will you learn his tricks and will he poison your pure innocent heart with his blasphemies? Is it his intention to make you a deceiver, a thief, a robber, a murderer? Dreadful thought! that child of affliction and of prayers shall perhaps become a candidate for the gallows! And why? For money's sake! Yes, to fill s villain's pockets with money!
And Richard—the noble, the smart, the truth-loving boy, with those dear innocent eyes—what shall become of him when his new master shall prove to be man of dissolute habits?
Mourn again, reader! for virtue and justice shall succumb, and crime shall be triumphant. That family brings a good price. These Christians are sold for $3000; and with them their hope, their virtue, their faith, all that they possess in this world. The curtain falls—the tragedy closes.
No. 97. Jerry, field hand, 42 years, and
No. 98. Molly, 40 years. An old looking couple, but a kind, a true-hearted one.
'Gentlemen,' says the auctioneer-. But before I proceed, the reader will give me permission to mention that the four ladies, present at the commencement of this auction sale, did not bid, nor did they remain for more than half an hour. For the honor of their sex, I am bound to mention that they (though most probably themselves owners of slaves,) seemed to feel very uneasy while present. I believe 
<c05>
that there is a certain natural feeling with the great majority of the gentler sax. which in more just, and more open to the truths of the gospel, than we of the masculine race are able to comprehend.
'Gentleman,' says the auctioneer, Jerry and Molly are the last couple to be sold to-day; for it is late, and we have to dose. To-morrow at 12 M., the rest of the slaves, belonging to this gang, fifty-one very valuable, sound and likely negroes, will be sold to the e highest bidder for cash and approved paper.'
I intend;—Des <illegible>,—to delineate at some future time the proceedings of 'the sale of to-morrow.' Let as close, for the present, with poor Jerry and unfortunate Molly, who were sold to a not very kind looking man for $1125.
The chattels are sold. There were ninety-eight large and small articles—Christian goods—bringing their former owner the sang little sum of $80,890.Will that sum be sufficient to buy ninety-eight souls of men, baptized in the name of the Father, of the Son , and of the Holy Spirit? Friends! eighty millions will never buy them from their Father in heaven , for they have been 'bought with a pries '—with the precious blood of the Son of God! 
Surely, if we are convinced that the institution of slavery is a great wrong against humanity, and a heavy curse to Christianity, we shall seek to abolish without delay.
But how can we do it? By what means can we induce the slaveholders in the South to give up their property,' their 'wealth.' their 'merchandise, ' their valuable goods?' Shall we invade the Slave States with s large army, and liberate the slaves by means of revolvers, knives, swords, and Sharp's or Minnie rifles? I know the Southerners too well, not to be convinced that every one of them would fight to the death—that they would lose every drop of their blood, rather than consent to give up their slaves. The Southerner is no coward; he is brave in battle, and faces death without fear. But, suppose that the whole body of the oppressed slaves should rise as one man, and strike for their liberty—would not their victory be certain? Yes. but what a victory! Streams of blood would stain the ever-blooming soil of the South, and legions of corpses would become a prey to the vultures. And whose blood would flow? That only of mean and cruel slave-driven? Oh, no! Many thousand corpses of innocent babes would point up to heaven for vengeance! Thousands of blooming young maidens would be slaughtered, causing the blood-stained soil to remain a curse for many centuries! 
No, my friends! No revolver, no rifle, no knife, no bloodshed nor slaughter shall be necessary to metamorphose slaves into freemen. No war is able to abolish the institution of slavery. There is a standard which is bound to be victorious in the hottest of battles—a standard, before the glory of which, the most stubborn of slave-driven shall be forced to fall upon his knees, crying, 'Lord! what shall I do to be saved?' That standard is the Cross of the Redeemer of mankind! If the slaveholders will truly believe in the powerful supremacy of that standard, it will be impossible for them to keep any longer their colored brethren in so shameful a bondage as Slavery. If the slaveholder of the South would call himself a Christian, without being a hypocrite, he will be obliged to do away with Slave laws, Slave markets, and Slave auctions—in fact, TO ABOLISH SLAVERY.

THE CHRISTIAN SLAVE. 
BY J. G. WHITTIER. 
[In a publication of L. F. TASISTRO, Random Shots and Southern Breezes,' is s description of a slave auction at New Orleans, at which the auctioneer recommended the woman on the stand as 'A GOOD CHRISTIAN!']
A CHRISTIAN! going, gone! 
Who bids for God's own image?—for His grace
Which that poor victim of the market-place 
Hath in her suffering won? 
My God! can such things be? 
Hast thou not said that whatsoe'er is done 
Unto Thy weakest and Thy humblest one,
Is even done to Thee? 
In that sad victim, then, 
Child of Thy pitying love, I see Thee stand.
Once more the jest-word of a mocking band,
Bound, sold, and scourged again!
A Christian up for sale!
Wet with her blood your whips—o'ertask her frame.
Make her life loathsome with your wrong and shame, 
Her patience shall not fail! 
Cheers for the turbaned Bey
Of robber-peopled Tunis! be hath torn 
The dark slave-dungeons open, and hath borne
Their inmates into day: 
But our poor slave in vain 
Turns to the Christian shrine her aching eyes—
Its rites will only swell her market price,
And rivet on her chain.
God of all right! how long
Shall priestly robbers at Thine altar stand, 
Lifting in prayer to Thee the bloody hand 
And haughty brow of wrong! 
O, from the fields of cane,
From the low rice-swamp, from the trader's cell— 
From the black slave-ship's foul and loathsome hell,
And coffle's weary chain— 
Hoarse, horrible, and strong.
Rises to heaven that agonizing cry, 
Filling the arches of the hollow sky. 
How LONG, O LORD, HOW LONG!
BLONDIN'S PERFORMANCE. One of Blondin's latest performances was to cross Niagara river after dark. The Buffalo Commercial gives the following account of the performance:— 
‘Blondin made due preparations, dressed himself in a linen suit with his frock he had so often worn, armed himself with his balancing pole, to which he attached some brilliant lights of various colon, and then sending forth s rocket, which pierced far up into the deep blue, he commenced his evening walk. 
It was a little past 8 o'clock. He proceeded rapidly down the rope, and was distinctly visible upon either side. Unfortunately, the light upon one end of the pole became detached, and fell into the river. The sight was not so pretty as it would have been had not this occurred. When about midway, he took a seat to rest, or perhaps get a better view of the scene. Not satisfied with beholding things above and around him, he finally inverted himself, and looked down into the water. It was so dark we think he did not see much. Standing on his head at night on a rope over the chasm of Niagara, must be sport! Arising, he passed on. Soon alter, the other light fell from his pole, and Blondin was left in impenetrable darkness. Above, around, beneath, all was dark. Nothing more was seen or heard of him until a shout from the opposite shore announced he had safely crossed the flood. At a little after, he started on his return, surrounded with fireworks, consisting of Bo-man candles, which gave a pleasing appearance. Ha was literally enveloped in a blaze. When about midway, he laid down his pole and stood up erect—inverted. Then be suspended himself below the rope by his heels, and there he remained, drumming on his chest until his camp-fires were all extinguished.— There he was left as before in utter darkness. A live Yankee who was standing by, said ' he wondered if be would stay there for allers.' 
A shout on the bank announced his safe arrival home. Thus ended M. Blondin's night walking.'
A correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune, writing from Saratoga Springs, under date of August 16th, says: 'l chanced last evening to attend a lecture given by the Rev. Mr. Garnet of your city, before a society of young colored men of this place. At the close of the lecture, there was introduced to the large audience, composed of colored people. Southern visitors, and others, a WNITE woman, Mrs. Wells, of St. Lotus, who had purchased herself, after being sold in the slave shambles; also, had purchased her mother and others of her family, and has now raised nearly enough money to complete the purchase of her only remaining sister.' 
<c06>
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure most prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:—
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, EURPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCRRS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASR, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOUREUY, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPELAR, ROSE OR Sr. ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine, Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores: <illegible> it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. An we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bottles for $5.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral 
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF 
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery. Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Disease, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Box; Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are give; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO., BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where. 6m May 7

LANDS FOR SALE.
ALARGE number of parcels of land are hereby offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies, sympathizing with the fundamental principles and general objects of the Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale, Milford, Mass., and constitution a part of the original Community Domain, are of different sizes, ranging from two to twenty acres, and present a good variety of tillage and pasturage, together with some woodland—most of the tillage being under a high state of cultivation—and are designed either for simple building lots, or for small farms, as may suit different classes of purchasers. Upon some of them are pleasant dwellings, and tenements in the village may be rented by those unprepared to buy orere ct buildings. In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry, suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege, rendering the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business, and especially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such horticultural employment as health, pleasure, or profit may dictate. Persons also of literary inclinations and pursuits may obtain that quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active, out-door retirement, and the opportunity for active, out-door manual or other exercise necessary to the highest usefulness and success in their chosen field of labor. And any or all of the class to whom the lands are offered, who may desire for themselves and families the superior moral and social influences of Hopedale, or who may wish to secure for their children the advantages may wish to secure for their children the advantages of the Hopedale Home School—a flourishing Institution of much excellence, both in its general character and in its methods of instruction, designed to aid in the attainment of thorough, symmetrical, and practical Education—will find here unusual inducements for making themselves at Home.
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R. R., by which communication may be had three times a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England.
Prices reasonable, and terms of payment suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious, economical family.
For further particulars and all necessary information, inquire of
E. D. D RAPER,
Hopedale, Milford, Mass.
June 17, 1859.—tf.

HOPEDALE LANDS OPENED FOR SETTLEMENT.
We bespeak attention to Br. E. D. Draper's advertisement as above, offering for sale sundry parcels of Hopedale land. Some two years since, when most of the Joint Stock Property of the Hopedale Community was individualized and divided among the stock-holders, a large portion of the Community Domain went legitimately into the private possession of Br. Draper. He has recently caused his lands to be surveyed into homesteads of from two to twenty acres each, with a view to offer them for sale to persons friendly to our distinguishing principle, who may choose to settle in our midst. we hope that a goodly number of friends, cherishing a general sympathy with our people, and desiring to give their children the advantages of our excellent select and common schools, will avail themselves of the new opening. Seeing that we must be disappointed in not realizing the Unitary social arrangements, the anticipation of which originally at tracted us hither, the next best thing is, to see as good a Neighborhood build: up as circumstances will allow. We are therefore pleased with Br. Draper's new plan of offering small homesteads for sale to our friends scattered abroad. May the movement be crowned with success.—Pactical Christian.
