THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING, 
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L.GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 17. BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1733.
SELECTIONS.
<c01>
VALUE OF THE FREE COLORED PEOPLE.
Extract from a speech of Hon. Henry Winter Davis, of Maryland, delivered in the U. S. House of Representatives Feb. 25, 1864:-
Sir I am a Marylander, not a "northern fanatic." My father was a slaveholder. I was myself for years a slaveholder. I have lived nearly all my life in Maryland. I know the temper of the people. I have lived for years in Virginia. I know the temper of her people; I know the relations of the white and black population in those States, and I am going to state some facts to the House nearer home than those cited by the dreamers.
In Maryland we have more free negroes than any other State in the Union. Virginia stands next. she has some fifty thousand among five hundred thousand slaves, and we have eighty-three thousand among eighty -seven thousand slaves. One eighth of our population is free negro. In I859, just before the rebellion, there was what was called in Maryland a "slaveholders" convention"-a phenomenon under the sun-fit precursor of the slave confederacy! Nobody could be admitted who did not own slaves; and their purpose was, as their resolutions indicated when introduced, to put an end to free negroism in Maryland for the advantage of the white population. There was one man in that assembly who was not crazy, and that man was an old Whig whom I honored, and whom my friend from Kentucky (Mr. MALLORY) knew and honored. His name was James Alfred Pearce, always a statesman, always a gentleman, however wandering into errors in his last days. He was placed upon the committee to which this subject was referred, and being a gentleman and a large slaveholder, and knowing something about political economy, and the effect of tampering with the laws of industry, be embodied his sane views in a report to that convention. a part of which I will read for the benefit of the House:
"The existence of large a number of free blacks in the midst of a slaveholding State is believed to be of itself an evil, and this evil is readily perceived to be greater when it is considered that a portion of them are idle, vicious, and unproductive. This, however, is not the case with the majority of them, and their removal would, as the committee believe, be far greater than all the evils the people of Maryland ever suffered from them. In the city of Baltimore it is estimated that there are more than twenty-five thousand of them, employed chiefly as domestic servants or laborers in various departments of industry. In many of the rural districts of the State, where labor is by no means abundant, they furnish a large supply of agricultural labor, and it is unquestionable that quite a large portion of our soil could not be tilled without their aid."
How much of South Carolina or Mississippi could be tilled without their aid?
"In some districts they supply almost all the labor demanded by the farmers. Their removal from the state would deduct nearly fifty per cent. from the household and agricultural labor furnished by people of this color, and indispensable to the people of the State; would produce great discomfort and inconvenience to the great body of householders; would break up the business and destroy the property of large numbers of land-owners and land renters-a class whose interests are entitled to as much consideration as those of any other portion of our citizens; would be harsh and oppressive to those people themselves; would violate public sentiment, which is generally not only just, but kindly; and would probably lead to other evils which the committee forbear to mention. We are satisfied that such a measure could not receive the legislative sanction, and would not be tolerated by great body of the people of Maryland, even with that sanction."
That is from James Alfred Pearce, a slaveholder. Even the secession Legislature of Maryland then about to meet, had it passed that law, James A. Pearce tells them the people of Maryland would not tolerate them in doing it. I beg you, gentlemen, observe the strength of the language:
"The committee, therefore, cannot recommend their expulsion from the State. Still more unwilling should they be to favor any measure which looked to their being deprived of the right to freedom which they have acquired by the indulgence of our laws and the tenderness of their masters, whether wise or unwise, or which they have inherited as a birthright."
Then, sir, in Maryland a free negro has some rights.
The policy of the report prevailed in this convention of slaveholders, and the iniquitous purpose was not by them pressed on the Legislature.
Some of the people in that convention were in the Legislature, and a Mr. Jacobs was one of them. He introduced a law to hire the free negroes out to the highest bidders; and if they should be disobedient after being hired out, then they were to be sold as slaves for life. The bill could not be passed. It was objected to by county after county. It was only allowed to become a law with reference to four or five counties-St. Mary’s, Charles, Somerset, Worcester, Baltimore county, and perhaps one or two others; and it was not allowed to be operative till approved by the people of the counties respectively. The friends of the infamous scheme went before the people at the presidential election in those counties; for the Legislature would not allow the law even to apply to those counties unless a majority of the people willed it. In Howard, one of the slaveholding counties, they got just fifty-five votes for it, and against it one thousand three hundred and ninety-seven. In Baltimore county they got six hundred and eighty-one votes for, and five thousand three hundred and sixty-four against it. In <illegible> county they got seventy-four votes for, and one thousand five hundred and two votes against it. It passed in no county except in one, and there by an accident. That is the judgment of the people of Maryland on the relations of the laboring free colored people living among them, essential to their industry, a part of their social system, filling well their place in life, without whom their interests cannot be protected, and which we neither will expel ourselves, nor encourage to go, nor allow other people to expel.
If gentlemen want to know still further how Maryland regards the free negro population, I desire to say that the emancipation movement of Maryland is indebted very much to the commencement of negro enlistments in Maryland for the same economic reasons. Colonel Birney was sent there with general orders to enlist negroes. He was not instructed to take slaves. He commenced the enlistment of free negroes. Gentlemen found at once that was a discrimination between the loyal people who do not own slaves, and the disloyal people who do own slaves; and my friend Judge Bond wrote to the Secretary of War, remonstrating against the inequality of taking from the Union men their labor, and leaving with the secessionist his labor. He pointed out the law of 1862, authorizing the enlisting of one as well of the other. The Secretary of
<c02>
War, agreed with him. Birney acted under the implied if not the express authority of the Secretary of War, and commenced to levy from the slave population, in order that the Union men might have the free colored population to hire. So the beginning of slave enlistments was a question of political economy which the President and his commentator propose to solve in one way, but which the people of Maryland mean to solve in another way.
But it was also apparent that every slave enlisted was a poor white man’s substitute. It was that more than anything else that brought directly before the people of Maryland, at the last election, the burdens they were suffering from the existence of slavery; and that aided more than did the bayonets to which the gentleman from New York refers, more than all proclamations, more than any other argument urged, in bringing on our side the people of the slaveholding counties of Maryland, who had voted at the beck of the slaveholders for generations. They said, "If we are to have a draft, and if our rich neighbor’s plantation is to be cultivated while we are dragged off to fill the quota of the State, we think that an injustice. We are for slave enlistments, and in favor of relieving the white people from the disproportionate burdens of the draft." It was that, sir, and no proclamation; it was that view, carried home by my honorable friend who represents the first congressional district, (Mr. CRESWELL,) urged upon every husting, in every fence corner, that dragged out men in homespun to cast their first independent vote, and my honorable friend from the first district is the representative of that independent vote.
Such was the telling power of the enlistment of slaves, that my colleague got in the county of Worcester, one of the great slaveholding counties, several hundred more votes than his predecessor, Mr. Crisfield, a most able gentleman, got when he was a candidate of the united Union party.
If we are to be treated, Mr. Speaker, to speculations on equality, and prejudices of race, and matters of that kind, to bewilder and mislead the public judgment upon this grave and important topic, allow me to beseech gentlemen to recollect that we people in America are not the only ones who have prejudices, and that negroes are not the only proscribed race in the world; that other nations have been as unjust and as inclined to oppress, and that we, in some regions of the world, would fare no better than negroes do here. How long has it been since "Dog of a Christian" was the most polite word to us in the Moslem’s mouth? How long has it been since a Brahmin would condescend to sit at table with the most aristocratic Englishman? How long has it been since the nobles of Europe refused to mingle their blood with the blood of the villein, or the peasant of continental Europe? Have we forget the first example-that the Hebrew was an abomination to the Egyptian African?
These are arguments to prejudice, and not to the merits. They are intended to mislead, not to enlighten. I beg gentlemen on the other side, whatever their views-or purposes may be, let us combine, whatever the result, that the least damage may be done to the public service. Let us decide the question, not upon suggestions of prejudice, not on questions of hostility to race, but on the great politico economic argument, if I may use the expression. Those forces which must determine it peacefully if we are wise, or in blood if we are unwise. Those, and those alone, in my judgment, are the alternatives.

WHAT THE REBELLION MEANS.
Extract from a very able and thoughtful speech of Hon. B. Gratz Brown, of Missouri, delivered in the U. S. House of Representatives, March 8, 1864:-
Slavery, containing in itself that antagonism to free institutions which predetermined its appeal to arms in hostility to the national thought and the national being, must perish to make assured any ending both of present conflict and future convulsion; and slavery in a State semi-loyal or neutral, under this consideration, is just as fatal to our national existence as in a State in open rebellion. The exceptional condition of professedly loyal claimants here and there cannot, in this grave conjuncture of affairs, be permitted to control our decision and operate to extend the tenure of slaveholding; for it is from the inherent impossibility of assimilating that system with our free Republic in any State, owing to its violation of human rights, that the supreme reason for direct abolition originates. The outcome of a moral wrong, fostered and encouraged in the social state, is seen in the calamities of to-day. That such calamities may not attach to any other day; that the Republic may be rid of a disease which has brought it nigh to death; that the struggle may be forever ended with those who have taken up arms to make permanent the institution of slavery; and that the American people may repose in undisturbed security, free, prosperous, and cohesive, are the cumulative necessities that impel us now to pass a direct act of universal freedom.
But why should we hesitate? It is an advance, not a reaction. It is the first step toward those great destinies which await us, if only we be true. Do we prefer to go back into the past with its dismays and corruptions and terrible retributions, or go forth into the future of hope and faith and achievement? Let us rather contemplate the full measure of that vast change of which this is but a beginning, and realizing somewhat the spirit of the age upon which we are entering, look therein for other and convincing reasons to assure us that the demand for this action is not premature, but a well-considered wisdom; that it is not isolated and optional, but connected with still larger and impending issues.
To do so, however, to note the march of these times, it will require that we disabuse our speech of much of the phraseology that gives false seeming to events around us. Thus the terms rebellion, used to designate this conflict, unionism, in varied inflections, chosen to generalize our future, and reconstruction, largely adopted to signify projected modes of arrangement, are all half phrases, taking their meaning from obsolete rather than existing attitudes, and afford no correct idea of this war or its ending. Rebellion may be well applied to denote mere resistance forcibly of a part of our people to the national thought; but when employed to convey a comprehension of and give a name for this great progression and conflict, that reaches for its origin far back into anti-slavery agitation, and looks forth for its consummation far forward to the new time, it becomes totally devoid of aptness or significance. The rebellion is but an incident in the protracted struggle, covers only the idea of appeal to force, and measures not that moral flood-tide that surges on this great movement. As well characterize the events of France of <illegible>89 by the resistance of La Vendee, or the birth and growth of the English Common wealth by the reduction of Ireland, as guage the meaning of this conflict by such a formula of language. And so of unionisms; those pliant, fearful, mock-modest attempts to cover up these giant, gaunt, naked facts, that are stalking about in the day light, with the gum-elastic garments.
<c03>
of old-time political drapery. The simple unities of the former state unrelated to rights or wrongs, what do they signify now? They are as passionless as algebraic equations, as vain as mythologies. Who cares for the Union of the past-a Union fraught with seeds of destruction-bitter with humiliations and disappointments? Who believes in the grief of these hired mourners, so lachrymose before the world? They are not even self-deceived. It is likewise with reconstruction-a free masonry that imagines it has only blocks and stones to deal with, or a child’s play, that would build up as they have tumbled down its card-castles, putting affably the court cards on top again. Foolish craftsmen, seeing not that it is the life arteries and the thews and the sinews of a nation’s being that are dealt with, and that it must be regeneration or death.
The supremest truth of our time is this: that it is a revolution in whose whirls we are eddying and with whose currents we have to contend; a revolution the grandest ever yet essayed by man, and destined to give its watchword to other lands and peoples; a revolution in all its great outlines of enkindled faith, of continued development, of overturned thraldoms, of liberated hope. The strata of this nation’s sediment and coldness and oppression has been broken through. Human nature once more, by the grace of God, has become volcanic and eruptive, and the precious truths of freedom and fraternity are welling up from their deep foundations away below the defacements of man. It is a revolution full of promise. What if its inceptions were of the feeblest? What if the small threads of its gathering can only be traced or identified by that most microscopic of all glasses, personal vanity? The origin was. The movement came from us and of us, asserting itself in divers ways, but chief of all in the overthrow of slavery ethics, increasing in volume as people became aroused to the peril of national courses, possessing itself first of prisons, and then of pulpits, and then of platforms, becoming at length the embodied national will-an assured revolution. And in the great transition from the old to the new, let all friends of freedom realize the entire truth, and accept a full responsibility by acknowledging now, as we shall be proud to acknowledge hereafter, that in this flowing on we are the movement, in this going forward we are the progression, in all this change and alteration and accomplishment, we are the revolution.
The receiving such a comprehension of our present convulsions is important far beyond the niceties of language, going as it does straightway to consult the elements that are at work, preparing us in advance for a celerity of events, and a larger scope of transition, not possible under other social condition. And whither does it all tend, this rush of action, this displacement of ideas, these swift affiliations? It would be only the part of presumption-a foolish presumption in the highest wisdom-to claim a foreknowledge of such in its entirety and orbed completion; but yet the humblest of those who with earnest endeavor shall seek to know what manifestations there are of things to come will not labor altogether in vain. There are striking indications that point out, if they do not determine, the ending. There are vaguely outlined groupings that shape themselves into more definite forms as they are scrutinized. Especially are there three great central ideas, raying forth into the darkness of the future their broad beams of light, and illuminating the paths that are to be trodden by this people in their "marching on "-three impending necessities as it were, distinct yet related, which may be set forth as, first, a realization and establishment in truth and not merely in name of absolute freedom policies throughout the whole land; second, the building up from its sure foundations of a nationality that shall represent the aspirations of the whole people for a democratic unity; and, third, the conforming of our Government, in its administration as in its recognitions, to those divine truths that go to constitute and inspire a devout Christian State holding itself "as ever in the great Taskmaster’s eye."
Let us consider the first of these necessities. What are the requirements at our hands that we may be true to that behest? If the end in view be conceded, is there any latitude of choice as to the means, any room for experiments touching liberties?
Without doubt the abolition of slavery throughout all the States of this Union, by general statute, such as now proposed, must be the initial measure to any freedom policies reposing on national authority as their guarantee; for until the slave code shall be thus canceled in fact, no constitutional amendment covering that ground will ever be had. It must be confessed, moreover, that even such enactment will not complete the establishment of popular liberties over all the territory where it is received as law. It will end and determine the form, the name, and pledge the national power to maintain the act, but somewhat more and after that becomes imperative to do away with the substance. Has it not been a favorite taunt of the oligarchs that there was white slavery as well as black slavery? And there was truth in the assertion. Indeed, acute minds have not been wanting to convert the fact into an argument, and defend the enslavement of the African by direct force because of the alleged enslavement through social distortions of the Scandinavian or the Saxon or the Celt. While such reasoning is false and sinister, yet it will not be controverted that many of the worst features of slavery may exist where the badge itself does not obtain. Will any one affirm that Connecticut, which exhibits such intolerance for the foreign born, or that Illinois, which is disgraced with a black code revolting to all sense of justice, can claim to be regarded as free States? With equal truth may it be said also that much of the white population of Europe in densely crowded districts, where an inexorable ledger, with its profit and loss account, rules the hour, come under conditions that render them intrinsically enslaved, while, to a still greater extent, the nominally free white population of the largely slave-breeding and slaveholding sections of our country, have all along been reduced to a dependence for which even the name of liberty could not atone. An enlarged policy of freedom, such as that now asserting itself throughout this land, will not fail to take note of such phantasms, such simulations, such diseased condition, and while striking at slavery in name and estate, will see to it that it will be the reality, and not the image that goes down. Especially, therefore, does it devolve on those who control to take heed, having proclaimed a free society as the type of the future, so to order regeneration, and so to foster new growths, and so to adjust the relations of conquered States, internal as well as external that slavery shall no longer be a synonym of labor, and labor no longer the equivalent of slavery. It would be folly, abjectest recreancy, an utter perversion of the holy uses of the blood and treasure of the nation so lavishly poured out, to act otherwise, to do aught less than this.
And here let it be reflected that they who are so swift to put back the old forms in the old places simply to bring about the old relations to the national Government, either have no conception of the conditions and environment with which slavery maintains itself, or else they are false to the principle and the faith to compass selfish ends. Unless this freedom 
<c04>
work be well done, it will not be done at all, for slavery will return to power along with its masters. It will have no difficulty to find names under which to mask itself, or politicians to pay court to it, or moneylenders to buy it an amnesty. Take the illustration afforded of this fact in Missouri, and see how tragic has been the anti-slavery struggle there, even with a large majority of the people pledged to freedom. The State stands to-day resold into slavery for another year to accomplish a political negotiation. The misrule of the past, the sway of unsympathizing generals, the upholding of pro-slavery State organization, the persecution of the loyal element, and the arming of the disloyal element, find a natural outgrowth in a miserable bargain to postpone a constitutional convention, concoct an alliance between official power and reactionary sentiment, and enunciate a bogus presidential preference.
What, then, is the problem with which dealings must be had in this essential work of making solid the national policies in the sections occupied, and to be occupied, by our arms? The organisms of peace must flow out of the rights of war, and in so far forth the national authority is disembarrassed in its operations by restraints that might intervene in ordinary times.
Four million whites and three million blacks will represent with sufficient accuracy the entire population, a population intermixed and dwelling together heretofore under laws declaring the blacks a servile laboring class, and conditions that render two-thirds of the whites a dependent, helpless class: the land all held by a few thousand owners, who claimed to be a ruling class socially, morally, and politically. War, as has been said, has loosened all the joints of that structure. Rights of property forfeited, estates abandoned by rebel whites and held by loyal blacks, distinction of classes broken down in the destruction of all society, laws of vassalage suspended by the proclamations of freedom and the conscription of armies, it remains only to impose, under protection of the military arm, a new civilization that shall accord with the life of our republic, and that shall carry along with it guarantees against any revival of the old state whose concluding was so much of disaster. Codes to secure the liberties of all under the law are therefore antecedent necessities, codes that must be ratified and come up from below as well as codes that must be enacted and come down from above-the double affirmance of the new attitude of freedom by local and Federal authority, a joint initiative of support and protection. It has been the boast of some that the courts can make laws by interpretation. Hence, nothing that can contribute to foreclose any latitude of construction in this behalf should be omitted. A triple wall of accomplished facts, of statutes that reflect things done, of codes that embody completions, of constitutions reconstituted, must be built up around an immured judiciary. In any re-entry on political life, it must be paramount and primary, that such organic recognition of freedom as the higher law shall precede all other exercise of civil functions; must precede it as the only sufficient assurance that the law of the locality is in accord with the law of the nation. Hence the duty imposed here and now, both to declare such as the universal public law of this land, and to require that it be declared likewise in advance as the constitutional basis of any of those societies heretofore or now in revolt. There must be an asylum for questioned liberty opened in every tribunal and under every commission, whether Federal or State, that shall sit in judgment or wield power.
If there is one conclusion more worthy than another to be deduced from a review of the forces that surround us and the needs that impend over us, it is that this is no time for halting policies. What ever personates torpor or stagnation or reaction must be put aside, whether in the shape of legislation, or administering, or partyism, or thought. And this is not optional but imperative, under the penalty of other contortion and convulsion hereafter. The active regeneration which must take place in the nation, which must mold institutions and reform peoples, must obtain equally in the methods of political procedure as in the conduct of official affairs. The intimate blending which exists between party organism and governmental control, making the one shadow of the other, is such that inasmuch as the vices of the former soon reappear in the latter, so likewise the changes and progressions demanded in administration will have their first and foremost manifesting in the shapings of political association. Thus it is that signs of decay and supersedure in old parties become proof of real advance and conquest in national development and exaltation. Nowhere and at no time has this been more visible than here and now. In no field of human affairs is revolution more palpable than in the partyisms of the age, and yet in no sphere is there so great an effort to ignore any transformation or recasting-to repel the entrance of truth into politics. Astute leaders of the management-astute at least according to the esteem of their class-go burrowing back into old cheateries for a name, or a disguise, or a platform, and think they have achieved a success when they have issued only a platitude. Vain delusion, to believe that such idle formulas will deceive any; that a crafty guile which substitutes a nomenclature for a principle will have force in this day of the upturning of old forms; that the conventionalisms of political thought will supersede an individuality of judgment and purpose never before so prevalent among all ranks as in this struggle. On the contrary, the shams of the hustings equally with the shams of government must be discarded by those who would approach the people.
Talk not, then, of your Union party, or your Republican party, or your Democratic slavery party; the phrases now are meaningless, have become idle parodies on all earnest effort. As well go masquerading in the clothes of your ancestry. You have a Radical party and a Conservative party, and none other in this nation at this time. That is the line of demarkation which readjustment is actually taking place, and it is in presence of the real combat where conflict clears up theory, that you will find the true positioning of the politics of the country. The former marches under the one banner of immediate freedom as essential to progress; the other under many flags to preserve sectionalisms, falsify democracy, invite foreign interventions, and betray the hope of the people. The one would grapple to the future and its precious promises by every mode and at all costs; the other would barter the revolution, and that at a heavy discount, to buy or retain office and power. The one is born of faith, the other is the scion and representative of compromise. One is the advance, the other the reaction. And here, as in all things else that are to meet solution, absolute truth must prevail; and the effort to substitute unreal issues for the vital problems that touch upon the life-wrestle of this nation will ignominiously fail. As you have changed in all other relations, in constitutionalisms, in national control, in foreign outlook, in domestic policies, so must you change in partyism and conform to that which is at issue; not varnish up the dead past.
<c05>
DISPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC LANDS.
Extract from an admirable speech of Hon. George W. Julian, of Indiana, delivered in the U. S. House of Representatives, March 18, 1864:-
Mr. Speaker, the poor whites of the South will be as powerless to take care of themselves as the freed-men, unless the Government shall arm them against their masters. "Subdivision" of the land, as Mr. Yeatman says, would also secure a loyal population, since every man who has a home to love and to defend will naturally love his country.
This rebellion will present the strongest temptations to land monopoly that were ever offered to the greed of avarice and power. The rich lands of the South have been cursed by this from the beginning, and without the interposition of Congress the system will be continued and vitalized anew by falling into fresh hands. The degraded and thriftless condition of the people, the heritage of centuries of bondage, will pave the way for land monopoly in more grievous forms than have yet been recorded in ancient or modern times. Society cannot possibly be organized on a Republican basis, because a grinding aristocracy, resting upon large landed estates, will convert the mass of the people into mere drudges and dependents. African slavery may not exist in name, but the few will practically control the fortunes of the many, irrespective of color or race. In such communities public improvements will necessarily languish. Wasteful and slovenly farming will stamp upon the country the impress of dilapidation, while reducing the productiveness of the soil, and hindering the growth of manufactures and commerce. In the midst of large landed estates, towns and villages can neither be multiplied nor enjoy a healthy growth. The want of diversity of pursuits and competition in business will palsy the energies of the people. The education of the masses will be impossible, since the establishment and support of schools within convenient reach of the people cannot be secured. The proprietors of the great estates, as has been well remarked, will be feudal lords, while the poor will have no feudal rights. Under the tendency of a false system, society will steadily gravitate towards the example of South America and Mexico, where some estates are larger than two or three of the smaller States of our Union. The country will find its likeness in England, in which the smaller landholders are daily being swallowed up by the larger.
A grand opportunity now presents itself for recognizing the principles of radical democracy, in the establishment of new and regenerated States. We are summoned by every consideration of patriotism, humanity, and republicanism to lay the foundations of empire upon the enduring basis of justice and equal rights. No revolutionary or destructive measures are required on our part. We are already in the midst of revolution and chaos. Through no fault of our own, the foundations of social and political order in the rebel States are subverted, and the elimination of a great disturbing element opens up our pathway to the establishment of free Christian commonwealths on the ruins of the past. These States constitute one of the fairest portions of the globe. They are larger in area than all the free States of the North. They have a sea and gulf coast of more than six thousand miles in extent, and are drained by more than fifty navigable rivers, which are never closed to navigation by the rigor of the climate. They have at least as rich a soil as the States of the North, yielding great wealth-producing staples peculiar to them, and two or three crops a year. They have a finer climate, and their agricultural, manufacturing, and commercial advantages are decidedly superior. Their geographical position is better, as respects the great commercial centers of the world. The institution of slavery which has so long cursed these regions by excluding emigration, degrading labor, and impoverishing the soil, will very soon be expelled. The cry which already comes up from these lands is for free labor. If we offer them free homesteads, and protect their rights, they will come. John Bright, in a recent speech at Birmingham, estimates that within the past year 150, 000 people have sailed from England to New York. Let it be settled that slavery is dead, and that the estates of traitors in the South can be had under the provisions of the Homestead law, and foreign emigration will be quadrupled, if not augmented tenfold. Millions in the old world, hungering and thirsting after the righteousness of free institutions, will flock to the sunny South, and mingle there with the swarms of our own people in pursuit of new homes under kindlier skies. Immigration has not slackened, even during this war, and in determining the direction it will take, it must be remembered that settlements have very nearly reached their limits in the North and West. Kansas and Nebraska are border States, and must so continue. Their storms, and droughts, and desert plains, give a pretty distinct hint that the emigrant must seek his Eldorado in latitudes further South. In the new Northwestern States, the richest lands have been purchased, and vast portions of them locked op by speculators. Their distance from the great markets for their produce, and their severe winters, will also check emigration in that direction, and incline it further South, if lands can be procured there with tolerable facility. The rebel States not only abound in cheap and fertile land, with cheap labor in the persons of the freedmen to assist in its cultivation, but they possess great mineral resources. They have also extensive lines of railroads, which, in connection with their great rivers; bring almost every portion of their territory into communication with the sea.
Mr. Speaker, nothing can atone for the woes and sorrows of this war, but the thorough reorganization of society in these revolted States. Now is the time to begin this work. We must not only cut up slavery, root and branch, but we must see to it that these teeming regions shall be studded over with small farms and tilled by free men. We must remember that "the best way to help the poor is to enable them to help themselves." We most regard the equal rights of the people as a religious duty, for "Christianity is the root of all democracy, the highest fact in the rights of man." Labor must be rendered honorable and gainful, by securing to the laborer the fruits of his toil. Instead of the spirit of Caste and the law of Hate, which have so long blasted these regions, we must build up homogeneous communities, in which the interest of each will be recognized as the interest of all. Instead of an overshadowing aristocracy, founded on the monopoly of the soil, and its dominion over the poor, we most have no order of nobility bat that of the laboring masses of the country, who fight its battles in war, and constitute its glory and strength in peace. Instead of large estates, widely scattered settlements, wasteful agriculture, popular ignorance, political and social degradation, the decay of literature, the decline of manufactures and the arts, contempt for honest labor, and a pampered aristocracy, we must have small farms, closely associated communities, thrifty tillage, free schools, social independence, a healthy literature, flourishing manufactures and mechanic arts, respect for honest labor, and equality of political rights. These ends, to a great extent, are provided for by the bill I have introduced, and no measure of more
<c06>
vital interest to the people has ever been submitted to the Congress of the United States. I voted for the bill which has passed the House, providing for a Bureau of Emancipation, bat I must regard this measure as a far better "freedmen’s bill" than that of my honorable friend from Massachusetts, for it provides for the emancipation of all races, and the freedom of labor itself. These regions, blighted by treason, must be cared for, or abandoned, by the General Government The heaven-daring conspiracy of rebels in arms has placed them, or will place them, at our feet. Shall we hand them over to the speculator, in the hope of thereby securing a revenue to pay our national debt? I have shown that the true source of revenue is the cultivation of the soil. The future of these rebellious States, involving the well-being of millions for generations to come, is now committed to our hands. We can re-enact over them the political and social damnation of the past, or predestinate them to the blessedness and glory of a grand and ever unfolding future. We can build up a magnificent constellation of free commonwealths, whose territory can support a population of more than one hundred millions, on the basis of free labor and a just distribution of land among the people; or we can again organize society after the pattern of Europe, and thus spare the hideous cancer, which, in the words of Chateaubriand, "has gnawed social order since the beginning of the world." Can we hesitate, in dealing with so fearful an alternative? Shall we mock the Almighty by sporting with the heaven-permitted privilege now placed before us? Shall we heap curses on our children, when blessings are within our grasp? Sir, let us prove ourselves worthy of our day and of our work. Let as rise to the full height of our sublime opportunity, and thus make ourselves, under Providence, the creators of a new dispensation of liberty and peace. Then, in the eloquent language of Solicitor Whiting, "the hills and valleys of the South, purified and purged of all the guilt of the past, clothed with a new and richer verdure, will lift up their voices in thanksgiving to the Author of all good, who has granted to them, amidst the agonies of civil war, a new birth and a glorious transfiguration. Then, the people of the North and the people of the South will again become one people, united in interests, in pursuits, in intelligence, in religion, and in patriotic devotion to our common country."

THE LATE OWEN LOVEJOY.
As time passes away, the House has a deeper conviction than ever before of its loss in the death of Mr. Lovejoy. He was one of its ablest members; and men who once affected to hate and despise him, now perceive that be was one of the most useful legislators in Congress. Until within a year, it was refreshing to see him rise in his place in the House to speak, for he was the picture of manly health and the personification of the manly attributes. I do not believe he ever knew what fear was. Mr. Grinnell, of Iowa, himself formerly a Congregational clergyman, in his eulogy mentioned the following incident:
"But a few weeks since, in his sick-room, I expressed fears for his recovery. I saw the tears coarse down his manly cheek as he said, ‘Ah! God’s will be done! Bat I have been laboring, voting and praying for twenty years that I might see the great day of freedom which is so near, and which I hope God will let me live to rejoice in. I want a vote on my bill for the destruction of slavery root and branch.’ He saw the sun of national liberty but in its rising, when he hoped to gaze on it with rapture in its midnoon splendor; but mysteriously has God called him above the storm-clouds of war, bringing rest to his weary spirit, and new vision, with an exchange of the sorrows of earth for the joys of heaven."
Two months ago, a friend called upon Mr. Love-joy, when he was convalescing, and said with extreme frankness to him: "Mr. Lovejoy, I am convinced that you will not survive the winter. You seem to be all broken down-you have no constitution left. I don’t say this to frighten you, but as a friendly admonition." The warning seemed at first to startle the sick man, and he burst into tears. "I have done a hundred years’ work in the last twenty years," said he, "and now the day of emancipation has come, can it be that God will not let me live to witness it?" The same thought was in the minds of all his friends, and they did not become reconciled to his fate so soon as he did. This was the only outburst of anguish during his illness, and it seemed to arise more from an intense desire to see the end of the war and the day of complete emancipation than from a selfish longing for life. Many of Mr. Lovejoy’s enemies predicted that he would prove to be an impracticable man, and that the moment the Republican party came to harm, his mission would be ended. They were not a little surprised to notice that the impassioned anti-slavery orator soon became the clear-headed legislator; and, instead of urging the administration to occupy a still more radical position on the question of emancipation, be actually deprecated severe criticism upon Mr. Lincoln or any member of his administration. Some of his friends differed with him on this point, but did not respect him the less because of that fact, knowing that his motive was pure.-Washington corr. of N. Y. Independent.
The son of a clergyman-farmer, and a steadfast laborer on his father’s farm in youth, he became himself a clergyman-farmer, preaching and tilling the earth with signal energy and success; but always and absorbingly laboring for and devoted to the cause of Human Liberty. He lectured persistently against Slavery when there were very few to hear and many to curse; he prayed for the fugitive from unjust bondage, and helped him on his way to freedom; he became a politician for freedom’s sake, and-never discovering the wisdom of standing aloof from the ballot-box when a vote might be deposited therein which would prove, at the very least, a protest against legalized injustice and systematic oppression-he at length took his place in the legislative councils of his State, afterward in those of the nation, always patriotic, intelligent, upright, and manly; but always pre-eminently and unmistakably an Abolitionist, in soul and act-one of the few whom Slavery instinctively felt could not be silenced nor bought, and therefore confronted at all times with open, implacable, and vengeful hate.
Stout and strong in body and soul, Lovejoy always met the foes of Human Liberty as his natural enemies. He was no bully, no brawler, no pugilist, no duelist; he sought no personal collision, and was never tempted by harsh words to deal blows; yet he stood ready to defend his person and life against any ruffian assailant with such weapons as God had given him. For years legally persecuted for his Anti-Slavery very efforts, he was never awed nor swerved from his course by legalized iniquity nor by the terrors of mob violence. Congressional ruffianism often threatened him, but rarely or never ventured to approach menacingly within reach of his stalwart arm. Large in frame and in soul, his voice was full and resonant, and his eloquence that of a steady, clear-headed, true-hearted, earnest, upright man-such as reached the 
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
souls of all who had souls, whether assembled to hear him in the log-school-house of a new settlement in his own Illinois, or sitting at ease under the softened gas-light of the glass-ceiled hall of the House of Representatives.
Lovejoy lived long, though he died in the early afternoon of life-only 58 years old. But all those years had been faithfully spent either in preparation for, or in faithful execution of, the work to which God had called him; so that he was fully ripened by a career of beneficent activity for that Great Hereafter which he had ever contemplated without dread or fear. Though not old, he had done his work amply and well, and was ready to hear and obey his Master’s call. He leaves behind him none more devoted, more intrepid, or more deserving of the admiring love of his countrymen.-Horace Greeley in the N.Y. Independent.
So accustomed had the people of the Northwest become to connect the stalwart figure, ruddy face and resonant voice of Mr. Lovejoy with physical vigor and longevity, that the tidings of his not unexpected death have yet taken all by surprise. It is hard to realize that be, who seemed the very incarnation of health, who for more than a quarter of a century had stood in the van of the conflict with human slavery, dealing the heaviest, hottest blows against this giant sin, has suddenly fainted by the way, and will be seen no more. The hosts of freedom, among whom he had been so long a leader, are advancing to victory-but he will not be here to celebrate their triumph; the nation in whose griefs he was afflicted, is hastening to the hour when her enemies will be under her feet-but the peace-bells will ring out their jubilate, and the cannon thunder their joy, over his grave. 
When, at last, the plots of the slave power were ripened, and the life of the nation was its aim, he nerved himself to yet more herculean efforts-and it was these last grand efforts, made under the rallying cry of “The Union, one and undivided, now and forever,” that cost him his life. His patriotism was outspoken, uncompromising, uncalculating. His interest in the brave defenders of the country led him to many an effort that seemed to lie outside of his regular duties. The Sanitary Commission found in him an ever active co-operator; and while at his home in Princeton, endeavoring to recuperate, he was besieged by applications from all the “country round about” to lecture for the benefit of Aid Societies-to which applications he rarely returned a negative answer, even when his health demanded it, and when he might have excused himself on the score of his position and its duties. He was one of the few men who lent a helping hand to the Northwestern Soldiers’ Fair from its very inception-he attended the mass meeting of ladies called at Chicago to consider the subject of a Fair, and addressed the large audience in its favor, warmly and earnestly. All through the preparations, the lady managers called on him for advice or assistance, when they needed it, which was always accorded; and almost the last speech of any moment which he ever made-if not the very last-was delivered at the Fair, for its benefit. At the funeral ceremonies in Brooklyn, where he died, a common soldier, a stranger, came and knelt by his coffin, and kissed him. An old colored woman also came and kissed him, and held up her little child to kiss him. Touching tributes these, to his genuine loyally, and his devotion to Freedom.
Those who knew Mr. Lovejoy only through his published political speeches-scathing, severe, denunciatory and defiant-were inclined to believe him a harsh, fault-finding and vindictive man. Never could there be a greater mistake. His geniality, kindness of spirit, courtesy, charity and playful humor were rarely excelled. All who knew him loved him; where ever he went, be attracted people to himself, who were ever after his friends; while his popularity in the State of his adoption, and especially in the neighborhood of his home, was unbounded.
It was our good fortune to make a brief visit to Mr. Lovejoy’s home, not more than six months before his decease. In the bosom of his family, where he was almost idolatrously loved, and where his kindly, companionable, genial, social nature had full play, it was a pleasure to behold him. We shall not soon forget the good-natured sparring of that happy family circle, the harmless rencontres of wit, the brilliant badinage, the flashing repartees-nor the underlying proud affection of all for him, who was the lodestar of the family group-nor yet the lofty, moral and Christian spirit that gave tone to the conversation. We were sometimes reminded of the great Webster-especially in his love for nature, for his flocks and herds and agricultural life. He drove us over his beautiful farm of rolling prairie, of more than a thousand acres,-now stopping among his herds of cows and oxen, among which he alighted, patting their fat, sleek sides, and talking to them in language which they seemed to understand and appreciate-then visiting his flocks of sheep, that followed on after the carriage some distance, bleating their recognition. A long detour was made for the purpose of a brief and humorous colloquy with the threshers, whose clattering machines were beating out the wheat of the immense harvest-and we shall never fail to remember how he was summoned to a balky horse, which, although a great pet of the household, was yet taken with sudden and inconvenient fits of contrariness, when no amount of coaxing, exhorting or driving would induce him to budge an inch. So, as a dernier resort, Mr. Lovejoy was called, whose voice never failed to conquer the evil spirit of the brute. At the first sound of his master’s voice, the stubbornness of the animal gave way, and when he urged good naturedly, “Come, Major, what’s the matter? Come right along, now!” the spell of mulishness was broken, and the horse trotted off at a brisk pace, as if to falsify the statement just made of his previous bad behavior.
The next morning we visited the County Fair then being held in Princeton. As we rode to the grounds, women leaned from carriages to bow to him-men lifted their hats in pleasant recognition-little children called out cheerily to him as he passed. What hand-shakings awaited him as he entered the Fair enclosure-what cordial greetings-how he was invited here, to see some magnificent cattle, and there, to inspect some luscious fruit! Everybody was glad to see him-everybody met him as a friend, and claimed a friend’s privilege of grasping his hand. Many are the places where he will be missed-but nowhere will he be so missed and mourned as in the beautiful village of Princeton, where his home has been for many, many years.
One after another, the great, the good, the brave, the true-hearted, those whom the world has need of, gather their robes about them, and lie down to their rest. “The faithful fail from the children of men,”-yet God reigns, and will carry on his plans and purposes by means and instrumentalities of which we know not. But for this assurance, how would the heart sink, as one after another of the world’s bravest and best workers falls amid the labors of a life-time, still unfinished and incomplete!-M. A. L., in New Covenant.

THE FORT PILLOW MURDERS.
Gen. Sherman telegraphs from somewhere in the South-West that after the capture last week of Fort Pillow, near Columbus, by Forrest’s raiding rebel force, three hundred of our colored soldiers, whom their commander had surrendered as prisoners of war, including those who had been wounded in the defence, were butchered in cold blood by their captors. The Cairo correspondent of the Associated Press adds that five of them were buried alive! Four of these were among the wounded; while the fifth was compelled to help dig the pits, and then tumbled in and covered up. The correspondent adds that Gen. Chalmers gave notice that no quarter was hence forth to be given to “home-made Yankees”-that is to Southern Unionists, white or black. The correspondent of the St. Louis Union telegraphs that of three hundred and fifty colored soldiers who were engaged in the defence, but fifty-six are left alive, and that every one of their (white) officers was killed. Also, that the rebels went over the field the morning after the fight, and killed every wounded negro who was not already dead. Many of our wounded, he adds, were shot in the hospital, which was finally burned. Gen. Chalmers told the Union’s correspondent that he had endeavored to stop this butchery of prisoners, but that it was contrary to the policy of his Government to spare negro soldiers or their (white) officers, and that he considered that policy right. Another rebel officer observed that our white troops would have been protected from butchery, if they had not been found fighting side by side with negroes.
This correspondent was on board the Union steamboat Platte Valley, which was passing up the Mississippi on the day after the capture, and was hailed under a flag of truce by the rebels, and invited to take away such of our wounded as had been left alive. That White as well as Black soldiers were
<c02>
massacred by the rebels after all resistance had ceased-that black women, and children not more than eight years old, were slaughtered like sheep-is attested by the passengers on the Platte Valley. Some of our officers on board that steamboat are reported to have fraternized with Chalmers and his murdering subordinates, treating them with abundant courtesy and whisky. Fifty-seven in all, out of a garrison of six hundred, were brought away wounded, by the Platte Valley-only seven or eight of them colored; but two hundred in all are said to have been saved. Of the fifty-seven, eight died before the steamboat reached Cairo.
To comprehend fully the atrocity of these doings, it must be considered that all this occurred in Kentucky-a State which has steadily refused to join the rebellion. Pollard, in his Southern History of the War, fully admits this, (justly) attributing it to the enduring influence of Henry Clay. The rebels therefore give notice that we shall not defend ourselves on our own admitted territory by the help of blacks; for, if we do, they will murder not only these, but their white officers and compatriots also.
The simple question raised by these proceedings is-Are we the slaves of the rebels? If they may dictate to us the kind of force with which we are to fight them, they can surely dictate the measure and efficiency of our resistance to their arms. To persist in fighting while practically acquiescing in these assumptions would be preposterous, hideous, and a sickening waste of human life.
Their armies, at this hour, are officered by renegades from the Union armies-Lee, Johnston, Beauregard, and all the rest. Many of these are traitors to their States as well as to the Union-witness Kirby Smith, Pemberton, Gardiner, Elzey, Buckner, Ould, Breckinridge, Humphrey Marshall, and ever so many more. Yet while we accord to these all the immunities of prisoners of war, the rebel authorities dictate to us the kind of force we shall use against them, and butcher without mercy all whom we employ in disregard of their limitations. 
Up to this hour, they have assassinated many of our colored soldiers and their white officers, and have exchanged none of either. And they persist in this course without provoking any effective counteraction on our part.-N. Y. Tribune.

THE TRAGEDY AT FORT PILLOW.
WASHINGTON, April 16, 1864.
The news of the tragedy after the capture of Fort Pillow, where Union troops, white and black, were indiscriminately slaughtered, sounds like the echo of a savage rebellion against humanity and civilization to the recent extraordinary apologies for treason in the National House of Representatives. The amazement inspired by the latter in every loyal heart is only excelled by the horror excited by the Fort Pillow massacre. If the soldiers in the army were surprised at the votes and voices of the opposition to the war in Congress; if our citizens in other lands will read these proceedings with shame and consternation-what will they both say-what will our people everywhere say-as they ponder upon the details of the carnival of blood enacted by the savages under Forrest a few days ago? Are these white men who have done this dreadful act? Can they have ever been American citizens? What has transformed them in to the shape of fiends? There is only one answer-SLAVERY! In no other school could human beings have been trained to such readiness for cruelties like these. Accustomed to brutality or bestiality all their lives, it was easy for them to perpetrate the atrocities which will startle the civilized foreign world, as they have awakened the indignation of our own people. But this last example of rebel barbarity, while it must serve to increase and crystalize our patriotic determination, must not drive us to depart from the honorable and merciful spirit which animates the Government in the prosecution of the war. For this same experience cannot fail to prove still more the value of colored troops, and also the bravery of that self-sacrificing yet unfortunate people. May God help them! They did not make this war. They had no votes to give for or against the slavery under which most of them have so long groaned. They had no part even in the utterance of opinions. They were valuable simply as the contributors to the aristocracy of the South; and when these latter resolved to plunge a nation into war only that the negro might be still more enslaved, and the Government separated and torn into fragments, the blacks were called in to help to avert the catastrophe. It is unnecessary to reason upon the proposition that the slave-masters would not employ their own negroes in the army out of any regard for Northern lives, or the prejudices of caste in the North. Nowhere is there so much familiarity between whites and blacks as in the South; nowhere is the hooted idea of amalgamation so practically and profitably illustrated. But the slaveholders feared that their own slaves would prove to be fonder of freedom than of slavery in the new relation they would thus be forced to bear to slavery. The Government, then, having to decide between leaving these slaves to aid in feeding the rebellion or to aid in fighting it, chose the latter alternative. And now this poor, pursued, and persecuted people are put forward to do their part of the great work. To the discharge of this duty they bring no reluctant service. They know the terrible risks they run. In the free States they are surrounded by a cloud of ignorant and most unreasoning prejudices. First, they have political leaders charging that the chances of war have put them on a level with the laboring whites, and that the friends of the Government contemplate a grand system of admixture of white and black. This shameful and shameless falsehood cannot be repelled by the colored people, for, as I have said, they have no votes, and are deprived of a fair chance to address any audience of their enemies. It is a common thing, even now, for a colored man or woman to be insulted on the streets by wretches, many of whom never knew prosperity until they came to live under the protection of the old flag. But what amazes me most is that any American should ever yield to this bigotry. That every colored man saves the life of a white man in the army never seems to have made any more impression on such minds than the other fact that the only real amalgamation is that which takes place in the slave States. In the North it is exceptional; in the South it is common. On this head I borrow a most suggestive paragraph from the Morning Chronicle, which is as follows:-
STATISTICS OF MISCEGENATION. There were 411, 613 mulatto slaves in the South in 1850, of whom 69, 970 were in Virginia, 43, 281 in Kentucky, and 66,900 in Georgia. These numbers are considerably beyond the legitimate proportion of those States. There were also 176,739 free mulattoes in the United States 1860, of whom 106,770 belonged to the South, and 69, 969 to the free States. Of the free mulattoes, Virginia contained 23,485, which number, added to her slave mulattoes, makes a total of miscegenated population of 93,824. Her mulatto slaves alone exceeded the total number of mulattoes in the free States. The whole number of mulattoes, slave and free, in the Union, in 1860, was 588,352, of whom 79,969 belonged to the free States and 518,383 to the slave States-a number greater than the combined white population of Arkansas, Delaware, and Florida-greater than the white population of Maryland-almost twice as great as that of South Carolina, and twice as great as the combined populations of Delaware and Florida. The mulatto population of Virginia alone exceeds the number of whites in Delaware or Florida.
In fact, there it not now, and never has been, a white man, in the free Stales, fit to work, or to earn enough for his family, that ever lost a day’s wages because of negro competition. But all this is the very least part of the sufferings of the colored race. There is a darker side to this very dark picture. Look at them now, when they go into the war; when they go out to fight for and save the lives of many of those who forget while they slander them. THE CAPTURE OF AND MASSACRE AT FORT PILLOW IS THE NEXT FOR A VOLUME. The negro volunteer enters the army under three immediate and as yet insoluble difficulties: I. He gets less pay than the white man. II. He knows if taken prisoner he will not be exchanged. III. He feels and may well fear that if captured, his life may be sacrificed with as little mercy as if he were in the employ of the enemies of the best institutions in the world. Look at this black hero, O prejudiced partisan! Whether you be scholar or statesman, priest or pharisee, the laborer who lets the politician cheat you, or the layman who only repeats the narrow sophisms of his teacher, I demand of you to solve to me the question I put to you: Slavery having begun the war against liberty, having forced the North to employ black and white alike, to save our Government, what reason can an honest man, if he is loyal to his country, urge against the employment of the blacks, and how could this nation defend itself if the colored people were not enlisted in this war? In the light of the frightful fires of Fort Pillow, and with the screams of our once living and wounded and now dead immortals, of that new sacrifice to freedom sounding in our ears, answer me! 
-Philadelphia Press.	OCCASIONAL.
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1864. 
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS.
The General Agent of the Liberator would very kindly and respectfully remind delinquent subscribers, that its terms, as printed in every number, stipulate “payment in advance”;-that a lapse of six months, or even three months, is not an observance of these terms; and that when a whole year has expired, and another quarter been added thereto, without payment, it is obvious that very great indulgence to delinquents has been allowed, and that they will show themselves to be utterly unreasonable if they take any offence, or make any complaint, at the immediate discontinuance of their papers. This, therefore, is to apprise all such as are owing from January 1, 1863, to the present time, that unless their bills are paid by the 1st of May ensuing, (this will be giving them a credit of sixteen months,) their names will be stricken from our subscription list. And yet that list is too small not to render it quite necessary that should be much increased, rather than curtailed of a single subscriber. The Liberator has derived no benefit whatever from the wonderful change which it (among other instrumentalities) has wrought in public sentiment, adverse to slavery; and with the constantly increasing expenses of publication, we shall deeply regret to be compelled to cut off any one who is now receiving it.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent, Boston, April 6, 1864.

THIRTIETH ANNIVERSARY 
OF THE 
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Thirtieth Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the Church of the Puritans, (Rev. Dr. Cheever’s.) in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 10th, commencing at 10 o’clock, A. M.
The Society will hold another public meeting on WEDNESDAY evening, May 11th, in the Cooper Institute, commencing at half-past 7 o’clock. The names of the speakers will be announced hereafter.
The business meetings of the Society will be held in the Lecture Room of the Church of the Puritans, on Tuesday evening, at half-past 7, and on Wednesday forenoon, at 10, A. M.
Cheering as it is to know that the Government stands irrevocably pledged to the liberation of more than three-fourths of the slave population of the United States, by the Proclamation of Emancipation of January 1, 1863-that the remaining portion of the slave system in the Border States is rapidly dissolving by the enlistment and consequent freedom of such slaves within their limits as are capable of bearing arms in the service of the country, and by a growing conviction that it is useless to attempt any longer to resist the mighty tide of Anti-Slavery sentiment which is hourly deepening and widening in every direction, especially in the aforesaid States-and that the experiment of emancipation, under the war power, and at every possible disadvantage in the midst of an unparalleled national convulsion, is thus far eminently successful-there still remains much to be done by the Abolitionists, in the way of labor and testimony, to secure full and complete justice for the colored race, both at the hands of the Government and with reference to the reconstruction of society on the basis of political equality in the rebellious States. Let the approaching anniversary, therefore, be well attended by the tried men and women whose purpose it still is to continue the great moral struggle until before the Constitution and the laws all are made free, and complexional distinctions are unknown. 
In behalf of the Executive Committee, 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS,
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries. 
SUBSCRIPTION TESTIMONIAL TO GEORGE
THOMPSON.
It will be seen by the following Circular, signed by the Governor of the State, the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and other eminent citizens, that it is proposed to raise a Subscription Testimonial, to be presented to GEORGE thompson, Esq., in grateful recognition of the eminent service he has rendered the whole country, since the rebellion broke out, by his indefatigable efforts in England to defeat the plots of rebel sympathizers and emissaries, and preserve amicable relations between the two-countries. The proposition is highly creditable to all parties; and if carried out, as it should be, and we trust will be, on a handsome and generous scale, it will prove of international interest and value-increasing the number of our trans-Atlantic friends, and cheering them by a substantial proof of the liberty-loving purpose of those who are upholding the Government and its flag.
It is not intended to appropriate the money that may be raised to the buying of a service of plate, or anything of the kind; but it is to be invested in the best possible manner for the benefit of Mr. Thompson in his advancing years, and of his family, by the responsible Trustees whose names are given-(than whom three better men cannot be found in the Commonwealth)-and who will be happy to receive whatever donations, from the smallest to the largest sums, (the more that participate, the better,) those who approve the object may feel disposed to give.
[circular.]
At a period when the North seemed to have bu few friends in England,-when the efforts of secessionists and those in their interest threatened to disturb the peace of the two countries, GEORGE THOMPSON devoted himself to the noble work of dispelling the delusion caused by misrepresentation and falsehood, and of convincing the liberal and the laboring classes of Europe that our cause is identified with their own.
He travelled through England, addressing large and respectable audiences, placing facts before the people, and explaining the real nature of the issue between the North and the South.
Without fee or reward he has labored to prevent misunderstanding between the nations, and has thus contributed to preserve the peace of the world.
It has been said of him that “he never turned his back on a good cause, or put his hand to a bad one.”
As a recognition of these valuable services, it is proposed that a fund he raised and placed in the hands of John M. Forbes, Samuel E. Sewall, and John H. Stephenson, as Trustees, to be by them appropriated, at their discretion, for a testimonial worthy the man and the cause.
Subscriptions for the above object may be sent to JOHN M. FORBES, 36 City Exchange; SAMUEL E. SEWALL, 46 Washington Street; or JOHN H. STEPHENSON, 12 Arch Street. 
JOHN A. ANDREW, F. W. BIRD,
JOEL HAYDEN, WILLIAM B. ROGERS,
J. E. FIELD. GEORGE S. HALE, 
ALEX. H. BULLOCK, S. G. WARD, 
ERASTUS HOPKINS.
Boston, Feb. 26, 1864. 
It is very desirable that those who intend subscribing to this Testimonial should do so with no unnecessary delay: Our esteemed friend, John Hopper, Esq. of New York, sends us $50 for this purpose; and we shall be happy to be made the medium for similar subscriptions, to any extent. So-we will venture add-will Oliver Johnson, Esq., Editor of the Anti-Slavery Standard, and Theodore Tilton, Esq., Editor of the Independent, New York; and J. Miller McKim, Esq., Office of Freedrman’s Association, Philadelphia. In connection with his donation of $200, (already acknowledged,) Hon. Smith, in a private note, says-“George Thompson both needs and deserves a handsome testimonial. The old age of so able and faithful a servant of mankind should be made as comfortable as money can make it.” But the contemplated testimonial is not simply a matter of personal regard and good-will-at this time it has an international bearing of no slight significance.
<c04>
GEEELEY’S HISTORY OF THE REBELLION.
the america Conflict: A History of the Great Rebellion in the United States of America, 1860-‘64: its Causes, Incidents, and Results: intended to exhibit especially its Moral and Political Phases, with the Drift and Progress of American Opinion respecting Human Slavery from 1776 to 1864. By Horace greeley. Illustrated by Portraits on steel of Generals, Statesmen, and other Eminent Men: Views of important Places, Battle Scenes and Diagrams, from official sources, &c. Hartford: Published by O. D. Case & Co. Chicago: George Sherwood & Co. 1864. 
The publishers of this work state that, in addition to its special value as a highly authentic record of the civil and military operations of this eventful era, the great feature which will distinguish this History of the War from all others, and give it a permanent value as a work of the highest authority for future reference, will be found in its presenting a deeper, broader, more exhaustive exhibit of the long train of causes which impelled to this bloody collision-the conflicting ideas which rendered it inevitable.
Mr. Greeley has many qualifications for the preparation of such a work. Portions of it, in two specimen numbers, have already been published, and warrant the conclusion that it will prove a valuable and very reliable historical compilation. The first volume, printed on fine paper, and making a large double-column octavo of 600 pages, will be published on or about the 1st of May. Volume II. will be published as soon as practicable after the war. Among the portraits in the second specimen number are those of John Quincy Adams, Benjamin Lundy, Henry Ward Beecher, Wendell Phillips, William Cullen Bryant, John Greenleaf Whittier, Cassius M. Clay, Joshua R. Giddings, William Lloyd Garrison, Gerrit Smith, Owen Lovejoy, and Charles Sumner. These are generally unsatisfactory as to expression, though skilfully engraved. Our own, and those of Phillips, Sumner, Whittier and Beccher, confirm Byron’s definition of fame:-“it is to get a wretched picture and worse bust.” But this is of little consequence to the public, however annoying to the persons implicated. Mr. Greeley will endeavor to do his part of the work with all assiduity and fidelity. No doubt a very extensive sale will be secured for “the american conflict”-the price, per volume, ranging from $3.50 to $600, according to the style of binding. To be sold exclusively by subscription.
The publishers desire attention to be called to the following points:-
I. The especial aim of the History, to interest and instruct the young.
II. The adaptability of the work to general family use: containing as it does the substance of the more voluminous Histories, at about one-fourth the price.
III. The entire historical correctness of the work; the materials having been drawn from the most authentic sources.
IV. The special pains which have been taken to preserve the stirring facts and incidents of personal experience, which give vivacity and spirit to the narrative.

THE DECADE PAMPHLET.
To subscribers. This pamphlet is now ready for delivery. It is somewhat larger than was anticipated, reaching to 175 pages. The addition of an Appendix, containing, among other matter, an extended Catalogue of Anti-Slavery Books, Pamphlets, Periodicals and Newspapers, from a very early period to the present time, has largely increased the size of the pamphlet, and has proportionately added to its cost; rendering it necessary to fix the price at fifty cents. Those, however, who subscribed at the outset will be entitled to receive their copies at the price originally named. As only a limited number of copies have been printed, our friends who desire to possess this really valuable pamphlet will please send for their copies soon, with directions as to how they shall be forwarded. Address, samuel may, Jr., at this office.

RESOLUTIONS OF CONDOLENCE,
Passed in honor of john T. hilton, by the Members of Prince Hall Grand Lodge, March 22, 1864.
Whereas, our Heavenly Father, in his infinite wisdom and goodness, has removed from us by death our worthy and honored brother, john T.hilton:
Resolved, That in his death the Masonic Fraternity has lost an ardent supporter; our race a wise counsellor and an uncompromising friend; the church an exemplary Christian, and the community an estimable citizen.
Resolved, That while the contemplation of his excellent qualities endears his memory to us, we are reminded that we are ever “walking in the valley and shadow of death”; and as we delight to recount his virtues, so will we strive to emulate his good deeds and his manly character. 
Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sympathies to the widow and children of our deceased brother; and that they will find consolation in the assurance of Holy Writ, that “He who giveth and who taketh away, doeth all things well.” 
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be forwarded to the family of the deceased, and to the Liberator and Anglo-Saxon newspapers for publication. 
robert morris, nelson L. perkins, J.B.SMITH, Committee.

AMEND THE CONSTITUTION.
The Women’s National League have just sent out, all through the States, fifteen thousand Petitions, with an appeal to have them filled up and returned as speedily as possible.
The Bill to amend the Constitution so as to prohibit the holding of slaves in any part of the country has passed the Senate. Now comes the struggle in the House. If every one of the fifteen thousand persons-at least ten thousand of them ministers-will but gather up one hundred or more names, A MILLION VOICED PETITION may yet pour into the Representatives’ Hall; and such a voice from THE PEOPLE cannot but make sure the vote, and leave the Bill ready for the President’s signature, and Congress disposed to recommend that a special session of each State Legislature be called immediately to act upon the question; and thus the hateful thing, slavery, be buried out of sight before the opening of the Presidential campaign.
Let the Petitions be mailed to Washington, direct, to some member, or to Hon. Thos. D. Eliot, Chairman of Committee on Slavery and Freedmen. There is not a day to be lost. LET all work.
Form of Petition now sent out by the Women’s League:-
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled:
The undersigned, citizens of-believing Slavery the great cause of the present rebellion, and an institution fatal to the life of Republican government, earnestly pray your honorable bodies to immediately abolish it throughout the United States; and to adopt measures for so amending the Constitution as forever to prohibit its existence in any portion of our common country.
Extract from a letter of our friend A. M. Powell, dated GHENT, N. Y., April 18:-
“The adoption, by the Senate, of the proposed Anti-Slavery amendment of the Constitution is, to my mind, the most gratifying public event since the war began, or since the opposition to slavery commenced. The complete triumph of that measure will be a glorious culmination of the anti-slavery struggle. To that end I would that all friends of freedom and just government might at this juncture vigorously use and concentrate their energies. Thus would victory soon be achieved.”
Hon. Charles Sumner presented, in the U. S. Senate on the 15th inst., a petition from 42,218 citizens, praying for the immediate and total abolition of slavery by Congress. Improve the great opportunity!
<c05>
SAYING AND DOING.
In the speech made by President Lincoln, at the opening of the Maryland Sanitary Fair, on the 18th inst., the following expressions, sentiments and promises occur, in regard to the relation of the Government to black soldiers:
“Many supposed the Government did not intend to do its duty in regard to the protection of these colored soldiers. He desired to say that all such were mistaken…. When Government determined to make soldiers of these colored people, he thought it only just that they should have the same protection as the white soldiers, (applause,) and be hesitated not to declare that the Government would so protect them to the utmost of its power.”
Such assurances as these are highly satisfactory, as far as they go. The question is, how far they go, and whether the experience of the last twelve months has given us much cause to expect Government action in conformity with them.
Ever since it was decided (as a military necessity) to employ negroes in the military service of the United States, the President has given, from time to time, just such comforting general assurances as the above, in regard to them. Nevertheless, the fact remains, now as at first, that the majority of the negro soldiers are shame fully maltreated, alike by the Government and the Generals who control them, and the officers and soldiers of white regiments in their vicinity.
The facts related by Captain Arnold Bertonnean, of New Orleans, at the very interesting meeting held last week, in this city, and reported in last week’s Liberator, are a fair enough sample of the treatment of colored soldiers in all the military departments.
The free colored people of Louisiana have always been thoroughly loyal; prompt to defend the stars and stripes, prompt to volunteer in the service of the Government whenever they were allowed to serve. Under General Butler, their service was made effective and highly valuable. He gave to black loyalists the preference which they merited over white traitors. He governed the State in the interest, and immensely to the advantage of the General Government. And when, in accordance with his orders from the President, he put arms into the hands of the colored people, he treated them as men, and not as “niggers.” The colored people of Louisiana venerate his name and bless his memory; and if he bad been allowed to go on raising troops from that class, not another white regiment need ever have been sent from the North to that unhealthy climate.
While Butler was in the height of a career of distinguished success, he was removed. Why was he removed? The President does not tell us. But perhaps facts will tell us. His successor introduced, in one particular, an entirely opposite policy. From first to last, he has treated the colored people, soldiers and citizens, as “niggers”, and not as men. He has tyrannized over them constantly, alike in the relations of laborer, soldier and citizen. The details may be found in his “General Order, No. 23” issued in February last, in regard to labor, and in the speech of Captain Bertonneau in regard to the civil and military relations which he is oppressively enforcing. These loyal citizens and soldiers have now been obliged to appeal to the President to remedy the injustice they suffer under General Banks’s administration. General Banks understands obedience to his military superiors. Whatever the President positively commands, what-ever the President indicates as his decided wish and will, we may be sure General Banks will promptly execute. So with all the Generals, and all the military Governors If “Honest Abe” had any honest meaning in the promise of “protection” given in his speech above referred to, he will give that protection not merely against the cruelties of the Confederate soldiers, but against the tyranny of Gen. Banks, and of the many high officials, civil and military, who resemble him. And, it is to be noted, while the best intentions on the President’s part may not avail to protect the negroes against Confederate cruelty, the remedy for the other and worse evil lies completely within his own power. Banks and the other negro-haters are his officers, and must obey his orders. It is by issuing right orders to these men, and by insisting, in the face of the country, on obedience to them, not by fine sentences in popular speeches, that Mr. Lincoln must prove to the country whether or not he also is a negro hater.-C.K.W.
remarks. The speech made by President Lincoln at Baltimore was creditable alike to his humanity and his official position; and we have no doubt it was sincerely spoken. The difficulty, in such a barbarous case as that of the massacre at Fort Pillow, is to determine what shall be done, without being equally diabolical. Let the President have time to authenticate the facts in this butchery, and to take counsel as to the best manner of preventing a repetition of it, before hurrying to the conclusion that he is hollow-hearted.

DEATH OF REV. T. STARR KING.
On learning of the death of Rev. Thomas Starr King, the colored citizens of San Francisco called a meeting in Zion Church, Pacific street, which was largely attended. Mr. H. M. COLLINS was called to the chair, and P. A. bell appointed Secretary. The object of the meeting having been stated by the Chairman, eulogistic remarks were made by F. G. Barbadoes, J. P. Dyer P. Anderson, and others, on the late Rev. Thomas Starr King, and it was, on motion, resolved, that a committee of five be appointed to draft resolutions of condolence. The committee, consisting of Messrs. J. B. Sanderson, J. M. Bell, Jas. Brown, Thos. Taylor and W. W. Hall, reported the following resolutions:-
Whereas, it has pleased Almighty God to remove from our midst Rev. Thomas Starr King, the first and noblest citizen of our State, in common with our fellow-citizens we feel that, in his death, the nation has lost a pure and ardent patriot, the State a profound politician and an accomplished orator, the Church a bright herald of the Gospel of Truth, the cause of human freedom an able, fearless and uncompromising advocate, and the proscribed and disfranchised people of color in California a tried and faithful friend.
Resolved, That while we bow in humble resignation to the will of our Heavenly Father, “who doeth all things well,” still we cannot but deplore the death of one who took hold of the strength of our affections and entwined himself around our hearts by the noble, firm and manly stand he has ever taken on every occasion in our behalf.
Resolved, That in the death of Rev. Thos. Starr King we deplore the loss of a true philanthropist and public benefactor, an unflinching friend of equal rights, one who was ever ready to dedicate his time, talents and pecuniary assistance to every enterprise that sought the improvement of his fellow-men, with-out regard to creed or color.
Resolved, That we respectfully tender to his bereaved family the expression of our hearts’ unfeigned sympathy for their irreparable loss. We commend them to the care of that God who “tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.” May be endow them with “that soul’s calm sunshine, which nothing earthly gives or can destroy, to gild the meridian and the evening of their days.”
paRKER Fraternity anniversary. The sixth anniversary of this Association was celebrated on Tuesday evening last at their rooms in Washington street. A very large company was present, and the exercises were of unusual interest. Samuel B. Noyes sung several songs in excellent style. An address was made by the President, Charles F. Fitz, which was followed by an original poem by Rufus Leighton, entitled, “Potomac River-1863.” Addresses were also made by Rev. S. R. Calthrop, of Marblehead, Wendell Phillips, Wm. Lloyd Garrison and Rev. J. M. Manning. A collation was served in the refectory, and a social dance followed. It was a delightful occasion to all present Mr. Leighton’s poem was a creditable effusion, and gracefully recited by Charles H. Brainard, Esq.
<c06>
CHEERING AND REMARKABLE CHANGES.
Philadei.phia,4th mo. 18th,1864.
Wm. Lloyd Garrison:-
Dear and Esteemed Friend,-The reception given our welcomed guest from England, GEORGE thompson. in this city a fortnight ago, has some remarkable features which have not as I have seen, been published. His truly eloquent and living oration has been given to the world, but not enough has been said of the noble sentiments uttered by Wm. D. Kelley, Benjamin F. Brewster, and Daniel Dougherty, all eminent jurists, and the first our fearless representative in Congress, devoted to freedom and the interests of our country. His position is too well known to require a panegyric. On this occasion he pronounced sentiments the most thoroughly loyal and anti-slavery, and proclaimed “President Lincoln the greatest radical, on these subjects, of us all.”
To the credit of Daniel Dougherty it is due to say, that he fully confessed his change of feeling respecting the abolition of slavery. He avowed himself a Democrat; and although he worked to defeat Abraham Lincoln as President, he was fully converted to his policy, and is “now a thorough emancipationist.”
But it is for a tribute to the honesty and manhood of Benjamin F. Brewster that I put pen to paper. It has been said, “An honest man’s the noblest work of God”; and, truly, it is a glorious sight to find a man so brave as to be willing to humble himself before his fellow-men, and make confession of error and reparation for wrong-doing. I grasp the hand of George Thompson with gratitude for his excellent speech; and I rejoice to offer Benjamin F. Brewster the hand of fellowship and honor for his moral courage. 
He being loudly called for by the audience, came forward-he, who was so recently prosecuting slave cases, denouncing Abolitionists, and opposing the election of President Lincoln. On this occasion, he made a full explanation and confession. Among many excellent remarks he said-“When Abraham Lincoln was nominated for President, if I had had a million of votes, I would have cast them all against him. Now, if I had twenty millions of votes, I would cast them all for him.”
In speaking of the rebels, he declared with great emphasis that “this war should never, never, no, Never, NEVER cease, until those scoundrels acknowledge that government which they have opposed, and until the last vestige of human slavery is banished from our land”! He added-explaining that, as a minister of the law, he bad aided in the execution of the Fugitive Slave Law, but now he opposed, slavery-“first, because it is impolitic; and secondly, whether politic or not, it was an outrage against thelaws of God.” And then, with remarkable clearness, meaning and force, he said-“I avow myself now, hence forth and forever, an unconditional Abolitionists”! The applause that greeted this was deafening and long continued. It was a confession that caused tears of rejoicing; for truly here, as in heaven, there is “like wise joy over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance.”
When I returned home that night, I was impressed to refer to my Journal to see how long it had been since this man had prosecuted the memorable slave case in this city, known as the Daniel Webster or Daniel Dangerfield case. I find it a remarkable coincidence. Exactly half a decade ago. Yes, five years to the very month, the very day of the month and of the week, and the very hour of the day-for it was on the evening of Monday, the 4th day of April, 1859, that he held the United States District Court of this city to the letter of the law, urging with ability and zeal the “summary proceedings,” that should consign a brave and noble negro to the chains of slavery. It was on that evening that our devoted friends Geo. Earle, William S. Pierce and Edward Hopper succeeded in gaining a postponement to the next day, which resulted in a session lasting from 4 o’clock of that afternoon until nearly 6 o’clock the following morning. Let us never forget those, who watched and prayed throughout that long night. There sat Lucretia Mott, Sarah Pugh, Mary Grew and others, eloquently silent and brave. I have always felt their devotion and heroic martyrdom aided materially the cause of freedom.
Let it not be supposed I recount these facts with any disposition to censure or draw down reproach upon our friend Brewster. It is no time to chide or criminate. It is rather the time to praise and rejoice. It is so seldom we meet with those who are brave and honest enough to acknowledge their faults, that this becomes a sublime spectacle. All honor to the man who will humble himself, and confess the wrong, and make restitution by a cordial, frank and manly future! Truly, “he that humbleth himself shall be exalted,” and “before honor is humility.”
This is an age when humility is receiving its re ward. The conscience of the nation has been touched-look hopefully for the result!
Many are the instances of conscientious confession, of undue advantages having been taken of our government, causing the return of large amounts of money. The elevation of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency was a recompense of humility. The glory surrounding Gen. Grant, one of the most unselfish of men, is the reward of humility. The tribute to the humble “Quakers,” by George Thompson in his speech, was unexpected and unusual, and yet received the hearty applause of all other sects. And the position of the negro to-day, taking possession of those plantations which late masters have fled from, is strikingly fulfilling the promise-“Blessed are the meek; for they shall inherit the earth.” 
Oh! it rejoices my very soul to find this sweet spirit of God’s children receiving its merited reward, and thus encouraging the true life, “to do justly, love mercy, and walk humbly,” as the surest means of securing that purity and peace, which, as the essence of Christianity and the greatness of American character, would substitute for carnal resistance, unwavering moral persistence-so prayerfully desired by 
Thy sincere friend, 
ALFRED H.LOVE 

THE ANTI-SLAVERY STRUGGLE
Folly Island, (S.C.,) 1864.
dear Mr. May:-
Will you see that my name is added to the list of those who contribute $10 to the 30th National Anti-Slavery Subscription? I will send the money on the next pay-day of our regiment Having been in the Anti-Slavery field during its hard and often gloomy days, I claim the privilege of joining in the celebration of its harvest joys. 
I thank my God always that, in whatever other uncertainty and darkness I may have wandered, he early gave me to see that this was his work, in which the faithful should have his help to the end. 
Never-although all history abounds with illustrations of this truth-never was its shown more clearly than in the Slavery and Anti-Slavery struggle of our time, that God is at the helm in human affairs. I have come more fully to believe that less depends upon human plans, and purposes than most suppose. God puts us into the field to perform his will; but ourselves, faithfulness or unfaithfulness affects only ourselves, and can in nowise affect the final result, which comes always in his appointed way and time-and brings a lesson with it.
Our forefathers, in their short-sighted and guilty policy, admitted slavery as an established social and political element. They thought it an excusable compromise with evil, in view of the great good thereby to be secured. I think God was not disappointed at their fault and folly. It was his plan to show, by a striking example, how a single small wavelet of evil, voluntarily admitted, swells to a flood of ruin. The institution grew. God was not at all disappointed. He foresaw it, and so ordered it that the idol grew, and cast its shadow over the whole land. Its head of gold reached to heaven, and its feet of clay and <illegible> trampled the earth. The church and priesthood bow.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ed to it—judges and rulers became the ministers of its will. Its borders were enlarged and its bulwarks strengthened with all the power and wicked wisdom that human faculties could devise. Who could have believed that, as it were in an hour, this greatness could come to nought? This was not because God had just waked up, or returned from a journey. All this,—the property, the pride, the madness, the crime, the ruin of the Slave Power,—was in his mind and purposed from the beginning; yet not so as to lessen the free agency or the guilt of its agents. This was to teach the nations the lesson so often before taught, that no strength or might founded on wrong can finally prosper.
In the history of the American Anti-Slavery enterprise , God’s directing hand is as plainly seen. Honor to the faithful men who established and conducted it! Yet let all remember that, however they are and will be bonored as the instruments, this was God’s enterprise , and must surely have been accomplished, even though all men had shrunk from it. He inspired the willing few to do it—few faithful against the many and mighty—that he might show again, as so often here<illegible> shown, that, in his cause, one is more than thousands arrayed against it.
This reflection, that God is ever at the helm, is encouraging; and we need encouragement, for a great work is before us. Hitherto we have worked in the dark, and knew not how great the field of labor; but now the day is risen, and we see it to be boundless. Millions of bondmen and bondwomen, crushed for generations, now claim, in the name of God and his justice, that not only shall the weight be lifted, but that they, too, shall be helped to rise; that the lash which has driven them from their birth to their graves on their native soil, shall not now be employed to drive them away from that soil and those graves, unpaid, landless, poor, ignorant. This is not God’s plan-if be means to save the nation. God’s plan is justice to the oppressed. He calls us to administer it. Well for us if we are faithful! But, at any rate, God’s plan will prevail.
It will be a sight for men and angels to rejoice over when all the land, so long misused, wasted, depopulated and barren by the curse of slavery, shall be divided into homesteads, and covered with the <illegible> of free laborers; when prosperous generations shall grow up virtuous and intelligent, being no longer compelled to vice, nor forbidden to read, nor robbed of their rights. To have had even the humblest share in this glorious result is worthy of an ambition greater than his who aspired to the dominion of the world.
This is the morning of that day of the Lord to these people. The elements of that prosperity and glory are working. All around our camp and in every hut the soldiers, so lately slaves, are seen pondering their books; some spelling out the words, others devouring the pages with all the eagerness of a new found power. We have evening schools to which, as the highest honor and reward, we admit all we can accommodate; but they are few. The rank and file must get on as best they can, without help, except from each other.
What a field of philanthropic labor will the whole South be for a long time to come, where all who are willing to take God for their paymaster may come, and coin gold that will not canker! Let a missionary zeal be fostered for the missionary work of teaching these ignorant but earnest people the art and economy of decent living, and the responsibilities of freedom. Religious teaching is not what they so much need. They know the road to heaven at least as well as the white <illegible>—better, I think, than the whole American Board, the Tract Society, and Andover. Institution, and Bishop Hopkins united. Out chaplain found himself not prayed and out-preached by his flock, and gave up the field, and has gone home. Our Colonel, formerly a Chaplain and a Beecher to boot, then tried his hand. It was like carrying coals to Newcastle; and he has given it up. If there is a superabundance of anything here, it is praying and preaching. Such fervor of spirit and strength of lungs I never have seen elsewhere. Sometimes, too, there is a power and eloquence almost sublime. Let preachers, who are mere preachers, stay away; but let the schoolmaster and schoolmistress, and the practical farmer and housekeeper, come, and they will find work to do, and a reward to gain.
Truly yours, DANIEL MANN.
ABOLITION AND PROHIBITION.
EASTON, (N. Y.) April 10, 1864. 
DEAR GARRISON,—I have lectured six times the past week, and am to lecture ten times during the coming eight days.
ABOLITION AND PROHIBITION is my theme; and four fifths of the people respond to it with a hearty Amen! But the Copperhead where are praying for the success of the Copperhead Democracy in Illinois, in their efforts to inaugurate a civil war in the North in <illegible> of their rebel allies in the South.
The one great idea that underlies the rebellion is— the <illegible > of the laborers, white and black. Strange that laborers should be so infatuated as to aid to enslave themselves! But it is true of all Copperhead laborers. “They are given up to believe a lie, that they might be damned.” Horatio Seymour and Co. are doing what they can to induce the laborers to enslave themselves to capitalists.
The South must be subjugated to free labor, or the North to slave labor. The North must abolish slavery and slave labor, or the South will abolish freedom and the labor. “THE NORTH MUST GIVE UP ALL—THE SOUTH NOTHING.” Such is the declaration of Peace by Jeff. Davis & Co., in their organ, the Richmond <illegible>. God grant that they may stick to that! Then ABOLITION and PROHIBITION are sure.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
THE LAST MAN LEFT IN BEAUFORT.
BEAUFORT, (S. C.) March 17, 1864.
DEAR MR. GARRISON—You will remember that soon after the capture of Beaufort, the Northern papers had something to say about the “last man in Beaufort,” representing him as a tavern-keeper, and when the Union men went to the house, they found him sitting in the door; that he saluted them, holding up his bottle, was glad to see them, and was too drunk to get away. This is all false. I made this man’s <illegible> soon after I came to Beaufort. Finding him a genial and kind-hearted man, I have been in the habit of calling at his store, because of my respect for him, as he keeps a store of dry good and groceries, and not a tavern.
I have conversed with him freely, gaining much important information about the colored people and the slave-mongers. The people all delight to trade with him, and say he is very kind to them, never returning to give to the needy. This man was in his <illegible> when the two gunboats arrived. One of the Captains sent for him to come on board. He closed his store, and went on board. In the morning, the Captain sent him to the other gunboat, they keeping him all day. When he returned, his store had been broken open, and all his most valuable goods stolen. This man is Oldin S. Allen, a native of Falmouth, Miss. Mr. Allen, calling me one side, handed me some money, saying, “You are a true-hearted friend of the <illegible> people—the only one I’ve seen. I make you a present of this. If you want more, call.” I was a little disconcerted for the moment. When in my room, I found the present to consist of fifty dollar. You can imagine my surprise and gratitude, as I was forcibly reminded of the seed-sower of <illegible>. In view of the fact that Mr. Allen has been a resident of Beaufort thirty-two years, I feel to make courage, keep the faith, and fight the good fight <illegible>.The war would soon cease, and all would be free, if the army were as loyal as Mr. Allen. I feel that this acknowledgment and comment are due the “last man in Beaufort.”
From your true friend for perfect liberty.
THOMAS P. KNOX.
P. S. I will not at this time attempt to raise the certain; but allow me to say, that the Calhoun spirit of <illegible>is yet rife in South Carolina. The 
<Co2>
nullifiers, however, being Northern Copperheads, and the subject matter being the Emancipation Proclamation, I claim the right to defend the Proclamation by addressing the people as a free people, and the Copperheads say I shall not. Therefore the question is one of toleration under the Proclamation. 
LOSS OF THE STEAMER MAPLE LEAF. 
[Lieut. George T. Garrison, Acting Quartermaster of the 55th Reg’t Mass. (Colored) Vols., in a private letter furnishes the following particulars of the sinking of the steamer Maple Leaf by a torpedo.
JACKSONVILLE, (Fla.,) April 1st, 1864.
We left Palatka on the steamer Maple Leaf, at 10 o’clock last night, and everything went well with us till 4 o’clock this morning, when the boat was suddenly sunk by a rebel torpedo. I was awakened by what I thought was the report of a cannon, and supposed we had been fired upon from a rebel battery. I found the boat rapidly sinking, and was thinking of jumping overboard to swim ashore, when she fortunately touched bottom with about a foot of water in the cabin. She sank more than twenty feet before touching bottom, and in five minutes’ time. Five or six men were drowned on the lower deck, not having time to escape to the upper. We fortunately had three boats, which we succeeded in launching, and after a delay of half or three quarters of an hour, started to row for Jacksonville, twelve miles distant. While making preparations to leave the steamer, and after we had started, we were expecting every moment to see rebel boats put out from the shore to capture us; but none appeared— lucky for us! —and we succeeded in reaching this place about 8 o’clock this morning, after three hours’ hard pulling at the oars. If the rebels had been on the watch for us with boats, they could easily have captured the whole of us, as we were without arms, and perfectly helpless.
The St. John’s river is a very wide one, and the tide from the ocean runs up it some sixty or seventy miles. We had the wind and tide against us all the way, and all three of the boats were so well filled that they came down nearly to the water’s edge, and it required a good deal of caution and care on our part to prevent them from suddenly filling with water. I succeeded in bringing away safely my knapsack, blankets and overcoat. After getting into the boat, I found I had time to get them, and got off and waded to my state-room, and secured them. There was no panic, and everything was done very coolly. The Maple Leaf struck the torpedo about fifteen or twenty feet from the bow, which brought down the mast and pilot-house, causing an immense opening in her hull, through which the water rushed in an instant.
The boats run from here to Palatka only at night, and with all their lights out The Maple Leaf took up to Palatka a company of the 1st Massachusetts Cavalry, with their horses; and had she struck the torpedo then, there would have been a very heavy loss of life. The rebels are well posted in regard to our movements, and know everything that is going on.
In the letter that I mailed to you, a few days since, I mentioned the accidental death of Lieut. Dennis H. Jones, of Company I, near Yellow Bluff, by Capt. Charles C. Soule, of Company K. As it is doubtful whether you will ever see it, I will state the circumstances again. Capt. Soule and Lieut. Jones went out together on a scouting expedition in a boat, and finally landed and went ashore. They had proceeded but a little way from the river’s bank, when they suddenly came upon a party of men whom they took to be rebels. The Captain and Lieutenant both considered their only chance of escape was in immediate flight, and both rushed to the boat, and attempted to untie the rope by which the boat was fastened to the shore; the former with his pistol in one of his hands, which he had drawn as they retreated. In doing this, his pistol accidentally went off, instantly killing Lieut. Jones. The men whom they mistook for rebels proved to be some of our engineers, who had disobeyed their orders, and gone into the woods shooting hogs. Capt. Soule supposed at the time that Lieut. Jones was killed by these men, until happening to look at his pistol, he discovered one barrel had been discharged, when the truth instantly flashed upon him that his own pistol had fired the fatal shot. Lieut. Jones was a very fine officer, and always pleasant and genial in his manners. He was only eighteen or nineteen years of age!, and one of the handsomest officers we had in the regiment. He had command of Company I when the regiment left Boston. He and Capt. Soule were great friends, and were together a great deal. His death will be a dreadful blow to his parents, who idolized him. He was a member of the 44th Massachusetts regiment. Capt. Soule is feeling very sadly about it No officer in the regiment is more liked, or takes a deeper interest in the welfare of the soldiers under his command, than himself. 
EMANCIPATION IN MARYLAND. A large and enthusiastic meeting of the friends of a Constitutional Convention and immediate emancipation in Maryland was held at the Maryland Institute in Baltimore, a few days since. Win. F. Albert presided. Speeches were made by Hon. Henry Winter Davis, ex-Governor Boutwell of Massachusetts, Hon. Amos Myers, and Judge Kelley, of Pennsylvania, and Major General Lew Wallace.
Mr. Davis declared himself opposed to compensation for emancipated slaves in any form. 
Ex-Governor Boutwell addressed the meeting, remarking that it was the first time he had ever addressed the citizens of a slave State on the subject of slavery. He reviewed the grand results and benefits to accrue to Maryland by the passage of an ordinance of emancipation—comparing the natural resources of his own State (Massachusetts) with those of Maryland, which were every way superior, and stating , that Maryland, once free, there would be no telling the end of her future prosperity and greatness.
It is almost needless to say, that the speeches of all the gentlemen were of the most eloquent and sterling character, listened to with great attention, and greeted very frequently with applause from the audience. 
MEMOIR AND POEMS OF PHILLIS WHEATLEY. Those who wish to preserve a copy of this remarkable book, with the excellent likeness of Phillis, will be obliged to procure a copy very soon. Only about twenty-five copies remain unsold. It can be had by mail free of postage, by remitting 60 cents to the Publisher, Mr. G. W. Light, Boston, or by Calling on D. C. Colesworthy, 66 Cornhill, Boston, if applied for very soon. 
HARPER’S MAGAZINE, for May, has been received from A. Williams & Co. It contains illustrations of Life with the Esquimaux, Psyche, A Visit to the Convent of Sittna, &c., and a large variety of interesting miscellany. This number completes the 28th volume. In the next a new novel by Dickens will be commenced, Thackeray’s Denis Duval will be continued, and Trollope’s Small House will be concluded .
ANTI-SLAVERY IN NEW ORLEANS. By order of Captain Hoyt, acting Mayor of New Orleans, the inscription which we give below has been cut into the base of the bronze statue of Henry Clay, in that city. It is taken from Mr. Clay’s speech, delivered before the American Colonization Society, at Washington-, Jan. 20, 1827:— 
“If I could be instrumental in eradicating this deepest stain from the character of our country, and removing all cause of reproach on account of it, I would not exchange the proud satisfaction which I should enjoy, for the honor of all the triumphs ever decreed the most successful conqueror.”
John C. Rives. Esq., publisher of the Congressional Globe, died at Washington, 10th inst., of gout in the stomach, in his 67th year. Mr. Rives became associated with Mr. Blair, in the publication of the Washington Globe, in President Jackson’s time, and had long been known as one of the most successful men in connection with American journalism. He was of a generous and sympathetic nature.
<co3>
OPENING OF THE MARYLAND SANITARY FAIR. 
SPEECH BY PRESIDENT LINCOLN. 
BALTIMORE, April 18. The inauguration ceremonies of the great Fair at the Maryland Institute tonight were very imposing. The display was exceedingly fine. The immense building was thronged. President Lincoln made a speech. Speaker Colfax and Senator Wilson accompanied the President to Baltimore. The President’s appearance in the hall was greeted with tremendous applause which continued for some moments.
After the inaugural address of Gov. Bradford, the President was loudly called for, and in response he proceeded to make a brief address. He referred to the great change that had taken place in Baltimore in the last three years. Truly, he said, the world moves. At the commencement of the war, the soldiers of the Union could not pass through Baltimore unmolested, and now we have this large assemblage of people brought together to do them honor, and provide for their wants and make them comfortable.
All honor to the brave patriots who had wrought the change, and the noble women who aided them! When this war began, scarcely one individual supposed it would have lasted till now. All thought it would end in some way in a much shorter time. Very few at that time thought the institution of slavery would be much affected. But these expectations were not realized, and here we are. (Laughter.) And slavery has been somewhat affected. (Great laughter.) So true is it, my friends, that man proposes and God disposes. The world had long been in want of a correct definition of the word freedom. Whilst all professed to advocate liberty, there were in the minds of many a very opposite view of what liberty was. With one man liberty implied to work for himself and do as he pleased with the proceeds of his labor. With others liberty meant to do as you pleased with other men and their labor. One of these two conflicting ideas would have to give way to the other. He thought from some occurrences which had recently taken place in Maryland that her people were about to determine which of these views of freedom should control her destiny.
The President then passed on to refer to a matter which he said he supposed was just now deeply agitating the minds of the people, all over the country. He alluded to an occurrence which was reported to have taken place at Fort Pillow, namely, the massacre of several wounded colored soldiers by the confederates. Many supposed the Government did not intend to do its duty in regard to the protection of these colored soldiers. He desired to say that all such were mistaken. When the question of employing colored men as soldiers was left to the Government, it rested very much with himself whether he should make soldiers of them or not.
He pondered the matter carefully, and when he became convinced that it was a duty to so employ them, he did not hesitate. He stood before the American people responsible for the act—responsible before the Christian world—responsible for it he should stand in the eye of the historian—responsible for it he stood before God—and he did not shrink from the decision he had made, for he believed it was right. But when Government determined to make soldiers of these colored people, he thought it only just that they should have the same protection as the white soldiers, (applause,) and he hesitated not to declare that the government would so protect them to the utmost of its power.
Whenever a clear, authenticated case should be made out, retribution would follow. It had hitherto been difficult to ascertain with that certainty which should govern a decision in a matter so serious. But in the affair at Fort Pillow, he thought they were likely to find a clear case. The Government had no direct evidence to confirm the reports in existence relative to the massacre, but he feared that the facts as related were true. When the Government does know the facts from official sources, and they substantiate the reports, retribution will be surely given. (Great applause.)
But how should retribution be administered was a question still to be settled. Would it be right to take the life of prisoners in Washington, in Fort Delaware or elsewhere in retaliation for acts in which they had not shared? Would it be right to take a prisoner captured, say at Vicksburg, and shoot him for acts of which he was not guilty, and which, it probably will be found, were the ordering of a few individuals, or possibly only of one man?
The President reiterated the declaration that the Government would not fail to visit retribution when the acts were clearly proven.
Throughout, the President’s remarks were warmly applauded, especially his enunciation of a determination to visit retribution for the barbarous deeds of the rebels. 
HORRID BUTCHERY AT FORT PILLOW. 
The butchering of United States troops at Fort Pillow, by the rebels, is so monstrous a crime that even accredited reports of the extent of the terrible atrocities do not find ready belief. Human nature revolts against such horrible deeds, that should be impossible even to men educated under the merciless influences of treason and slavery. But it must be admitted that if the first awful reports prove to be true, and an indiscriminate slaughter of the garrison occurred after the surrender, the rank and file of the rebel force simply carried out the declared purpose of their commander. Read the following communication of the General leading this division of the rebels, and say if such a murderous villain deserves any other consideration than a short shrift and summary execution, should he fall into Federal hands by the fortune of war?
Headquarters, Confederate States Army, before Columbus, Ky., April 13, 1864. To the Commander of the U. S. Forces, Columbus, Ky.—Fully capable of taking Columbus and its garrison force, I desire to avoid shedding blood. I therefore demand the unconditional surrender to the forces under your command. Should you surrender, the negroes now in arms will be returned to their masters. Should I be compelled to take the place by force, no quarter will be shown negro troops whatever. White troops will be treated as prisoners of war.
I am, sir, yours,
A. BUFFORD, Brig. General. 
There have been, during the present century, three previous massacres, within the existing limits of the United States, which created, at the time, a feeling of the intensest horror throughout the country, and were accompanied in two instances by circumstances of such gross perfidy that the narrative even now excites the deepest indignation. The first of these dates back to Jan. 1813, when Gen. Winchester was surprised on the river Raisin by a force of British and Indians, under Gen. Proctor. After the Americans had surrendered, their wounded, and many others not wounded, contrary to a pledge given by the British General, were handed over to the savages, to be by them instantly
 murdered or reserved for torture.
This outrage upon humanity powerfully stimulated those revengeful feelings against the Indians which finally led to their almost complete extermination east of the Mississippi river. At the investiture of the Alamo, in Texas, in 1836, Santa Anna raised the black flag, and after taking the fort butchered the surviving defenders. At Goliad, the little garrison was promised safety, but were subsequently shot by order of Santa Anna.
These instances of savage ferocity are more than paralleled in some of the incidents connected with the tragic affair at Fort Pillow. In the region where they took place, the public mind will, probably, be excited to a high degree of frenzy. And everywhere that civilization exerts its truest influences, will the outrages be condemned as showing the barbaric cruelty of the Confederate " “chivalry.” Boston Transcript.
SINKING OF THE MAPLE LEAF.
From the Jacksonville (Florida,) correspondent of the Palmetto Herald, we glean the following particulars of the destruction of the steamer Maple Leaf:—
The Maple Leaf left Jacksonville on Tuesday evening, with troops on board, bound for Pilatka. She safely reached her destination on Thursday morning, and at 11 o’clock last evening started on her return to Jacksonville.
At 4 o’clock this morning, (April 1st,) when opposite Buckley’s Bluff, near Mandarino Point, about 12 miles from Jacksonville, she struck a torpedo, planted in the channel. A most terrible explosion followed. Her entire bows were blown off, and the rapidly began to till. In ten minutes she was completely sunken, only a portion of her upper works appearing above the water.
The torpedo, which beyond all doubt was put in position yesterday, after the upward trip of the Maple Leaf, struck the ill-fated steamer squarely under the foremast, which was thrown out of her like an arrow from a bow. The water rushed in with the utmost rapidity, and the feeling was likened by the captain to the sensation experienced when coming down in a swing.
In the midst of the darkness, and in spite of the terrible shock, the utmost order was maintained by all on board. Apprehensions that the rebels on shore might put out and capture the entire party prevented them, however, from attempting to save anything but their own persons. The baggage of two or three regiments was still in the hold, and is now under about three fathoms of water.
Lieut. Commander Lewis, of the gunboat Mahaska, commanding the St. John’s flotilla, in the absence of Commander Balch, ordered the gunboat Norwich up to the wreck immediately, on learning of the catastrophe.
Heretofore, all vessels traversing the river about this point have made their trips in the night. It is a wonder that none of them have met with disaster, in asmuch as, for the past two weeks, the rebels on shore have had nothing to hinder them from planting torpedoes in the stream, or establishing batteries on shore. Hereafter, a day patrol will be maintained.
<co4>
SPEECHES, LECTURES AKD LETTERS. By Wendell Phillips. Boston: Walkes Wise & Co.
However the judgment of individuals may vary as to the influence exercised by the speeches of Wendell Phillips, there can be but one opinion as to the surpassing beauty and power of his oratory. Very few of our public speakes can equal him in commanding the attention and convincing the reason of a miscellaneous audience. Mr. Phillips started a long way ahead of public opinion. His views on our great national sin have been maintained against the will of the vast majority of the American people; consequently, he has frequently been vituperated and persecuted. A bitterness has been aroused by this treatment which has often led to fierce denunciation, not only of principles, but of individuals. But public opinion is fast approaching to its standpoint, and the time may soon arrive when Garrison and Phillips will be counted among the prophets. This collection of his sayings will give a true understanding of the man. The speeches were delivered without notes, and taken down by reporters. They cover a period of about twenty-five years, and will make an interesting addition to the forensic literature of the times.—N. Y. Christian Inquirer. 
Perhaps the change that has come over public opinonopinion in this country, in respect to slavery and the treatment of the advocates of that measure, is best illustrated in the case of Mr. George Thompson. He came to this country a quarter of a century ago, with the reputation of being the most eloquent of living Englishmen; of having contributed unselfishly as much, or more, than any other person, to the liberation of all the slaves in the British dominions. He was reviled, belied, traduced, mobbed, and driven out of the country. Priest and levite, publican and sinner, politician and merchant, all combined to heap obloquy on him, and to instigate assault on his life. Again Mr. Thompson is in this country. He is now welcomed by Governors of Commonwealths, by Legislatures, by the priesthood, by rulers on the exchange and commercial marts, and even by the Congress of the nation. In Boston, New York, Philadelphia, and Washington, he has been honored by public welcomes from the highest orders in Church and State, and has been unanimously voted as one of the most illustrious of living men. The change is not in him. He is the same man today he was before; he holds the same opinions, and is just as fearless in the proclamation of them. The change is in the American public. It is no longer popular to “stone the prophets.”
MR. SUMNER’S REPORT ON THE FRENCH SPQLIATION CLAIMS. We have received advance sheets of this important report. It is exceedingly elaborate, and therefore lengthy, but is so well arranged and ably written throughout that it must become the resort of all who desire to master this subject. Mr. Sumner first discusses the origin of the claims on France with that of the counter-claims, and then traces the modes in which the United States became responsible for the satisfaction of these claims. Then the whole list of objections is examined and refuted. Finally, the duty of just compensation is enforced. It is, therefore, recommended that Congress appropriate a sum not exceeding five millions of dollars, to be distributed by a board of commissioners pro rata among the claimants, according to the provisions of a reported bill. The report is made by Mr. Simmer in his capacity as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations, and it does not appear but that the Committee is unanimous in its presentation.—Boston Journal. 
CENSURED. There, was fresh excitement in the U. S. House of Representatives, with hot discussion pro and con, growing out of some treasonable declations by Mr. Long, a Copperhead from Ohio, of the Vallandigham stripe, last week. 
The exciting debate was brought to a close on Thursday evening. The amendment of Mr. Bromhall, to substitute a vote of censure for a vote of expulsion of Mr. Long, was adopted by Mr. Colfax, and was passed by a vote of 80 to 70, in the following words:— 
Resolved, That the said Alexander Long be, and he is hereby declared to be, an unworthy member of the House.
On motion of Mr. Colfax, the preamble to the resolution was agreed to, by a vote of 78 to 63. The preamble sets forth, substantially, that Alexander Long, a representative from the Second District of Ohio, by open declaration in the National Capital, and by publication in New York, has shown himself to be in favor of the so-called Confederacy now trying to establish itself on the ruins of the country, thereby giving aid and comfort to the enemy in their destructive practices, and to the traitors against the government within our borders, by assurances of their success, and affirmations of the justice of their cause, and that such conduct is incompatible with his duty as a member of this body.
 The same zeal of condemnation has thus been placed on both Mr. Harris and Mr. Long. Sympathy for the rebels is a sentiment which the loyal people of the North will never let go unrebuked, and the attempt to manufacture public opinion to that end, under the claim of freedom of debate, has met with deserved censure. 
In the course of this debate, Mr. Kernan, a democratic member from New York, made a patriotic speech, of which the following is an extract: 
“I believe that it is the duty of every good citizen to sustain those who are engaged in putting down the rebellion. Although I do not agree with much of the policy of the Administration, I hold it is my duty as a citizen, to furnish the Administration with all the men and means necessary to sustain the cause. If they hold a different policy, from mine, I am in favor of no factious opposition. My platform may be briefly stated. This is our Government, my Government, and it is my duty to defend and sustain it. I desire peace. Who does not when he looks around and sees mourning at every hearthstone? But it is idle to talk about peace while the rebels are in arms. They must be put down by force, and it is useless to talk about standing commissioners to treat with armed traitors.”
EMANCIPATION OF THE POLISH SERFS. The telegraph has already announced that the St. Petersburg journals publish four decrees relative to the kingdom of Poland. The first states that the Emperor, wishing to complete the work undertaken by his predecessor, pursued since 1858, and interrupted by the events of 1863, decrees that the peasants, on the payment of a land tax, shall become the proprietors of the land of which they have the life-possession; that the old dues are abolished, and that an adequate indemnity is granted to the landed proprietors. The second orders the abolition of the patrimonial right, or the jurisdiction of the landed proprietors over the peasants; the formation of rural communes, and meetings of electors; those assemblies to be composed of the inhabitants who possess a certain extent of land, and to whom will belong the election of mayors and other communal functionaries. The third determines the mode of indemnifying the proprietors, creates titles of five percent, rents with a sinking fund, and appropriates to that purpose the new land tax collected from the peasants, the produce of the sale of certain State domains, and other special resources. The fourth decree entrusts the execution of these measures to a committee to sit at Warsaw under the presidentship of the lieutenant of the kingdom of Poland. Those decrees completely sever the bond which existed between the nobility and the peasants in,. that country.
CONTENTS OF A SECESH JOURNAL. Nigger, nigger, more nigger, big nigger, little nigger, abolition, John Brown, Stonewall Jackson’s grave, nigger, black nigger, yaller nigger; C-o-n-s-t-i-t-u-t-i-o-n; peace on any terms; emancipation, confiscation, and abomination; nigger, lots of nigger, cords of nigger; Puritan intolerance; abridgment of our sacred liberties; nigger, nigger, heaps of nigger, get out of the way nigger, nigger here and nigger there; more puritan intolerance; abridgment of our sacred liberties; religious persecution; illiberatify towards adopted citizens; God bless Jeff. Davis, d—n Abe Lincoln; nigger, no end to the nigger; more about Stonewall Jackson’s grave Puritan intolerance and religious persecution; nigger, sleek, well-fed nigger slaves at the South, and poor starving white slaves at the North; despotism, anarchy and ruin stare us in the face; down with the fratricidal Abolition Administration at Washington; nigger, nigger, nigger; and go on ad infinitum.—Sierra Democrat.
CHARLESTON AS IT is. A Union man in Charleston writes to a friend in Philadelphia, under date of Feb. 22, that the lower part of the city, comprising the most valuable of the public buildings, stores and private houses, is given over to Gilmore’s shells. The population is almost entirely above Wentworth street. The price of living are enormous. Hotels charge from $12 to $20 per day; beef is $83 a pound; brown sugar, $4.6050; wood, $56 a cord. Deserters throng the woods and swamps all over the country; the rebels hunt them as they do negroes, with dogs. Twenty-two were brought in the other day, tied two and two, who had been caught by hounds. Two others were shot in attempting to escape. Curses loud and deep are uttered against the government by many men who were secessionists. It is quite doubtful if there is not a majority in Charleston who are for the Union. If the Federals are successful in the spring campaign, the people will cry, “Enough!”
DISASTROUS REPULSE OF RED RIVER EXPEDITION. A battle has taken place near Shreveport between the Union forces and the rebels, resulting in the repulse of the former, with great loss, probably 2000, with several pieces of cannon. Gen. Stone, of Ball’s Bluff notoriety, Chief of Gen. Bank’s staff, was on the field, and took direction of the movements. Gen. Ransom was wounded, and his Adjutant, Capt. E. C. Dickey, instantly killed.
<co5>
“Daniel, with its Apocryphal Additions, translated, arranged, and the principal questions of it interpretation considered, by Leicester Ambrose Sawyer.” is a work of genuine research and deep learning. The first fifty pages are occupied by Mr. Sawyer’ translation of the story of Daniel from the original Hebrew: and then follow the critical comments, which, as the author belongs to the more progressive order of Biblical commentators, are often marked by great holdness and originality. It is, to say the least, a rather abrupt way of stating some doubts in regard to the authorship of the Book of Daniel, when we read that “it is quite as possible that Seth wrote ‘Paradise Lost,’ or Agamemnon the ‘Iliad,’ as that Daniel wrote the book which bears his name .” Yet, the present disquisition on Daniel cannot fail, as Mr. Sawyer’s previous translations and critical writings have done, to greatly interest and instruct the Biblical student. Walker, Wise & Co. are Mr. Sawyer’s publishers.— N. Y. Evening Post. 
THE REBEL PAPER. These are again calling for an invasion of the North. The Savannah Republican urges this war policy as necessary to the sustenance of their army, and as well calculated to develop the peace party of the North. The Montgomery (Ala.) fail say that the trans-Mississippi army must invade Missouri,. Gen. Lee must enter Ohio, and Gen. Johnston move through Kentucky and Tennessee into Illinois and Indiana. Without such a sweeping movement, it says, “our agriculture will be ruined and our manufactories will be destroyed.” It says, also, that “the Copperheads will swell our ranks,” and it adds: “Better die there, with arms in our hands, than starve here or expire in chains.” The wail of despair is in such utterances as these. Button Journal.
The address at Trescott Hall, on Monday evening, by William A. Jackson, ex-coachman to Jeff. Davis, was well attended, and was a decided success., The audience was unusually quiet. We consider Mr. Jackson a man of far more than ordinary ability. When it is considered that, until the past year, he was slave, without book education, save the little he had stealthily acquired, it must be conceded that his natural endowments are remarkable. It is far from true, as intimated by a pro-slavery paper, that he has learned an address, and, parrot-like, repeats it on every occasion. A gentleman who heard him at Machias and at this place says the subject matter of the two addresses are almost wholly unlike. In private conversation, we find him intelligent upon all affairs connected with the war—Eastport Sentinel. 
Hodges Reed, Esq., of Taunton, whose death from congestion of the liver and lungs we announced on Saturday, was about 74 years of age. Probably no man could have been taken away in that place whose loss would have been more deeply lamented. He was universally beloved. He was widely known in the Christian community, and especially among the friends of the Sabbath School throughout New England.
He contributed very largely to the Sunday lyrics of the day, and almost every singing-book contains some of his compositions. He was formerly a merchant of Boston, and there are many in this city who will drop a tear as they read of his death. His funeral will occur at two o’clock on Monday afternoon.-Boston Traveller. 
THE TEMPERANCE MEMORIAL. The Memorial to our Legislature of the N. E. Conference in favor of a Metropolitan Police, which will be found at the close of their report on our fourth page, was adopted by a rising vote, and the Secretary instructed to forward it to that body in the name of one hundred and seventy-four ministers in the State of Massachusetts. It will be of great influence upon the public mind, in the matter of enforcing the Prohibitory Law in the city of Boston. Zion’s Herald. 
THE HANGING OP NORTH CAROLINA SOLDIERS. Some doubt has been thrown on the statement that twenty-three soldiers belonging Jo Charles II. Foster’s regiment of North Carolina Union men were hung by the rebels on being captured. The Raleigh Progress, however, quotes the statement without denying it, says the men were deserters, and threatens Col. Foster with the same fate, remarking: “Should Foster be taken, we suggest that he share the same fate as the men that were hung at Kinston for desertion.”
The last rebel device is said by the New South to have been practised near Jacksonville. A dead negro was found floating in the water, anchored out with a torpedo. An odd mixture of infernal malice and grim humor must have moved the rebel who thought of that decoy. 
The Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs has decided it to be inexpedient to take any action on the House resolution in regard to Mexico at present .
In his late speech at Lexington, Ky.,, Rev. Dr. Breckinridge said he could prove, it necessary, that Gov. Bramlette did at one time prepare a proclamation in flat opposition to the draft of negroes in Kentucky. 
Jacksonville (Florida) dates to the 11th inst. give a list of 349 of our wounded men in the hands of the rebels. 
A fire broke out on Folly Island on the 8th inst., destroying a large amount of Quartermaster’s stores. The Government loss is $20,000. 
GARIBALDI IN ENGLAND. Garibaldi arrived at Southampton on the 3d inst. and was enthusiastically received. 
The Savannah Republican of the 4th inst. states that the Yankee prisoners at Andersonville, Ga., are dying at the rate of from twenty to twenty-five a day. 
NEW YORK, 16th. The 30th Connecticut (colored) regiment passed through here en route for Annapolis to-day. 
BALTIMORE, 18th. Three negro regiments passed through the streets to-day. They made a fine appearance. 
Arthur S. Denny, the inventor of the steam caliope, died lately in London. He made probably the most discordant noise that ever was heard in the world. 
Nancy James, a colored woman, has just died in Philadelphia, at the age of one hundred and ten years. 
LADIES’UNION BAZAAR, 
FOR THE BENEFIKT OF THE
COLORED ORPHANS.
We, the undersigned, again appeal to a generous public in behalf of the Colored Orphans, and from the ready and liberal response to our last effort in this noble, cause, we feel assured we shall not plead in vain, especially when we consider how much more they, in their present situation, demand our sympathy and assistance.
Driven from their pleasant and comfortable Asylum by a wicked, unprovoked attack of the ruthless and infuriated mob of July last—thus depriving them of the many comforts which had been so carefully provided for them by their kind friends, the Managers of the Asylum—should not our sympathy for them be doubly increased and more strongly manifested? We believe that all feel as we do in this matter, ready to do; and that the hearts and hands of the most indifferent and illiberal wait only an opportunity to express their sympathy practically.
Such an opportunity is now at hand. We propose holding a Fair for the benefit of these needy ones in May next, and would ask of you contributions in money or goods.. Shall they be withheld? Donations will be gratefully received by either of the undersigned:
Mrs. E. BASTRIN, Directress, 89 Thompson Street.
Mrs. E. POYER, Assistant, 84 Sullivan Street.
Mrs. J. H. JACKSOH, Assistant, 110 Thompson Street.
Miss F. TOMPKINS, Secretary, 52 Laurens Street.
Mrs. E. GRAHAM, Assistant, 541 Broome Street.
Mrs. C. L. REASON, Treasurer, 118 Laurens Street. 
COMMITTEE, 
Mrs. E. Mann, Mrs. S. Williams,
"C. B. Ray, " H. H. H. Garnet,
"J. Peterson, " P. Van Dyke,
"Convers, “D. Rosell,
"A. Williams, "J. Mars, 
"E. Parker, "S. Lawrence, 
"J. McCune Smith, “M. M. DeGrasse,
"J. Thompson, "E. D. Richards,
"C. Trimmingham,“M. Lawrence,
"Crummell, "Maxwell,
"B. Stanley, "M. Barnes,
"C. Robinson, "P.Blake,
"J. W. Bowers, "G. Snowden.
The above Committee, In a similar effort, two yean since, to benefit the Colored Orphan Asylum, realised the liberal sum of $1464. That the present enterprise may have the confidence and patronage of the public is the earnest wish of the Managers.
A. H. SHOTWELL, Secretary.
New York, April 20.
<c6>
ANNIVERSARY OF THE WOMEN’S LOYAL NATIONAL LKAGUE.
The Anniversary of the Women’s Rational League will be held la New York, Thursday, May 12th, at the church of the Puritans, at 10 o’clock, A. M.
Representatives from auxiliary Leagues, and all women who believe in a democratic form of governments, are invited to attend.
The work of the hour is not alone to put down the rebels in arms, but to EDUCATE THIRTY MILLIONS OF PEOPLE INTO THE IDEA OF A TRUE REPUBLIC. Hence, every influence and power that both men and women can bring to bear will be needed in the reconstruction of the nation on the basis of justice tad equality.
As the educators of future statesmen, heroes and martyrs, it is the duty of women to inform themselves on all questions of national life, that they may infuse into the politics of the nation a purer morality and religion.
The Revolution has throws ob woman new responsibilities, and awakened in her new powers and aspirations, no longer to be expended, as now, in mere surface work, but to be developed into a broader, deeper and higher range of thought and action than ha of late bee realized.
The nation’s destiny now trembles in the balance, and waits the electric word that shall route the women of the Republic to make themselves a POWER FOR FREEDOM in the coming Presidential campaign.
That all our sacrifices of wealth and ease and home, and the blood of oar first-born, may not have been in vain, let us—earnest and heroic through suffering—now make haste to pronounce the doom of slavery, and hag the death-knell of caste and claw throughout the land.
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President.
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Secretaries
CHARLOTTE B. WILBOUR, Secretaries

LIBERTY FOR ALL.—WM. WELLS BROWN will speak on the above (object as follows:—
At Willimantie, Conn. Friday, April 22.
At Willimantie, Conn. Satarday, April 23.
Windham, Conn. Sunday, April 24.
Warren, Mass. Monday, April 25.
Monson, Mass. Tuesday, April 26.
Stafford, Conn., Wednesday, April 27.
Stafford, Conn., Thursday, April 28.
PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in Natick, on Sunday next, 24th inst., at the usual hours, afternoon and evening.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in
Quincy, Sunday, April 24.
Lowell, Sunday, May 1.
G. JULIAN HARNEY, (from Great Britain,) late editor of The Jersey Independent, Isle of Jersey, is desirous of hearing from old personal or political friends, citizens, or residents, of the United States. Address G. JULLIAN HARNEY, Office of The Commonwealth, Boston, Mass.
The Post-Office address of Theodore D. Weld, Angelina G. Weld, and Sarah M. Grimke will hereafter be FAIRMOUNT, (Mass.) instead of West Newton.
SUNSHINE:
A NEW NAME FOR A POPULAR LECTURE ON HEALTH. By Mrs. DALL, Author of Woman’s Labor,” “Woman under the Law,” &c. 16mo; paper, 35 cents.
Sent free by mail on receipt of the price.
ALSO,
DR. BARTOL’S SERMON COMMEMORATIVE OF RBV.
T. STARR KING. 15 cents.
THE PHONIC PRIMER AND READER. A Rational Method of Teaching Reading by the Sounds of the Letters, without altering the Orthography. By Rev. J. C. ZACHOS. 38 cents.
WALKER, WISE & CO..
BOSTON.
APRIL 8—1W
THE RED SEA FREEDMEN,
A STIRRING Sermon for the tines; unsectarian, untrammeled and progressive, bearing upon the activities of the Church and the prosperities of the Nation. By Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor of “Clark’s School Visitor,” and Junior Pastor of the Church of the New Testament, Philadelphia.
A handsome pamphlet. Price 10 cents. $1 a dozen. Buy it, read it, and send it to a soldier. Address
J. W. DAUGHADAY.,
1308 Chestnut street, Philadelphia.
April 15. 3t 
MASON & HAMLIN’S
CABINET ORGANS.
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family 
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN 
AT a very moderate cost—$85, $100, $110, $135,. $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years. 
THE CABINET ORGANS, 
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusivesively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instrument. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs..
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as a long as piane forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best Judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given not hem, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instruments of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, & c.; the most distinguished organization the country, as Cuter of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher's Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c.: such celebrated planists as Gottachalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakoach, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organs is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS,274 Washington Street, Boston, WAREROOMS, 7, Mercer Street, New York. 
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb.26-6m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
LINES IN HONOR OF GEORGE THOMPSON.
TUNE- "Hail to the Chief." 
Press forward to hear him, the eloquent stranger
Who comes from the shores of Old England to-night;
Through life he has been holy Freedom's avenger,
For God and the slave ever ready to fight.
Come, then, brave pioneers,
Freedom's true warriors! 
Listen and learn from the lips that you love,
What this brave man has done,
How he has fought and won
The battle of Truth, led by powers above.
II.
He heard the base slanders by rebel chiefs spoken
Against Northern freemen, this land to enslave;
He roused like a lion: the chains he has broken 
A round the true hearts of his countrymen brave.
Come, all ye Northern men, 
From every mount and glen,
Make the air ring with your shouts of delight;
Each heart be true as steel,
For your loved country's weal
Thompson has fought: go, and hear him to-night!
III. 
Come, Women, Great Britain has sent us a champion 
As bold and as kind as a chivalry knight;
You could not select from the old Roman Pantheon 
A hero more grand or more true to the right.
Come, daughters of freedom, then,
Welcome him back again,
To the land where he suffered in Freedom's dark hour;
The joy which you manifest 
Shall erase from his noble breast 
The deeds that were done by despots in power.
IV. 
Twine a garland of olive, of bay, and of myrtle, 
The symbols of Peace, highest Honor and Love!
Round this patriot's brows you then may encircle 
A tribute he'll prize many honors above.
Come, hear our brother brave! 
Our land he's tried to save; 
Flinging behind him the favor and frown
Of wealth, birth and station, he 
On the altar of liberty
All that self values has nobly laid down.
CAROLINE A. ROBBINS.
Newport, (R. I.) April 2, 1864.
For the Liberator.
"IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN."
Yes, the white-winged angel of heavenly peace
Might ever have rested within our land;
And we as brothers, loyal and true,
Been united in love, an unbroken band.
"It might have been," had our nation been just,
And worshipped only the God of Right; 
"It might have been," had our onward way
Been guided by Truth's unerring light.
"It might have been,"-but, alas! alas! 
The Upas tree undisturbed has grown
Till it has darkened and blighted our land, 
And its shadow o'er all our homes is thrown.
"It might have been," had the fatal bark,
Which first bore to our land the Afric slave,
Returned again with its hapless freight
To their sunny homes o'er th' Atlantic wave.
But love of power and love of gold
Hushed the voice of Pity, of Truth and Right;
To Mammon a gilded shrine we reared,
Nor upward looked for a holier light.
The seeds of Wrong were thickly strown;
To-day we gather the harvest in;
And the world looks on aghast to see
Our garners filling, the wages of Sin.
Our bravest and be	st, like the autumn leaves,
With their life-blood crimson the battle field:
’Tis a terrible lesson we learn to-day,
The harvest that Wrong doth ever yield.
Fond hearts in anguish are throbbing now,—
A thousand eyes with tears are dim,—
A thousand homes are desolate:—
The price we pay for a nation's sin!
Ah! to think that this beautiful land of ours,
So full of promise, so richly blest,
Should have suffered the poison-tree to grow, 
And thought’ neath its shadow in peace to rest!
Did we deem that wealth, and power, and fame, 
With commerce whitening every sea,
And the spindle and loom by each mountain stream,
Would hold of Fate th' unloosening key?
Fair altars to Freedom our fathers reared,
But Slavery ever hath made them a lie;
Their sacred purity profaned;
And stained their garlands in guilt's dark dye.
Shall we now rebuild those blood-stained shrines,
And inscribe upon them, in letters of gold,
"Our land is in truth the land of the free— 
No more shall our brother be bought or sold!" 
We have buried the fetters and clanking chains,
Deep, deep’ neath the soil they have cursed so long;
And through all our homes in triumph shall ring
The joyous tones of the jubilee song.
We know that the angel Dove of Peace
Is waiting the olive-branch to bring;
The Ark rests firm on the mountain-top,-
She watcheth to bless us, with tireless wing.
But her snowy pinions we may not see
Till our guilty land is purged from all stain;
Half bond—half free—we are aliens still; 
Peace will not dwell with the scourge and chain.
How long must we suffer? how long must we wait?
How long must the green turf be crimsoned with gore,
Ere we crush the false Idol we've worshipped so long,
And the God of Love, Mercy and Justice adore?
CARRIE.

IN MEMORY OF OWEN LOVEJOY.
Friend of truth and justice!
Exponent of the free!
The friends of freedom mourn thee,
Bright star of Liberty!
The land is draped in mourning—
Each mountain, vale and stream—
For in the sky of Freedom
A star has lost its beam!
The glowing fires of Freedom
Are quench'd within thy soul;
Thy eyes of fiery vengeance
No more on tyrants roll. 
Hushed is thy voice of thunder 
Within thy sainted grave—
The monster death has silenced
Its pleadings for the slave.
The sons of future ages
Will sound aloud thy fame,
While on the scroll of honor
Will glow thy fadeless name. J. W. M.
-Baltimore Lyceum Observer.

PRAYER FOR OUR COUNTRY. 
From foes that would our land devour; 
From guilty pride and lust of power;
From wild sedition's lawless hour;
From yoke of slavery;
From blinded zeal, by faction led; 
From giddy change, by fancy bred;
From poisoned error's serpent head;
Good Lord, preserve us free!
<c02>
The Liberator.
CREDITABLE TESTIMONIALS.
The noble manner in which the half employed, half starving operatives of Lancashire, England, have stood by the American Government in its efforts to suppress the Slaveholders' Rebellion, and refused to be bribed by the Cottonocracy to demand the recognition of the Southern Confederacy as an independent power by the British Government, has very justly excited the admiration of all loyal men, and all lovers of free labor and free institutions. Among the most active, meritorious, and influential of these was THOMAS EVANS, a Manchester operative, whose cooperation Slidell and Yancey in vain sought to secure, and who had done good service in the cause of temperance and education among his fellow-workmen. Last year he came over to this country to take up his abode here, as a believer in genuine democracy, and hoping to better his condition by the change. 
Before leaving, he was presented with a number of honorable testimonials, (some of them exquisitely written upon parchment,) from various bodies, as to his character and worthiness; from which, without his knowledge, and in the hope of doing him a good service, we venture to select the following:—
TO THOMAS EVANS,
ON HIS LEAVING ENGLAND FOR AMERICA.
DEAR SIR—We cannot allow you to leave Old England, for America, without some expression of our good wishes for your future success and happiness.
We rejoice, that during a period of dire distress, you have been able to maintain your independence; and though you have been sorely straitened in circumstances by the cotton famine, you have been in strumental in sustaining the spirit, and directing into a right channel the energies and sympathies of the distressed operatives of Lancashire.
We acknowledge your efforts in the noble cause of Temperance.
We believe you were the first to suggest the advisability of substituting the educational, instead of the labor test, to operatives applying for relief in these districts; and we feel assured you will leave these shores with the blessings of thousands who have attended the schools and classes established upon your suggestion, and of which you have held the appointment of teacher, we believe with honor to yourself and satisfaction to the guardians.
Your exertions on behalf of the Emancipation of the Slave, and in the support of the American Union, are worthy of all praise, and call forth our warmest thanks.
Our fervent prayer is, that you may soon see a complete realization of your hopes, and that the time may be hastened forward when America shall have wiped from her otherwise fair escutcheon the foul blot of human slavery. 
Wishing you prosperity and comfort in your new sphere of duty, we are
Yours, very truly,
Richard Wilson, Alfred Crabtree,
Benjamin Chappell, Joseph Carson Long,
Robert Kennedy, Alfred Williams,
Edw'd Owan Greening, Allen Crabtree, 
John Edwin Kirkham, Jno C. Edwards,
Thomas Rogers, William Roche,
Thos. D Kirkham, Nathaniel Peak,
Max Kyllmann, Thos. Morris,
Andrew Hall, Joseph Marples,
Thomas Bostock, George Bardsley, 
Joseph Barlow, Thomas Haynes,
William Bond, Thomas Bond,
Thomas Sharp, William Young,
J. D. Morton, George Cranshaw,
Frederick Crabtree, George Bond,
Walter William Brown, Jonathan Fielding,
George Bedson.
No. 8 Port Street; Manchester,
March 11, 1863.
GAYTHORN SCHOOLS,
MANCHESTER, 27th February, 1863.
MR. THOMAS EVANS:
SIR—In reply to the farewell remarks which you have so kindly addressed to us on this the occasion of parting with us in the capacity of Teacher, we, the Scholars of these rooms, cannot allow such an opportunity as this to pass without expressing our deep regret at losing your services amongst us, when we consider the straight-forward, manly and independent manner in which you have performed the duties which have devolved upon you in that capacity.
But whilst we regret losing your services amongst us as a Teacher, we are glad to know that we shall still retain your services as a friend and advocate of our interests; and that although you will be absent from us in body, you will be often present with us in spirit. 
As "unemployed operatives," we cannot allow this opportunity to pass without expressing our deep sense of gratitude for the manner in which you have always advocated our rights and interests as workingmen; and although we may not again have an opportunity of meeting together as Teacher and Scholars at this Institution, we trust that we may often meet again in a manner which perhaps might be deemed more congenial to our interests.
In leaving us, be assured that you carry with you the best wishes of us all; and as we learn that you intend shortly to proceed to America, we sincerely with you and your wife a safe and pleasant voyage. And that God may be pleased to bless and prosper your labors, in whatever sphere of life you may be called into, is the fervent desire of every scholar in their rooms.
Signed on behalf of 2250 Unemployed Operatives of Manchester attending Gaythorn Schools, this 27th day of February, 1863.
J. WHITTAKER, J. BATES, 
WM. RONTREE, W. KEARNS,
That the Executive Committee of the Union and Emancipation Society, in parting with their brother co-worker, THOMAS EVANS, (to whom as a deserving working- man they desire to express their earnest wishes for his continued health and happiness,) affectionately commend him to the friends of freedom in the Great Republic to which he is going, and trust be may have a prosperous journey across the Atlantic. 
THOMAS B. POTTER, President. 
SAMUEL WATTS, Jr., Treasurer. 
JOHN C. EDWARDS, 
Hon'y Sec's.
EDW'D OWEN GREENING, 
51 Piccadilly,
Manchester, March 9, 1863. 
UNITED STATES CONSULATE,
Tower Building, South Water St.,
LIVERPOOL, May 30, 1863.
Thomas Evans, late of England, an operative in Lancashire, while here, was very active among his co-laborers, assisting in getting up meetings in favor of the North, and did, in my judgment, the cause of the United States good service. 
THOMAS HOADLEY, Consul.
Mr. Evans is, for the present, employed in the Pemberton Mills at Lawrence, Mass. He is deserving of a good situation and special consideration, and we trust will find every encouragement to new effort. 

AN APPEAL.
This appeal is born of prayer—prayer that it may arouse your interest, Mr. Editor, and touch to action every heart of him who reads it.
In the last three years, the national car has been startled by the sound of armed men, marching to the defence of threatened right. As they marched, a death-dirge sounded for some, but high above it arose the patriotic song of Freedom—Liberty! Though they fell, what was death but a door opening to the martyrs a better life! 
Now again to the national heart the imprisoned hand of justice knocks; up from crowded streets of its many cities, from pale, feeble forms, the appeal sounds—'tis from the" working women!" 
It is a living fact, one to be looked fair in the face, that there is a huge multitude of females, both old and young, coerced upon the public platform of the business world, while they may have the most intense yearning for private life, the social circle, and domestic tranquillity.
For all time, the woman necessitated by poverty has resorted to her needle for self-support. Thousands to-day are doing this, and God best knows how they are oppressed. The history of their lives, the horrible history of their hearts, where is it written, if not upon his knowledge? 
But manufacturers are growing rich—they are living in luxurious ease—their daughters in affluence That pale, wan-looking woman down in the damp cellar, or up in the miserable attic, is of no consequence She looks pitiful, to be sure, but she may not feel. Let her go! No, we will not let her go. Thank Heaven, the first herald has already been sounded for her liberation.
<co3>
In New York, recently, a large meeting has been held. It was there and then made known, that the sewing women had resolved to strike for higher wages—resolved through absolute necessity, gnawings of hunger, and perils of nakedness. Here are some of the statements given:—One woman, though she toiled from 7, A. M., to 9, P. M., earned but nine and a half cents. Twelve and a half cents was found to be more than an average, and eighteen cents considered a princely salary. Think of the long mortal hours of toil, and the recompense! Shame, burning contempt for the employer, whoever he is! But sub-meetings are soon to be organized elsewhere in the city, preparatory to the strike; and if the demands are not acceded to promptly, the employers' names will be given to the public. What love for humanity will not effect, self-pride in souls so little may. Philanthropic gentlemen have already put their shoulders to the wheel of this noble reform. God assist them while they work!
Now we come to others, not sewing women alone Ladies occupy many public places which, in former times, especially before the war, were filled by men. They occupy them through the commendable endeavor to earn the bread they eat, and the clothes they wear. All are not there from the choice of being self-dependent, but the most of them from strong necessity. Many of these are gifted and refined, delicately organized, and have been tenderly reared; yet the first early hours of morning send them to business, and the darkened hours of evening find them there. How do they fill these posts?—well?—satisfactorily? Are their services profitable to their employers? The most of them do as well, and some far better, than their male predecessors.
Are they as well paid? No, they are not; far from it. Now comes the significant and very important question, Why not?
Is it from the magnanimous consideration that their physical strength is less, and which, though it may be more severely taxed, stands well the test, and leaves no duty undone? Then, we would ask, where is the magnanimity, the philanthropic consideration, the self-sacrifice, the protecting powers of the" stronger vessel" who hires and pays?
We know well one respectable firm of this city, grown rich, they say, which has turned many a trembling, hopeful applicant away, because she had no home in the place—none on earth, perhaps—and more wages would be required, that her board must be paid. We would refrain from casting any judgment upon wealth thus accumulated, or upon such persons, but we draw back, and say low—God will be just!
We, ourselves, have wandered through the streets of this city, feet sore, heart wearied and body wearied, with the love of life gone out, and hope made a pale corpse; but door after door has been closed—" No! I we prefer gentlemen—they can afford to pay more!" Ah! from our heart of hearts we pray the prayer—" God, our Father, pity the woman, gone out upon the world to earn her living—out upon the cold, hard world; for there are storms of selfishness, difficulty and trial, ahead and around!"
Tremble, proud merchant, manufacturer, whoever you are, that thus abuse the power you have taken! Tremble as your own daughter sweeps past the woman who has fallen! The pen is not wielded which can trace out the warring, raging tumult of that bosom ere she fell. In the day of judgment, as she renders up her account, what shall yours be?
It is assuredly true, though it be a homely fact, that if women were justly paid for their useful services, the black, loathsome tide of prostitution would roll back and be staid much, disappearing sooner in the crystal waters of virtue.
There are noble reforms going on; we thank God for them, though the reformers have brought epithets and hatred about them more foully clinging than the world's fogs; bursting those fogs, a halo of glory now surrounds them which is not of earth. Methinks the brightest star gemmed there shone out when so many shackles fell from America's slaves!
But to noble men, whom God has anointed to bear his light on darkness—to influential women, talented by God—to you the long muzzled voice of justice again speaks. Let the righteous truth be sent out against the popular tide of falsehood, and the work begun. Let the working, business women of America be justly compensated! A GIRL CLERK.

AN APPEAL TO OUR GENERALS AND SUBORDINATE OFFICERS.
GENTLEMEN: Drunkenness in a private citizen is a matter which may lie chiefly between himself and God. Drunkenness in the Officers of our Army, who have the glory of the nation and the lives of mighty battalions in their hand, is a public crime, which any man has a right to denounce. We denounce it in that uncompromising, soldier-like style which you men of honor approve.
Excellent men, far and near, who lay their sons and treasures on the national altar, lament that, among the laurels you have won, you have not won the laurels of Temperance. They fear that, when the last soldier shall have fallen in battle, and the helmets of war shall be hung in our silent halls, INTEMPERANCE, more terrible than Rebellion, may come upon us as an army with banners; and—alas! alas!—they have fearful forebodings that you, whom we delight to honor, may head that army! 
THE EXTENT OF INTEMPERANCE IN YOUR RANKS, GENTLEMEN, is ALARMING. A few of you, we rejoice to believe, are total" abstainers"—a few are " temperate drinkers"—others habitual, and others hard drinkers in a deplorable sense. Temperance is the exception, and Intemperance the rule. With half the pomp and half the cost you court-martial a fellow officer for some piccadillo, we, if necessary, will substantiate these charges. 
The fact that enormous quantities of alcohol cross your lines—enough, used simply as a medicine to supply all the armies on earth—we adduce as evidence. Who consumes this frightful amount? Your soldiers? No, gentlemen; you know that army" laws and regulations," which many of you treat as cobwebs, make it contraband to them. They are forbidden to drink a drop, unless sick or languishing on severe marches, or in the pangs of death. They can only use it as a medicine Is it not true, gentlemen, that an epaulette or shoulder-strap is indispensable to clear the way to a brandy-cask, and to confer upon its possessor the dignified privilege of getting drunk with impunity? Has it come to this, that" fast" drinking is the highway to promotion? 
The notorious fact that many of your marquees are drinking saloons—that you greet each other over sparkling decanters—drink to this and that victor and victory, this or that presentation of a flag or sword— is evidence.
The statements of chaplains who have returned— chaplains, thank God! not themselves drunkards—is a source of evidence. Scores of these patriotic, noble men are swift witnesses against intemperance in your ranks—against terrible monuments of the power of the bottle! 
The demeanor of many of you when off duty is significant You hang around the gin-palaces of Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington, and we mourn to say that your countenances and your general bearing proclaim your habits. Justice, we are sensible, demands more specific details—details which might be less agreeable to you; but we forbear.
THIS COMMON USE OF ALCOHOLIC DRINKS, GENTLEMEN, IS UNNECESSARY IN THE SERVICE. We meddle not with its medicinal use, because, in the hands of scientific and honorable physicians, it sometimes does very important service. But why pervert its medicinal use? Why, with the pretence of being your own doctors, do you make shipwreck of sense and decency, and guzzle down what Robert Hall called" liquid death and distilled damnation"? 
This fiery liquid is not rightly classed among the necessaries of existence. It may minister to the comfort of a poor dying soldier—it may inspire a cowardly captain with a flash of maniac courage; but the science
<c04>
of all Europe and all America will tell you that it is not nutritious—that it does not vitalize blood, strengthen muscle or bone, or promote manly energy in any form. The training of every pugilist for the ring, you well know, confirms this statement. 
The principles of animal life, gentlemen, are the same in you as in the horse you ride. Your horse undergoes the severest labor with no drink but water. He would reject a tumbler of rum as he would a tumbler of lightning. Is not his example instructive? The business of the world, till within three hundred years, was done without distilled liquors. They were unknown to the armies of ancient Rome "The canteen of the soldier," says Dr. Rush," was filled with vinegar, and it was by draughts of this wholesome beverage, duly mingled with water, that those mighty armies endured severe marches and pestilential climes, and won their victories." 
Soldiers perform the drudgery—soldiers, without your aristocratic luxuries, encounter the brunt of war, and they, if anybody, need stimulants. It is not for, you, Generals, to drink wine, nor for your staffs to drink strong drink. Give wine to the bleeding soldier in the ambulance, who is ready to perish. 
The great men of your profession have not been drunkards. Who associates the generalship of Cyrus, Hannibal, Julias Caesar, Washington, Wellington, Napoleon, with intoxication? True, Alexander died drunk; but the notoriety of his case by implication shows it to be an exception, and that the mightiest conquerors have not been conquered by this enemy. 
Gen. Wolfe—a philosopher as well as general— never suffered ardent spirits to be drank in his army, except on rare occasions and in emergencies. Gen. Cass, who has been a laborious man, subjected to great fatigues, privations and exposures on our frontiers, says," I never tasted ardent spirits in my life, and therefore know they can be dispensed with." Gen. Prentiss, on a late public occasion, said," I never drank a glass of liquor in my life." Col. Lehmanowski says," You see before you a man seventy-nine years old. I have fought two hundred battles. I have fourteen wounds, and have often lived on horseflesh and the bark of trees. In the deserts of Egypt I have marched for days, with a burning sun on my naked head, and thirst so tormenting that I have sucked blood from my own veins! Do you ask how I survive? Next to God, I owe my health and vigor to the fact that I never drank a drop of spirituous liquor in my life." Gen. Havelock—a hero dear to the whole British empire-was a" total abstainer." Stonewall. Jackson-whose name was sufficient to "chase a thousand, and put ten thousand to flight"— was a "total abstainer." Gen. Stuart, the rebel raid cavalier, who sometimes rides fifty miles a day, and a dozen more at night, and is as nimble as a dancing-master, attributes his health and vigor to the fact that he" never used tobacco in any form, or rum or any other liquid," 
Many of our noble commanders on land and water have been temperance men. Commodores Foote and Hudson are happy naval examples. "I am ignorant," says Commodore Hudson," of the taste of intoxicating liquor. Not a drop ever passed my lips, except in the form of catnip tea when a babe!" We have such testimony in abundance; and the notion that brandy and whiskey are necessary as a beverage for young, fat, robust officers, with ribs of brass and sinews of iron, is both ridiculous and pitiable.
INTEMPERANCE, GENTLEMEN, INJURES, SERIOUSLY INJURES, THE NATIONAL SERVICE. It is useless to discuss Ball's Bluff, Bull Run, Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, or other ignominious battle-fields, because, in the first place, we know the damaging nature of rum, and, in the second place, we know that many of you use it in prodigious quantities. Cause and sequence are ever the same. You are not altogether ethereal, gentlemen. You" have like passions"; you are controlled by laws which govern ordinary mortals; and, if rummy coachmen, rummy conductors and pilots, are unsafe men, rummy generals, colonels and majors are preeminently unsafe men. 
We refer, in no exclusive sense, to your debauches and" official drunks." We refer to your" moderate" use of liquor which must, by its disturbing power, unduly excite or depress you, and render your minds abnormal, in discharging duties of the most critical nature. "Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging"; and the notion that you may be the victims of its power, and plan and execute a battle with a reliable nerve, with a clear, calm mind, is totally inadmissable. Temperance has its advantages. Here are two generals, by supposition, equal in mental calibre, courage and science—in every sense equal, except that the mind of one is more or less affected by portions of strong drink; the other is strictly temperate. Were you a soldier, which would you choose for your leader? Which is the stronger man for the terrible exigencies of war? 
Our commander-in-chief, Abraham Lincoln, exhibits admirable generalship in his administration; but he is a" teetotaler"; he derives no aid from strong drink. Should he, however, compromise his temperance principles, and resort to the bottle, the confidence of this vast nation in his administration would be shaken, and the event would affect stocks on every exchange in forty-eight hours.
Beyond dispute, gentlemen, the service suffers from this cause. Why should Mr. Jefferson say," The use of spirituous liquors has given me more trouble, in my administration, than anything else; and should I serve another term, I would appoint no man to office who habitually uses them"? Why should a General now in service say in public," Rum and drunken officers have done more to defeat and demoralize our armies than all Rebeldom! If the appointing power had made temperance in an officer an indispensable qualification, the war would have closed long since"? Why should an army surgeon—a most distinguished surgeon—say to us, "Alcohol, in one form or another, is very convenient and popular in the army. It is often useful. The officers like it, and so would the men if they could get it. But if it all should be dispensed with, the greatest curse would be banished from the army and the world"? Why should a general high in rank say," If all the officers would combine to set the soldiers an example of total abstinence, it would be worth fifty thousand men to the army"? 
GENTLEMEN, HOW SHALL WE BANISH THE CURSE? Should President Lincoln, or should Congress, strike from the rolls every officer who is a hard drinker, it would make fearful havoc in your ranks, and give too severe a shock to national interests at this momentous juncture. But you, gentlemen—you, generals—CAN BANISH IT. You can abandon the use of it yourselves, and stand disenthralled. You can abandon the practice of presenting it to fellow-officers, and clear your quarters of the reputation of being" dram-shops" in any sense. 
You appoint your own staffs, and have the unquestionable right to discharge staff officers for intemperance or other cause. You are Kings on the battle-field, and everywhere within the lines of your respective" commands." "To prevent intemperance in the army," says the President," is a great part of the rules and articles of war." These" rules and articles" are a dead letter, trampled down without scruple. You can execute them. Who doubts it?
Sutlers, eagle-like, deem your armies a carcass. They deal in the vile dregs of distilleries and breweries, and pour their abominable feculence upon your battalions. Vile drinks, under specious names and devices, are borne over your lines, and over the heads of your devoted soldiers, to the quarters of your subordinates; and with shame be it said, they make brutes of themselves, and demoralize your soldiers by their example. You can protect your own lines, and bid this nefarious business cease. Your power is supreme. 
We have no fondness for profane oaths; but if gentlemen of your profession must swear, we beg you to swear to some purpose. Swear as General Jackson swore, in view of the mischief rum was doing:" By the Eternal! not another drop shall cross my lines"
Yours, respectfully,
Fitchburg, Mass. GEO. TRASK.
<c05>
GEORGE THOMPSON,
"THE HERO OF THIS CENTURY FOR THE EXTINGUISHMENT OF SLAVERY."
The distinguished Englishman, and champion of freedom, spoke in the Hall of the House of Representatives on last Wednesday night. He has represented the largest constituency of England in the British Parliament, and with distinguished ability. He is a friend of loyal America. In London, at St. James Hall, on the 26th of November last, loyal Americans in that city, in accordance with the President's proclamation calling upon his" fellow-citizens sojourning in foreign lands" to" observe" that day, attended a Thanksgiving dinner. Hon. Robert J. Walker presided, and among the speakers was George Thompson. The former, in introducing the latter, employed the following just language, which it seems to us to be highly appropriate to publish at this time: 
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: There was a time when there was a great contest in England as regards the suppression of the African slave trade. The wealth, the trade, the power, the great and governing classes of England, at that date, were in favor of the African slave, trade. But there rose up great champions of humanity and of the rights of man, without regard to country or color, and after a long and doubtful contest, Clarkson and Wilberforce were triumphant, and the African slave trade was suppressed so far as England was concerned, by the British Parliament. These were the heroes of the early part of this century connected with the great question. But there has since arisen a greater question, not merely the suppression of the African slave trade, but the extinction of slavery itself, in the United states, in England, in the West Indies, and throughout the world. [Cheers.] But by far the most important of all is the extinguishment of slavery in our own country; for if it falls there, slavery will perish throughout every other portion of the habitable globe. [Loud cheers.] Now, then, whilst Clarkson and Wilberforce were the heroes of the suppression of the African slave trade, I announce an opinion to which every loyal American and every well-informed Englishman will respond, that George Thompson, the Member whom the Tower Hamlets sent to Parliament, is THE HERO OF THIS CENTURY FOR THE EXTINGUISHMENT OF SLAVERY ITSELF. [Loud applause.]
It is now more than a quarter of a century since this illustrious friend of the human race came to our shores, leading a forlorn hope in favor of the abolition of American slavery, where he spoke against it at the risk of his life. Now, if he were to return to America in the same cause, he would be received with plaudits, from the Lakes to the Gulf, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, from Boston, where he first landed, to New Orleans. [Loud cheers.] I have to request that you will drink this next toast with all the honors, and our friend Mr. Thompson will then respond:" The Day—Devoted to thanking (God for our victories in the cause of Liberty and Union." [Cheers.] 
Mr. Thompson's response to the sentiment was, like all his efforts, able and instructive. His allusion to the fact that Hon. Robert J. Walker introduced a colored clergyman to invoke a blessing on the occasion was very happy, as follows:
It was to me a remarkable sign of the times, that before we descended from yonder gallery into this room to partake of this banquet, and after the President's proclamation had been read, a gentleman, long a resident and Senator from Mississippi, reared in the midst of slavery in the United States, should, as the president of this meeting, call on a gentleman of color, an American, and but a few years ago a slave, to ask upon our meeting together to-day the benediction of Almighty God. [Loud cheers.] Sir, I see the future destiny of America typified in that incident. Never again will the negro in America, the men who led the forlorn hope at Port Hudson, the men who perished with the brave Colonel Shaw before Fort Wagner—I say, never will the men who by their color are linked with men like these, the twenty-five colored regiments which I understand from your chairman have already been enrolled in the State of Louisiana alone—never will those in your country who stand identified by color and by race, by condition and by suffering with such men, be looked on as they have been in any part of the United States of America; and I believe the day will come when, as we have seen to-night, an enlightened statesman of the South, and a colored man, lately a slave in North Carolina, are joined together in communion and fellowship; so in the United States, while men shall consult their tastes and their associates, we shall see a mutual recognition of the rights of man as man, and a free and generous acknowledgment of the right even of the humblest, to enjoy the immunities of citizenship and equality.
The Hall of the House of Representatives, at the Capitol, was filled with an enthusiastic audience, among whom were some of our most prominent officials, legislators, etc. A host of ladies were mingled in the assemblage, which comprised an unusually large number of the more intellectual classes of our city. 
Among the distinguished gentlemen present were Secretary Chase, Secretary Usher; Senators Johnson, Wilson, Harris, Foot, Clark, Lane, of Indiana; Speaker Colfax; Representatives Stevens and Kelley of Pennsylvania, and others.
The President was also present, and at his entrance into the hall he was greeted with enthusiastic applause.— Washington Republican.

THE GOLDEN WEDDING.
You asked me to give you an account of the Golden Wedding of our friends, Mr. and Mrs. Ellis Allen, of Medfield. Golden indeed it was, in the true idea of the festival. Not so much of this earth's glittering metal, though that was not lacking, but with golden memories of cherished love, bright hopes fulfilled, the world's blessing deserved and won, strung along the thread of years, long to look back upon, but so rapid in their onward passing. Nature decked herself for the bridal in her purest robes of snowy white, but, as if repenting of this act of condescension, frowned and even shed tears most of the day: but she could not cloud the loving hearts who were met to celebrate, in the old ancestral home, the anniversary of this auspicious marriage. The quaint old house, with its" beaufit" turned into a grotto of living green, from amongst which bloomed living flowers and glittered minerals and shells, its kitchen of the olden time, the spinning wheel in one corner, the exquisite set of tiny cups and saucers, from which our grandsires took the forbidden tea, the old-fashioned cresset which gave light to the workers, and which those of our generation had never before seen, the ancient chairs, the delight and envy of all modern house-keepers, each and all of these things had a rare charm for the assembled guests; but all interest in these were lost when the band of grandchildren came singing into the room, to give their greeting and crave the blessing of the beloved grandparents. The moistened eyes of all present spoke of the touching beauty of this union of childhood and age. To this followed a prayer of invocation, and then an address from the Rev. Dr. Allen, of Northboro', a brother of Mr. Ellis Allen. It pictured anew, for the benefit of the younger generations, the ancestral tree, with its various branches and grafts, and recalled many of the dear and hallowed associations which clustered around this, the home of the Allens, since the first Puritan head of the family received the land for a grant from the town of Medfield; and well has the true Puritan principle, the high-minded integrity and the religious character been maintained in all its descendants. A hymn was then sung by a full choir, for all the family are musical. It was very appropriate, and written by Rev. T. P. Allen for the occasion. I would like to give it to you, but fear you have not room. It was followed by short addresses, full of reminiscences, more playful than sad, showing that the sunlight of joy had not been long absent from the home. Then came a poem, written by Rev. J. H. Allen. I wish I could transcribe it, but it was too personal for the public, full both of humor and pathos, forgetting none of the loved ones of the family circle, and paying the full tribute to the patriot grandson, who gave up his noble young life at Chancellorsville. After all these good words were spoken, we passed under our glorious flag into a room where good things of a different kind were discussed. The still, firm hand of the golden yeared bride cut the rich loaf cake, which was the signal for the attack upon the goodly viands. After this came the hour for free chat and greeting, when the long absent brother, who had come 1,400 miles to be present, grasped the hand of many an old friend, and all was cheer and merriment At an early hour, all left with the feeling that it was a day ever to be remembered, a golden day in the memory of all fortunate enough to have
<c06>
been there, and a day from which will stream forth golden rays of light upon each of three generations who then and there gathered.—Corr. of the Boston Christian Register. 

THE INSTITUTIONS OF RELIGION AND REFORM. 
Men ridicule anything above the common level of goodness as being pharisaical, ismatical; and even ministers and churches have been found ridiculing the tendencies to heroism in the community. For, alas! since the world began, if it had not been for the religion outside of the church, churches would have led the world to destruction. Institutions of religion are always running down. That which has saved the world is the free spirit of religions outside of these institutions. I do not mean that spirit which is represented by good and holy men. outside of churches, but the influence of individual reformers that shoot beyond the churches. It is the spirit of the living God moving on the conscience of the community. Men say that the church has saved the Bible. I say that the Bible has saved the church ten thousand times over. You shall find that, when great questions come up in a community, churches do not go ahead. You cannot make them. Churches are like the baggage-wagons of an army. They carry the provisions and indispensable things; but, after all, baggage wagons never go first in a march. And it is so busy taking care of the things which it carries, that it has no time to devote to new things that present themselves. Reforms hardly ever originate in churches. I am not speaking against churches; I am merely putting them where they put themselves, and saying that tendencies to unusual conduct in the application of Gospel principles to new questions are oftentimes ridiculed by ministers, and rejected from pulpits, and refused places in conference meetings, and stigmatized by church members as being fanatical. Well, if you that are extreme on the slavery question, seeing yourselves in a mirror as you were five years ago, should do to yourselves as five years ago you did to men who stood where you now stand, every one of you would be sitting and pointing his own finger in his own face, and saying, "Hiss! hiss!" Five years ago, you were hissing at extreme Abolitionists. You were Anti-Slavery men, but no Abolitionists! You hated slavery as much as anybody else; but this and that particular measure you did not approve of! You did not believe in extreme men. Now see what a change a little circumstance has caused. God, by war, has brought the North substantially together. The clearest river is not so clear that there will not be some mud at the bottom of it; and though the people are substantially together, yet there is some detritus, some sediment, some mud. But pretty much all that is good for anything is one way now at the North. Men are not afraid to be called Anti-Slavery men. The term Anti-Slavery is not strong enough for them. They say, "I am an Abolitionist." And they are men that, five years ago, would have grown red in the face if I had spoken strongly against slavery. Some men that did have come to me, and laughed at their former follies, and said, "I am with you now; I stand where you stand." But was the truth different five years ago from what it is now? No. Justice was the same then that it is now; and so was liberty; so was right; so was God; so was man. The change has not been in moral principles. Developments have now given you an opportunity to come out in their favor. Five years ago, you had not stamina enough to do it. You did not dare to stand up and say, "I go for right, for justice, and for liberty, without regard to circumstances." You were not heroic. Now it is too easy to do this, to admit of heroism. I am glad you are where you are; I am glad that you feel as you feel; but you must not say," I am heroic." No man is heroic for running down hill. 
Since there is so much in common life and among common people of this quality, it is a very dangerous habit to speak indiscriminately of the evil side of human nature. There are some who believe in depravity; so do I. There are some who believe in the universal selfishness of men; so do I. They believe in the universal wickedness of men; so do I. They believe in nothing else; so do not I. They talk of the dark side of human nature. That is one of the worst things in the world to do. Especially where there are children, it is pernicious in the extreme to call attention to that which is bad in men. It is corrupting to the mind. It results in this: that it cuts up altogether faith in human nature; faith in human development; faith in rectitude; faith in heroism. Why, faith in these things is an indispensable condition of striving for them and attaining them; and where men are always seeing where a neighbor breaks down, always looking for faults in a neighbor's conduct, and always speaking of those faults, the effect is most damaging. The carrying of this single interpretation of human nature is bad. In the first place, it is not true nor just. Human nature is bad enough, but there are many things about it that are good; there are many tendencies in it that are noble. God's grace has been in the world long enough to bring out from it a great deal that is to the honor and glory of God; that is to the joy of manhood; that is right and pure. And if in your family you so talk, or so carry yourself, that your children shall grow up with an idea that heroes are myths and shams, and that human nature is low and vulgar, and that it is of no use to try to be good, what will become of those children? They may escape Sing or Auburn, but they never will have any largeness of soul; they will never have any heroic traits. It is your duty, therefore, to talk in your family and to carry yourself there, so as to present the possibility of heroism. Noble things are possible; and if children are brought up from the cradle to believe them so, they will aim toward them. And here is the work of parents! Father and mother, here is your work! The mother is God's natural inspiration of youth; and if she, by singing or telling stories, or in any other way, brings before the mind of the child nobler men and nobler principles, and keeps that child while under her care on the side of honor and inspiration. he can scarcely, when he is old, depart from her instruction. He may for a time seem to lose sight of it; but, ah! those patterns that are woven into the very heart by the side of the cradle do not fade out. Even though they are temporarily hid, the colors remain: and when the hour of adversity comes, the child has a distinct conception of what it is that it has fallen from, and comes back to it. It is a living form in itself that the mother has wrought there; it is the mother's legacy written in the heart of the child. Your work, then, mother—your work, father—your work, teachers of schools, and Sabbath-schools—is not to inspire the young with vague and nameless aspirations, but to arouse them, in all circumstances, to act the noble part; to take the highest motives, and carry them to their highest motives, and carry them to their highest forms. Make them believe that persons can be heroic in obscure places; awake in them a love for truth, and purity, and goodness; lift them above vulgarity, and meanness, and sordidness, and secularity, and worldly mindedness, and put them on the platform where God puts them when he says: "Quit you like men, be strong."-(Sermon of Rev. Henry Ward Beecher.
JAMES REDPATH, Boston, has now ready:
I. THE MORALS OF EPICTETUS. A Poetical Translation. By Ellis Walker, M.A. 25c
II. SPIRTIUAL TORRENTS. By Madame Guyon.50c; cloth,75c.
III. THE ROSE FAMILY: a FAIRY TALE By .L.M. Alcott. Illustrated. 25c.
IV BIOGRAPHY AND AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE—"The Negro Napoleon," "The greatest military genius whom the New World has produced up to the present time," "a man whose career was more marvelous than any romance." With portrait, autograph and map. $1.25.
V. SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS. By Wendell Phillips. $1.
VI. CROQUET. By Capt. Mayne Reid. 50c.
VII. BOOKS FOR THE CAMP FIRES. No. 1. On Picket Duty and Other Tales. By L. M. Alcott. No.2. Clotelle: a Tale of the South. By a Kentuckain. (Five fine Illustrations.) No.3. The Vendetta. By Balmc No.4. Gulliver's Travels. Voyage to Lilliput.(Illustrated.) No.5. Victor Hugo’s Battle of Waterloo. No.6. Hospital Sketches. By L. M. Alcott. Each of these books contains at least 96 pages, well printed and neatly bound; each is complete in itself, and unabridged. Price, Ten cents each! They are the cheapest books of values published. "Just the books to read to the soldiers." "Equally adapted to home fires."
Mailed on receipt of price by JAMES REDPATH, Publisher, Boston. 
Terms to the Trade, News Dealers and Peddlers.—For the 10c. books,$6.50 for 100; $60 per 1000; for the others, one- fourth discount from retail price for one dozen copies; one-third for 25 copies; 40 per cent. discount for 100 copies, nett, cash with order. 
March 25. 
