THE LIBERATOR 
IS PUBLISHED 
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusettes, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 24. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 10, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1740.
<c01>
The Liberator.
NEW ENGLAND A. S. CONVENTION.
CONCLUDING SESSION.
[Phonographically reported by JAS. M. W. YERRINTON.]
FRIDAY EVENING, May 27, 1864.
The Convention was called to order at 8 o’clock, Mr. QUINCY occupying the chair. The audience was quite large at that time, and continued to increase, until the Temple was crowded in every part.
The Chairman stated that the question before the Convention was on the adoption of the resolutions presented by Mr. GARRISON as substitutes for those offered by Mr. PILLSBURY, and both series were read by one of the Secretaries, Mr. POWELL.
SPEECH OF PARKER PILLSBURY. 
Mr. Chairman,—I did not propose to occupy another moment of the time of the Convention, and I certainly have risen with a great deal of reluctance. I do not understand why such a motion as that should have been made. The truth is, whether we are willing to accept it or not, this Anti-Slavery enterprise is the life of this nation, and if it have any salt, it is here. The politicians and the churches are looking to this city of ours—a city set on a hill. They are not particular whether we congratulate the Administration on its achievements; they are not particular whether we congratulate certain States on the abolition of slavery, in so far as it has been accomplished; but they want to know what this Society thinks of the great Anti-Slavery question which we have considered, and which we have enforced upon the consideration of the country now for more than thirty years. I could read you letters from Senators in Congress, written within the last two or three weeks—written, some of them, since our anniversary in New York—complaining that ours is an uncertain sound. True and faithful men in Congress say, that, as we do not press the abolition of slavery as in time past, and affirm the necessity of adherence to the principles of absolute justice and righteousness as in time past, the conservative Republicans in Congress are taking courage in their conservatism therefrom, and that it is in vain that any of the faithful men in Congress are endeavoring still to be faithful. I wish I had some of those letters here; but of this I suppose we are certain--that we have come at last to believe that the Administration has never yet, on its own confession, adopted one of our principles or measures, as the best instrumentality that can be employed now by the nation for the accomplishment of our grand purpose. When Fort Sumter was cannonaded, we were told that our work was done; we were told by men high in position in the Anti-Slavery enterprise, that the American Army was now the American Anti-Slavery Society, and that not Mr. May, but General Winfield Scott was its General Agent, and we were required to “stand still and see the salvation of God.” That was the sentiment enjoined. It was a very unhappy quotation, even of a very ancient Scripture, for the response to that sentiment, even then, was, “Speak unto the children of Israel, that they go forward.” ”Stand still, and see the salvation of God!” If there was ever a doctrine of devils, it was that. ”Stand still and you shall see the stagnation of God,” is the universal law, in all time; and, consequently, we were misled when that sentiment was inculcated upon us. Our work was not done; three years have shown that it was not; and now, it seems to me, there is a necessity for a return to our former position.
The country is exultant at the strange and fearful utterance of General Grant—“I shall put this work forward, on this line, if it takes all summer”; and we are now making that almost the watchword of the American army and of the country. But what do these fearful words imply? What but additional slaughter, what but additional butchery, what but additional suffering, mourning and woe? That is not God’s plan of saving this country. God has no idea of saving this nation through any such instrumentality.
We have heard the sentiment inculcated on this platform, yesterday and to-day, that we are to rely on the Administration—to rely on that kind of agency and instrumentality. Now, is that God’s plan of saving the nation, or saving men? Are you willing that another long and dreary summer shall bear onward to eternity another register of hundreds and thousands of your young braves, their lives sacrificed, not in fighting Jeff. Davis, but the Jehovah of Hosts? For the command of God is clear enough, plain enough; and until we do justice, until we proclaim liberty, we cannot be saved. We may vanquish the South to the Gulf of Mexico, but that is not salvation. On the other hand, the South may vanquish the North, and lay it in ashes from the shores of the lakes to the extremity of Madawaska; but if, in the very ashes of the North, we sit down in penitence and contrition, remembering the sin against our brother, it will be a triumph over which all heaven will rejoice. 
All philosophy is false, it is absolute atheism, which does not contemplate the justice and righteousness of God. We talk of iron-clads, and Irish conscripts, and cannon, and columbiads, when the command of the Most High is, “Execute justice and judgment, and then shall thy light break forth as the morning.” Is that the sentiment even of this platform? Is it the sentiment of the Church? Is it the sentiment, at least, of the Government? 
I did not wish to speak a word this evening; but it seems to me we owe it to the handful of faithful men in Congress, we owe it even to the President himself, instead of passing congratulatory resolutions, to give fresh utterance to faithful and persevering testimony. It seems to me that we owe it to them, and to all that is faithful in the country, that we return to our former position; and make our voice again heard, and our influence felt, that such a man as Charles Summer—for I believe he is about the last Abdiel, “faithful among the faithless found,”—that such at least as he shall feel that there is a little band that have not yet bowed the knee to the image of <illegible>. 
I do not understand what the proposition means, to substitute these congratulatory resolutions for the utterance of stern and important truths. I do not believe we shall do it. I have no idea that we shall. Let 
<c02>
congratulatory resolutions be properly tempered, and no one is more ready to adopt them than I; but if you ask me to adopt them as substitutes for the utterance of faithful testimony, and just and proper criticism, I think the demand is altogether too unreasonable, and I cannot accede to it. 
SPEECH OF  WENDELL  PHILLIPS,  ESQ. 
Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen,—I have heard these two sets of resolutions for the first time this evening. I see no reason why one should be substituted for the other. (Applause.)  It seems to me that, with some slight alterations, they should both receive the sanction of this Convention, and be passed as the expression of its opinion. The resolutions offered by my friend Mr. Pillsbury appear to me to express the exact and literal, and needed truth; a truth, not only exact and literal, but needed at the present hour, and especially fit and important for an Anti-Slavery Convention to utter.  It seems to me, as I stated last night, that in a country like this, where the Government does not reside at Washington, but only the Administration resides there—the agents of the Government; in a reading country, where nine men out of every ten daily inform thenmselves of public affairs, and make up an opinion on them; in a country where one city cannot change the Government before another city can hear ot it, as  was the case when Montesquieu said, " Paria is France,"—meaning that Paris could change the Government before Marseilles could hear of it and intervene,—but, on the contrary, in a country like this, where you can concentrate, by telegraph and railway, the opinions of a million of men in twenty-four hours upon a given point,—the people have become the largest portion  in the Government, and only their agents reside at Washington. And not only that, but Mr. Lincoln has again and again avowed that he sits there waiting to know what the  people want, and what the people will dare—what the public opinion will enable him to do.  We are, therefore, a part of the Government.
Allow me to repeat again what I quoted last night from Cobden, as his analysis of the nature of Government, in a republican country.  That reform and agitation are a part, and a recognized part, of modern affairs, was nil expressed, he said, in two words— Principle—Pressure.  The people announcing absolute right—Principle; Government forced to enact in statutes as much as statesmanship can  make available at the time—Pressure.  I contend that our part in this partnership is to elaborate and declare the absolute, theoretical, final right, and then let statesmanship,  politics, the Baltimore and Cleveland Conventions, i and Republican assemblies, settle how far they can go toward that goal to-day.  It is not for us to descend into the arena of availability, and count up what  can be done; but it is for us to announce, as we always have done, fearlessly, what ought to be done,— what the necessities of the case, and the future, and the laws of justice, demand should be done.  When I come here, therefore, as a member of the Massachu setts Anti-slavery Society and the New-England Anti-Slavery Convention, I come as an Abolitionist, as a reformer, as a creator of public opinion. 
I am aware, as my friend Mr.  Pillsbury  has just stated, that the leaders of public action in the Senate House are saying to-day, and have been saying for the last three months, " We are trying to drag the members of the Republican party up to the level of  what the times demand; and their answer to us is, 'the Old Guard don't ask for anything; they express entire satisfaction; why should we voluntarily go beyond what they demand? Wait until they find out something we have not done, and ask for it!'"  I am  aware  that  they point to Boston,  and  say, " We find no urgent demand there for anything more, and we decline to go ahead, without being bayonetted forward, as we have been for the last dozen years." I say, that earnest and sincere anti-slavery men, occupying that position, should  never be able  to  say this; and therefore I do not think that we have been quite fulfilling our function of late, in elaborating the absolute right, and urging party to the embodying of it, as much as possible, into law.  You will understand me, therefore, as coming here to-night as an Abolitionist and reformer, not a politician. 
Now I want to say a word  in behalf of the resolutions of Mr. Pillsbury, but not in denial of those of my friend Mr. Garrison. I object to the commencement of Mr. Garrison's, because I do not think it the  truth. It says this:—" That the progress of the Anti-Slavery cause, since the rebellion broke Out, in view of the fearfully divided state of public sentiment, of the feeling toward the negro race throughout the North, almost verging upon bloody civil war at our doors, has been wonderful," etc. I am perfectly willing to say that " the progress of the anti slavery cause since the rebellion broke out has been wonderful." I have no doubt of that; no man can deny it who is acquainted with our country; but, at the same time, I am not willing to say that it has been wonderful "in view of the fearfully divided state of public sentiment, and the feeling toward the negro  race  throughout the  North, almost verging upon bloody civil war, at our doors." There was no such state of things existing in 1861 or 1862. If it exists to-day, or if it has existed within six months, the Government, created it. (Applause.) I therefore object to that part of Mr. Garrison's resolution, and I would like to add another clause  to his concluding resolution, and then I would pass them, in addition to Mr. Pillsbury's. 
Understand me.  I am not  here to-night to be  thrown, by adverse pressure, into the attitude of a desponding speaker. Some gentlemen on this platform to-day have taken it for granted that my friend  Mr. Foster, Mr. Pillsbury, myself, and others who have spoken on the same side, are despondent. Now I have not an element of despondency from the crown of my head to the sole of my foot—not one. I am as full of faith in God and Democracy as I ever was. I am as full of conviction that when this epoch is ended—this epoch; not when you call home the cannon and furl the banner, necessarily,—but wheo this epoch, marked by a strife betwixt Northern and Southern ideas is ended,—when this struggle between Massachusetts and South Carolina, the one to supersede the other, is ended, I have not the shadow of a doubt that the North will own the continent and give law down to the Gulf. (Applause.) In Europe, all Governments tend, by inevitable gravitation, towards democracy-
<c03>
toward the recognition of every man as a citizen—a Government based on brains. Here, likewise, it gravitates in the same direction. The North, full of men, skill, education, thrift, purpose, God reigning, must give law to this continent in the end, and make the South (beggarly, in comparison,) over in its own image. The only question is—when? Shall it be at the end of this sharp ordeal of war. When peace comes, and you hang your torn but glorious banners up in your halls, shall there be one harmonious people, and one unmixed Government from the Atlantic to the Pacific, or shall there be again a seeming Union, covering the seeds and elements of quarrel, as it did before—which? Shall we round the Republic into one perfect whole, the envy of the nations, able to dictate law to the continent; or shall it be an aggregation of particles, not fused together, but merely massed up by accident, perhaps to break asunder again—which? That is the only question which divides opinion on this platform. I look back with the same satisfaction that Mr. Garrison does on all that has been done—all of it. That long and goodly list is as familiar to my lips as it is to his I am willing to go further, and to say that events crowd upon us so fast, shoot by us so quickly, like the landscape from a railway train, that we can hardly stop to discriminate, and ask their full meaning. We are borne on so rapidly, that we hardly know what is carrying us, nor whither we are tending.
“The current sweeps on; we are borne on its track;
Every beacon on shore is but glimpsed at and gone, 
The desponding look down, and the timid look back, 
While Hope points to Liberty’s star, and looks on.”
(Applause.) So do I. Nobody has a firmer faith or a fuller hope.
Another thing. You would imagine, from some of the discussions which have taken place here, that President Lincoln’s personal character is at stake; that we were weighing him in the balances in which the Divine Judge will finally weigh him—motive against temptation, education and opportunity against action —and making up the verdict. We are doing nothing of the kind. The amount of his sin or his virtue is no matter of mine. How much he ought to have done, and how much he has failed to do, God knows; and I leave that judgment where it belongs. I cannot penetrate into his heart and judge his motives, and if I could, I have no need to do so. I want him only as a tool to work out a certain result. For me, he is only an agent to do a certain kind of business. I want a plane, and you offer me a chisel. Well, I do not insult the chisel by flinging it aside and saying still, “I want a plane.” Neither do you remove my objections by crying out, “Boards can be planed with a chisel!” True, if you take a week for the job—a great loss of time. If I can have a plane, I prefer it, other things being equal. I am merely discriminating. I see before me a devious channel, through which the ship of state must be piloted. I see every hour momentously important, because every hour lost is an opportunity for misfortune. Every month that the war lasts, hardens the rebellion into a nation, and doubles the chance of foreign interference. I want, therefore, as my servant, whenever I can get him, a man who, I think, understands the problem, is capable, by constitutional and acquired bias and education, to pilot the ship of state speedily and safely through, at the least cost. Mr. Lincoln comes to me after three years’ service, and says, “There is my record—reappoint me!” I shall look, to decide, where? To that record. He comes, this November, a servant, to us, his sovereigns, and asks us to continue his power. Well, what are we to do? Examine. Has he any greater stake in the nation than I have? Take him from his pedestal, and he is but a single man. The country is ours—free institutions are ours—the future is ours—the cost is ours—the peril is ours—as well as his. He does not demand, he has no right to demand, indemnity from criticism. He holds up his record as his claim for another four years of power.
Now, therefore, as a citizen, as an agitator, as a reformer, looking over the country, hoping and most anxious to do the best, what voice shall I utter? I am going, first, to look at the country. I see a Confederacy one-third subdued after a three years’ war. Just about one-third; but I will grant you, if you please, that it is one-half subdued. You may take any proportion. The Government has had ample means, enough time, unlimited power, and they have done just half the work that was to be done. The question is, whose fault is it? My friend Garrison says, “The people’s; Mr. Lincoln has done as well as he could; he has always stood ahead of the people; he has used every weapon as soon as they gave it to him, and has always led rather than lagged behind public opinion.” Well, it is a matter of opinion whether he has or not. One can fortify his judgment with facts, and another can—but in the end, it is a matter of judgment. I am not very much surprised that my excellent and honored friend, Mr. Thompson, uttered the eulogy which he did this morning (though I had not the pleasure of hearing it) on the action of the President; because there are two facts on which one must base his judgment: one is, “What is the President?”—and the other is, “What have been his tools?” There is a piece of work to be done; here is the mechanic; there are his tools. Now, in regard to the mechanic (that is, the President,) and his tools, (that is, the people and public opinion) I think our honored visitor makes two mistakes. In regard to the second, I have no surprise in seeing him make it. He agrees with Mr. Garrison, and the expression of this resolution, that the President seems to have made the most economical use of all the means placed in his hands, and all the public opinion that he could command. I do not wonder at Mr. Thompson's taking that view, coming here as he has done within the last three months. He knows only the public opinion of this country debauched by a weak-minded and worse-hearted administration. (Applause and hisses.)  He never saw and cannot know the twenty millions of 1861 and ‘62, when the people, as a unit, laid itself at the feet of the Government, uttering no single word except—“Onward!”—making no claim, except—“Tax us and let us bleed; but do the work at once and forever!” (Applause.) I deny, and I appeal to you, every man of you, as a judge, that in ’61 and ‘62, there was any such divided public opinion as represented by this resolution. My evidence, familiar to every man, is this: that when the war broke out, every hand, every voice, every eye, turned to the slave system. Democrat out-did Whig, both
<c04>
out-ran Abolitionists,—taunted me and Mr. Garrison as conservative. No single paper at the North—and what are papers? Vanes—weathercocks. The editor prints what will sell. He writes what will get him subscribers. He puts his ear to the ground, and listens with Indian vigilance to hear, one moment before other ears can, the coming tread, and Interpret it. The press, from the Mississippi to the Bay of Massachusetts, from the lakes down to Maryland, with the single exception of the Boston Courier (and the exception makes the unanimity all the more remarkable,) when Fremont issued his proclamation, said, enthusiastically, “Amen!” (Loud applause.) There was not a print, from the New York Herald to the worst print in New York, that did not endorse it. You met no man in the streets who did not say “Amen.” One unbroken wave of delight rolled from the Bay of Massachusetts to the Rocky Mountains, sweeping every dissent, if it existed, before it. At that moment, if the President of the United States had put himself at the head of that public opinion, he could have flung the seventeen States in one red-hot thunderbolt on the rebellion. (Applause.) You know,—at least every man accustomed at that time to address public assemblies knows,—that you could not posibly utter anywhere, in the most mixed audiences, a word that went beyond the popular demand. Why, the very moment that the report of the gun at Sumter reached Boston, the veriest Hunker in the State, who had just voted scores of times for Jefferson Davis, locked his office, put the key in his pocket, wrote to Gov. Andrew for a commission, and started on his crusade against slavery—Ben Butler. (Applause.) He did not know exactly where he was going; or what he was doing, but he obeyed the great impulse; and that impulse is tested by what he became. He went to Maryland, and the first thing you heard of him was, that, blinded by the cobwebs of his old ideas, he said he would return a slave; but in ten days, he had coined the word “contraband”; in ten more, he had revolutionized Fortress Munroe; in a month or two, he had became the apostle of an anti-slavery gospel which made ours tame in comparison. (Applause.) Now, I will allow, if you please, (not that I really think it) that Butler has not an atom of heart; no morale; no principle whatever; that he has nothing but the shrewdness of a politician, and has his eye fixed on the Presidency. Grant it all for the moment, still he is just as good a yardstick to measure the public with! Where did he go for popularity? What means did his unquestioned shrewdness adopt to plant himself deep down forever in the hearts of the people of 1861? He out-ran us all in anti-slavery zeal and effort. That such a keen politician chose that course, shows me what he (and a shrewder judge does not live) considered the strength and unanimity of public opinion. That by so doing he succeeded in making himself the most popular man in the North of all the war has thrown to its surface shows me he judged correctly. Why, he endeavored to plant himself down in the stratum of old-fashioned anti-slavery, deep as he could get. (Applause.) He said to himself, “If this is ever to be a nation, it is to be a nation on an anti-slavery basis.” I take him as a good yardstick. He knew what he was about. I maintain at this day, that the name of Ben Butler is the most popular one in the Northern States, from Massachusetts back to the Mississippi. (Prolonged applause.) Well, what has made him the most popular man in the loyal States? Not military success— he has not had it; not long service in a civil capacity; it has not been wholly that. What made him popular was, that immediately, as if by magic, he accepted the instinctive groping of the people, and went out endeavoring to lead them into the promised land. He went so far that the administration dreaded him, and sent him back into private life.
But I am not now testing the Administration, I am testing the people; and I say that wherever you go, no matter to what test you submit, in the years 1861 and ‘62, this nation was undivided—using that term in the proper sense.  Of course, I do not mean every man in a hundred, but I mean ninety out of a hundred. Every man who thought for himself, and two-thirds of those who do not do their own thinking, were looking in that direction. They had no lack of courage. They would have trodden down slavery in a moment; they would have annihilated States; and my judgment is—and I believe history will confirm it —that if such a man as Butler, such a man as Fremont, had been then at the head of public affairs, this rebellion would not have lasted twelve months. (Applause.) What hindered any man from doing then what Grant is doing now? Is there a man here who doubts that if McClellan had wished, he could have gone to Richmond? [VOICES—“No, no;” “Yes, yes.”] Nobody, of course! Only recollect the patience, the silent acquiesence with which the nation, determined to believe in its Government, submitted to the long, dull burden of McClellan! (Laughter and applause.) We refused, all that time, to disbelieve the intentions of the Government. Traitor as we thought McClellan, we refused to interpret Lincoln by him. There was no Democratic party then. I remember lecturing, at that period, in the Northwest, from Wisconsin down to the bottom of Ohio, and men said to me,—“We tremble for the President at the next election. If he gives us no better results and no more rigid policy, there will start into existence a Democratic party.” (“Hear, hear.”) The very phrase showed the state of affairs. Again and again, by judge, lawyer, engineer, merchant, I was told—“Mark me! If the Government does not do something, there will be a Democratic party next fall.” There was none then; did not dare to show its head; did not exist; that is, it had no rank and file.
All that while the people panted to be allowed to act. There is no use in my standing here and undertaking to give you the grounds of my opinion, for I should have to go over the entire record. Mr. Garrison reads the facts contrary wise. I cannot find fauit with him; he reads them just as honestly that way as I do the other. I do not doubt it. My friend who sits behind me (Mr. Thompson) does not know the facts. He comes here when the indecision of the Government, when the chicanery of the Cabinet, when the war, changed from an actual battle into a mere political machine, has produced reaction in public sentiment. For the last six months, the war has been waged mostly with a view to the Presidential election. Louisiana is reconstructed with the Baltimore Con-
<c05>
vention in their eye. Florida stains her soil with blood, in order that the Government may get representatives at Baltimore. Mr. Banks goes up Red River—for what? To buy the support of cotton speculators—nothing else. He creates a Military Board, and calls it a Government—for what? To send fourteen delegates to Baltimore. The Government has descended into the arena, to divide, and confuse, and chill the purpose of the people. At this moment, Mr. Thompson lands upon our shores. He sees a people dropped from the height of revolutionary enthusiasm down to the vulgar level of political quarrels, and he says—“Why, the President has done marvels, if he never had any better tools than these.” Ah! but this cold, dead lump is not the lava 1861 gave into his hands! (Loud applause.) 
Then, again, I think our friend makes another mistake; and at this I am more surprised, knowing his long experience in matters of government and agitation in his own country—yet I am not very much surprised even at this; which is. that he believes so fully and kindly the pleasant words of political gentlemen at Washington. We know how wisely they can charm the ear with nice words, of which they do not keep the promise to the heart. We know too well how little resolutions, proclamations and promises have meant in days past; and he knows it, if he will call to mind the experience of his own country, and judge our political men as he does his own, by the stubborn facts of their administration, and not the pleasant words of their conversation.  You know, every one of you, that I have stood on this platform, and so have my friends, year after year, and have quoted to you the good words that Mr. Lincoln whispered to Mr. Sumner, the excellent promises that he made to Mr. Wilson, the charming words he said to me. Why, when we saw him, he promised so much, we could not get hold of him anywhere. He anticipated everything we would ask, by saying he had already decided to do it,—yet we have never heard of those things since. As a citizen, therefore, I refuse to commit my future to the pleasant words of Mr. Abraham Lincoln. I rate him at the exact value of his acts—nothing more. I am willing to give him credit for what has been done, in the exact degree in which I think he has done it. When he has done anything only on compulsion, at the last moment, bayonetted up to it by public opinion, I give him no credit—none at all. When he has done anything out of the impulse of his own statesmanship, of his own purpose, I give him all credit for it. But, credit or not, his credit is not the question; his laurels are not in question. The question is, what does he mean to do in the future? What does he avow?  With what men does he promise to associate himself? What policy has he avowed? Now, I affirm that Mr. Lincoln has frankly chosen his party. He has frankly avowed his purpose, and has without disguise placed on record where he means to stand. He sends William H. Seward to Auburn, who makes a speech there, which is his manifest bid and price for another four years of the Secretaryship. Those who have approached Mr. Lincoln since this Presidential question was stirred, have said to him—” Sir, does your reelection mean that you come back with the old Cabinet or a new one?” “It means that I come back with the old Cabinet”—Blair, Seward, Bates, Welles, and Chase. That is the Cabinet; that is the President. What is the policy?  Take Louisiana. We have full possession of a certain portion of that State —some sixteen of the thirty or forty parishes—absolute and entire command. We have endeavored to defend it—twice in difficult and doubtful moments. The white men have always stood aloof, willing to see us beaten. They have not uttered the first loyal word. We have tried them both ways. Butler took them, and put them in jail. That did not convert them Banks invited them to his parties—learned new dances with which to please them. That has not converted them, either. His wife has scattered invitations over the rebel city, and they have been flung back unopened into her face. That has not converted them.  When the white men know we need them, they always range themselves against us. When the black men know we need them, they always range themselves on our side. (Applause.) 
Now, there are two ways of treating Louisiana. One is, to take it, hold it as in a vice, like subjects, like the vassals of India, like the territories subject to a crown. That is one way. Let those obstinate rebels die out—God’s method of converting hunkers! (Applause.) Let that generation pass away, and their sons come up and occupy their places. That will take twenty years. Meanwhile, Yankee thrift, energy, capital and skill, will crowd in and occupy the State. When that is done, we shall have a solid basis on which to build Louisiana; build it safely; built once, built forever. That is the plan which might, perhaps, be inferred from the theory of Mr. Sumner. It takes twenty years. Meantime, the Government is despotism. Louisiana is vassal. Extend that over fourteen States, and you have a republic here, despotism there. It is a bad plan. It habituates the Government to despotism; it educates the North to despotism; it destroys the flavor, takes off the edge of Democratic principle and vigilance. It is a bad plan. It makes the negro hate the white man; it leaves the white man to crush the negro. The negro says to General Banks—“I can get sixty-five dollars a month as an engineer.” “I won’t hear anything about it. Go to that plantation; stay a year; let the white man tell you what you are to do, and fix your pay; nine dollars a mouth is the highest price.” The laborer will not work willingly, cordially, with his full heart, under such a system. Capital and labor are at war. It cannot be otherwise. When capital and labor are at war, the State, as a pecuniary experiment, is a failure. With a debt which figures cannot describe resting on the industry of the nation, the State of Louisiana will not help us pay it. The white laborer, a hundred degrees higher than the pauper laborer of Europe, is to be ground down to that level, by bearing the whole burden of the debt, which will last a century. Meanwhile, Louisiana, quarrelling its way back to peace, contributes nothing. It is a bad plan, all through.
What is the other plan? It is—Build the Stale at once! Give the black man a vote. (Applause.) Give him land, give him education. Say to the white man who is willing to stand by him, “There is a farm for you.” Say to the emigrant from abroad, or to the Northerner, "There is a farm for you; take it for nothing; carry your capital to it.” Labor and capital
<c06>
married—the result, a harmonious State, paying as much as Massachusetts toward cancelling the debt; a bulwark, enabling us to laugh at the plots of the French Emperor and of Spain. (Loud applause.) On any other plan, it is an open door, with “Quarrel” written over its arches, inviting French Mexico to come in to instigate dissensions. This last is Durant’s plan—one of the few white men of Louisiana who stand by us; a plan that Banks represents to Lincoln can be carried out and finished in three yean. What is Lincoln’s answer? “Crush it! Tread it out under your heels!” “What shall I put instead of it?” “Why, get ten thousand men; drag the seamen on shore; marshal the soldiers to the ballot-box; get every man from the jails and let him vote; and let me create a State out of something, get it a sham seat in the Senate, and represented in Baltimore.” A State! What sort of a State?  All the white men, soured by defeat, plotting aristocratic institutions, hating republicanism, sending a representative to take his place side by side with Charles Sumner, with an equal vote on the future of the country. It is national suicide! That is Mr. Lincoln’s plan. I do not very much blame him for it. He was born in Kentucky. He cannot see any higher. Born among slaveholders, he cannot see beyond the level of a white skin. Not so very much his fault. But that is his plan. It is a chisel, and I want a plane. It is a curb, and I want a spur. Some horses need a curb, and others a spur. Learn the difference before you get into the saddle, or you will soon come out of it (Laughter and applause.) The question is, whether we shall have, in the future, democratic institutions or an aristocracy Mr. Lincoln thinks we can get along for a while yet with aristocratic institutions, as we have done. I am not here to blame him. Let him go home to Springfield and cherish his theories; but I want a man who believes in democracy—that is all. (Applause.) He has had his three years, and tried it, and has not succeeded. Where is my fanaticism in saying, I want somebody else to try something better. I am sick, and send for an allopathic physician; I find I am growing worse, and call in a homoeopathist, to see if he will do any better.  Does anybody blame me? We have tried one method, and having done little or nothing, compared with our means, decide to try another. I do not deny that the Government have done something; of course they have done something. The dullest Chinese junk cannot help moving before a tornado, but it does not go ahead like a Cunarder. What I say is this; that with steam enough in the boiler to go forty miles an hour, we have only made five. Mr. Garrison thinks the boiler won’t bear any more; I differ; I believe in the locomotive more than in the engineer.
Again, my friend (Mr. Garrison,) if I judge from his speech this morning, reverses the old anti-slavery maxim—“If you want a thing, ask for it! If a thing is right and necessary, ask for it!” The motto to-day seems to be, “If you want a thing, don’t ask for it! If a thing is necessary, don’t mention it!” The franchise for the slave—it is needed—it is indispensable—it is inevitable—but there is Blondin—don’t speak to him! He may go over—take care! Mr. Lincoln stands there balanced, with the pole, on a rope. Keep mum, the nation! Well, Grant stands balanced on a rope; Lee is trying to pull him over. I never heard him compared to Blondin. Nobody ever said that he ought not to be advised. When Hooker stood on the rope, and did not succeed, we changed him. When Burnside stood on the rope, and did not succeed, we changed him. When McClellan got down from the rope, we thanked God and took courage. (Great applause.) When Meade stood on the rope, and balanced pretty well, we changed him. [A VOICE. —Who changed him?] The President. The very man who says, “Don’t change me!” (Tremendous applause.) Sigel, in the face of the enemy, meets with a reverse —“Change him! But I am sacred! Blondin, on a hair! Don’t change me! (Laughter.) I am stooping down, with my left hand on the rope, to save with my right a clumsy rebel of New Orleans from sinking to the hell where be belongs. Don’t think I shall go over! Oh, no; I am balanced—balanced exactly even!” But the question is whether he is well balanced, with his eye fixed upward. You know how the sailor walks a rope. You know the maxim. When you are among the shrouds, high up—a hundred feet —what does the seaman tell you? Never look down! While you keep your eye upward, you are safe!” The Abolitionist says to Lincoln—“Look up—to justice, to God, to the rights of every man under the law!” He is looking down at Kentucky, and I tremble for him. He will fall, sure as fate, for he is consulting his chances down at Baltimore, not justice overhead. That is the very reason I doubt him. I praised him as long as he seemed to carry on the war for the war’s sake, for democracy’s sake, for justice, to subjugate the rebel. He is carrying on the war now to re-elect himself, to conciliate the disloyal white man. (Applause and hisses.) 
I am not at all surprised at those hisses. Ten years ago, when a Republican used to stand on this platform and rebuke us for some testimony against Webster, for some testimony against Clay, the outskirts and the gallery always applauded him, and our testimony was always hissed, from the same quarters, exactly. Today, Mr. Lincoln is a popular, half-way man—holds power, patronage, the press, availability; no wonder that the same tier applauds him and hisses us; but our test is not up there. 
Mr. MAY. That tier applauds your denunciation of Mr. Lincoln. Who are they, I should like to know? They are not Abolitionists; I doubt if they are Republicans. (Applause, and cries of “Good.”) 
Mr. PHILLIPS. There is Mr. May’s mistake. He says I denounce President Lincoln. I do not denounce him.
Mr. MAY. Let me explain a moment, for I do not wish to be misrepresented. I say, that when Mr. Phillips says that the President is carrying on his war to elect himself, it is the worst denunciation he can heap upon him. (Great applause and throwing up of hates in the extreme seats.) 
Mr. PHILLIPS. Your applause, Mr. May, comes from the same quarter that hisses me, the outskirts of the audience—the chance spectator; not from the body of the house where our Convention sits. Many times as I have been hissed, I was never yet hissed by an Abolitionist. But I hope you and your friends are right in trusting Mr. Lincoln. No man will more wel 

“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the President OF THE UNITED STATES, but the Commander of the Army, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, civil, servile, or foreign that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of <illegible>, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
come the non-fulfilment of my prophecy than I shall. I shall be delighted if this war is finished in the year, thoroughly finished, before Mr. Lincoln enters upon his second term, if he has one. You do not suppose that, I am in love with paying taxes? You do not suppose that I have any peculiar pleasure in hearing that ten thousand men lost their lives yesterday? You do not suppose that I have any peculiar dislike of this nation, as a unit, when I look upon it as the sheet-anchor and guaranty of the freedom of that race to which the labor of my life has been devoted? All I want is success. All I seek is the right means to get it.
I say again, look to your President. <illegible>ask Governors, Senators, Representatives, who come close up to him-I cannot; you cannot; we stand here outside the ring-I ask the men who sit down at his side; who have been concerned with him in legislation for three years; who have watched his words, leaped or cowered under his acts. I take a score of them, the tallest,; the ablest, and I say to them, " What is your private-sincere, inside opinion on the subject of Mr. Lincoln's renomination?" "Our conviction is, that it would be a great calamity to this nation." (Applause and hisses.) Then I say to them, "Why don't you say so?”
A VOICE- The people don't say so.
Mr. PHILLIPS. I know it. They don't let the people know the facts; they don't let the people know their opinions. A week ago yesterday I sat in yonder seat, and this platform was crowded with the leading Republicans of Massachusetts; the men who, for twenty years, have held the best offices in the State; the men on whose lips thousands have hung delighted for the last quarter of a century; the men,. who, united, their opinion is law in the politics of the Commonwealth. I arraigned before them, as I have today, on the same grounds, the expediency of re-nominating Mr. Lincoln. I waited to hear one single word of answer-the denial of a single statement, the impeachment of a single-fact, the taking to pieces of a single argument, the putting against it any other argument, the countervailing one fact by another-and they were dumb. Some of the people went up from those seats to these chairs, and said to the men whom you will elect Governors within three years, "Answer him;" and the reply was " We can't." They went to others “Speak in defence of the Administration;" “We prefer silence." The Committee retired to count the votes. That clock was to count an hour before they came in. What do Conventions do ordinarily on such occasions, when the platform is crowded with speakers? They say to Mr. A., or Mr. B., or Mr. C, "Entertain us; say something to us until the business is over." What do you suppose we did? Took a recess! (Laughter ) Voted to adjourn and remain in our seats; and these gentlemen remained on the platform, dumb! They let the record go. They had not one word to answer. They are themselves to be candidates in their own Districts, this week, for delegates to Baltimore. They saw no way to walk that would not in these ticklish times jeopard their chances-and so kept silent. They dare not risk the breaking of their party. That may be good policy and excusable in politicians; but you and I have risked breaking the Union, indeed for twenty years have sought to break it, in the service of liberty. Why should I shrink from the chance of breaking a corrupt party asunder in the same service? I tell you-a truth I know from many sources and the best private information-these men do not believe in your President; and your senseless clamor is what frightens them from the avowal. (Hisses.) If Abraham Lincoln rules this nation another four years, and it is ruled to any disaster, remember, it will not be the fault of the copperheads that he was elected; it will be the fault of the hundred leaders of the Republican party, who, in their own hearts look upon his renomination as a public calamity, and avow it to their intimate friends, but do not dare say it to the public. (Applause.)
At this point in Mr. Phillips's speech, (it being quarter past nine o'clock,) Mr. Garrison rose and said- " Mr. President, I do not think that our friend Mr. Phillips wishes to monopolize the hours of this short evening, especially when, for every word that has been said in favor of Mr. Lincoln, or even to modify the severe criticisms that have been made upon him, twenty have been spoken at these meetings to his condemnation."
Mr. Phillips immediately took his seat, and Mr. Garrison advanced to the desk, upon which a great uproar arose, some of the audience calling vehemently for Mr. Phillips, and others as vehemently for Mr. Garrison, while applause and hisses on every side inceased the din. The disturbance continued for some time, when, finally, Mr. Phillips stepped to the front, and said-" Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me a single moment. I was entirely unaware that I had taken up so much of the time of the meeting. My friend Mr. Garrison and my friend Mr. Thompson are both to follow me, and I beg you will remember that the evening belongs to them as much as to me. Listen to the expression of their opinions,-perfectly honest, thoroughly considered, and as well entitled to influence your judgment, as my own-perhaps more so; for I hope they are right, and that I am wrong."
SPEECH OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
Mr. President, I did not wish my friend to retire so abruptly from the stand. I rose respectfully to remind him of the lateness of the hour; for if I should occupy your time as long as he has, and my friend, Mr. Thompson, should follow, and speak as long as either of us, it would bring us near to midnight; and I know the last thing my friend Phillips would wish to do would be to monopolize the time, especially to the exclusion of any man from whom he differs; he is too magnanimous for that.
Now in regard to the noble friend who is to follow me. Mr. Phillips has undertaken to impeach his ability to judge of the condition of our country at this time, and two years ago, with discrimination and accuracy. I will venture to say, that Wendell Phillips himself does not understand the Anti Slavery cause any better, nor the state of public sentiment in our country, for the last thirty years, more intelligently and minutely, than George Thompson of England. (Applause.) His judgment, therefore, is not to be impeached in this matter. He has never shown himself at fault; he has always kept pace with us, had his hand on the national pulse and national heart, and marked all the elements of public sentiment in relation to slavery in our country. 
Sir, to declare that, in 1861 and "62, there was a universal sentiment in favor of abolition, radical abolition, the abolitionism of Wendell Phillips, and that the people were all ready for it, is preposterous. Can my friend believe it for a moment? (Mr. PHILLIPS-Certainly.) Why, if that be true, there never was such a marvellous conversion since the world began! (Applause.) What converted them? The people all ready, in '61 and '62, to grapple with slavery for its instant extermination by the government, and also to put the ballot into the hand of every emancipated slave in the land! who believes it' My friend says he does. Then what has changed them Mark you!-an abolitionized North in 1861 and '62, ready to carry out all my friend now desires; and now everything is reversed because Abraham Lincoln has proved recreant to his trust! What sort of abolitionism is that? Our cause one behind? When did it ever go backward from the hour it was launched? Nay, God has been with it from the beginning- "marching on." In went on in 1861, in 1862, in 1863, and it going on in 1864, and will continue to go on, God leading and blessing it, to final victory. 
My friend ingeniously dwells upon and makes the most of a single incidental feet, that when Fremont’s Proclamation was put forth, it was generally and warmly approved-even the New York Herald affected to regard it with approbation, and also the Boston Post. Now I do not recollect that any other papers in the country, of the Democratic stamp, endorsed it. From that hour, the Copperhead element began to work, and has been working ever
<c02>
since. We were at that period a pro-slavery nation, and there was no wish that the President of the United States should do what my friend Phillips calls upon him now to do. 
The difficulty I find is to know how to answer my friend,-he is to inconsistent, as it seems to me, in his treatment of Mr. Lincoln. Now the President is an unqualifiedly honest man. (Loud applause.) Ladies and gentlemen, you supposed that was my eulogy; I was giving it as Mr. Phillips's. Then he is an honest man, in the Kentucky sense; then he is a very dishonest man. Now he is thoroughly loyal; and now he is a traitor. Now be is anxious to see the rebellion crushed, liberty triumphant, and the Union restored; and now he does not want the rebellion put down, or the rebels hurt. Now he is ahead of the people; and now he is not only not up with them, but far behind them-actually false to his trust, and, to secure his reelection, is willing to sacrifice any amount of treasure, any amount of human life, in conducting the war! Sir, if what my friend accuses him of is true, then Abraham Lincoln deserves to be impeached as a traitor, and punished accordingly. (Applause, and cries of "That's so.")
Mr. Phillips says that I claimed for Mr. Lincoln that he bad exceeded public sentiment on the subject of slavery. So I did; so I believe; and I have very good authority for thinking so-the authority of my eloquent friend himself! (Applause and laughter.) Yes, Mr. President, at the very time when, as he now tells us, the nation was hot with radical Abolitionism, and ready for any governmental measure to destroy slavery, root and branch, Abraham Lincoln transcended its most advanced state! 
As my speech is to be largely made up of quotations from the various speeches of Mr. Phillips, I will now ask the attention of the audience to them. Here is one from his speech delivered in this Temple, January 24, 1861:-
“I have not a word even of doubt for the incoming President of Illinois. I believe that, like an honorable man, he means to keep, and has told his friends to say that he means to keep in office the promises that were made for him in the canvass; and while Abraham Lincoln lives-and, in spite of the rage of the men South of Mason and Dixon's line, he will live to be buried in the gratitude of the North, twenty or forty years hence-while he lives and dictates law to this country from the White House at Washington, as he will, on the 5th day of March-and if it cannot be done otherwise, Illinois will cover every square foot of the District with a living man and a Republican-while he lives, I have faith to believe that not one blade, of grass, not one atom of the soil of the Territories, will be poisoned by the footsteps of even the compromise of a slave. The votes of eighteen hundred thousand freemen send Abraham Lincoln to Washington to do their bidding, AND IT WILL BE DONE."
Here is an extract from his speech delivered at Music Hall. April 21, 1861:-
“I have always believed in the sincerity of Abraham Lincoln. You have heard me express my confidence in it every time I have spoken from this desk. I only doubted sometimes whether he were really the head of the Government. To-day, he is at any rate commander-in-chief. The delay in the action of the government has doubtless been a necessity, but policy also. Traitors within and without made it hesitate to move till it had tried the machine of government just given it. But delay was wise, as it matured a public opinion, definite, decisive, and ready to keep step to the music of the government march. The very postponement of another session of Congress till July 4th, plainly invites discussion-evidently contemplates the ripening of public opinion in the interval. The government has waited until its best friends almost suspected its courage or its integrity; but the cannon shot has opened the only door out of this hour. There were but two. One was Compromise, the other was Battle. The integrity of the North closed the first; the generous forbearance of nineteen States closed the other. The South opened this with cannon shot, and Lincoln shows himself at the door. (Applause.) The Administration that preceded this was full of traitors and thieves. It allowed the arms, ships, money, military stores of the North to be stolen with impunity. Mr. Lincoln took office, robbed of all the means to defend the Constitutional rights of the government. Abraham Lincoln knows nothing, has a right to know nothing, but the Constitution of the United States. The South is all wrong, and the Administration is all right."
I beg special attention to the following extract from Mr. Phillips’ speech at Framingham, July 4th, 1861:
"What do I ask of the government? I do not ask it to announce a policy of emancipation now: it is not strong enough to do it. We can announce it; the people can discuss it; THE ADMINISTRATION IS NOT STRONG ENOUGH TO ANNOUNCE IT. I do not care whether it means it or not; IT WERE UTTER RUIN TO ANNOUNCE NOW. An honest Administration, an honest President, stands hesitating, distrusting the strength of the popular feeling behind him. Abraham Lincoln, Salmon P. Chase, Montgomery Blair, have not the heart nor the wish to thrust back into the hell of Virginia slavery one single contraband article in Fortress Monroe. They never will do it. My policy, therefore, is, give the Administration generous sympathy; give it all the confidence for honesty of purpose you can. They mean now only the Union; but they are willing we should make them mean anything more we please. Abraham Lincoln means to do his Constitutional duty in the crisis. I have faith in his honesty."
Bear with me while I read somewhat copiously from a lecture delivered by Mr. Phillips before the Fraternity Association in Tremont Temple, in April, 1862:-
“I certainly owe great thanks, to you and the Fraternity, who have given me the opportunity to speak to-night, marked as the present week is by one. of the greatest events in the history of the progressive movement. For the first time in sixty years, the flag of the Republic floats over a Capital untrodden by a slave. For the first time, the constituted authorities of the nation make one step toward that great motto-" “Freedom National"-and give us a Capital without a chain. (Cheers.) Neither you nor I could naturally have expected to live to see that result. Not the most sanguine of us could have hoped that any means he could call into exercise would so far prevail against the seeming interest and the well-anchored institutions of the country as to consecrate even the District to: liberty in our day. We have lived to see so much. In a nation that moves so fast as we do, it gives us good, hope that those are yet living, in middle life, within these walls, who shall see the whole continent, so far at least as it acknowledges the stars and stripes, clean and free from the fetter of a slave. Applause.)
I come back to you to-night, as I went away six weeks ago, persuaded that slavery on this continent has begun the chapter which records its death. I have no doubt of it. You may see it in the dispositions of the people; you may see it in the policy of the nation; you may see it, I think, in the intentions of its statesmen. But whether you do or not, I care little for intentions to-day. No matter what you mean or what Washington means, or what the people of the great West mean to day. When I see a man half-way go down Niagara, I don't ask his intentions-he will go down. (Applause.) Events-most encouraging events-thicken all around us, showing that by all the elements which go to make up national life, the death of the slave system is decreed, and is scaled. I find great encouragement every where. I find it in the disposition of the President. I believe he means what he said to the Border State Senators and Representatives when, at the announcement of his message, he summoned them to his presence-" “Gentlemen, don't talk to me about slavery; you love it; I hate it. You mean it shall live; I mean it shall die! " (Prolonged applause.) I think it he lacks any thing, it is neither intention nor capacity-he has enough of both for his function-but will; power to bear up against external influences-temptations that make him timid, protests that make him dawdling, adverse circumstances that make him very cautious, spending four months on one message. But I believe he has all he lacks in his Cabinet, which consists of one man, single and alone, fit to bear up, like Atlas, a nation-Stanton. (Applause.) I recognize in the Cabinet no will but the Secretary of War. I think him the right yoke-fellow of the President-supplying .all he lacks. The two make a working pair, competent for all the nation needs." You will fight, you will tell why not, or you will go out"-that is the key-note of the Secretary of War. "Why can't I have a court martial to try Fremont?" says Col. Blair. "Because I am too busy to wash your dirty linen." (Applause.) That is the locomotive on the rail-nothing but one purpose to move forward; and if cannon does not crush the rebellion, abolition will. I don't think the Secretary is an Abolitionist to-day, but he is on the anxious seat (laughter); and if, in the Providence of God, South Carolina and President Davis hold out until November, I have no doubt we shall have an Abolitionist for Secretary of War. (Applause.) My faith, therefore, in the man is sufficient. I don't think he has gone out, as the papers say. If he has, we have lost the cornerstone of success. A year of sacrifices would be nothing to the sacrifice of "the right man in the right place "-the only man on the continent who deserves the name of a Napoleon for the exigency. But whether
<c03>
he lives or not, as Secretary of War, I think the slave issue is certain-I have no doubt of that. Events move too fast for any individual to resist them. Mr. Lincoln may abolish slavery, he cannot save it. The nation may abolish, slavery, they cannot save it. 
You know the bonst of Toombs, that he would call the roll of his slaves on Banker Hill. I have lived to hear the roll-call of a Massachusetts regiment on the "sacred soil" of Virginia first.(Applause.) We were mobbed from the John Brown meetings a little more than a year ago. I have heard the ".John, Brown song" on the “sacred soil" of Virginia, and the court house in which he was doomed to death is the barraks of Massachusetts regiment. Who dreamed, a year ago, when those gallant boys hurried to save the Capital, that emancipation would be decreed in the District to-day, with Baltimore sullen under the port-holes of Northern cannon, and with Northern regiments holding Virginia under their feet? Yet so it is. 
But still I do not think the act abolishing slavery in the District, broad and marked as it is, is so significant as the Message of the President. After all, the President is ahead of the manifestations of the opinion of the people. He holds out his hands to the millions and says, 'Support me!' We have not yet answered him officially. That Message of his is the boldest voice yet heard over the continent. It means more than men accord to it. He claims that, and claims it rightly. May I tell you a story?-he always tells one. (Laughter.) Noticing some criticisms upon his Message, he said, "There is more in it than people see. Did you ever hear of the Irishman who went down to the State of Maine, in Maine Liquor Law times, and asked for a glass of soda-water, adding, Couldn't you put a drop of the crather in it, unbeknown to meself?' So I have put a large drop of the crather in it, unbeknown to them." (Laughter and! applause.) Indeed he has; for that Message " means substantially this: Gentlemen, I put down a milestone to-day. I show you how far twelve months have carried this question beyond the Secretary of State's letter to Mr. Dayton. Government sent that letter to Paris; Congress passed the celebrated resolution that they would never be led to interfere with slavery in the States. Eleven months float away, and I, the President of the United States, at the headquarters and sources of information, competent to judge of the nation's position-I tell you, gentlemen, now is your time to sell. If you don't seize it, and another twelve month sweeps what you call property from your grasp without compensation, never say I did not give you fair notice. (Applause.) That is one-half the Message; the other half is an arrow's flight beyond even that, for it says this-" Gentlemen, if you will sell, I will buy." What means that? Where in the Constitution, in peace times, does he find the right to buy? Has he forgotten Clay and Webster, and the Resolutions of '90, that the Congress of the United States cannot cross the boundary of a State to interfere with the system of slavery? His Message says " Gentlemen, I will buy." In other words, "you have given me the right to buy; the rebellion confers upon me the right to buy." And he goes on to say, "The abolition of slavery would be an efficient means of ending this war; if I find cannon unsuccessful, I shall try other efficient means." In other words, "Gentlemen, I will buy if you will trade. If you won't trade, remember that I have the right to take." Pregnant words! Be happy that you live to hear them from the head of the government. For the first time in the history of the government, it has done an anti-slavery act, it has spoken an anti-slavery word. (Applause.) Sufficient for one. year! Enough to have gained in twelve months! I believe that any man who contemplates national events has ample reason to be satisfied with what we have already accomplished in this single year
Lincoln is ahead of anything you have said. The State of Massachusetts is offering him to-day millions. What he wants is an endorsement and an encouragement. What the Senate want is a policy pronounced by the people"
Now see what my friend said in that lecture concerning the wish of Mr. Lincoln for anti-slavery agitation, to strengthen his hands in carrying on the struggle with the Slave Power in arms:-
“The President said to a leading Republican of New York-' ‘Why don't you hold meetings ' (it was two days before that glorious Convention' in New York which Carl Schurz made immortal by his great speech) -‘Why don't you hold meetings, and let me feel the mind of the nation?' 'Sir,' was the reply, ' we are to hold them; we hold one to-morrow.' 'Hold them of ten; hold many of them; hold as many as possible. You cannot create more anti-slavery feeling than we shall need before we get through this war.' (Applause.) In other words, the President holds out his hands to the people, and says, 'Am I right? How far may I go? Answer him. Tell him the ice is thick thus far, and will be thicker an arrow's flight ahead. Tell him that if his Message to the. Border States leads you to say Amen, a message to the Gulf States that says Liberty will have a tenfold Amen. (Loud applause.) In one sense, we demand too much of the government-of the Senate and the Cabinet. They are the only portions of the government that have definite ideas, but they are nothing; the masses are everything. Struggling up to light on all sides are indications of the popular sentiment. There should be official, grave indications. Leading men, legislative bodies, official corporations, should speak the will of the North, if it really exist, on this question, so that the government may feel able to trust and lean on a well-assured public purpose. 
Now, what I claim of you, I claim in behalf of your own leaders. The President says to his New York friends, ' Support me!' Where is the support from Boston? Your merchants ask the removal of. Mr. Secretary Welles, and all Washington says he is not in fault, it is McClellan. Your merchants can find fault -why don't they express approval of the President's Message? If the Tariff or Bank were at issue, we should have public meetings, and delegations of leading men sent to Washington. Even now you meet their influential men striving to mould the Tax bill. Why does no voice go up from Boston, from Faneuil Hall, from the State House, for LIBERTY as the wish of Massachusetts? How long is the North to wait without a leader? My message to you tonight is-SPEAK! The President holds out his hand. Take it. Assure him that he has in Massachusetts more than military! support. I want a voice from the Legislature; I want a voice from the Exchange; I want a voice from Faneuil Hall. If you do not give it, you are deserting the place of Massachusetts in this struggle, which is to lead. The West looks to you; the South looks to you. The Massachusetts regiments are the worst treated, Massachusetts soldiers are the most hated, because they are recognized as the most fixed in their purpose. Show it to be the same in politics as on the field. Encourage the President to enlarge his Border State Message; encourage Mr. Stanton, his whole Cabinet, to say, within six months-'Death to every institution that makes war upon the Republic, and liberty to every man under its flag!'" (Prolonged applause.)
Now, observe-these admissions that the President was ahead of public sentiment, even in Massachusetts-that there were no anti-slavery manifestations on the' part of " leading men, legislative bodies, official corporations," &c., &c.-that Faneuil Hall was dumb, and; the State House quiescent-were made at the time Mr. Phillips now declares was signalized by popular anti-slavery feeling and purpose, while the President was for holding back!
Now, sir, I could read by the hour just such extracts as these, but I have read quite enough for my purpose-to show that my friend stands in a position thoroughly paradoxical, and, as it seems to me, utterly inconsistent in this matter. (Applause.) For, if these things could be truly said of Mr. Lincoln at the time they were uttered, before an emancipation policy was inaugurated, how much more does the President deserve the sympathy, commendation and support of Abolitionists now, after so many grand events have transpired under his administration, all tending in the direction of universal emancipation! (Applause.)
As to his Cabinet, I will tell you an anecdote which I read the other day, and thought a pretty good one. Someone, sympathizing with my friend, went to Washington, and said to Mr. Lincoln-" Sir, you must get rid of Seward-threw him overboard" "Mr. Seward," said the President, "is Secretary of State. He conducts the diplomacy of the country. Have you read his diplomatic correspondence?" "Yes, Sir!" "Have you any fault to find with it? "No, Sir! " "Well, sir, he is my clerk; I got him for that purpose." "Well, but you should throw Blair overboard." "Sir, Mr. Blair is Postmaster General. Do you get your papers and letters regularly " " Yes, Sir."" Well, sir, he is my clerk for that purpose; and I am President of the United States."(Applause.)
Now, I say this: that Mr. Lincoln has never made an appointment which did not meet the acceptance of all the loyal and all the anti-slavery sentiment of the country at the time-never! (Applause.) For instance they were well satisfied with the Cabinet, when it was first appointed, almost precisely as it stands to-day. If you say, "Well, see what it is to-day;" I answer, either that Cabinet has worked with the President, or
<c04>
it has not. If it has, then it collectively deserves its share of praise for what has been done; but if the President has acted independently of his Cabinet, then he has done all these magnificent acts alone, and therefore the Cabinet does not control him. (Applause.) I care not which horn of the dilemma is taken. 
Sir, it is very easy to thrust at different members of the Cabinet-to excite unfounded suspicions, and to make indefinite charges. The air is full of them; but how little evidence is adduced, after all, to prove Mr. Seward to have done anything very culpable! As to! Montgomery Blair, it is true he went to Concord, New Hampshire, a year ago, and there made a foolish and reprehensible speech, placing himself in a most ridiculous attitude in regard to colonizing the colored people of our country. He did it on his own responsibility, and it fell flat to the ground. But, since that time, he has done two things that ought to be remembered. He has said of the President's Emancipation Proclamation, that by no act of Congress, by no decision of the Supreme Court, nor by any power under heaven, can that Proclamation ever be legally cancelled; it must stand, and be carried out to the letter. (Applause.) Then he has been down to Baltimore, with Secretary Chase, making anti-slavery speeches to the people to induce them to vote for delegates to a State Convention, on this coming Fourth of July, to proclaim immediate emancipation in Maryland. Is not that something to his credit? And yet we have been told that he has bought an interest in the Baltimore Clipper, for the purpose (among other things) of preventing emancipation in Maryland! All that is possible. He may have thus deceitfully acted; but I-am not willing to -believe it without stronger evidence. I take his public, recorded acts, and do not feel willing to allow any private gossip on this occasion to influence my decision. 
Again I say-that, in regard to all his prominent military appointments, the President has acted up to all that loyalty and that abolitionism asked at his hands. Both were satisfied, first with General Scott-a veteran in the service as Commander-in-chief of the army, until it became evident that, through his feebleness of body and his great age, it was necessary to make a change. Then Gen. McClellan was appointed; and I ask you if he was not heartily welcomed by all classes as "the coming man?" (Mr. FOSTER- " No; never'") Was there any party feeling shown against him? On the contrary, was there not universal confidence in his military ability and thorough loyalty? And so the people waited three months, six months, nine months, a whole year, without indulging in sharp criticism or doubt of his fidelity. Something prevented action here, something there; now the weather was unpropitious, now something else. We were generous and forbearing, and the President was equally so-all the while, however, in his private correspondence, urging him to lose no time, but to move with all possible celerity-of course modestly deferring to his judgment as the commander of the army at the time. But, when endurance had passed its bounds, so that even the malignity of copperheadism should be silenced, the President made McClellan walk the plank; and all loyal men were thankful when he went overboard. (Loud applause.) 
My friend Phillips, has made the astounding assertion, that Mr. Lincoln does not want this rebellion put down; and that he expressly employed McClellan as his tool, so that no harm should come to the rebels! O, that is a fearful change! A tool, was he? What did my friend say when McClellan was at the head of the army? “I look upon the Cabinet and the President as absorbed, swallowed up, hidden, by Gen. McClellan." What, a tool absorbing, swallowing up those who use it! (Laughter.) "There is no living man," continued my friend at the time, "in the Government but McClellan." All defunct but him, and that was the reason we did not go ahead! (Renewed laughter.) As to General McClellan, my friend Philips said- ' I am willing to wait as long as any man for the drill of General McClellan. I am willing to wait until he has made an army as perfect as that of the great Napoleon." Well, that certainly was a very great indulgence! Let not the President be upbraided because he also was willing to "possess his soul in patience" for so desirable a result! 
When, at last, General McClellan was dismissed, what patriotic soul did not rejoice that Burnside was placed in command? Did not the President come up to high-water mark in popular feeling, in making this appointment? Well, after an unsuccessful experiment, Burnside resigned, and gave place to "Fighting Joe Hooker." Was he not entirely acceptable at the time? Did not the people have unbounded faith in Joe Hooker, that he would "carry the battle to the gate?" But he, too, failed-though, like Burnside, not for lack of loyalty or bravery. Then, true to the country and to the cause of liberty, the President next tried Gen. Meade; and the appointment was hailed with universal satisfaction. Having given him also a fair trial, and seen that he was not competent to manage so large an army, at last he makes Gen. Grant Commander in-Chief. (Loud applause.) Could he have done better? 
I say, therefore, that all along, in every important military and civil appointment, particularly as pertaining to the Cabinet and the management of the army, Mr. Lincoln has been up to the highest loyal, the highest anti-slavery sentiment of the country. And, surely, it is not for him to dismiss from office men entrusted with great responsibilities without fairly putting their qualities to the test. When mighty armies are to be disciplined, time is needed; and who shall tell precisely how long? Let us charitably remember that the President had a very difficult task to perform. Remember how formidable was and is the copperhead element of the North; and that General McClellan ultimately proved himself to be the idol of everything factious at the North. Now, to have dismissed him without the greatest forbearance and the fullest proof of his incompetency might have imperilled the very existence of the government. His dismissal almost overturned the government when it did take place. The Government came as near destruction as it could, and escape it. 
Now I say, we should judge of this matter broadly and considerately, and not by the petty incidents or accidents of the hour. For one, as an Abolitionist, as a lover of liberty, as the friend and advocate of the slave, I will judge by a test which I know to be infallible, whether I should give my sympathy and best wishes to President Lincoln; and I hesitate not to declare that, on the whole, politically speaking, the people cannot do better, in my judgment, than to re-elect him for four years longer. (Tremendous applause, renewed again and again.) I say it, because the great issue between liberty and slavery was made upon "the rail-splitter." It was against him, as the symbol and sign of liberty, that a naughty and tyrannical slave oligarchy rose in rebellion, and attempted to throttle him out of existence; and, Sir, while those who are for eternal slavery at the South are in bloody revolt against Abraham Lincoln, solely to preserve their accursed institution, and while every thing at the North that is pro-slavery or treasonable is full of deadly enmity to him for that reason, I want nothing more to determine my judgment in regard to Abraham Lincoln. (Loud applause.) I know that, to complete the work of impartial freedom, many things yet remain to be done; but these, I believe, will be duly attended to. The iceberg from the Arctic ocean is nearly melted in the Gulf Stream; and it cannot be long before it will be wholly dissolved. Only last year my friend Phillips said, with express reference to the re-election of Abraham Lincoln:- 
“I, for one, have no objection to the Presidency of Abraham Lincoln for four or eight years longer. I told the President himself-and I believed it then, and I believe it now; I meant it then, and I mean it now- that the man who would honestly put his hand to the plow of that proclamation, and execute it, this people would not allow to quit while the experiment was trying. Whoever starts the great experiment of emancipation, and honestly devotes his energies to making it a fact, deserves to hold the helm of government till that experiment is finished.”(Great applause.) 
One thing more. The democratic principle, that 
<c05>
the people have a right to choose their own rulers, is involved in this struggle; and it ought to be regarded as a matter of vast importance. Slavery is local in our country. The democratic principle, as an element of government, is world-wide. That battle is to be fought out on every continent and among all peoples. Now, then, Abraham Lincoln, a humble Kentucky railsplitter, was elected, by a constitutional majority of the people, to be the- President of the United States. He had done nothing against the South. He was ready to stand by the Constitution, as interpreted since the days of Washington. He was pledged only to the securing of freedom for the territories. On that issue the slave oligarchy threw down the gauge of battle, and the war commenced. They swore by all their gods that he never should be their! President in all the South; and up to this hour they have made their defiant declaration good. The republic is still rent asunder. Abraham Lincoln is not, and has not been President of the United States, (Mr. FOSTER-" He never will be") So say the rebels; and, so far, they have prevented the democratic principle from being carried out. Now, Sir, I am no politician; I am no voter; but I say this: If I were a voter on the democratic principle, I would vote for Abraham Lincoln to be President until I could vote no longer-eight years, ten years, twenty years, forty years, if he and I lived so long-vote until I had made him the confessed President of the United States. (Prolonged applause.) And I do not hesitate to say, that if the party which elected him to be President,- he having been faithful to it in every particular,- do not see to it that he is again elected, and duly recognized as the Chief Magistrate of all the States from the Atlantic to the Pacific, it will be guilty of perfidy and flagrant ingratitude. (Loud applause.) But the people understand this. Never, since the! days of George Washington, has there been such a spontaneous expression in favor of any candidate as has been given for Abraham Lincoln. Already,! nineteen out of the twenty-two States left to us have, by their Legislatures or State Conventions, UNANIMOUSLY renominated him for the Presidency. (Enthusiastic applause.) As to Gen. Fremont, whose Convention is to come off at Cleveland in a few days- how is he backed up?-by what sort of political influence? If he is going to run Mr. Lincoln off the track, he ought to have some political strength to show. Observe, I am saying nothing in disparagement of Gen. Fremont. Nobody has ever heard me speak of him, except in high approbation, beyond anything I have ever bestowed upon Mr. Lincoln. But I am now dealing with facts. He is said to be the man to succeed the President. But, "before you cook your fish, you must catch it;" and, I repeat it, before you can hope to overturn Abraham Lincoln, you must show at least some political strength, because the time for effort is short. Abraham Lincoln shows nineteen States. Gen. Fremont, as yet, has not shown a single State, a single county, a single town or hamlet in his support. Who represents him from Massachusetts, on the call for the Cleveland Convention? Two men, both non-voters, I believe, and neither of them has a particle of political influence? Now I call that the step from the sublime to the ridiculous. Is that the best Massachusetts can do for Fremont? For, remember, I am speaking now of the "coming man" in the next election, who is to run Abraham Lincoln off the track. If I were speaking on a moral issue, I should speak in a very different manner of those" whose names appear on that call; for the man who stands alone in a moral cause, though all the world be against him, if God be for him, stands in a majority, and is conqueror. But when you came to politics, that is another sphere. Then you must have men and money; then you must have votes; then you must have something of political influence and respectability. But, with one exception, the signers to the call for the Cleveland Convention have not one ounce of political weight in this country. (Applause.) 
Mr. President, we are getting on well. We are to have all our friends contend for, in the end. There is no difference among us in this respect We all go for equal rights, without regard to race or color. We have not relaxed our vigilance or our testimony; and I am sorry to hear any intimation thrown out, that we do not call for the amplest justice. Sir, we demand every thing that is just, as of old. Yet we are full of hope; we take courage from the signs of the times; and we rejoice to believe-as evidence of our ultimate triumph, that, in the rude language of the contraband song-
“De massa run-ha, ha! 
De darkies stay, ho, ho' 
It must be now do kingdom’s comin’,
And de year ob jubelo! " 
(Loud and prolonged applause.) 
SPEECH OF GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ. 
The President has appointed me to do that which it is not unusual to do at the close of a public meeting-to pronounce the benediction, and I will endeavor, in the few remarks I have to make, not to go far beyond the performance of that function. 
My friend, Mr. Phillips, in the speech he has delivered to-night, has referred to something said by me at the sitting of the Convention in this place this morning. Permit me to say that, in what I then uttered, I was prompted, nay, rather, impelled by a sense of justice to one to whom I considered justice had not been done by the gentlemen who had criticized his public acts. In what I then said, I had no intention to influence the minds of those whom I addressed, in reference to their future conduct, touching the pending Presidential election. I spoke as I did, because I thought that, equally with others, I had had an opportunity of fairly judging the character and acts of your present Chief Magistrate; and because, after a patient, candid and critical study of his administration of the national affairs, I had come to a conclusion the opposite of that which had been arrived at by some of my friends. This being the case, I felt that I should be false to my own convictions, and unjust towards the party who had been assailed, if I did not rise, and as an Englishman and an abolitionist, give my testimony in favor of President Lincoln. (Applause.) My eloquent friend who has addressed us this evening has doubted my competency-and therein he has doubted my right-to form a just and enlightened opinion respecting the merits of the present administration. Well, in addition to my other means of forming a judgment, I have had the benefit of listening to three or four speeches from my friend-from whose former speeches I had learned to trust, admire and love your President-and all that I have learnt from those later speeches is, that Mr. Lincoln is the head of "an imbecile, weak-minded, and worse-hearted administration." This is all that I have learnt since I came to America. (Applause.) Few men are better acquainted with the splendid orations which my friend has delivered during the last twenty-five years, than I am. As far as they have been reported, I have seen them, studied them, extracted them from the papers in which they have appeared, classified and indexed them, and I could have compiled from them many volumes as large as that which has recently been published. I know, therefore, all he has said respecting the man whose re-election to office he now so strenuously opposes. But I will not use those speeches to crush my friend under the weight of the eulogiums he has in times past pronounced upon Mr. Lincoln. I would, however, advise him to do what Sir James Graham did in the House of Commons, when he was about to advocate the repeal of the Corn Laws-laws which he had, down to that time, earnestly defended. Observing that many of the members of the House had in their hands volumes of Hansard's Parliamentary Debates, and were ready to reply to him with quotations from his former speeches, he said, " Gentlemen, you may save yourselves the trouble of refering to those books for I was all wrong when I said what you will find there, but I am going to say what is right now." So, I think my friend might say to Mr. Garrison, I have done with that volume which you bold in your hand, so far as it relates to Mr. Lincoln. I was wrong when 
<c06>
I said those things of him in former years, but I am right now. I once thought him honest, just minded and sagacious, but I now believe him to be imbecile weak headed and worse-hearted?" yet, deep as is, my sorrow-the deeper still, if the accusations I have listened to can be substantiated-at hearing such words proceed from the lips. of my friend, equally profound is my admiration of the zeal and fidelity displayed by my friend, even in what appears, to me his inconsistency, in the cause of that injured race whose rights he thinks are disregarded by those whose conduct the now so sternly attacks. I know the motive which actuates my friend, and I honor it though I cannot agree with him in his strictures upon the motives and acts of others. I must be permitted to say that the most unquestionable evidence should be forthcoming in support of the charges which have been brought against Mr. Lincoln. If they can be proved, not only is Mr. Lincoln utterly unworthy to be reelected, but he deserves to he impeached at the bar of the Senate; for he is a traitor of the worst stamp, and should be hurled by the people, whose confidence he has basely betrayed, from the office he has so guilty prostituted, and consigned for ever to the infamy his crime so justly merits. (Applause) Indictments like those to which I have listened are not to be got rid of by saying they are brought for the purpose of damaging Mr. Lincoln, in order that some other and better man may be put in his place. I must know whether they are true or false. Whether Mr. Lincoln is, what I have believed him to be an honest man; or what he is now represented to be a perjured villain. I, like my friend, have lived and labored to demand justice for the slave. I demand justice for Mr. Lincoln, who is as much entitled to it as the black man. (Prolonged applause.) Justice is one; justice is impartial; justice is universal. The sentiment that has led me to vindicate the rights of the slave, leads me tonight to vindicate the right of Mr. Lincoln to a fair and equitable judgment upon his conduct as President of the United States. I am conscious of my inferiority to my friend. As a public speaker I feel dwarfed in his presence I am destitute of his wonderful faculty of imagination, and of that power of memory which enables him to use all he ever read for the purpose of illustrating the subject on which he is speaking; yet, so conscious am I of the injustice of the accusation he has brought against Mr. Lincoln, and of my ability to repel those accusations, that, with all my deficiencies and infirmities, I am willing to join issue with him, and, on this or any other platform, to debate the question, face to face, and foot to foot (Enthusiastic cheers.) 
My friend despairs of the future of his country, should Mr. Lincoln be elected to serve the second time. Why, only this afternoon, when looking into a volume of my friend's speeches, I read one of them with extreme delight, in which he says,-" Did you ever see in the Broadway-you may in Naples- a black figure grinding chocolate in the windows! He seems to turn the wheel, but the wheel turns him. Now such is the President of the United States" If this be so, then why blame the automaton, when the fault is in the machinery? If the newspaper are but the safety valves through which the sentiments of the people escape; if public men are but like the vanes on the church steeples, which show the direction from which the wind is blowing; if the President only " reigns," and the people really "govern," let the people and not the President be blamed, if all is not done that ought to be done. (Applause.) 
During the sittings of the Convention, I have heard it said by some who have labored long and well, and are still laboring faithfully, in the cause of the slave, that certain amongst the old abolitionists are deserting from the radical principles which they once upheld. Only yesterday morning, on my way to this building, I rushed across the street to greet two esteemed friends with whom I have had the honor to travel and cooperate in years long past. One of them said to me, "I fear you are becoming conservative. My prayer morning and evening is, that I may preserve my radicalism green and fresh, and not be subject with declining years to the infirmity of conservatism." That I am growing old, I know, but that I am less radical in my anti-slavery ideas I have yet to learn. I have yet to learn, too, that radicalism is incompatible with a knowledge and just appreciation of the difficulties and responsibilities of men in official station. If I have said any thing about the coming Presidential election, it has been because- as Falstaff said of rebellion-" It came in my way and I found it." I found that some amongst my old and long-tried friends believed that the most effectual means of promoting the anti-slavery cause was to destroy the present administration; and having an equally strong, but very different opinion on that subject, I have taken the liberty to state it. It my friends really doubt my radicalism, let them put me to the test. What is it they would do in the way of giving the black man his rights that I would not do! What great principle do they contend for, that I and those who differ from them do not hold! The fact is, that though we may disagree about men and means, one principles, our object, our aims and our aspirations are the same. While my friends, who think me less radical than themselves, are laboring for the equal rights of the black man, they may command me to the utmost extent of my very limited strength (Applause.) 
While I do not agree with some of them with regard to the merits of the present administration, I do not the less, on that account respect the motives which actuate them, which is, that of a desire to see slavery utterly extirpated, and the black man put into full possession of his rights. If my dear and honorable friend Mr. Phillips really thinks-not withstanding what be has said of the chocolate grinder- that, in the event of the reelection of Mr. Lincoln, "Iehabod" may be written upon the republic, it his right and his duty to say so, and so seek to avert the catastrophe. But he will not, I am sure, blame those of a contrary opinion, if, after he has emptied his quiver-no, that is never exhausted-if, after he has spent hours in bringing the heaviest accusations against the President and his Cabinet, they rise for the purpose of placing a few plain facts over against his many assertions. I do not think, even were some of the allegations true, that the evils foretold by Mr. Phillips would necessarily come to pass, were Mr. Lincoln to be placed a second time in the Presidential Chair. I have faith in God, and in the awakening conscience of twenty millions of the people. Even should Mr. Lincoln be elected, I believe the Republic would survive(Applause.) I believe anti slavery principle would survive, and be as active and as potent as ever. I believe the Old Guard, instead of laying down their weapons, would, if necessary, polish and sharpen them anew for the conflict 
My friend has told us, tonight, of forty radical members of Congress who have no confidence in Mr. Lincoln; who desire a change of administration, yet, nevertheless, are afraid to say so. He has told us, also, of a hundred men belonging to this Commonwealth, who lately listened to his charges against Mr. Lincoln, but had not the courage either to admit or deny them; yet these, he says, were leading politicians-the elite of the unionism, and loyalty, and republicanism, and political anti-slavery of the State. They heard his arraignment of the President and his advisers, but their lips were sealed, and they had not a word to say in vindication of the parties inculpated. If these men knew the charges to be true, but from a fear of losing office. or from a fear of not gaining office, they kept their lips sealed, and voted for a person unworthy of the nation's support, then of all men they were the most recreant to duty, and deserve all the invectives which have been launched against the President; their silence, however, is evidence to me-not of their belief in the charges, brought against Mr. Lincoln, but of their conviction that they cannot be supported and are not deserved. (Applause.)
For myself, I am perplexed to decide between the views taken by Mr. Phillips of the character and conduct of the President to-day, and those taken by him
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
at former period. If I am asked to follow Mr. Phillips, I ask, which Mr. Phillips, the one who praised Mr. Lincoln in 1861, and’62, and’63, or the one who condemns him in 1864. (Applause and cries of Good”) My friend once said, “I appeal from Philip drunk to Phillip sober; from Ann Street, cozened by old fogies, to Ann Street, under guidance of her native instincts.” I will imitate his example, and appeal from his sweeping denunciations of Mr. Lincoln to-day, to his warm, and generous, and I believe just encomiums on Mr. Lincoln in days past. (Applause.) It is assumed that Mr. Lincoln is naturally incapacitated for the work he is now called upon to do, because he was born in Kentucky. Well, if he was, is it not equally a fact that Fremont was born in South Carolina. It does not necessarily follow that a man must be a horse because he was born in a stable? (Laughter.) In England we had a very good king who was born in Holland; but though a Dutchman, he made a good sovereign, and gave us institutions of which we are proud. If it was the misfortune of Mr. Lincoln to be born in Kentucky, we know he did not stay long there. We know, too, he has been the architect of his own fortunes, and that by his industry, probity, high principles and proverbial honesty, he has won his way to the confidence of the American people. We know, too, that he was elected president upon a platform, the plus ultra of the anti slavery of which was the exclusion of slavery from the fifteen hundred thousand square miles of North-Western Territory; yet, within two years from the time he went into the White House, he. He issued a proclamation giving liberty to more than three million of slaves. (Applause.) He has united this great Republican nation in the bonds of diplomatic relationship with the hitherto scorned and outlawed negro republics of Hayti and Liberia; and I read in the papers of yesterday, that the representative of one of these States was introduced upon the floor of the Senate, and received the same attentions as are usually paid to the Ministers of Foreign Countries. (Applause.) He has purged the National District from the reproach and pollution of slavery, and has thereby put the national brand upon the sin and crime of holding human beings in bondage. (Applause). By formal Message and Resolution, sent to the House of Representatives, and by personal interviews with the men from the Border States, he has done what he could to promote emancipation in the districts which his Proclamation could not reach. Thus, he has gone on from step to step, ever advancing and never retreating, until a series of measures has been accomplished, such as the most sanguine amongst us never dreamed to see carried during the present generation. They have been measures so grand, so beneficent and all important: that we who have contemplated them from the opposite side of the ocean have given God thanks on your behalf, and have rejoiced with you in the triumphs you have won. (Applause.) I have listened to the speeches of Mr. Phillips with the deepest respect, and have endeavored to weigh his arguments with candor, and give all due weight to his facts. I have listened, also, to the speeches of Mr.  Foster and Mr. Pillsbury; but nothing that I have heard has shaken my confidence in the uprightness of Mr. Lincoln, or has convinced me that, all circumstances duly considered, he has not performed his arduous and complicated duties in a manner to deserve the continued support of the friends of the colored race. He may not be a pure and perfect chrysolite; he may have, and doubtless has, his infirmities for who amongst us is perfect? -but when I look to the difficulties he has had to surmount, the warring elements by which he has been surrounded, the enemies within and without that have compassed his destruction, and to the comparative fewness of the numbers of those who have been prepared to sustain him in really radical measures. I cannot but regard him as the man for the situation. (Applause.) Does Mr. Phillips think that, in 1861, Mr. Lincoln might have announced a programme that would have covered his ground as a radical abolitionist.”
Mr. FOSTER- (in a loud voice)-Yes.
Mr. THOMPSON Mr. Phillips is of age, let him speak for himself.
Mr. PHILIPS. Yes
Mr. THOMPSON. Well, all I can say is, I do not think a radical anti-slavery programme at that time would have been tolerated, still less supported by the people at large. I believe the attempt to carry out such a programme would have been a failure. But, if the people who govern were ready at that time for radical measures, why did they not exert their power, and why did they not turn the wheel that moves the figure in the shop window? Why did they not make the automaton grind? I believe, with Mr. Phillips, that the people govern, and therefore it is that I consider that, for the things which he condemns, the people are to blame rather than Mr. Lincoln. There are two things you may do. You may declare yourselves the political opponents of Mr. Lincoln, and, as such, you may criticize, condemn, denounce, and seek to destroy him. You may do this, and, after all, may fail to achieve your object. The other thing that you may do is, to take Mr. Lincoln as he is tell him what you want demand all that is necessary, just and right give him all the assistance in your power and compel him to do your bidding. (Applause.) You may, also, take these forty Senators and Representatives, and the hundred leading men of Massachusetts, of whom we have heard, and make them honest men. (Applause.) Mr. Phillips will then have no secrets to tell, and the people will know who are for Mr. Lincoln, and who are against him, and who it is that would do more for the black man if the President did not stand in the way. (Renewed applause.) In the mean time, let the people have a list of the names of those who think Mr. Lincoln stands in opposition to radical measures, but are afraid to say what they think. (Applause and cries of ”Good!”)
There is one word which, before I sit down, I wish to say publicly in the presence of my friend Mr. Phillips. He has said some hard things of my country, and I hope he will continue to censure us whenever there is just cause. But he has said one thing which we do not deserve. He has said that “England, as a unit, hates America.” This is not the fact. The statement has. I know, pained very many of my countrymen who, equally with the people of New England, admire and love Wendell Phillips for his heroic and disinterested championship of the cause of the oppressed. It is not true that England as a unit <illegible> America.
VOICES. True, true.
Mr. THOMPSON. No, it is not true, and facts in abundance disprove the allegation. (Applause.) Your national archives at Washington contain the evidence, in the shape of Resolutions and Addresses, that hundreds of thousands of Englishmen are as sincerely <illegible> for the welfare and prosperity of this country as the people of the Old Bay State. The most popular meetings held in London are those called to express sympathy with your government in its efforts to put down the wicked rebellion which is still raging in the South. As for those in my country who hate your free government, and your free institutions, I have nothing to say in their defence. They are the enemies of liberty at home, as they are the hatters of liberty abroad. But that the great body of the English people hate America, I take leave to deny. ( Applause.) If my friend were now to go to England, the true, honest and unsophisticated people of that country forgiving and forgetting what he has said, would give him an ovation second only to that which <illegible> has received. From Cape Clear to the <Illegible> Causeway, and from John O’ Groats to the Land’s End, the friends of human freedom would receive him to their homes and their hearts, and would delight to do honor to the man who for seven and twenty years has consecrated his high intellectual <illegible>, his rich and varied acquirements, to the cause of the most despised and down-trodden of the human race. (Great applause.) I regret that Mr. Phillips should consider it his duty to speak of the 
<c02>
government of this country in the way he has done to night.  If, hereafter, but little respect should be exhibited for the government of America by that of my own country, let it be remembered, that through the lips of New England’s most accomplished orator, the Administration at Washington has been pronounced “imbecile, weak headed, and worse-hearted. (Applause.) I am free to confess, I think better of that Administration than my friend. If I do not mistake, Mr. Lincoln is governed by sound instincts and high principles, and if the people will command him to do that which is right, and will sustain him, he will obey. Nearly ten months have yet to elapse before his term of office expires. Much may be done in that time; and looking to what has been done in the year that is past, much may be hoped and expected. Instead of waiting till a new President ascends the chair, let all that is possible be obtained through the present incumbent. Do not take it for granted that Mr. Lincoln will not do the things you desire; but bring the necessary pressure to bear, and see what may be effected now; if he will not, ere he descends from his present elevation to the position of a private citizen, become the instrument in your hands of breaking every yoke, and of making this country from the Gulf to the Mountains all hallowed ground.(Prolonged applause.)
Mr. PHILLIPS. At this late hour, I ask only five minutes, ladies and gentlemen; and the President of the Convention requests that the members will remain to vote on the resolutions. 
Understand me. I do not blame—far from it my friend, Mr. Thompson, or my friend, Mr. Garrison, for their opinions, their speeches, or anything they have said of me. I recognize, most cordially, their right, as old and tried leaders, to our respectful deference in all matters relating to this cause. 
Secondly, understand this; If that book (Mr. Phillips’ speeches) was Phillips drunk, and I am Phillips sober, or the reverse, what of it? Proving me inconsistent does not begin to prove Mr. Lincoln wise or capable. That cause must be hardly pushed and in desperate need, which has nothing better to urge than the inconsistency of its opponent. (Applause.) Suppose all Mr. Garrison urges is true. As Waldo Emerson said, years ago-“What is inconsistency? Education” It is only passing from error to truth.
A VOICE. It is the other way.
MR. PHILLIPS. Well, it is at least an attempt to pass from error to truth. 
But, again; with that book before me, or all the speeches that my friend says he has so kindly pasted and indexed, I have no occasion to say, as Sir James Graham did, “I was wrong.” Not a whit of it. If Mr. Garrison had read the whole of each speech, and the dates mark you, the dates—and then had put with it the other speeches of that very volume, 1 should have no occasion to shrink from the view. (Applause, and cries of “Good”) There may be, here and there, an unguarded expression, such as every extemporaneous speaker must fall into occasionally; but paragraph by paragraph, page by page, speech by speech, I challenge the record. It only proves that I have been hopeful, fair, impartial, as months rolled away; (loud applause); interpreting each day as hopefully, with as “generous sympathy for the government as I could, and now I look back on the last three years, and judge them in the full light of a general, deliberate retrospect. Enough of that.
Thirdly: my friend, Mr. Thompson, says that I have disabled his judgment; presuming to think that I, living on the spot, know my own country better than he does, living three thousand miles off. I am sorry to hear that he considers that presumption. When, later in his speech, he asked me, with wondering and incredulous surprise, how it could be that a hundred Massachusetts politicians thought differently from what they spoke, it occurred to me, that if he lived with us a year, he would find I knew the country better than he did.   (Applause) If he lives here twelve months, do you believe, friends, that he will be surprised at the character I attribute to Massachusetts politicians? (Applause and hisses.) He showed, by the very honesty of his astonishment, that I was indeed correct, when I said that I knew America better than he did. But, again, he says I erred if I ever said (of which I have no recollection) that England as a unit, hated America.  If he says it is not true, if that is his judgment, on the spot, I acknowledge that he, an Englishman, living in England, walking up and down its highways, and addressing its audiences, knows England better than I do; with his testimony, on the same principle that I asked it of him, I defer to his better judgment, and, if I ever made such a statement, I take it back. (Loud applause.) Would he not be somewhat surprised, if instead of doing so, I called it presumption in him to consider his knowledge of England better than mine, and claimed that he should give up his opinion and accept mine on such a matter? I am not aware, however, that I ever did say England as a unit hated America. I have said that her aristocracy, and her government, representing that class, hated America. So I still think. I shall welcome his opinion on that point, and shall give it infinitely more weight in deciding the question than my own. Enough of that.
Fourthly: Ladies and gentlemen, you are now to vote on these resolutions. Remember this; the mover of them thought it necessary to sustain them by what, I venture to say, has not of late been heard on the platform of any Anti Slavery Convention—by praise of Seward, McClellan, and Montgomery Blair. (“Hear, hear”). You who feel that you can say amen to such eulogy, vote for these resolutions; but you who believe as I have for the last three years, that freedom and the Union have no craftier, no more dangerous enemy than Seward, (applause and hisses,) you who remember the long agony with which we groaned under the first ten months of McClellan’s treasonable idleness, and then the indignation with which we saw his return to power, (renewed hisses and applause,) and who believe that the Montgomery Blair, whom I honestly praised in 1861, has become the traitor of 1864, vote against these resolutions. Every man who hisses me for that statement, vote for these resolutions; every man who cannot endorse that eulogy of Mr. Garrison, vote against them. 
Mr. GARRISON. Mr. President, one word. My friend Phillips’s speeches, in relation to Mr. Lincoln, devour each other. (Laughter and applause.) It is not that he has been getting undeceived. Assuredly, if he had simply changed his mind, I should not think of presenting the case here as worthy of special notice. We all change, and may change for the better —be wiser today than we were yesterday. The trouble is, that his speeches pertaining to Mr. Lincoln, since the rebellion broke out, are irreconcilably contradictory. (Applause.)
Now, as to my alleged eulogy of Montgomery Blair, William H. Seward, etc., I have given none. All I said was, that Montgomery Blair had given the strongest testimony in favor of the binding nature of the President’s Proclamation of Emancipation, and declared that no power could legally repeal it; and I thought that, in fairness, it ought to be put to his credit. Is that to be eulogistic? I said that he had gone to Baltimore, to influence the people of Maryland to make a Constitution abolishing slavery throughout that State on the fourth day of July. Is not that a creditable fact? I said of William H. Seward, that, while I had not a very high opinion of him, still there was a great deal of indefinite accusation against him, and very little that you could put your, finger upon to condemn. Yet all the vials of denunciation have been poured out upon him, as though he were the vilest of tricksters, and an enemy of the cause of freedom. But has there been a particle of evidence adduced to show that he is thus guilty? Mr. Seward, however culpable he may be, has a right (a right which the veriest criminal enjoys) to say, “Produce the evidence; convict me before you proceed to punish me.” But this stabbing in the dark, without any tangible evidence presented to support the charges I say it is not just, even in regard to Mr. Seward; and I am not his eulogist.Let not the efficacy of fair criticism be 
<c03>
impaired by wholesale impeachment. This is all I contend for. 
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH rose to speak, but his voice was drowned in clamorous calls of “question,” and loud stamping of feet. After a while, order was partially restored, and Mr. Burleigh said:— 
All I have to say will take less time than the clamor which is made to prevent it; but what I have to say will be said.  What I wish to say is this: I desire that it may be distinctly understood by those who vote on this question, that there are those who believe the best course to be taken is to pass both sets of resolutions. Now, if you vote to substitute the one for the other, you prevent all possibility of passing the series originally introduced; but if you vote not to make that substitution, then you leave it possible to pass them both. 
Now, if what has been said here in reference to the anti-slavery position and character of the Administration is all correct, there need be no hesitation about passing the resolutions offered by Mr. Pillsbury, for they exactly endorse such an Administration as itself —one true to the cause of freedom, and that can be relied upon in the warfare against slavery. Hence, then, I hope that every one who is willing to acknowledge by his acts, that the arguments of our friends in favor of the Administration is conclusive, will show his consistency by voting, not to substitute the second resolution for the first, without they shall both be adopted.
I have said what I wished to say in regard to these resolutions. I wanted it to be understood that this Convention meets here to defend the rights of man; and one of those rights I am here asserting in my own person; and when the audience acknowledge it, then I retire, and not until then. (Applause.) 
The President called upon the Convention to maintain silence, that Mr. Burleigh might see that his right was acknowledged; and almost perfect quiet having been restored, Mr. B. took his seat.
The question on the motion to substitute Mr. Garrison’s resolutions for those of Mr. Pillsbury was then taken, and it was declared lost. 
The resolutions offered by Mr. Pillsbury were then adopted.
Mr. BURLEIGH moved that the series offered by Mr. Garrison be adopted. 
Mr. PHILLIPS moved to amend the first resolution so that it should read “Resolved, That the progress of the anti-slavery cause since the rebellion broke out has been truly wonderful.” The amendment was adopted. 
Mr. FOSTER moved to amend by striking out the assertion that the Government had recognized the right of citizenship of the negro 
Mr. GARRISON accepted the amendment, and the resolutions were adopted. 
Mr. POWELL then introduced his resolutions, published last week, in reference to the amendment of the Constitution, which were adopted, and the Convention, at 11.15 adjourned—most of the large audience, absorbed by the interest and power of the discussion, having remained until the close.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 10, 1864. 
THE NATION’S NEED.
It is plain enough that President Lincoln is not disposed to do justice to the colored people, either in the civil or the military department. Many of those who dislike his present policy, and deprecate his reelection on this ground, are accustomed to contrast him unfavorably with the people at large, and to say that they desire a policy more liberal towards the blacks, and more radical in regard to the extirpation of slavery; that the people are right upon the negro question, and that the President only is wrong. 
Not only is there no sufficient evidence of this proposition, but facts in abundance disprove it. The disease of this people is yet unhealed; their sin is neither forsaken, nor repented of, nor acknowledged, nor even understood by themselves. Having ever in their mouths the phrases of the Declaration of Independence, they remain utterly ignorant that the distinctions of caste which they maintain are in flagrant antagonism, alike to the letter and spirit of that instrument. Having eyes, they do not see that liberty, civil equality, and the pursuit of happiness, are unalienable rights, as well for the negro as the white man. Having ears, they do not hear the indignant scoff which civilization all over the world raises against their attempt to combine caste and democracy in one system. Having intelligence keen enough for all the exigencies and all the interests of Number One, they do not see that their boasted self-evident truth, that all just powers in government flow from the consent of the governed, applies as forcibly to the colored as to the white element in our community. 
The President himself not his language only, (which is worth as much or as little as that of other diplomatists) but his life—is a sufficient witness upon this point. He says, as an excuse for not doing to the negro the justice which he does not wish to do, that the people are not ready for it. The truth of this statement by no means suffices for his excuse, for his function requires him to see and execute the things needful for the nation’s welfare, even when the nation itself does not see them, as in the surrender of Mason and Slidell.  But the allegation is manifestly true. For, if the nation were determined that the colored people throughout the country should have their rights as men, soldiers, and citizens, a President who is actively intriguing for reelection would be swift to gratify their wishes in that particular. Nothing is more certain than that Mr. Lincoln wants votes. If he could accomplish the wishes and secure the support of twenty millions at the North, by giving citizenship to four and a half millions of colored people at the South, and just military consideration to their soldiers, and the ballot (of course to be used in his favor) to their adult males, would he not long since have done it “with alacrity”? If this policy had really been favored by the great mass of the people, would he have interfered as he did with Fremont, with Hunter, with Phelps, with Butler? Would he have changed that policy, established by the last-named officer in Louisiana, by which the rebels there were effectually held in check, and an enthusiastic and effective support of the Union cause was obtained from the numerous colored population? Would he have allowed General Banks to reverse that policy, to alienate the feelings of that colored population, to establish serfdom over them in place of slavery, to bribe the pro-slavery secessionists to lip-loyalty by restoring a portion of the mastership, which they had lost, and to set up (for political purposes) the painted semblance of a civil Governor, whose function has to be executed by a Military Governor, bearing rule at the same time, over the same State?
Legislators are ready enough to accomplish a decided wish of the population that can reelect them. If the people are thoroughly opposed even to slavery, (to, say nothing of the establishment of full and equal liberty for colored people in its stead.) how is it that so many as fifty-five members of the House of Representatives voted against the bill proposing the abolition of slavery by a Constitutional amendment? Voted against even the second reading of that bill!
Take one more bit of evidence. The Missouri Sanitary Fair had a Freedmen’s Department among its extensive arrangements.  Here is an account of an incident that took place there, clipped from the Missouri Republican of May 26:
“Yesterday a certain Rev. James M. Gloucester, a negro minister, who is President of the Freedmen’s Association in New York, reached this city, bearing a letter of introduction to Mr. E. W. Fox. The letter represented that the bearer had been active in New York in securing contributions to the Freedmen’s Department of the St. Louis Fair, that he desired to come out here, witness its progress, and be of further service, if in his power.
<c04>
Another negro minister, either from New York or Brooklyn, accompanied him,. and was recommended, perhaps, in the same letter. They first saw James E. Yeatman, President of the Sanitary Commission, who referred them to Mr. Fox. By Mr. F. they were referred to some one else, who procured season tickets for their use. This third party did not like the responsibility and embarrassment of dealing with the visitors, and rid himself of them by turning them over to the Rev. Dr. Nelson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of this city, who is in official position at the Fair, as Chairman of the Freedman and Refugee Department. Here their wanderings ended. 
The reverend gentleman had no desire to pass them to other hands, and gave them a cordial and hospitable reception—so hospitable, indeed, that he walked them straightway into the large refreshment saloon, known as the Cafe Laclede, seated himself with them at one of the tables, and proceeded to order a dinner for their mutual comfort. 
The Cafe Laclede, we may state, is a leading feature of the Fair, in which thirty or forty of our most respectable matrons and young ladies lend their services to wait upon all who enter and order refreshments. Many of them manifested their indignant and outraged sense by tears, and others by taking their departure on the instant from the place, Mr. Fogg Mr. Blackman, and other Fair Committeemen, remonstrated with Dr. Nelson, and the lady in charge of the refreshment department for the day sent him a note requesting him to at once remove himself and companions. Dr. Nelson at last yielded, and went away.”
If this direct result of slavery, a conceit of the necessary and intrinsic inferiority of black men to white, be yet so strong as to prevent co-workers in a course of benevolent action from treating each other with decency, and meeting in public places as men and brethren, how can it be said that the nation is right upon the negro question? Alas, so far are we from being right, that it remains yet to be decided whether the nation is worth saving. 
But this very delinquency of the people is a reason why we should have a better President than the existing one We need a man who, seeing that the nation’s health and life need a great work of reform, will use vigorously the power which the war places in his hands to effect it, “taking the responsibility,” as one of old did, and not protracting the war by the deliberate choice of half-measures instead of whole ones, until the slow process of education shall have brought the people right upon that subject. 
Is Fremont that man? His letter accepting the nomination of the Cleveland Convention (which may be seen in another column,) contains no strong indication to that effect. It has neither the vigor, the directness, the soundness nor the thoroughness which should characterize the candidate of “the Radical Democracy.”
The assumption that slavery is  practically destroyed (instead of being on the sure road to destruction) might pass as merely an overstatement, an anticipation of a fact presumably near at hand, although we have serious need to guard against undue confidence in that direction. But the further statement that “With this extinction of slavery the party divisions created by it have disappeared” is a ludicrous and complete misrepresentation. It is precisely the strength of the party influences created by slavery that has kept General Fremont so long out of active military service that has kept the Democrats from becoming Republicans that has kept the Republicans from becoming Abolitionists and that now renders probable the election of Lincoln, reluctantly consenting to assail slavery at the dictate of “military necessity,” in place of some better man who would rejoice to use the power which war gives a President to crush that wickedness, and to establish liberty in its place. It is precisely the remaining strength of these party divisions which have allowed Abraham Lincoln to follow his own inclination to treat slavery with tolerant tenderness, instead of crushing it and the rebellion together a year ago. 
Complaining of the present administration. Gen. Fremont tells us.” The ordinary rights secured under the Constitution and the laws of the country have been violated, and extraordinary powers have been usurped by the Executive.” These are remarkable complaints from one who is at once a military man and an opposer of slavery. Are not ordinary civil affairs accustomed to give place when war is in progress, and to yield to the necessity it imposes, as a matter of course? In our case there was special need that the routine of civil administration should be interfered with, because that routine protected and perpetuated slavery. The true charge against Mr. Lincoln is, that he has never used half enough the plenary power which the war has put into his hands. His arrests of manifest allies of the enemy, his suppression of treasonable newspapers, and his interference with the numerous movements by which aid and comfort have been given to rebels in arms, have never been half so frequent or half so effective as the exigencies of the country demand. It is absurd to expect war to be carried on otherwise than by violent and arbitrary rule. What we have a right to demand is that this arbitrary rule shall accomplish the things needful for the party or the cause that uses it. The war has given Abraham Lincoln the opportunity to assail slavery with numerous weapons not admissible before. Slavery being the mother of the rebellion, and having always been our worst danger and disease, should have received a fatal blow from the first moment that the powers of war could be legitimately used against her. The President has chosen to maim merely, instead of killing, to stun merely, instead of crushing, this monster.  This is his fault, and it is a great one. But, in the name of common sense, let us not hear the complaint that the Commander-in-Chief of the American army and navy, in the midst of a war of astounding magnitude, uses “extraordinary powers.” We consent to take the risk of over-action against slavery. If you will extirpate the cancer, we will stand the peril of the knife. 
Gen. Fremont, referring to one of the resolutions of the Cleveland Convention, namely, that which recommends " the confiscation of the lands of rebels, and their distribution among soldiers and settlers,” makes a protest. He thinks confiscation of the property of all rebels not practicable nor desirable, and proceeds to object to confiscation altogether except “in the beginning of a revolt.”
Now, neither the Cleveland Convention nor any body else has proposed to seize the property of all rebels. But a forfeiture of the lands of the leaders and officers, civil and military, of the rebellion, is not only perfectly in accordance with the custom of nations and the laws of war, but it is specially and doubly needful in our case; first, that the traitors in question, after the war, may no longer hold the station and influence which gave them the means of doing so much harm; and next, that those lands may be given and sold to loyal people, to form the nucleus of a loyal population in the Southern States; given to the freedmen (the true owners of those lands in equity) and to the white and black soldiers who have helped to regain them; and sold, at moderate prices, to white and black emigrants from Northern States. Without this measure of safeguard, the question of the reconstruction of States will be fearfully complicated and hazardous.
There is space to notice but one more of Gen. Fremont’s sentences, namely, this:—
“In the adjustments which are to follow peace, no consideration of vengeance can consistently be admitted.”
This is a very extraordinary statement. Nobody has proposed vengeance, nobody wishes for vengeance, no administration that we are likely to have would think of exercising vengeance on even the worst of the rebels. The danger is all the other way.  It is much to be feared that, when the war shall close, no due precaution will be taken against a continuance of machinations dangerous to the liberty and prosperity of the country, by the very men now carrying on the war. It is much to be feared that measures of amnesty as ill judged and dangerous as those already offered to the rebels may be extended to them when the war shall end, giving new opportunities for mischief to the most ambitious and unprincipled of men. This is a real danger which we have yet to meet. But nobody contemplates any further action against these men than
<c05>
effectually to deprive them of the means of doing further harm. Our nation needs no admonition against, vengeance, as far as the Southern people are concerned. It is but too ready to warm again the benumbed viper in its bosom. What we need is stimulus, not, repression. U. K. W.
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. No. IX.
NEW YORK, June 2, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
We hear much in these days, of extravagance and debt of the improvidence which squanders on present luxuries the means of supplying our future needs. In this, however, we are governed by inexorable law, and reason and the will, reflection and determination, can almost as little release us from our prodigal habits as they could prevent us from embracing them. It is hard to believe that the moral universe is bound by like conditions, and that the most disastrous experience is insufficient to turn men from a course whose shoals are fresh strown with the wrecks of conscience, and honor. Our civil war is without a lesson, except it be the wasteful and criminal folly of consenting with sin; the false economy of postponing so obedience to the plainest Divine requirements; the cheapness of immediate, unhesitating justice—the awful penalty of delay. Rich in material resources, in land, houses, machinery, industrial enterprise, fertility of invention, the nation perhaps may laugh at poverty and her gaunt sister famine, and spend two dollars where she late spent one. But what people ever so abounded in virtue as that they could afford to repeat their moral expenditures, be guilty of identical transgressions, twice reap a harvest of tares from the self same field, and yet hope to thrive in the favor of God, as secure from his retribution, as they are destitute of remorse?  Such are the thoughts with which I am filled, as I watch the progress of our legislation, from week to week. The votes of the Senate on the Montana bill and suffrage in the District, and of the House on the amendment to the Constitution; coupled with the action of the Constitutional Convention of Louisiana, prohibiting legislation at any time by which the colored man shall be admitted to the polls—are instances of subserviency to slavery perfectly astounding in a nation not yet free from a mortal encounter with its idol. Does any one of the so called Republican Senators who voted in effect to exclude colored citizens from every new State hereafter to arise in the Union, pretend that he followed his conviction of right; or does he expect that the question he has settled for the moment will not one day be opened up and agitated, until his vote is reversed? Recreant New Englanders. Collamer and Foote of Vermont, Morrill of Maine, Foster of Connecticut, do you, too, partake of the cowardice of ‘87, which left us rebellion as a heritage, and have you nothing better to bequeath your children than an evil memory and the task of undoing your base contrivances? Why could you not have stood shoulder to shoulder, with New Hampshire, and Massachusetts, and Rhode Island, and Iowa, and Kansas—with Chandler of Michigan, Dixon of Connecticut, Morgan of New York? Even Senator Wilkinson, who first made stand against caste in the territories, is found voting at last to establish it; a fact difficult of explanation, unless we connect it with a desire to head off the dangerous invasion of Congress, in the re-constructed Union, by the embittered representatives of a crushed rebellion, by erecting as many (nominally) free States as possible, with their Senatorial quotas. But this is a politician’s shuffle, not a statesman's. 
Before these words are printed, the Baltimore Convention will have met, acted, and perhaps adjourned. What I could wish it to do is of no consequence to record in suite of its determination. How much it is to be affected by the recent Convention at Cleveland, cannot be guessed at this hour; nor can any one define the strength of the constituency which this latter body represented or claimed to represent. The platform which it adopted is in many respects progressive, in others not different from the sentiments of all loyal men; in others still, accusatory by implication of the present Administration, either without just grounds, or where praise rather than censure was to be looked for from Radicals. In illustration of this last point, let me quote the following resolutions:—
"Sixth: That integrity and economy are demanded at all times in the administration of the government, and that in time of war the want of them is criminal. 

Seventh: That the right of asylum, except for crime and subject to law, is a recognized principle of American liberty; that any violation of it cannot be over looked, and must not go unrebuked. 
Fourth: That the rights of free speech, free press, and the habeas corpus be held inviolate, save in districts where martial law has been proclaimed."
Now it is one thing to admit the truth of Resolution Sixth, and another to make out a case against Mr. Lincoln’s administration as defective, either in integrity or economy—using the latter term in its common acceptation; and again another to prove that Generals Fremont and Cochrane would exhibit more of these qualities in a distribution of the spoils of office and their conduct of the affairs of State. If the change of rulers proposed were to be based on this consideration alone, I think the people would do well, and would resolve to prefer the known to the unknown; and I have yet to learn that the President has forfeited his claim to the appellation of “honest,” by corrupt and venal practices emanating from himself, or permitted in his subordinates. The insinuation, being accompanied by no evidence, is reduced to a baseless fling, in the hope to blacken. Resolution Seventh is superfluous and meaningless, unless it be intended as a rebuke of the extradition of the pirate Arguelles a proceeding which may or may not have been irregular in point of law, but which was so clearly in the interest of liberty, and a recognition of the rights of man as against perfidious oppression and enslavement, that one may well be amazed at its condemnation by radicals, in unison with the whole Copperhead press and party. Liberty offers no complaint of this “violation of the right of asylum.” She cries-” If there is no law for this process, then make one; meanwhile, serve me!” much as our British friends call for the retention of the pirates who come to port, and afterwards, if need be, for an amendment of the Foreign Enlistment Act. Resolution Fourth implicitly condemns the Administration for measures which have been faulty only in being infrequent. Had there been less of unrestricted treasonable speaking and printing, victory had been further advanced to-day, and the end of the rebellion nearer. As for the habeas corpus, it may be well to wish its suspension applicable only to territory under martial law, but wishing the Constitution different from what it is now will not make the President culpable for acting strictly within the power conferred by that instrument—if faultily, only as before, because too seldom. Exact construction might even go further, and challenge demonstration that the power to suspend the writ is confined to the Executive, and does not pertain to every officer in the country, in times when the public safety requires its exercise. In the use, moreover, of these important functions of war, the danger to the freedom of a people springs from the motives of him who wields them; and, with no partiality for Mr. Lincoln, I am constrained to repeat that I would trust them to no other hand sooner than his, because I esteem it absurdity to suppose him intriguing for power, or the diminution of our rights and privileges.  Certainly, we have less to fear from a civilian than from a military hero. I protest, if there ever was a time when our dearest liberties were safe, it is now and has been during the incumbency of Abraham Lincoln. They would have been safer far had he multiplied his Fort Lafayettes, and suppressed a score of rebel organs, instead of two. Slavery, mind you, is the foe of every liberty, the greatest and the least; to cripple slavery and its accursed supporters, is to buttress liberty and guarantee its enjoyment, nor are we bound to be scrupulous as to the manner of our blows—though the sword which hews at the monster is swung so unskillfully as to wound ourselves, we will forgive the accident to the intent. 
The New York World exults with reason in the
<c06>
Cleveland Convention, which espouses’ its cause against the righteous act of the Government. The inference will be drawn, and if mistakenly, the Convention has to thank its resolutions and its principal speakers, that the movement inaugurated is an attempt to win success for a functions nomination by sweeping under the banner of Fremont all the hostile elements which are arrayed against the Administration, without regard to principle. Many will join that standard from pure motives, but more from infamous, and it is to be regretted that the Path-finder consents to head an effort which must result either in his own mortification and miserable defeat at the polls, the fatal division of the Union party and consequent triumph of the rebellion, or his elevation to the office to which he aspires by men to whom it will neither be safe nor honorable to be indebted. The name which is associated with his as Vice President has a record which it is not comfortable to recall. Of a loyalty by no means above suspicion for sometime after the outbreak of the war, there is no proof that his devotion to liberty is deeper than that of a shrewd politician and accomplished wire puller. His remarks in the Convention were almost wholly directed to the points embodied in the resolutions I have quoted proof to me at least that one who could reprehend the Administration for some of its most meritorious performances,(without which it must have succumbed, as any other Administration would,) was hollow hearted and untrustworthy.
M. DU PAYS.

GEN. FREMONT’S LETTER OF ACCEPT ACCEPTANCE.
GENTLEMEN: In answer to the letter which I have had the honor to receive from you on the part of the representatives of the people assembled at Cleveland, on the 31st of May, I desire to express my thanks for the confidence which led them to offer me the honorable and difficult position of their candidate, in the approaching Presidential contest. 
Very honorable, because in offering it to me, you act in the name of a great number of citizens, who seek above all things the good of their country, and who have no sort of selfish interest in view. Very difficult, because in accepting the candidacy you propose to me, I am exposed to the reproach of creating a schism in the party with which I have been identified. 
Had Mr. Lincoln remained faithful to the principles he was elected to defend, no schism could have been created, and no contest could have been possible. This is not an ordinary election, it is a contest for the right even to have candidates, and not merely as usual for the choice among them.  Now, for the first time since 76, the question of constitutional liberty has been brought directly before the people for their serious consideration and vote. The ordinary rights secured under the Constitution and the laws of the country have been violated, and extraordinary powers have been usurped by the Executive. It is directly before the people now to say, whether or not the principles established by the Revolution are worth maintaining. If, as we have been taught to believe, those guarantees of liberty, which made the distinctive value and glory of our country, are in truth inviolably sacred, then there must be a protest against the arbitrary violation, which had not even the excuse of necessity. The schism is made by those who force the choice between a shameful silence or a protest against wrong. In such considerations originated the Cleveland Convention. It was among its objects to arouse the attention of the people to such facts, and to bring them to realize that while we are saturating Southern soil with the best blood of the country, in the name of Liberty, we have really parted with it at home.
Today we have in the country the abuses of military dictation without its unity of action and vigor of execution; an Administration marked at home by disregard of Constitutional rights, by its violation of personal liberty and the liberty of the press, and, as a crowning shame, by its abandonment of the right of asylum a right especially dear to all free nations. Abroad, its course has been characterized by a feebleness and want of principle which has misled European powers, and driven them to a belief that only commercial interests and personal aims are concerned, and that no great principles are involved in the issue. 
The admirable conduct of the people, their readiness to make every sacrifice demanded of them, their forbearance and silence, under the suspension of every thing that could be suspended, their many acts of heroism and sacrifices, were all rendered fruitless by the incapacity or, to speak more exactly, by the personal ends for which the war was managed. This incapacity and selfishness naturally produced such results as led the European Powers, and logically enough, to the conviction that the North, with its greatly superior population, its immense resources, and its credit, will never be able to recover the South. Sympathies which should have been with us from the outset of the war were turned against us, and in this way the Administration has done the country a double wrong abroad. It created hostility, or, at best, indifference among those who would have been its friends if the real intentions of the people could have been better known; while at the same time, it neglected no occasion for making the most humiliating concessions. 
Against this disastrous condition of affairs the Cleveland Convention was a protest.
The principles which form the basis of its platform; have my unqualified and cordial approbation; but I cannot so heartily concur in all the measures which, you propose. I do not believe that confiscation extended to the property of all rebels, is practicable, and, if it were so, I don’t think it a measure of sound policy. It is a question belonging to the people themselves to decide, and is a proper occasion for the exercise of their original and sovereign authority. As a war measure, in the beginning of a revolt, which might be quelled by prompt severity, I understand the policy of confiscation; but not as a final measure of reconstruction after the suppression of an insurrection. 
In the adjustments which are to follow peace, no considerations of vengeance can consistently be admitted. 
The object of the war is to make permanently secure the peace and happiness of the whole country, and there was but a single element in the way of its attainment. This element of slavery may be considered practically destroyed in the country, and it needs only your proposed amendment of the Constitution to make its extinction complete. 
With this extinction of slavery, the party divisions created by it have also disappeared. And if in the country, there has ever been a time when the American people, without regard to one or another of the political divisions, were called upon to give solemnly their voice in a matter which involved the safety of the United States, it is assuredly the present time. 
If the Convention at Baltimore will nominate any man whose past life justifies a well-grounded confidence in his fidelity to our cardinal principles, there is no reason why there should be any division among the really patriotic men of the country. To any such I shall be most happy to give a cordial and active support.
My own decided preference is to aid in this way, and not to be myself a candidate. But if Mr. Lincoln should be renominated, as I believe it would be fatal to the country to endorse a policy and renew a power which has cost us the lives of thousands of men, and needlessly put the country on the road to bankruptcy, there will remain no alternative but to organize against him every element of conscientious opposition with the view to prevent the misfortune of his reelection. 
In this contingency, I accept the nomination at Cleveland, and as a preliminary step I have resigned my commission in the army. This was a sacrifice it gave me pain to make. But I had for a long time fruitlessly endeavored to obtain service. I make this sacrifice only to regain liberty of speech, and to leave nothing in the way of discharging to my utmost ability the task you have set for me.
With my earnest and sincere thanks for your expressions of confidence and regard, and for the many honorable terms in which you acquaint me with the actions of the Committee. 
I am, gentlemen, very respectfully and truly yours, 
J. C. FREMONT.
To Messrs. WORTHINGTON G.SNETHEN of Maryland, EDWARD GILBERT OF New York, CASPIAN BUTE OF Illinois, CHARLES E.MOSS Missouri, N.P.SAWYER of Pennsylvania. New York, June 4, 1864.
Telegraphic reports from the Baltimore Convention say that Abraham Lincoln has been, nominated, by acclamation, for the next Presidency.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will attend a Yearly Meeting of the Friends of Progress in Middle Granville, N. Y. on the 10th, 11th, and 12th of June; and lecture in Washington and Saratoga counties, N. Y., till July 1st.
A. T. FOSS will speak in Hyannis, Sunday, the 12th, and in the vicinity during the week. 
In Harwich, on Sunday, 19th, and in the vicinity during the week. 
In North Dennis, on Sunday, 26th.
DIED—In this city, April 29, Mrs. ELIZA JACKSON STASNDIN, aged 63; for many years a member of the First Independent Baptist Church in Joy Street, and justly regarded by all her acquaintances as a devoted Christian.
At Cambridgeport, May 18. ESTELLA LOUISA, only daughter of William T. and Louisa Hilton Raymond, aged 1 year, 8 mon., 16 days.
[The above were incorrectly inserted last weeks.]
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
For the Liberator.
OUR WAY.
“We wait beneath the furnace-blast
The pangs of transformation;
Not painlessly God doth recast
And mould anew the nation.”
We know not in what lone dark paths
Our weary aching feet may tread,
Ere we ascend the tranquil heights,
By Peace fair white-winged angel led.
We know not yet what priceless gifts
On Freedom’s altar must lay,
Ere through the lurid clouds of war
We see the light of coming day.
We must not shrink nor falter now,
Or think of case, or dream of rest;
We would not stay the battle-tide,
Till Freedom all our land hath blessed.
This is no selfish party feud,
We strive not for ourselves alone;
Nor stand we in the van of war
To prop a despot’s tottering throne.
The battle-flag of Liberty
Aloft for all the world we bear,
And bright and free it floateth still,
Never before so pure and fair.
The  hand shall never furl
Our dear old flag, the “Stars and stripes”
And Northern hearts shall never bow
Unto the traitor’s crimson bars.
Our tears may fall like Summer rain,
And Death our treasured ones may take;
Still for the Right our lives we pledge,
And braver grow for their dear sake.
Above our martyred heroes’ names
Slavery shall never reach her shrine;
Nor shall her gory fingers stain
The garland we for them entwine.
From out each lonely grass-grown mound,
A solemn voice we seem to hear;
Oh, brothers guard this sacred turf
And Freedom’s holy altar rear!
Let not our lives be given in vain!
Brothers, unto the Right be true;
Guard well the precious heritage
Which we have sought to win for you.”
listen to that earnest voice,—
Press onward still at Duty’s call;
And calmly, bravely, fill our place,
Whatever change may us befall!
We know that Truth must win at last;
Though crushed to earth she’ll rise again”
Her grasp shall conquer giant Wrong,
And every rend in twain.
Then let us despair or doubt,
Though clouds shall lower along our way;
Through them at last the light shall break,
The herald of a glorious day!
May, 1864. CARRIE.

For the Liberator.
VIOLETS.
BY ALMIRA SEYMOUR.
Sweet thoughts of blest spirits! How purely they lie
On the forehead of each spring-lit vale;
Glancing gratefully up, like a gentle blue eye,
To meet the warm smile of the dear, distant sky—
Distant measured by space, but in influence nigh;
Love’s life-giving presence, that answers no why,
Yet knows every language but fail.
Dream-thoughts of the angels! Down deep in that blue
What graceful suggestions I find!
A brooding affection as tender true;
A memory that keeps all the dear past in view,
And mantles it ever with  cloudless hue,
Till all life stands transfigured, eternally new,
In the holiest halls of the mind.
Life-drops from the breast of our dear mother earth!
For the lips of each hungering child
Whose soul craves the food of the tender new-birth,
Heart-weary and faint with the world’s want of worth;
Or, wounded and in the Wilderness dearth,
Where he fell bravely fighting for Right, Home and Hearth,
And through Violets on death’s visage smiled.
O, Father, I thank thee for all thou hast given
To enrich this, our first home;—
For all grandeur and glory that sunward have striven;
For the gorgeous displays of the morning and even;
For the thunder that and the monarch force-riven;
But most for each sweet, loving witness, that Heaven,
As the Kingdom of Earth, shall yet come.
10, Temple Place, May, 1864.
An incident of a recent deserted battle-field in Virginia.

JENNIE AND JAMIE.
A POEM FOR THE LOYAL WOMEN.
Jenny in fine array,
Jamie so far away;
Jenny in silken attire,
Jamie in muck and mire 
Jenny with full and plenty to eat,
Jamie without a morsel of meat.
Jenny must needs have diamonds to wear,
Laces and feathers and gems for her hair;
Jamie’s clothes are tattered and torn,
His luckless boots so cut up and worn,
That he thinks with dismay
On the fast coming day,
When “upper” and “sole” will both give way.
Oh, Jenny! just think
That we’re on the brink
Of a struggle most mighty and fearful;
And that soon head
May lie midst the dead,
On a field so pitifully dreadful.
Then give up your diamonds, your silks and your laces,
Throw by all your follies, and cease all your races
After fashion and dress;
And strive to think less
Of what you will buy;
And more, how try
To bear your own share
In sorrow and care,
That darkens our nation, once blest;
And fervently pray
That bright peace soon may
Shine on Jamie and all the rest.
—Philadelphia Press.

ORA ET LABORA.
BY MRS. PHEBE ANN HANAFORD.
The heavy which on thee is laid,
The path  thorny which thy feet must tread,
The way is narrow, far off seems its end,
And Death oft robs thee of a cherished friend;
Yet God the Giver is the Great Restorer;
Be this thy motto——”Ora et Labor
“Ora for prayer thy cross may yet remove,
Or bring thee strength to bear it from above;
Through work, prayer-hallowed, seeds of bliss may spring,
 fruit shall ripen where the angels sing;—
By Faith encouraged to hope for joys before her,
Let thy soul answerOra et Labora!”
“Labora”—though the clouds above thee lower
God will give sunshine in the summer hour;
Work! and sweet flower will by the wayside bloom,
To cheer thee as thou, journeyest to thy home;
With God’s bright bow of promise bending o’er her,
Let the soul shout it-“Ora et Labora!”
Aye! Pray and Labor!” he that goeth forth,
Praying, to scatter seed upon the earth,
Shall labor vain, while angel wait
To answer knocks at the Celestial Gate:
Thorns shall give place at last to fadeless flowers,
Crowns be for crosses given, in Heaven’s sweet bowers.
Reading, Mass., April 27, 1864.
<c02>
The Liberator.
A GENEROUS TESTIMONY
FRIEND GARRISON:—I desire, with your permission, to see the article enclosed in the Liberator. It is from the Christian Ambassador, published at New York and doubtless from the pen of its editor, Rev. Dr. Sawyer. How ignoble—yea, utterly contemptible, do the New York Observer and Times appear in the light of a candid, discerning and truthful criticism like this. Let it adorn the columns of the Liberator at full length, however complimentary or generous it may be to yourself. As an honest man, disdaining all flattery—of yourself or of anybody else—I affirm it to be only even and exact justice both  you and Mr. Thompson and the Abolitionists en masses The spirit betrayed by the Times and Observer is ineffably mean and mendacious—an insult to true Christianity and Republicanism. A PRINTER.
EARLY ANTI-SLAVERY.
It is a very curious fact in the history of public opinion, that the mass of people who never think or act with early reformers gradually come to persuade themselves, as the reformation goes on and grows popular, that they were always of that party, or at least always sympathized with its spirit. We have no descendants to-day of the Tories of the Revolution. Twenty years hence there will not be a man in all the North who favored secession, or cherished any sympathy with rebels! Even now it is rare to meet one who has ever wished well to slavery, or desired anything but its final abolition The present aiders and abettors of rebellion in Congress, or out of it, will twenty, aye, ten years hence, prove to you that it was not the rebellion they wished to promote, but they were anxious to prevent the overthrow of the Constitution and the establishment of a military despotism !While men are thus very lenient towards themselves, they are apt to be quite as unjust towards their neighbors. Our self-conceit sometimes makes us a little envious of those who have done a work which, probably, is likely to honor them, and which we, in our indolence or opposition altogether failed to perform, or even assist in performing. We have what seems to us a striking illustration of this phase of human weakness in an article which appeared some time ago in the New York Daily Times, and was reproduced with singular approbation in the New York Observer. The aim of the article, which is too long to be copied in these columns was to show, as the Observer expresses it, that the English abolitionist, George Thompson, and the  school, are not entitled to any gratitude for their efforts to promote disunion and abolition The thought is very neatly turned and is worthy of a well trained politician.  and abolition as if the first object—the great purpose of these men was to effect disunion; and abolition was  a secondary and insignificant matter! “These men,” says the Times, “labored exactly for the same end for which John C. Calhoun labored—the dissolution of the Union between the non-slaveholding and the slaveholding States. Their moral purpose differed from his, but their political purpose was exactly the same In idea opposed as widely as the poles, in action they worked shoulder to shoulder. Calhoun endeavored to break up the Union to get loose from slavery. Slavery made one a disunion man; anti-slavery the other. Yet they both worked, each in his own way, with entire devotion to the common object. "The conclusion to which this zealous comes, and which its religious coadjutor warmly approves, is, that Garrison and his school, as it is called, not only did nothing to promote emancipation, but their whole influence tended only to retard it. “We have not a particle of doubt,” continues the Times, “that there was not a year in the twenty- five years preceding the rebellion, when the anti-slavery cause in this country would not have further advanced, and been in every respect better off, had William Lloyd Garrison and Wendell Phillips and George Thompson, or disunion abolition speakers and writers like them, never existed.”
To all this the Observer adds a hearty Amen, and proceeds to exhibit the imposing fact in another phase: “It would be an easy task to go back to the early history of the country, and show, as the Observer has again and again done in times past, that the strong, steady and prevailing current of sentiment among good men in the North and South has been antislavery from the beginning We are well aware that it has been, and will yet be assumed by the ignorant and prejudiced that hearty opposition to the system was confined almost entirely to those who were loudest in invective. We venture to say that their opposition was least of all to be accounted of as contributing to any solid result. They were but the foam on the crest of the wave, more demonstrative, but least weighty. The strong under-current of American sentiment and feeling has, from the first, been one of opposition to slavery. The testimony to this is abundantly furnished by historical facts.”
We fear that we belong to the pretty large party of “ignorant and prejudiced “persons here referred to; and to prove it, we will state what we suppose to be quite incontestable facts, as follows:1. That “Garrison and his school” stand, among living anti-slavery men, not only foremost in point of time, but also as regards their profound hatred of the accursed institution; their tireless denunciation of it and its abettors, and their bitter relentless war upon it, regardless of private interests, public reputation, or life itself. Never, since the age of the apostles, have men arrayed themselves—from mere love of principle and their fellow men—from hatred of injustice and oppression—against a giant wrong, hedged round with power, rendered popular by interests, and sanctified by a thousand pious lies, with a more self-sacrificing spirit or with a more earnest devotion than these men have, through the third part of a century, exhibited, We have no words to express our admiration of that moral heroism, which through so many years of conflict and obloquy, has unfalteringly pushed its way.2. That “Garrison and his school never for a moment desired disunion for itself, and regarded it only as the lesser evil of two, that seemed to them, at times, presented to their choice. They saw slavery gradually but surely working its way into power; they saw political parties formed and bending about it; they saw the Government perverted to advance the interests of slavery, and the Constitution itself, which was formed to promote liberty and secure justice, made the instrument of bondage and oppression. Under the all-pervading influence of this Upas they saw the pulpit become the apologist of this hoary wrong, and even the Bible made to utter its sanction to it! Is it wonderful that men, touched and penetrated as they were with a sense of this great villany should have wished for the dissolution of the Union, for anything indeed that might restore the people to moral sanity, and lead them back to reverence for Right and God. Garrison and his school were called fanatics: they were thought to be wild, heady men, carried away by extravagance, and more the subjects of a lunatic asylum than objects of respect But who, think you, now, were the madmen, those who were quietly warming the viper in their bosom, or they who saw the folly, and cried out against it? We are to-day paying the terrible penalty of our national madness and sin.3 Had it not been for Garrison and his school, had the interests and the salvation of the country been confided to the counsels and keeping of the Times and the Observer and those who sympathized with them, God only knows what our condition would now have been. Say what you will of their extravagance, of their severity, of their irreligion, of their want of patriotism, and hatred of a union of right and wrong, of liberty and slavery, it cannot injustice be denied that they have been, under God, our pioneers out of the slough into which we were sinking. They kept alive a strong anti-slavery sentiment, which elsewhere was dying out, and roused, as with the voice of a trumpet, the sleeping souls of millions to a conflict which is now coming to an end; which, beginning in the thoughts of a single heart, it may be, is now being settled on the great battlefield of a mighty nation.
God be thanked for Garrison and his school. We would gladly share the honor that history will yet award them. We do not assume that they were perfect. They had the passions of other men, but if they possess great faults, they also share great virtues, which posterity will acknowledge, and the spirit of justice and liberty will consecrate. Most lives, though their strength is loaded with sand and turbid with alluvial waste, drop a few golden grains as they flow along.
<c03>
THE CASE OF MARGARET GARNER.
A VINDICATION OF GOV. CHASE.
To the Editor of the National Anti-Slavery Standard:
There is a piece of history, which, being lately misreported, it is well to bring again to the public attention. The present seems peculiarly the fitting time to do so, as there is no pending candidacy of the gentleman whose reputation is concerned, to suggest a partisan object in the review.
Wendell Phillips, in a speech delivered a few months since, pronounced a severe criticism upon Gov. Chase for the course pursued by him in the case of Margaret Garner. He did not enter upon any complete statement of the case, either of its facts or the law and judicial proceedings relative thereto; something which would seem essential where one seeks to reverse the general judgment upon the life and character of a man who, for nearly thirty years. had been beloved by friends and assailed by enemies for faithful devotion to the slave. But, in some sharp-pointed periods, which assume facts not existing, Mr. Phillips makes a charge which, if substantiated, ought to deprive that magistrate of the good opinion of every humane man.
The general charge is, that Gov. Chase sacrificed Margaret Garner. One specification of fact only is given, and that is, that  assuring the Sheriff of official support, he travelled one hundred and twenty miles, and left the Sheriff to take the responsibility—a responsibility the Governor dared not take, and she went back to bondage. No South Carolina Governor, with an Abolitionist in prison Charleston, would have ever gone up to Columbia This is untrue. Mr. Chase left Cincinnati during the last days of December, 1855, or the first week in January, nearly a month before Margaret escaped, to attend his inauguration, and, pressed with the more than usual cares of a new administration, did not visit Cincinnati for a long time. The only specification of fact failing, the charge itself is by that failure discredited, and a case of perfect defence might fairly be rested here. And there is reason to believe that Mr. Phillips has thought better since these hasty and rather intemperate words. In a later speech he is reported to have said, in substance, that with Chase for President, Butler Secretary of War, and Fremont at the head of the Army, the country would be safe. But surely he could not be the man to save the Republic who had sacrificed a heroine and left a city to shirk his duty.
This accusation is made against one whose name is identified with the anti-slavery movement from its earliest days. In 1837, he made his great plea for the slave Matilda, in the city of Cincinnati, and from that time forward he was known as the “Attorney-General of the Blacks” in a community where such a reputation involved loss of political position, of social caste and professional income. He aided to organize the Liberty party, and threw himself, in 1841, into its forlorn minority. By newspaper articles, by the drafting of resolutions and addresses, by public speeches, by private conversation, by forensic arguments for fugitive slaves, in season, and out of season, without cessation or compromise, he helped to lay the corner-stone of the cause now triumphant. He stood with Gamaliel Bailey, his advocate in the courts and his household friend, when his presses were destroyed by the mob, and they were like David and Jonathan until that good man was translated to his reward. Alone in the Cabinet, he has always been for the boldest and most aggressive measures on slavery. Nor would Mr. Phillips be, unwilling to confess that he has not discriminated against anti-slavery men, but has alone in the Cabinet discriminated in their favor. All things considered, what statesman of this or any age can point to services for freedom so long, so constant and so valuable? But let not these services be his defence. Let us forget them all, and try him by the case in hand.
It is to be borne in mind that Mr. Chase, while opposing slavery with a strong moral fervor, shaped his political action against it in obedience to the Constitution, always interpreting that instrument as intended to secure the rights of the people. In this he and the other leaders of the anti-slavery movement were agreed. They believed that the hour of Revolution had not come, and that the cause could only make its way to triumph by obedience to law, so as to secure the co-operation of all the friends of social order. Well-intentioned men, in small numbers, may have had different views, and preferred a rebellion against the government when it was in pro-slavery hands. Mr. Phillips once said: “I claim the right to resist any law I choose The policy of violence and revolution was, however, not that of the Liberty, the Free Soil or the Republican party, and their leaders are not to be judged by it.
Another prefatory caution may not be amiss. It may almost seem trivial to repeat the truism, that a Governor or any civil magistrate is not responsible, even prima facie, for what goes wrong within the territory over which his authority, more or less limited, prevails. Gov. Andrew is not responsible for the murder of the Maiden bank officer, or President Lincoln for the escape of John Morgan from the Ohio prison. Only when some specific duty imposed by law, and the neglect thereof, can be fastened upon him, is he responsible. The legal duty, the power to perform, and the neglect, are points essential to an accusation. Beyond that, his duty  not exceed that of the private citizen, and often falls below it, as when pre-occupation with official cares of a general scope prevents a personal and persistent attention to individual grievances already in proper hands. All just men recognize these divisions and limitations of responsibility. Truth and justice forbid that they should be overlooked in dealing with so precious a thing as character. A popular orator of fervid nature, master also of the rhetoric of passion, may make an audience already in sympathy with him forget them when he pictures a tragedy, and then, by a transition not very distinct, denounces somebody who was present, or who held some public position at the time, as responsible for it. He may even himself, in the ardor of his harangue, forget them; but reason and fairness with him, as with his hearers, will recover their sway. Nor do the tragic surroundings of a case generally make the duty of the magistrate different. It is the same in the case of all the nameless slaves who have been restored to bondage as in Margaret Garner’s. The duty of protection to rights is the same to the obscure as to the illustrious—to one whose wrong, from its similarity to those of others, is so common-place as to be forgotten, as to one whose fate, from a peculiar combination of circumstances appealing to the heart and imagination, is taken up by history.
It is proper here to recall the leading facts of the case. On the night of Sunday, Jan 27th. 1856, Margaret Garner, and her husband and four children, with the father and mother of her husband, escaped from Boone County, Kentucky, and crossed the Ohio river, a short distance below Cincinnati. The master followed in quick pursuit, and on the next day procured a warrant for the arrest of the fugitives, under the Fugitive Slave Act from a United States Commissioner by the name of John L. Pendery. The same day they were arrested, the husband of Margaret firing on the arresting parties, and she herself doing the deed which distinction to the case. They were thereupon lodged in a Police Station of Cincinnati. It was the custom then, and is probably so still, for United States officers arresting parties under process held by them to confine them in the jails and prisons of the State, with the consent of the sheriffs and jailors. The confined party, under this practice of comity, remains still in the custody of the United States Marshal, though in the corporal power of the Sheriff, who enforces or aids in enforcing the confinement as a sort of deputy of the Marshal. The cases of restored fugitive slaves had been very frequent in Cincinnati. The writer remembers to have seen, in the Spring of 1854, a company of eight or nine who had escaped together, ranging in age from seventy years to a child of a few months, brought before that same Commissioner. They were remanded to Kentucky after a hurried hearing, with no disturbance or excitement, and with but little interest on the part of the community. And Margaret would have passed away with the nameless train who had for more than fifty years met an equal fate, but for the sublime desperation with which she resisted a second bondage for her children. And here is the distinguishing feature of the case. While the Marshal and posse were arresting her, she seized a butcher-knife and killed one of her children—a girl of three years—and attempted to kill the next to prevent them from being restored to slavery. The homicide won sympathy in her behalf, and gave a possible opportunity of putting her into the custody of the State, and of relieving her there from at some fitting time, when she could succeed in an escape from her pursuers. On the day of her arrest, Judge Burgoyne of the Probate Court, at the instance of the friends of the fugitives, issued a writ of habeas corpus, returnable before him, under which the Sheriff took the fugitives into custody and conveyed
<c04>
them to the County jail. The Judge at once proceeded, to Columbus, to confer with Gov. Chase. The Governor assured him that the process of the State Courts would be enforced in Hamilton County as well as in other parts of the, and that the Sheriff, in the performance of his duty, would be sustained by the whole power at the command of the Executive. The friends of Margaret did not, for some reason, see fit to press the habeas corpus, and the Sheriff on the next day, and before the Judge had returned from Columbus, restored the prisoners to the custody of the United States Marshal, who continued to keep them in the jail. The animus of the Governor—his determination to do his duty and to uphold the honor of the State and the liberty of the unfortunate human beings in question—are evident from his hearty reply to the Judge. It will be remembered that, at that time, the public feeling in Cincinnati was strongly for the execution of the act, and strongly, too, in sympathy with the South. In the previous October out of twenty-three thousand votes thrown in the County of which it forms the larger part in population, only forty-five hundred were given for Gov. Chase. Opposite Cincinnati, too, were the cities of Newport and Covington in Kentucky, to furnish, if necessary, an additional posse for the Marshal, with soldiers also at the Newport barracks. Besides, there was then no State militia which the Governor could call to his aid. The case having been delayed from day to day, the Grand Jury, to whom the prosecuting attorney, Mr. Cox, taking a humane interest in the fugitives, had presented their case, brought in an indictment for murder of the child against Margaret and her husband, and his parents. The Sheriff served the capes upon them, and again took them into custody, leaving the children in the custody of the Marshal. Being already ready in actual possession, this involved no removal. Already holding them as a kind of deputy of the Marshal, he now claimed to hold the legal custody under process issued directly to himself from the State Courts. The Marshal, on the other hand, still claimed to be entitled to the custody, and did, as it is stated, what he could to prevent a waiver of right by being on hand himself, by deputy, to attend on the prisoners. He was at the same time threatened by the claimant with a suit for damages under the act if he did not maintain his custody. The custody of the Marshal under the Federal process was prior in time, and therefore superior in right, unless the State process, being a criminal one, was to be regarded as superior in kind, so as to supersede the Federal process of reclamation. The superior effect of the State criminal process has been claimed, but the United States Courts have not yielded to the force of the argument, maintaining that a comity necessary to prevent violent conflicts of jurisdiction requires that where a process, civil or criminal, from one court, either State or Federal, has attached, a process from the other must wait until the first has terminated. The point was raised in the Sims case before the State Courts, but it was not necessary to decide it. It is stated that the Supreme Court of Massachusetts took a view like that of the Federal courts, in an unpublished opinion, when consulted by Gov. Gardner. It seemed, however, at that time, that Judge Leavitt, of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, intimated to one of the counsel for Margaret, in a conversation while, her case was pending, an opinion in favor of the superiority of the State criminal process. Her counsel who were also acting as legal advisers of the Sheriff were Edward Mills, since deceased, and George Hadley, who has held an eminent judicial position in Ohio; both men of acknowledged ability and zealous friends of the slave. When making the intimation referred the Judge suggested a hearing before himself on a habeas, as a means by which the Marshal could protect himself against a suit for damages in case of a decision in favor of the  right to the custody. The counsel, relying on this extra judicial intimation, consented to this course, and the Marshal having sued out a writ of habeas corpus before Judge Leavitt for the body of Margaret, directed to the Sheriff, the latter officer, upon the advice of the counsel referred to, produced her in Court with a copy of the indictment and capias, and submitted to the jurisdiction, making his return that he held the four persons indicted under the process of the State, to await their trial on the charge of murder. The counsel and friends thus handed over the case to the Federal Judge, misled by his intimation, as the event proved. This was on Feb. 26. The Judge listened to an argument, particularly on the point referred to, and took the case under advisement. As he left the court, the Commissioner took his vacated seat and decided the fugitives to be slaves of claimants. Judge Burgoyne had had before himself a hearing that same day on another habeas corpus, which he had issued for the children, and had adjourned the hearing to the 30th. On the morning of the 28th, however, to the surprise of counsel and friends, Judge Leavitt gave a decision, declaring the custody of the Sheriff unlawful, and remanding the parties claimed to the possession of the Marshal. The Sheriff and the counsel of Margaret made no further resistance. The fugitives were at once placed in an omnibus and taken to the ferryboat, guarded by some five hundred special deputies. They were in Kentucky an hour after the decision, and while it was as yet unknown to the public and even to one of the counsel. Such are the facts. What now were the duty and responsibility of Gov. Chase upon them? It was not his duty, by force and violence and without rightful process, to rescue the unhappy fugitives. Had he attempted this, under the plea of official authority, he would have been simply a usurper. He would thereby have embarked in a revolutionary proceeding, which would not have saved them, and would have been prejudicial to the cause of constitutional resistance to the Act. Society now throws herself back, like the individual in cases of necessity, somewhat upon natural and revolutionary rights, but the time for that had not then arrived. Having no official power under the law to protect them, his duty became like that of any private citizen—no more, no less. The argumentum ad hominen may be good fencing in debate, but it rarely elucidates truth, and we will not resort to it. But to give point to the illustration, we submit that Gov. Chase, having no power under the law save them, Mr. duty to rescue Thomas Sims and Anthony Burns, who went back to bondage under his own eye, was equally great. Had he led a charge on the Marshal’s posse at some opportune moment, as he is brave enough to do, thousands, inspired by his example, might have followed, and the dark deed of restoration would have been prevented. There is no rule of morals, no principle of law, which justifies him for not doing so, not equally available for the entire vindication of Gov. Chase. It seems to be implied in the accusation that Gov. Chase is responsible for the action, or rather inaction, of the Sheriff. No assumption could more unfair. He had no legal power over that officer, no more than he had over a Judge of a Court, or a member of the Legislature. The Sheriff was an officer elected by the people. The Governor could not remove him or dictate action in any way—the Sheriff being as independent of him as he was of the Sheriff. The Sheriff could have laughed in his face, and would probably have done so, had he attempted to give him the slightest direction. That ministerial officer-held the process, and the Governor could lay his hand upon him, either to take it away or to compel its execution; and only in aiding the Sheriff to execute the same, if he saw fit to execute it, had the Governor the slightest power in the premises. The Governor of a State—least of all, the Governor of Ohio, whose functions  fewer and more confined than elsewhere—has no imperial power to protect rights and redress grievances; and the mere fact of a wrong done in the State makes not even a prima facie case of responsibility on his part. He certainly had no such war powers as upon military necessity are now accorded to the President of the United States. He had rarely any initial power to redress private wrongs, that function being appropriate to the judicial tribunals and the ministerial officers who go forth to execute their mandates. Whoever would be a safe critic on the conduct of rulers, for a moment overlook such cardinal distinctions.
What, then, could Gov. Chase rightfully do to save Margaret Garner? He could, though unprovided with a militia force, and compelled to rely on a posse drawn from a community favorable to the execution of the Fugitive Slave Act, do what he could to enforce such process as the Sheriff was willing to execute, and protect him in the custody of Margaret, if he was willing to keep it; in other words, sustain the process of the State with the power of the State. He could do more than this. He could show a watchful sympathy in the fate of the fugitive, give read access for consultation to her legal advisers and friends, and aid, with the moral power of his name and influence, all legitimate measures for her protection. He did all this, and more. He pledged to the counsel his best ability to sustain the Sheriff in exe-
<c05>
cuting the process and retaining the custody, as the surviving one of the two advocates and the prosecuting attorney, who cooperated with them, now testify. He gave them a ready audience, did all that they asked of him, refusing nothing—trusting also that the case was in good and faithful hands. The counsel managed the with ability and earnest sympathy, but if they erred in placing too much confidence in the Federal Judge or otherwise Gov. Chase is not responsible for such errors. Mr. Joseph Cox, the prosecuting attorney referred to, in a letter published in November last, says: In every step I Gov. Chase prompt and efficient, sympathizing deeply in the case, and ready to render any assistance in his power 
He did more, as we have said. In his zeal for the fugitive, he pushed the construction of the provision of the Constitution relative to the reclamation of fugitives from justice to an extent which it would not be entirely safe to adopt. Although she had not escaped Ohio, having been taken from against her will, he made a requisition for her, as an escaped offender, on the Governor of Kentucky, stating the facts. That functionary, desiring to extend the purview of the clause, issued an order for her surrender, which would have resulted in her return to Ohio, had not the claimant already transported her down river.
This mournful case suggests a brief reference to he case of Thomas Sims. He was arrested as a fugitive slave in Boston, on April 3d, 1851, and while being arrested, assaulted the Deputy Marshal, A. O. Butman. A complaint for the assault was made by the friends of Sims, and a warrant issued for his arrest, which was placed in the hands of the Sheriff. The Sheriff consulted the Governor, who referred him to the District Attorney. A Deputy Sheriff served it on the Marshal (now Brig.-Gen. Devens,) who refused to deliver, and threatened the use of force to defend his custody. It should be stated, however, that the Federal officers, anticipating such a process, had already had a complaint made to the Federal Courts, and had obtained a criminal warrant for that purpose:  it was a sham process, the Marshal not returning it to Court. A writ of personal repletion was obtained, under a statute of the State passed fourteen years before. A writ of habeas corpus was procured by hi friends, bringing him before Judge Woodbury, of the United States Circuit Court, where Charles Sumner and Samuel E. Sewall appeared in his behalf. A petition for a writ of habeas corpus was argued before the Supreme Judicial Court of the State (Chief-Justice Shaw presiding and delivering the opinion,) by Robert Rantoul, Jr., and Richard H. Dana, Jr. The case was argued before the Commissioner, George T. Curtis, by Robert Rantoul, Jr., and Charles G. Loring, who applied fullness of learning to the law, and critical acumen to the facts. George S. Boutwell was Governor. He was surrounded by an anti-slavery Council, one of whom was Francis W. Bird. Henry Wilson was President of the Senate, Nathaniel P. Banks Speaker of the House, and Amasa Walker Secretary of State. A Legislature was in session which, a few days later, on April 24th, elected Charles Sumner to the United States Senate. Vigilance Committees held daily and nightly sessions. Outside the Courts, Horace Mann, Theodore Parker, Wendell Phillips, and others of less fame, but of like spirit, thundered against the crime. And yet, with all this variety of judicial proceedings, this array of lawyers and publicists, a State government unfriendly to the act, no member of which has been assailed for remissness, and with this demonstration of popular feeling, Sims was carried off from the State under a decision of the Commissioner, on the morning of April 12th, just nine days from the time of his arrest. This was not in Cincinnati, within rifle shot of a slave State, where counsel succeeded in delaying the issue for a month; but: it was in Boston, all finished in nine days, among a community four hundred miles from slave soil; and the victim, as he walked down the street to take the vessel which was to bear him to Georgia, passed within a throw of Faneuil Hall. Why not hold Gov. Boutwell, Henry Wilson, Wendell Phillips even, responsible for all this, and for the Anthony Burns case, too, of similar features, which went on in presence of the throngs of Anniversary week in 1854, and among a people stung to indignation by the repeal of the Missouri Compromise? No, this would not be just. These were done because the government of the United States was then in the hands of slave-masters, who were reinforced by an unenlightened conservatism of the free States. And they would come again if these masters were to return to power. Such, then, are the facts. Gov. Chase did not usurp power, or enter upon a violent or illegal course He did not command or remove the Sheriff, having no power to do so. He gave assurances of his readiness and determination to sustain the process of the Stale with the power of the State, and he was faithful to them. He did all that the counsel and friends of Margaret asked of him, and they now, as always, testify to his personal sympathies and official cooperation. They do not accuse him, but the accusation comes from one who was nearly a thousand miles a way at the time, neither a participant in the scene or a spectator of it, now making up not a contemporaneous, but a remote record. To do a great right, and if possible, save the woman, he even strained the law. He did not, indeed, save her, because the law had given him no power to save her. If he is responsible, then is every magistrate, civil or military, responsible for everything that goes wrong, no matter though he has no official right or physical power to prevent it. Fair dealing between man and man, putting aside all charity and all respect for eminent services to humanity such a judgment.

AN HOUR WITH A COPPERHEAD OFFICER.
the niggers—I wish they were all killed Blast them, they’re getting so saucy and independent they’ll ride over us afore long The person who delivered himself of this sage remark, the embellishments of which I have indicated by a dash, was a superbly dressed gentleman with a superbly face, and whose eyes seemed to have got up a kind of family quarrel; for when the one looked down the ridge of the crooked nose, the other seemed to be looking for an eclipse of the moon.
 a Kentuckian, and sir, I know all about the cussed nigger I replied as blandly as possible, that it was very likely he knew all about the nigger—that Southerners generally were very well acquainted with the nigger, indeed—judging from appearances.
The left eye squinted greenish down the crooked nose, while the right took an observation upward. I concluded their owner was looking to see whether my countenance betrayed any sarcasm.
I wish every, one of them was drafted, and put in the front rank and kept there, till every one of them was killed “Government promises to draft some of them, and for this reason Kentucky kicks up her heels, and threatens to go into convulsions if negroes are put on an equality with white soldiers, in putting down the rebellion,” I replied. “What are the cusses worth any how? They are mean, cowardly dogs, and fight" Then why do you want them drafted into the army, if they fight? And why have official reports praised negro troops for their bravery? “It’s all abolition lies. We have an abolition government trampling on the rights of the people, and breaking the Constitution every day. Fact is and here his tone became very confidential, and the green eyes squinted at different angles, and the ugly face puckered up into what was meant for a smile, but it was only a kind of lock-jaw grin Fact is, in the army myself; been a good deal about Washington and the Army of the Potomac, and know some things about this confounded Abolition Administration, that’s running the country to ruin. I know why our best Generals, such as McClellan, and Buell, and Porter, have been so meanly treated, and why it is that Pope and Butler and others have been petted, and taken the place of better men. It is all because of the cussed Abolitionists, that want to rob people of their property—“I’m in the army, too,” said I, putting on my, which was the only article of uniform I then had on; “and know some things that you and others had better learn, too—one of which is that slave-holders and their friends, either in or out of the army, in Kentucky or in Ohio, are all traitors. And the other is, that before this war is over slavery will be as dead as a herring—and its friends, too, perhaps.” Saying which, I left him, and entered my state-room. Two years ago, perhaps, it would not have been very safe to have spoken to a Kentucky Colonel in this style, and that, too, in close proximity to “old Kaintuck.”—Army Cor. of the Syracuse Wesleyan.
<c06>
THE NEW YORK HERALD.
The New York Herald deserves the title long ago felicitously bestowed upon it, The Satanic Press. Its whole spirit is diabolic. To promote dissensions, to aggravate abuses, to encourage public corruption and private immorality, to stimulate folly and  in high places, and to bring trouble and disgrace upon the country—these are so obviously its intents, that no thoughtful reader of its columns can fail to observe them.
One of its efforts, in full concert with the rebels, ever since the war began, has, been to involve the Union in a war with France or England. Seldom or never does a week pass without the publication of some editorial article, calculated expressly to stimulate foreign animosity against the United States, and to invite foreign powers to unit in still further weakening us, in order to forestall the attacks from our side, with which the Herald is constantly pretending to threaten them. In its issue of Saturday last, it undertake to anticipate history by predicting that this Republic, which has proven itself the greatest military power in the world, will not long delay the general settlement of accounts, that Europe has invited. This is what the people talk about and expect. From California to Maine they are exchanging congratulations, not only upon the glorious present, but upon the glorious future. California is next door to Mexico, Maine edges in upon Canada 
This is but a mild type of its habitual sinister rigmarole; but it happens to be the latest we have at hand. The reader will observe how artfully it is framed to excite the fears of three nations at once with threats of vengeance from the Union, as soon as the rebellion is over.
Every individual purchaser of Herald is responsible in some degree for the enormous power which that journal possesses for evil. Its slashing, reckless character makes it a favorite with the thoughtless and unreflecting, while multitudes who do not deserve to be placed in that category, are yet sufficiently amused by its style to encourage it by its purchase, and thus it becomes accredited in Europe as the best representative of American patriotism, intelligence, and breeding—the fact being, at the same time, that the whole concern is under the direct management of renegade foreigners and open or secret sympathizers with the rebellion The remedy is in part in every person’s own hard—namely, to resolutely refuse, under any circumstances, to purchase a copy of the paper. The New York Times and Tribune are fully its equals as news-papers, and incomparably its superiors in every other respect; and from either of them a fairer and more trust worthy view of public affairs is to be obtained than from the Herald.—Salem Gazette.

HOW GARIBALDI LOOKS.
An English paper gives the following description of Gen. Garibaldi’s personal appearance, at first sight, on board the steamship that had conveyed him to England:—
I was one of the first people on board, and after a few moments’ hesitation as to which way we should turn, in the wilderness of ayays, Anglo-Indians, lady-passengers, invalid, children and luggage, wherein we find ourselves we hear that the General is in the saloon, and at once proceed thither. On proceeding thither, I heard a full-toned, but sweet voice, saying, “Better, better, I thank you much, ”in reply to inquiries as to his foot, some minutes before fore that voice’s owner is visible to me, and it is impossible to avoid envying Mr. Negretty and Mr. Joseph Cowden, as they are severally invited to greet their old friend.
The cabin is by this time full, and the natural eagerness of those yet outside is so far when by a change of position I obtain my first glimpse of the general, He is seated on his couch with a sling cigar-case and courier’s bag hung up overhead, is shaking hands warmly with “Friend Joseph Cowden,” is asking after the good town of Newcastle, and gracefully acknowledging to all around the many kindnesses he has received. Leaning on his walking stick, and limping slightly, he proceeds, accompanied by all of us, to the cushioned seat at the end of the saloon.
In truth a kingly looking man, some five feet eight inches in height, he is broadly built, and his presence is pre-eminently commanding; he has a broad and lofty brow, soft and gentle eyes, which sparkle with humor and playfulness; a full-sized nose, a massive jaw, indicative of power, and a smile which a woman might envy. He wore light and thin trowsers, smartly made, patent leather boots, a silver gray with a scarlet lining or hood, and an embroidered smoking cap, which looked as if it had been worked by some fair admirer. A silk handkerchief round his neck—of course no collar—and a light crimson bandana thrown loosely over the shoulders, complete a costume which, for picturesqueness, it would be difficult to equal. The impression produced on me was that I saw before me one who was
“In strength a man, simplicity a child.”
and as he gave his cordial and hearty greeting to each new and old friend who pressed forward to clasp him by the hand, it was impossible to avoid the conclusion that we were in the presence of one eminently qualified by nature to sway a nation, and secure its sympathies. In repose his countenance is lion-like in gentle gravity and conscious strength; when animated, it lights up in a way I can only compare to the of sunshine upon an already beautiful landscape. He understands English perfectly, but speaks it with a slightly foreign accent, and it may interest some readers to know that on my shaking hands with him we reciprocated right heartily the peculiar grip only known  
“Brethren of the mystic tie 
PERSONAL. A. J. Grover, Esq., late of Earlville, Illinois, has recently located with his family in our city. Mr. Grover, we understand, has had an extensive practice as a lawyer for the last eight years in Earlville, Illinois, and intends to pursue his profession here. He is at present in the office of L. Allis, Esq.
The following notice of a meeting of his fellow citizens, held at his late home, is taken from the Chicago Tribune:
Resolutions of Respect: The prominent business men and leading of Earlville, Lasalle county, Illinois, met at the office of J. W. Browne, on the <illegible> of April. A. D., 1864, and unanimously adopted the following resolutions:
Whereas Our esteemed friend and fellow-citizen A. J. <illegible>, Esq., who has lived among us for many years, is, on account of the poor health of his family, about to remove to St. Paul, Minnesota, therefore, 
Resolved, That we, his old neighbors and friends, tender him the expression of our sincere regret at his departure, and our best wishes for his future prosperity.
Resolved, That during his residence among us, be has ever had, in an eminent degree, our  and respect, both as a citizen and as a lawyer, and that his rare integrity and legal ability, will, we trust, secure for him, wherever he may locate, a high position as <illegible> man, and as a lawyer. 
J. W. BROWNE, JAMES MERRIT, Secretary.
A HARD CASE. Several months ago, a r was charged in New Orleans by Paymaster H. K, of Wisconsin, with robbing him of $30,000, and, after being unmercifully whipped, the negro was sentenced to hard labor at the Dry for life. Facts have recently com to the knowledge of the War Department the guilt on Secretary Stanton arrested him is Washington a few days ago, and put him in the Capitol prison. Twenty thousand dollars have been recovered, and paper found on him implicating a New York contractor named Peck. He was also taken the old Capitol to await a trial by the Military commission. An order has been sent to Tortugas to us lease the negro.—Springfield Republican
A LINE OF STEAMERS TO BRAZIL. Hon. Jois B. Alley, of this State, has reported a bill granting $150,000 per annum as a subsidy of to Brazil In an able speech in advocacy of this measure, says the Boston Journal, Mr. Alley <illegible> shows the wisdom and necessity of government encouragement to ocean steam navigation, and <illegible> advocates the proposed subsidy for a line to <illegible> with which country our trade might be almost <illegible> increased. Through the indefatigable <illegible>of Rev. Mr. Fletcher, the attention of the <illegible> community has been drawn to the vast <illegible> of Brazil, and it needs but an inconsiderable <illegible> subsidy from our, with what aid the liberal Government of Brazil is ready to afford to <illegible> the establishment of a line of mail steamers.
JEFF. DAVIS AND MISCEGENATION. A <illegible> son of Jeff Davis, undeniably proved to be such is now serving on the gunboat Carondelet. He is <illegible> brought North as an illustration of the <illegible> which miscegenation is made practical.
