<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS - Three dollars and fifty cents in advance Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square end over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSO, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
VOL. XXXV.
Selections.
NEGEO SUFFRAGE.
LETTER FROM JOHN STUART MILL.
CINCINNATI, September 19, 1865.
EDS, COM.-Some weeks since, the eminent foreign name of the Tocqueville was brought into service in behalf of the argument against universal suffrage. Opportunity was given for this in his very unsatisfactory chapter on slavery; unsatisfactory, because, while he labors at great length upon the difficulties attending the Southern problem of races, he yet attempts no solution of it; and closes what he has to say with unavailing reproaches against those who introduced slavery upon this continent, and in the language of despair.
In this connection, it occurred to me, that the views on this subject of the still more eminent foreigner, John Stuart Mill, would be of great service. I therefore wrote him, enclosing General Cox's Oberlin letter, with my reply to it, and requested his opinion on the question of negro suffrage, which was the question considered in those letters. I enclose here-with his reply, a most luminous exposition, in brief terms, of the whole subject. Let those who read it remember that this is not the language of the philosopher and statesman merely, but of our constant friend, who has the advantage, by reason of his foreign position, of seeing our affairs in somewhat the same light in which they will be viewed by posterity.
Respectfully yours,
W. M. DICKSON.

BLAKHEATH PARK, KENT, Sept. 1, 1865.
DEAR SIR-I am sincerely obliged to you for giving me an opportunity of reading the letter of General Cox, and your excellent paper in reply.
You ask me for an opinion. I should hesitate very long before obtruding upon any American, and still more upon the American public, any mere opinion of mine respecting their internal concerns. But it is the concern of all mankind, almost as much as of the United States, that the conquests achieved by your great and arduous struggle should not be, in the very hour of victory, carelessly flung away; and the opinion which you do me the honor to ask is one which I share with so many of the noblest and wisest Americans, that I need have the less scruple in expressing it.
It is certainly some gain to the negroes, and to the principle of freedom, that they have been made even nominally free. I do not pretend that it is nothing, that they no longer legally be bought and sold. But this is about the amount of all they will have gained, if the power of legislation over them is handed over once more to their old masters, and to the mean whites by whom they are despised as much, and probably more, than even by their masters, and who have been fighting these four years to retain them enslaved. If it were not for your State institutions, the case would not be so pressing, for those who have made them free could keep them so. But, once the war power laid down, and the regular course of State government restored, what is to prevent a State Legislature, chosen by their enemies, from making laws under which, unless they resist by force, they will have as little control of their own actions, as little protection for life, honor and property, will, in short, be, except in a few of the outward incidents of slavery, almost as much slaves as before? To bring this about, it would not even be necessary to enact new laws. It would suffice to leave the old ones unrepealed, by which the testimony of a negro cannot be received against a white. Nay, even were these laws abrogated, nothing more would be needed than partiality and prejudice in the white courts of justice. And would it be consistent with ordinary human nature that such partiality and prejudice should not exist? All this is so evident, that even the candidate, to whose letter you so ably replied, is quite aware of it, and can suggest no means of averting the evil, except what I agree with you in regarding; as the chimerical project, of effecting a local separation between the two races, excluding the negroes from the jurisdiction of the States, and giving them a territorial government apart. It is not to be believed that the President or Congress will entertain such a scheme as this seriously. If, then, they allow the Southern States to reorganize themselves, and resume all their constitutional rights, without negro suffrage, what is to be done? To abandon the negroes to the tender mercies of those from whom, at so terrible a cost, you have so lately rescued them? No party or set of men in the free States are so shameless as to propose this combined turpitude and imbecility. But the freedom of the negroes and the self-government of the Southern States, as at present constituted, cannot coexist; and if it is determined that, come what will, the former shall be a reality, it must be intended that the latter shall be a mere pretence. A censorship will have to be exercised over all the acts, both legislative and administrative, of the State governments: the Federal authorities will, by military coercion, prevent.or set aside all proceedings calculated to interfere with that equality of civil rights which they are bound by every consideration, both of duty and of interest, to secure to the freed race. And this military dictatorship will have to be continued for a very great length of time; for it is speaking within bounds to say that two generations must elapse before the habits and feelings engendered by slavery give place to new ones-before the stain which the position of slave master burns into the very souls of the privileged population can be expected to fade out.
This is the state of things which the policy now apparently acted on by the Federal Government leads to; but I have too high an opinion of the intentions and feelings of the President, and the practical good sense and determination of the American people, to believe that such a policy will be persevered in. It would be nothing less than electing to rule tyrannically over the whole Southern population, in order to avoid depriving the white half of that population of the power of tyrannizing over the black half.
Instead of restoring to the States lately in rebellion a nominal self-government which, unless you are willingly to sacrifice all that has been pained by four years of civil war, Cannot be suffered to be real, would it not be better to make the self-government real, but to grant it only to a mixed community, in which the Population who have been corrupted by vicious institutions will be neutralized by black citizens and white immigrants from the North?
And what is the hindrance to this in the minds of the President and his Cabinet? Is it scruples about legality? To be scrupulous about exceeding his lawful powers well becomes the first magistrate of a free people. But in this case, the scruple seems wholly out of place. We are told that the rebel States must be assumed never to have been out of the Union, and therefore to be unconditionally entitled to all their original liberties and powers, the moment they condescend to accept them. Reason
<c02>
would say, on the contrary, that by declaring themselves independent of the Union, they could not, indeed, divest themselves of its obligations, but certainly forfeited its privileges. A state of civil war suspends all legal rights, and all social compacts between the combatants. Except under the terms of a capitulation, defeated rebels have no rights but the universal ones of humanity. The Southern people, their lives, bodies and estates, were, by the issue of the war, placed at the discretion of their conquerors; but of conquerors whom both the general law of right, and the special principles of their own social and political institutions, forbid to exercise permanent dominion over any human beings as subjects, or on any other footing than that of equal citizenship. It would, however, be on the part of the free States a generosity partaking of silliness were they to give back to their bitter enemies not only power to govern themselves, and the negroes within their limits, but, (through representatives in Congress,) to govern the free States too, without first exacting such changes in the structure of Southern society as will render such a relation between them and the free States rational and safe. If you have not a right to do this, you had not a right to impose the abolition of slavery. Consider what an element you are going once more to admit into the supreme government of the Union. Think of this one thing -it is but one of many. Every Southern member of Congress elected without negro suffrage is a sure vote for that blackest and most disgraceful breach of faith, which would brand American democracy and popular government itself with a mark that would endure for generations-the repudiation of the war debt. The Southern representatives, in fact, would be the only members of Congress who could honestly vote for this; since, to their minds, unless the confederate debt is recognized too, it would seem only equal justice. This is of itself a sufficient reason why no community, composed exclusively or principally of those who have been engaged in the rebellion, is fit to have a voice in Congress. Of course, the States have to be readmitted: to keep them out and govern them as subjects would be in contradiction to all the principles of the American or any other free constitution. But the future history of America, perhaps for ages to come, depends (I cannot but think) upon your requiring them, before admission, to give guarantees to freedom, by admixture with fellow-citizens whose interests and feelings are in unison with justice, and with the principles of the free States. Migration from the North will do this in time and in part, but only negro suffrage can do it sufficiently.
I have no objection to requiring, as a condition of the suffrage, education up to the point of reading and writing; but upon condition that this shall be required equally from the whites. The poor whites of the South are understood to need-education quite as much as the negroes, and are certainly quite as unfit for the exercise of the suffrage without it.
I am, dear sir, yours, very sincerely,
J. S. MILL.
HON JUDGE DICKSON, &c.

LETTER OF GEN. COX REVIEWED.
BY HON. W. M. DICKSON.
Gen. Cox oppose negro suffrage upon the single ground that the white man and the black man cannot live in the same community. The effect of the war has developed "a rooted antagonism" which makes their permanent fusion in one political community an absolute impossibility. The only real solution which I can see is the peaceable separation of the races. What encouragement have we that success will attend a forced political fusion of bitterly hostile races from the antipodes of the human family? It seems manifest to me that there could be no political unity, but rather a strife for the mastery, in which the one or the other would go to the wall."
I remark, in the first place, that all this is, and always has been, the Southern theory on this subject, the ground of their action in behalf of slavery and secession. Long ago Calhoun said,"To maintain the existing relations [1837] between the two races inhabiting that section of the Union [South] is indispensable to the peace and happiness of both. It cannot be subverted without drenching the country in blood, and extirpating one or the other of the races." [Speech in the Senate, Feb. 6, 1837.] So there is a substantial agreement between Gen. Cox and Calhoun on the point that the white and black men of the South cannot live together, except on the condition of the slavery of the latter. From these premises, widely divergent conclusions are reached by these gentlemen; but once admit his premises, and you are fortunate indeed if you escape the toils of Calhoun's subtle logic. Perhaps, if Gen. Cox's views are sound, it would have been the part of wisdom, as well as of humanity, for us to have paused before we freed the slave, and exposed him to these perils; at least, until we had found some feasible scheme for accomplishing his separation. Surely the one suggested by Gen. Cox is not of this character. If he means that, in the course of ages and in the progress of events, the American negro will ultimately find his home around the Gulf, I have, on this point, no controversy with him. But this is not his meaning; he looks to more violent action; he designates particular portions of the South to be set apart for the negro, where he may be induced to go. The General is silent as to how the white man is to be removed; and he is careful to put this hypothetically. He felt that the ground was unsteady under him. That some two millions of whites may be removed from their homes, and some four millions of blacks led into them, is a proposition that needs only to be stated to be condemned.
But again, if there is a "rooted antagonism" which necessitates the separation of the Southern white and black, why not of the Southern and Northern white? Gen. Cox will hardly say that the master hates his slave more than he hates the "Yankee"; and if separation is the remedy for the former, why not for the latter antagonism? And this is the remedy which the Southern doctor prescribes! General, your argument proves too much.
But I deny the existence of any such "rooted antagonism," and the whole philosophy founded upon it. It is all false. Gen. Cox is a Northern man, of Northern lineage and association, with no opportunity to observe the master and slave, except that furnished by a four-years' experience amid the clash of arms, and the fierce conflict of angry passions. This was not a favorable one for studying" rooted antagonisms. "The phenomena of the fevered patient are not the same as those of a well man. But I speak from a wider observation; from the opportunities furnished by a life's association with the Southern people; from knowing them in peace and in war. Persons accustomed to seeing the white child clinging with fond embrace to its black "mammy," in preference to its own white mother, and to nee the white and black children playing together, wholly unconscious of any ine-
<c03>
quality, will be slow to believe that there is any natural repulsion or prejudice between them. Nor will this skepticism be removed by observing these parties, in their mature life, bearing towards one another the most intimate relations, unconscious that there is any natural repulsion.
I do not deny that there may be acquired prejudices. Indeed, man is a bundle of prejudices. Commencing life the feeblest of beings, his prejudices are at first in favor of his parents, and against all others. His parents are his gods, and he wonders, and is pained, to find that they are not so to others. He grows apace, and his knowledge widens: he now thinks the narrow circle of his neighborhood the center of the world, and pities and despises all the rest. With his widening knowledge his affections embrace his whole country; but he is a very mature man who can truly say and feel that" our country is the world; "our countrymen, all mankind." Nor are prejudices confined to country and race. We have prejudices as to opinions, religious, political, moral, social. The etymology of the word indicates the true nature of prejudice. It means the forming of opinions before examination, pre-judgment. Mankind are constantly doing this; the exception is when they do otherwise. The interest of the slaveholder is that his slave should continue to be his slave; his prejudice is in the line of his interest; he says that the master and slave cannot live together except in that relationship, because it is his interest to say that; he says that the slave will not work except as a slave, because it his interest to say that; he says the slave is of an inferior race, because it is for his interest to say that. Accustomed to the black man being a slave, he views that as his normal condition, and is averse to his being advanced to a higher. The Southern white man's interest and his education prejudice him against, not the negro, but against the negro's freedom. Gen. Cox says they do not amalgamate with the white race. The indications South would hardly support this proposition. But I will not deny it; nor do I think they should. I may be mistaken, yet I think Nature has indicated that these should be separate races. But shall this prevent them remaining together? If so, how should the Jew be treated? He does not amalgamate with the Christian. Shall he be put into a separate country? "Because," said Mr. Lincoln, "I don't want a negro as my wife, must I have her as my slave? or must I exclude her from the country in which I live?"
As the conclusion of all this, I claim that the prejudices between the white and black man of the South are of the same nature as other prejudices, and should have the same treatment. And here we have for our guidance the example of our fathers, in their action, when they framed the Government under which we are living.
I can imagine some one of Gen. Cox's mode of reasoning, addressing the Convention which formed our Constitution, thus:-
"I am of the opinion, that, in framing this instrument, we should learn wisdom from the past. History teaches us that the antagonisms of race cannot be overcome, particularly when they are deepened by differences in religious faith. We have seen, that, for ages past, the Jew has refused to amalgamate with other nations; he insists on preserving his own creed and nationality; that centuries of common government and political union have not been able to obliterate the distinctions, and even the instinctive enmity, between him and the Christians; that his presence in Europe has, in almost every country, resulted in bloody strife, the end of which was that one or the other party went to the wall. And, furthermore, Mr. President, history teaches us that there is a 'deeply-rooted antagonism' between the Catholic and the Protestant; that they often, and in some countries altogether, refuse to amalgamate; that, when they have been for centuries together in the same country, they have burnt one another at the stake, and drenched the land in blood, until sometimes one and sometimes the other has gone to the wall. See the bloody scenes in Holland, Germany, France, and England. Mr. President, I believe in these great 'philosophic truths': 'In the life of nations, that union which is exterior and visible, the unity of name and of government, although important, is by no means the first in importance, the most real, or that which makes, indeed, one nation. There is a unity which is deeper and more powerful,-it is that which results not merely from identity of government and of destiny, but from the homogeneity of social elements,
from the likeness of institutions, of manners, of ideas, of tastes, of tongues; the unity which resides in the men themselves whom society assembles, and not in the forms of their association; in short, that moral unity (I'unite morale) which is far more important than political unity, and which is the only solid foundation for the latter.' Believing these truths, and the absolute necessity for the 'homogeneity' of our people, we cannot, we must not mix together the Jew, the Protestant, and the Catholic. I believe that such a course would rather be like the decisions in that outer darkness, of which Milton speaks, where-
'Chaos umpire sits,
And by decision more embroils the fray.'
"I would, therefore, propose this solution of the difficulty: 'A peaceable separation of these races and religionists on the soil where they now live.' I would give, say the New England States and New York to the Protestants, New Jersey and Pennsylvania to the Jews, and the rest to the Catholics. Though I am not specially desirous for this particular adjustment of the territory: any other that can be agreed upon would equally suit me."
In all candor, upon the reasoning of Gen. Cox, could this speech have been answered? And, upon this reasoning, if our fathers had acted wisely, would they not have been compelled to make a separation as suggested, or to expel two of the parties from the country?
Fortunately, our fathers had read history differently, and understood human nature better.
The wars of races and religions grew not, out of their differences, but out of the intolerant spirit which sought to force upon another a religion which be did not believe; or out of the spirit of domination, which sought the subordination of one race to another. This being the case, the remedy was obvious. It was simply to constrain the intolerant and the aggressive by securing to all races and religionists absolute equality before the law.
Religiously, this was secured by guaranteeing to each one the freedom to worship God in his own way; politically, by giving to every man an equal vote. Prejudice is silent before power or interest. "A" is a young man, a bigoted Protestant Christian, if you please; his education has been narrow; be hates the Catholic; be would like to abase him, particularly the Catholic Irishman; but he is also ambitious, be desires preferment, and he remembers that the Catholic can vote, and he is silent. Time passes on; be has a wider observation; he becomes acquainted with Catholics who are good men; he reflects that his Protestantism is but an accident;
<c04>
that, had he been born of Catholic parents, he would have been a Catholic; and he learns that what he supposed was holy wrath, was only bigotry: he is not less a Protestant, but more catholic. Thus are the prejudices of race and religion brushed away before the unseen but felt influences of our government.
Now, I would apply to the solution of the Southern problem the principles of our fathers. I have said they made all races equal before the law. This was not strictly true. They excepted the negro race. It was then in slavery; and our fathers, seeing no mode of securing its freedom, permitted this violation of their principles to remain. We have reaped the bitter fruits of this action; but the negro is now free, and the opportunity is given to us to apply to him the principles of our fathers, and thus remove the last exception. Shall we do it? If we do not, we have not the excuse our fathers had; and the greater will be our punishment in the future.
We have seen how the prejudices between Jew and Christian, Protestant and Catholic, have been softened down by the operation of the sublime principles of our Government. Such will be the result of extending those principles to the black race. The negro will feel, having entire equality before the law, the ambition to become a good citizen; and the ambitious white man will respect the power of the negro voles, and endeavor by kind treatment to gain them. Doubtless the former masters will not like this changed condition of things, and occasional disturbances will occur (Know-Nothing riots); but let these be put down by the strong arm of the Government, and ultimately all will acquiesce. Under this policy, I can see a great and happy and prosperous future for the South. But if we take the contrary course; if we are to treat the unhappy negro as a pariah, whose touch or presence is contamination, who is to be cast out of our sight, put away by himself; if we are to continue to extend over him our protecting arm, in the sense of treating and using him as a child; if he is to have no power, but to be a poor, helpless being, subject to the insult and outrage of the strong; if he is to be delivered, bound hand and foot, to his former master, who still wants him to be a slave, and who will proceed, under a reconstructed government, to oppress him, and virtually return him to the hardships of slavery, without even the protection of that condition-then it requires no prophet to foretell that we will have a bloody struggle of races in the South. The negro will soon know too much, know his strength too well, to submit to less than his whole rights before the law.
I would that this sad catastrophe might be averted. A member of the Convention that nominated Gen. Cox, one of the committee on resolutions, I gave him my cheerful support; I shall continue to do so. He has proved himself, in the Senate and in the field, worthy of all confidence; but I think he is in grievous error on a great question. I see no one ready to take issue with him on this point, doubtless from the motive that it might do injury to the cause. I think not; and I fear this silence may be taken for agreement with his views, and I would regret that any such erroneous conclusion should be drawn.

LETTER FROM AN EMINENT GEOEGIAN.
SPRING BANK, Aug.20, 1865.
EDITOR INTELLIGENCER:
The receipt of a letter from a friend, one of our most estimable and distinguished men, has suggested this communication. The tone of that letter was so sad, and it was so similar in sentiment to other utterances from good and true men, that I have thought it might do good, availing myself of the privilege of age, to express in a public form, and over my own name, other views of a more cheerful character in regard to the future of our beloved State.
It is true that we have a prospect of heavy taxation, both State and national; it is true that we have lost our negroes, and that our farms have in many instances been laid waste and devastated; it is true that we are to undergo, in painful and inevitable contact with it, the solution of the most profound problem which has yet been submitted to the minds of statesmen-the sudden lifting up from a state of slavery of four millions of an inferior race to a state of freedom; and, above all, it is true that we have lost thousands of our best and noblest and truest men.
But while these are sad realities, all is not lost We have retained our self-respect. No humiliating concessions have been demanded of us. We have been required to pass under no yoke. We have been defeated, not by equal, but superior, even overwhelming numbers. Nearly every General of distinction in the Federal army has awarded to us, in public assemblages at the North, the character of brave and honorable adversaries, European nations, without exception, have rendered the same award. We did that which we thought right. We perilled life and property upon the issue. In the hands of an overruling Providence, we were unsuccessful. Let us accept the result with dignified and manly fortitude, as the exhibition of His will concerning ourselves and our country.
Our Bibles, 'our churches, our schools, our freedom of thought and speech, our civil rights and immunities as citizens of Georgia, are left undisturbed, saving the comparatively few excepted. When before has there been a conquered people, in any age or in any portion of the globe, left in a condition so favorable? Think of the "yoke" of the Romans, of the "voe Victis" of the Middle Ages, of the spoliation and partition of Poland, of crushed and ruined Hungary, of the miserable fate of the conquered in the successive revolutions which have scourged France, of the more than century of Ireland's deep humiliation, of the doom of those who suffered in Scotland in the rebellion of 1745, and of the confiscation of property and banishment of those in Georgia, who in the Revolution had taken up arms against the colonies. Contrast these incidents with our condition. But a single step is required of us to place as in a condition quite equal to the most favored citizens of the United States. That step is to swear in all honesty that we will be hereafter loyal to the Government with which we have just been at war. Could less be demanded? Is there any teaching of history which could have induced us to expect so little as a condition precedent to our restoration to our rights and immunities?
It would not be human to forget the terrible scenes of the late war. They are cut upon our memories as with the point of a diamond. Since that war has terminated, it would be unmanly not to acknowledge the clemency and liberality of the Federal Government. The policy of President Johnson, present and prospective, gives assurance that every reasonable aid will be extended to us, in our efforts to repair the disasters from which we have suffered. With the full knowledge which we possess of the efforts now being made by radicals at the North to thwart his kindly purposes concerning us, it will be an insanity on our part if we fail to take the most prompt and energetic measures to
<c05>
place ourselves in a condition to afford him material support. Before the war, we were precipitate. Now we are apathetic. Each extreme is equally hurtful. If the radical party at the North obtains the ascendancy, another "night shut in upon midnight" will gather over and around us. Hope will then have fled from us. Our only resource will then be the sad alternative of expatriation. This catastrophe can with certainty be avoided, if the Southern people do their duty with energy and promptness.
But it may be asked, of what avail will be our restoration to our civil and political rights and privileges, since we are penniless, and our lands are left without laborers to cultivate them? This question may be asked by one who is the owner of five hundred or a thousand, or perhaps more acres of land. A European or a Northern man would be amused at the question. If either of them owned so much and without owning anything else, he would consider himself rich. We must do as they have done, or would do in like circumstances. We must revolutionize our system of agriculture. We must give our land a value independent of labor. We must make it work for itself.
Is it asked how can this be done? The reply is easy. Sow a large portion of these lands in permanent grasses, suited to the soil and climate. From them thus laid down make butter, cheese, hay, and raise horses, mules, cattle, hogs and sheep. The wool crop of Georgia, in a few years, can be made o equal the former value of its cotton crop. It costs less to raise a pound of fine merino wool than it does to raise a pound of cotton, as the increase of the flesh covers expenses, and the wool is clear.
There is no part of Europe or America better suited to the profitable rearing of live stock, under a proper system of management, than the State of Georgia. This is not theory or speculation. This conclusion is based upon more than twenty years of close observation in this country and in Europe. It is my firm belief, that if this change in our system of agriculture be adopted with life and energy, in a few years, ourselves and our children will be in a really more comfortable condition, and in the enjoyment of a sounder prosperity, than when we held our negroes, and planted exclusively cotton and rice.
As a part of this system, we need the development of a resource heretofore comparatively idle-the immense water power found in almost every section of the State. Independent of its value otherwise, the farmer requires that there shall be a proportion of consumers to afford a home market for his products. This development demands capital. This capital can be obtained in Europe. I have found by personal inquiry that the objection of both capitalists and laborers in Europe to the South was founded on the existence of slavery. This objection is now removed, and both capital and labor can be procured by proper effort. I would venture to suggest to the convention soon to assemble, the propriety of sending a commissioner to Europe to secure the introduction of foreign capital and skilled labor from Lombardy and other coterminous States, in which the climate is similar to our own, in which the practice of irrigation, so important to us, is best understood, and in which the people are industrious, used to a hot sun, and accustomed to low wages.
The change in the system of agriculture proposed is but an adoption of the system practiced in Europe from time immemorial, and from which our former system was an unwise and remarkable departure.
Courage, then, my countrymen! With health and strength, with clear consciences and with the blessing of God, we can mould our own future. It is unmanly to repine. It is suicide to sit with folded arms. It is cowardly to run away from a suffering State until all hope is dead. Towards the Government, let us be loyal, in the selection of men for office let us be careful, in our views of the future let us be cheerful, in the work of reconstruction let us be prompt, in our own affairs let us be energetic, and towards our Maker let us be reverently obedient. As to our own beloved State, let us as Georgians so act, that each one of us may be able to appropriate and utter the memorable words of Cardinal De Retz before the French Parliament: "In the most difficult times of the republic, I never deserted the State; in her most prosperous fortune, I never tasted of her sweets; in her most desperate circumstances, I knew not fear."
C. W. HOWARD.

WHY COPPERHEADS OPPOSE NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
When the colored people of the South are enfranchised, there will be eight hundred thousand votes given for the Republican Union ticket, as not one black in a hundred could be coaxed or coerced into voting the Copperhead disunion ticket. People may talk about the influence and control the late masters would exercise over the votes of the blacks, but it is all a mistake. The candidates of the Republican party would receive the support of the freedmen quite as unanimously as the Copperhead candidates will obtain the votes of the ex-rebels. Give the colored men the ballot, and there will hereafter exist two great parties in the South, of not very unequal strength, just as we have them in the North; but the Union party there, as here, would be in the ascendant. One party would be composed of three elements: first, radical Southern white Unionists; second, radical Southern colored Unionists; third, radical Northern Unionists who migrate to the South-the whole constituting the Republican Union party of the South, as the correlative of the Republican Union party of the North.
The other party in the South would consist of, first, the great mass of the late slaveholders, who were active rebels; second, the bulk of the "poor white trash," who also were rebels, and are controlled by the aristocracy in consequence of their dense and hopeless ignorance; third, Northern Copperheads living in the South, who sympathized with the rebels, voted against raising any more men or money to prosecute the war, and declared that the rebellion could never be put down by force of arms; fourth, a small sprinkling of blacks of the baser sort-pampered house servants and the like, but, all told, numbering only a few thousands in the entire South-the whole constituting the rebel Copperhead party of the South, and acting in concert and unity with the Copperheads of the North.
From this survey, it is obvious why Northern Copperheads are opposed to conferring the franchise on the colored men of the South. They perceive very clearly how that class would cast their votes. If they could be assured that the blacks would support the Southern Copperhead ticket, their hostility to colored suffrage would instantly undergo a modification. Many of them would clamor as loudly for "universal suffrage" as they now do against it. The opposition of the Copperheads, therefore, is not to negro voting in the abstract, but to negroes voting for the Republican ticket. The "poor white trash" in the South, oppose colored suffrage on different grounds. They have been
<c06>
"Proclaim Liberty throughout al the land, to all
the inhabitants thereof."
" I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so for from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF TE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding Stales become the theatre of a war, civil, servile, or foreign, from that instant, the war powers of congress extend to interference with, the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED with, from a claim of indemnity for Slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a w power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q. ADAMS.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
HOLE NO. 1809.
taught by the crafty slaveholders to behave that their own rights and position in the scale of society would be imperiled or subverted by letting the Negroes 
up, and that their assumed superiority to the blacks depended on keeping them down. Therefore they are hostile to the blacks being allowed to better their condition by acquiring wealth or knowledge or political privileges. They are too lazy, shiftless and degraded to move forward themselves on the road of improvement, and they can't bear to see the despised blacks passing by them. Hence their bitter resistance to any measure or policy which tends to giving the colored people a fair chance to rise from their prostration, and join even the rear of the column of progress.
But the opposition of the Northern Copperheads to colored suffrage rests on a less respectable foundation than even the miserable caste feeling of the ignorant white rebels, as the Southern blacks in no way compete with them in the labor market, in the school-house or, in social relations. The opposition to them is partisan. They would deprive the black citizens of the right of voting, because the blacks, enfranchised, would generally vote the Republican ticket! They insist on letting the rebels vote, because they will all vote the "Democratic" ticket; but they object to the loyal blacks voting, for the converse reason, that they will not vote the "Democratic" ticket. Some Copperheads give as a cause why the blacks should not enjoy the suffrage, that they are unlettered and ignorant. But if ignorance ought to exclude a man from the polls, more than half of the whites of the South, who are equally as ignorant as the blacks, must also be excluded; for why should not the rule of intelligence apply to them equally as well as to the blacks? Thus it is seen that the "ignorance" objection is but a shallow pretext-the real reason of the opposition being, as before stated, that the colored men, if enfranchised, would vote the Republican Union and not the Copperhead Secession ticket.-Chicago Tribune.

TREASON WILL OUT.
The New York Herald. of the 16th ult., has a leading article entitled "The Southern Statesmen and the Niggerheads," in which the former are lauded to the skies, and the latter, that is to say the advocates of the truly democratic doctrine of universal suffrage, are consigned to the infernal regions. This article, and many others of the same sort, are intended to ingratiate Bennett with President Johnson, this benighted Scotchman actually believing that his sycophantic utterances will have their effect upon the government of the United States.
President Johnson having, from an impulse of generosity and magnanimity, expressed to a Southern deputation his confidence in the professions of loyalty of those lately in insurrection against the United States, Bennett immediately improves upon the occasion to administer a dose of perfidious flattery, proclaiming, in one of those grandiloquent tissues of falsehood for which the New York Herald is so notorious, that "the administration of Andrew Johnson, we have every reason to believe, will go down to history in admirable keeping with that of the lamented Abraham Lincoln." This means, in plain English, that it President Johnson continued to place his trust in rebels and copperheads, he will have a glorious place in the history of the United States, as Bennett seeks to make that history. At the same time, the Herald endeavors to make political capital out of what, in its heathenish opinion, it considers just now as agreeable to those high in power, namely: the exaltation of the Southerners for their straightforwardness, and the denunciation, of Northerners for their hypocrisy. Our Scotch expounder of the ethics of the American people indulges in the following choice bit of rhetoric on this subject:
"But in basing their judgment of the Southern people upon their own standard, they fall very short of the known character of those people. It is well understood that the Southern men are open and above board with their deeds."
Nothing could be more false than this. John B. Floyd was the Secretary of War under President Buchanan, and it is notorious that, in that office, be stealthily availed himself of every opportunity to send arms and ammunition to the South, Howell Cobb was Secretary of the Treasury under President Buchanan, and feloniously depreciated the securities of the government, in order to give secrets aid to the approaching rebellion. Jacob Thompson, another of these "open and above board Southern men," was Secretary of the Interior, in the same administration, and connived at the robbery of that very department of a large amount of bonds belonging to the Indians, all to help forward the schemes of his friend Floyd, and aid the secret conspiracy to overthrow the government in which they were both engaged.
Those immortal champions of humanity, whom Bennett, with the characteristic slang of his low nature, nicknames "niggerheads," and charges with hypocrisy, have been "so open and above board in their deeds," that, while the Herald was supporting Floyd in his stealthy robbery of national armaments, and Cobb and Thompson in their fraudulent depreciation and embezzlement of national funds, the same infamous sheets was daily reviling these great anti-slavery champions on account of that very openness and boldness of "their proceedings," which the Herald, in order to court favor again with its former masters, the Southerners, now stigmatizes as hypocrisy. Frightened into seeming patriotism during the war, it is now once again at its old work of degrading the country and reviling in faithful sons.-Chicago Tribune.

SECRETARY STANTON.
General Sickles, in a speech at the Institute Fair, paid the following tribute to Mr. Stanton:
"Here let me pause to pay a tribute So one upon whom, more than upon any other public servant, have rested the vast and varied responsibilities which the conduct of our great war imposed. When the rebellion declared itself, toward the close of the administration of President Buchanan, an eminent lawyer, who had neither held office nor been conspicuous as a partisan in politics, was called into the Cabinet as Attorney General, His presence was instantly felt in the vigorous measures taken to enforce the authority of the Government. At the critical moment which followed the occupation of Fort Sumter, when it seemed as if the Government would yield to the audacity and vigor of revolutionary pressure, his fearless counsels, his indomitable will, his sturdy, loyal nature, contributed mainly to that modification of the pacific policy of President Buchanan, which was followed by measures to resist the further aggressions of insurgents. Toward evening, on one of the gloomy days in the winter of 1861, the Attorney General sent for one of the representatives in Congress from New York, and informed him that, unless the public opinion of the North was instantly manifested, the President would yield to the demand
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
of South Carolina, and order Major Anderson back from <illegible> to Moultrie. It was decided at once that an envoy should go to the principal Northern cities, and announceth at the President had decided to maintain Anderson in Sumter at all hazards. ”Fire some powder," said Stanton; ”all we can do yet is to fire blank cartridges; a thousand bullets or a bale of hemp would save us from a bloody rebellion; the President will not strike a blow, but he will resist if he sees the temper of the people demands resistance, go and fire some cannon, and let the echoes come to the White House." The next day salutes were fired in New York, Philadelphia, Albany, and other cities, in honor of President Buchanan's determination to sustain the gallant Anderson; congratulatory telegrams were sent from prominent men in all these cities to the President; the corporate authorities of New York passed earnest resolutions of support; several journals, in leading articles of remarkable power, endorsed and commended the decision of the President. The next day the decision was made. The demand of South Carolina for the evacuation of Fort Sumter was refused; it remained only for the South to recede or make war. President Lincoln was inaugurated; war followed. The Attorney General of President Buchanan became, after a brief interval, the War Minister of President Lincoln. His electric influence was instantly felt throughout the army, and all over the country. Commanding Generals were ordered to put their columns in motion, and attack the enemy. The irresolution and lethargy which are inseparable from a defensive policy vanished before the universal initiative, inspired by a positive and earnest character, who would neither rest himself nor allow the enemies of his country to rest while the means of attack were in his hands. Alternating successes and defeats; colossal yet indecisive combats; emormous consumption of treasure; the probability of foreign recognition and aid to the Confederation; increasing hostility to the measures of the Administration, finally culminating in sedition, riots, and revolts; the defiant overtures of aid and comfort to the enemy from public journals and public men-these were some of the accumulating embarrassments that brought the Union cause to the crisis of overthrow. The dauntless heart of the iron Secretary, himself the object of measureless obloquy and hate, never failed. To despair he opposed revolution; to a defeated army be sent a more successful General; to the mobs he spoke from the mouths of cannons; insolent traitors and spies within our own lines were silenced, and secured in the dungeons of the Old Capitol, or within the ponderous walls of Lafayette and Warren. The President was, of all men, gentle and conciliatory. The Secretary of State was absorbed in the unparalleled difficulties of our foreign relations. The Secretary of the Treasury was laboriously directing all the currents of national wealth into his exhaustless exchequer. The Secretary of the Navy was building and manning his fleets. The Attorney General never emerged from the mazes of his briefs. It was necessary, nay, it was vital, that the undefined and illimitable powers of the Government, for its own preservation, should be wielded by a bold, honest, and skillful hand. By that spontaneous concession of authority accorded to a self-reliant and commanding character in all great emergencies, it devolved upon Edwin M. Stanton, in the darkest hours of danger, to see that the Republic suffered no detriment. At times when the idea was tolerated that any citizen, during the war, might assail the Government as he pleased and with impunity, it became necessary to silence sedition and baffle treason by terror. It was fortunate that the Government possessed a man, armed with power to enforce his will, who inspired fear enough to reinforce doubtful authority. Not Richelieu himself, when France had no hiding-place that could conceal, or power that could save one of his victims, was more dreaded than an order of arrest signed by the Secretary of War, after the writ of habeas corpus was suspended. Whatever may be the final judgment of jurists upon the legal questions involved in these arrests, the effect was salutary. Traitors, fradulent contractors, dishonest officials in the service, at length felt there was somebody in authority to be afraid of.

A BASE AND BASELESS ASSUMPTION.
"They [the radical Republican party North] forget that this is a white man's government, and intended for white men only; and that the Supreme Court of the United States has decided that the negro is not an American citizen under the Federal Constitution."- Gov. Perry's Message,
The above extract is from the Message of Gov. Perry, Provisional Governor of South Carolina, to the S. C. State Convention. The assertions are not true in point of fact, and the Northern people assent to no such statement, whether made by Gov. Perry, or founded on mere dicta of pro-slavery Judges in their discussion of the Dred Scott case. Abraham Lincoln, in his famous contest with Dougas, with his wonderful power of condensation put he Dred Scott decision in a nut-shell when he said: It is a long opinion, but it is all embodied in this short statement: ’The Constitution of the United States forbids Congress to deprive a man of his property, without due process of law; the right of property in slaves is distinctly and expressly affirmed in that Constitution; therefore, if Congress should undertake to say that a man's slave is no longer his slave when be crosses a certain line into a territory, that is depriving him of his property without due process of law, and is unconstitutional.' That is the whole Dred Scott decision."
On another occasion Mr. Lincoln made these noble remarks, which bear upon the point that this Government was intended for white men only:
"These communities (the thirteen colonies) by their representatives in old Independence Hall, said to the world of men: ’We hold these truths to be selfevident; that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.' This was their majestic interpretation of the economy of the universe. This was their lofty, and wise, and noble understanding of the justice of the Creator to His creatures. Yes, gentlemen, to all His creatures, to the whole great family of man. In their enlightened belief, nothing stamped with the Divine image and likeness was sent into the world to be trodden on, and degraded, and imbruted by its fellows. They grasped not only the race of men then living, but they reached forward, and seized upon the furthest posterity. They created a beacon to guide their children and their children's children, and the countless myriads who should inhabit the earth in other ages. Wise statesmen as they were, they knew the tendency of prosperity to breed tyrants, and so they established these great self-evident truths that when, in the distant future, some man, some faction, some interest, should set up the doctrine that none but rich men, or none but white men, or none but Anglo Saxon white men, were entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, their posterity might look up again to the Declaration of Independence, and take courage to renew the battles which their fathers began, so that truth, and justice, and mercy, and all the humane and Christian virtues, might not be extinguished from the land; so that no man would hereafter dare to limit and circumscribe the great principles on which the temple of liberty was being built."
But Judge Curtis, in his opinion, settled this point conclusively. He affirms that ”Of this there can be no doubt. At the time of the ratification of the Articles of Confederation, all free native-born inhabitants of the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, and North Carolina, though descended from African slaves, were not only citizens of those States, but such of them as had the other neccessary qualifications possessed the franchise of electors, on equal terms with other citizens."
Again, Mr. Justice Curtis says, very distinctly and emphatically: ”It has been often asserted that the Constitution was made exclusively by and for the white race. It has already been shown that in five of the thirteen original States, colored persons then possessed the elective franchise, and were among those by whom the Constitution was ordained and established. If so, it is not true, in point of fact, that the Constitution was made exclusively by the white race. And that it was made exclusively for the white race is, in my opinion, not only an assumption not warranted by anything in the Constitution, but contradicted by its opening declaration, that it was ordained and established by the people of the United States, for themselves and their posterity. And as free colored persons were then citizens of at least five States, and so in every sense part of the people of the United States, they were among those for whom and whose posterity the Constitution was ordained and established."
What is Provisional Gov. Perry's assertion worth in comparison with the legal Opinion of Mr. Justice Curtis, pronounced from the bench of the United States Supreme Court?-Salem Register.
<c02>
SENAT0R YATES ON NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
As a Senator of the United States, certainly I could consider no State Government republican in form which was at variance with the fundamental principles of our republican institutions; which denied the equality of all men before the law; which set aside the principle that governments justly exist by the consent of the governed, and that taxation and representation must go together. If I am wrong, the Government is wrong. And I am here to say that I could approve of no State government whose constitution or bill of rights does not deny, in express words, this right of a State to secede from the Union, and which does not provide that slavery shall be forever and finally abolished and prohibited, so that not even a root, seed, or grease spot shall remain of this sum of all villanies, the accursed system which has been the fountain of all our troubles, and of that fratricidal and bloody war which has desolated the land. (Great cheering.) Again, it should be expressly provided that the leaders of the rebellion, who have held offices, civil or military, under the confederate Government, should be disfranchised, and forever debarred the right of suffrage, and the right to hold any office of honor or profit under the Government of the United States.  (Cheers.) Again, I would confer the right of suffrage upon all loyal men. I will not, by any act of mine, open the portals of the American ballot-box to pardoned rebels, whose hands are stained with treason, and are dripping with the blood of our brave boys, and deny it to the poor colored man who has proven his allegiance to the country by brave and heroic deeds. (Applause.) He has rallied round the flag-he has brought a stalwart arm and a courageous heart to his Government in the hour of its extremity and fearful need; and it would be the shame of the century and the age, if he is to be be disfranchised, and left without a voice to such barbarous legislation as his rebel master would frame for him. (Cheers, and cries of ”that's so.") Let me tell politicians that there is no halfway house in this matter, and the negro will surely be allowed the right of suffrage. (Cheers.) The moment the Government decided that his aid was necessary to save the Government, and put arms into his hands, the question was settled, because to bear arms is the highest position of honor, and if he was good enough to fight in the ranks side by side with our brave boys in blue, he is good enough to go to the polls and kill off the vote of a rebel or a copperhead. (Loud cheers.) If they are citizens in war, why not citizens in peace? They vote in many of the free States, and no harm has followed, and no complaint is made; why not in the rebel States, especially as they constitute the principal part of the loyal people of those States. If not permitted to vote, every rebel State will send disloyal men to Congress, ready and plotting to precipitate the nation into internicine war whenever the South, through Northern cooperation, might deem it safe to strike for their independence.

GEN. BANKS ON RECONSTRUCTION.
On Monday evening last, Gen. Banks, by special invitation of a committee of citizens, delivered an able address in Lawrence, Mass., on Reconstruction, which was very frequently and warmly applauded.
General Bank's opening remarks were of an appropriate personal character, after which he proceeded directly to consider the question he was announced to discuss, the best mode of reconstruction of the Southern States, and their reenstatement in the Union.
After some preliminary points, he proceeded to say that the great question to be decided was, as to whose hands we were to place political power in. President Johnson, in his proclamation of last May, regarded this as a fixed and settled fact, that the chiefs and leaders who have brought on the rebellion are not to be entrusted with political power- that no man then in duress, civil or military, in prison or on parole, shall be entitled to vote or hold office till he has received a personal pardon from the President.
If this alone was carried out, it would be impossible for the leaders of the Southern movement to obtain power soon enough to do us any harm. If thousands were pardoned, it still leaves hundreds of thousands of those thus in duress, who would have no power, and the control of the nation would be in the hands of the masses. The President has given no evidence of a change of opinion. Though he has expressed his readiness to submit to the will of the people, yet he has in no sense relinquished his adherence to the proclamation of the 24th of May. He believes still, as we do, that the restoration of political power to the hands of the leaders of the rebellion would be the ruin of us all. It is not to be permitted that those who can combine the elements of opposition shall be allowed to control the elements of power.
President Lincoln's character and conduct were such as endeared him to us all, (applause,) but the temporary cessation of his policy, caused by his death, was a great injury to the country. He did not, it is true, follow up his policy with that will which others would have shown in a less excellent cause. Had he formed certain State governments as fast as possible, the military and the leaders of the rebels, when they returned to their homes after their defeat, would have found a power there beyond their reach, and not of their making.
Further, Mr. Lincoln sought to divide the South by organizing the masses of the people on certain great lines which should prevent common Southern action. He preserved a government or formed one in all the States bordering on the Ohio and the Mississippi. Those border States always controlled this government, and would till the end of time. All travel, and action, and influence, are along the lines of the Ohio and the Mississippi, or parallel to them. Mr. Lincoln knew this, and acted accordingly in reference to Maryland, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Arkansas and Louisiana. The masses of the people in these States were loyal. (Applause.)
But the people in the imperfectly organized States, Tennessee, Arkansas and Louisiana, were not accustomed to rule. So the proposition to exclude the rebel leaders from those States was a blessing, and the interruption of President Lincoln's plan to that end was an injury too great to be rightly estimated.
When we planted power, we should recognize as above all things the element of labor-black labor as well as white labor. (Applause.) The Constitution of Louisiana, presented to President Lincoln, was organized by labor, and in the interests of labor. The old leaders of Southern society were then at the war, and the people that were left were those devoted to the interests of labor. Labor was generous, extending its protection to all other branches of labor.
They gave to the colored as well as to the white the privilege of freemen, because their interests were one. Had they been sustained as they ought to have been, these men would before this have giver, the right of suffrage to the colored men. The only safety of their country was to place power on the basis of labor. Labor was never in favor of slavery, or of giving to the hands of a few the power that belongs to the masses.
Who, then, were we to trust the fifteen States to? Should it be to the masses, or should it be to the old leaders who would control them to our hurt and the injury of the nation? Should we permit them to annex their debt to that of the Union? Those States, impoverished and crushed, could not do much to pay our debt. Their full recuperation required the power to be placed in the hands of the masses. The latter, in time, would control. And if the rebel leaders obtained the upper hand, they would find their tenure of power so slight, that, to secure it, they must seek foreign aid and the annihilation of the blacks.
And now we come to consider the question of negro suffrage. Giving a man the right of suffrage does not make him the equal of another man. Voting is not the test of equality. Power is in the hearts heart of men. He that is good and wise will have power because it is the law of God that he shall have it. Whether he be white or whether he be black, is immaterial. He has power because it is the law of his being. The elements of power are not in the hands of the men who cast the votes. The people of the United States are controlled by the elements of power that have no place at the ballot-box. The press, the pulpit, the public assembly, the father, the mother, these are the powers that control the country. The opinions of those who have no vote take effect on those who do vote. An election is simply the mode we have adopted of taking the general sense of the community.
We feel safest when every man in a community votes. A small vote is not considered important because the whole people are not fairly represented by
<c03>
it. Now I can trust the negroes, even admitting that they are not equal in intelligence to the whites, because they make a part of that general judgment which constitutes public sentiment.
But that is not the question. I contend that it is not in the power of man to prevent the elective franchise from being given to the colored men of the United States. You cannot enjoy the benefits of labor without satisfying the demands of labor; and when four millions of people have a clear and unquestionable claim, it is at least their right to make an experiment. If the majority that is now dominant will not grant it and gain strength for the right, the minority at the South will enforce it. The old rebels will increase their power in the Union by extending the franchise to the negroes, because they believe the negroes will go with them then. We should extend the franchise to them for similar reasons.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1865.
SOMETHING MORE.
Major General B. Frank Cheatham, late of the rebel army, says that ”Slavery, the sole cause of the war, is gone up, and therefore we of the South have nothing to contend for or quarrel over."
It is to be hoped that there may be a cessation of Southern quarrelling against the laws of the United States, and the rights of its Government and people. But we of the North have still much to contend for. One great wrong has been, to a considerable extent, suppressed in the South. But an immense work remains for us in the establishment of rights, in a region whose people hitherto have been utterly indifferent to the distinction between right and wrong. The whole South has now to learn, for the first time, to pay a decent practical observance to law, and also to justice. There was much to be rectified there besides slavery; and the great work of the next few years must be to bring Southern manners and customs nearer in accordance with civilization and Christianity.
One of the hardest things for the Southron will be to understand that rights, the rights of man, the rights of human nature, belong to negroes as well as to white men. He detests the Yankees as much as ever, but understands clearly, ever since the war, that their rights are to be respected and conceded. Retaining such dislike of the ex-slaves as the injurer is apt to feel towards the injured, he yet understands and admits, for the most part, that they are no longer to be bought, sold or held, as the property of an individual. But he evidently expects still to look down upon the colored race, and permanently to enjoy that superiority over them which De Bow, and Bledsoe, and Seabury have so confidently claimed. The black man is no longer a slave, but he is still to be rated as a ”nigger." Free niggers, the slaveholders always said, were worse, and worse off, than the slaves; and they now hope to accomplish their own prediction; to reduce the whole class of colored people to a state which shall at once accomplish, for the white race, the chief purposes of slavery, and seem to corroborate the impudent lie that slavery is the natural and appropriate condition of the negro.
It must be our part to show the stiff-necked and unbelieving race of ex slaveholders how greatly they are deceived in this matter. The negro is to have the rights of a man in the South, and those who feel in disposed to consent to such an arrangement may as well emigrate at once. It is a pity that, since our Presidents, for a long series of years, have been Colonizationists, maintaining that blacks and whites can live better apart than together, the idea has not occurred to them to deport the slaveholders, as the easier means of accomplishing the separation. We abolitionists should not favor such a movement (except as the punishment for treason or some other crime) because-apart from such crime-the master has as much right as the slave to live on in the country where he was born. If he chooses to leave his country for his country's good, that will be the best possible arrangement, and we wish him, with all our hearts, a prosperous voyage. But if he decides to stay here, he may as well make up his mind that the black man is to be regarded and treated as a man. 
It has often been stated, with an assumption of reason and candor, that we cannot fairly expect the South to adopt, among the changes accompanying the abolition of slavery, a code or customs more favorable to free negroes than the Northern States themselves allow. The answer to this is, that we do not expect any willing assent of the defeated rebels to movements in this direction. The South being what she is, we do not expect from her the course which would be dictated alike by justice and by penitence. What we do expect is, that the ex-slaveholders will still oppress both blacks and poor whites, to the extent of their ability. Our part is to impose rigid limits upon that ability. Since the fortune of war has given us the power to dictate to them, why should we hesitate to dictate a course which justice and expediency, and the welfare alike of present and future agree in pointing out? We, the United States, shall stand forever disgraced on the page of history if we do not seize this occasion for the enforcement of a radical reform in this matter as far as our power extends. Unfortunately, Connecticut, Illinois and other Northern States whose majorities consist of ”mean whites," are beyond our political power. If the question were now to be acted on of their admission to the Union, they should by all means be kept out until they should come nearer beginning to understand the meaning of equal rights, free institutions, the brotherhood of man and the Fatherhood of God. But since, in the case of these less intelligent and more vulgar Northern States, we must wait for the slow process of education to effect these changes, all the more do we need an immediate reform in South Carolina and Georgia, that these may exercise a moral influence upon Connecticut and Illinois, and that the contemptible position at present chosen by the latter States may be, if possible, shamed out of them.-C. K. W.

EQUAL SUFFRAGE. Address from the Colored Citizens of Norfolk, Va., to the People of the United States. Also an account of the agitation among the Colored People of Virginia for equal rights. With an Appendix concerning the rights of colored witnesses before the State Courts.-New Bedford, Mass.-E. A. Anthony and Sons, Printers. 1865. -8vo. pp. 28.
This pamphlet has a long title, and the title page serves also the purpose of an index. All its parts, however, are important, all having relation to the most stirring and momentous question of our times. The Address, drawn up and signed by Mr. Thomas Bayne and other colored gentlemen of Norfolk on be half of their brethren, is a very able one. It skilfully suggests that since slavery has been crushed, with the rebellion to which it gave rise, there is no fair ground for perpetuating the disabilities which were imposed only to protect slavery. Still, however, in Virginia, it is a crime for colored people, or their children, to learn or be taught to read; there is no provision for insuring the legality of their marriages; they have no right to hold real estate; the public streets and the exercise of their ordinary occupations are forbidden them except on the condition of showing a pass, or a license; they have no means of enforcing contracts; they are refused admission in court as witnesses against a white person; they are taxed without representation; and, as far as legal safeguards of their rights are concerned, they are defenceless before their enemies.
These are the old grounds of grievance; but there are new ones. The colored people's right of labor; interfered with. In many counties of Virginia, county meetings have been held, at which resolutions have been adopted deploring, while accepting, the abolition of slavery, and pledging the planters composing the
<c04>
meeting to employ no negroes, save those formerly owned by themselves, without a written recommendation from their late employers, and threatening violence towards any who do thus employ them. They have also agreed to pay their late adult slaves no more than $60 per year for their labor.
The Address gives three points of advice to the colored people of Virginia and of other States:-first, that they be active in pressing, by public meetings and otherwise, their rights to equality before the law, and to equal rights of suffrage; next, that they form Labor Associations, to regulate, as far as may be, the price of labor; and third, that they become landholders as far as practicable, and form Land Associations for the better accomplishment of this object.
The accounts, in the second portion of this pamphlet, of meetings held and resolutions passed by the colored people of Norfolk, Va., are very creditable to them. Besides the Association in that city, two others have been formed in Hampton and Williamsburg, to accomplish the purposes named in the Address. The pamphlet ends by a rehearsal of the very important proceedings in regard to the refusal of the testimony of Israel Dorsey, a citizen of Massachusetts, in the case of Graff vs. Howard, in the County Court of the County of Alexandria, Va., Sept. 7th, 1864; giving also the able ”Opinion" of Judge Underwood on his right to testify. These proceedings were printed in the Liberator at the time, about a year ago, but it is well to spread them before the public in as many forms as possible, until these great questions are settled, that is to say, arranged in accordance with right and justice.-C. K. W.

DESIGNS OF THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
Democratic Repudiators of the National Debt, and Negro Suffrage.-New York Day-Book and the Wool-growers.
CHARLESTOWN. (N. H.) Sept 20, 1865.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY FRIEND-The Negro! the NEGRO! Every day brings forth fresh proof that the negro ballot is now as necessary to save the republic as was the negro bullet four years ago. Chattel slavery, as an institution, is dead; no more to be revivified in this nation. Its spirit still lives, and is just as fiercely bent on the destruction of freedom, free labor and free institutions, as it has been the past thirty years. This spirit of hostility to the doctrine that ”all men are created equal" is showing itself in the same political garb which it wore in the days of Calhoun, Tyler; Polk, Fillmore, Pierce and Buchanan-i. e., that of Democracy. The leaders of the Democratic party in this State, (N. H.) in Vermont, in New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio, are devoting their energies to effect a complete organization, with a view to the Congressional election of next year, and to the Presidential election of 1868. The reports of several of their State Conventions are before me. Not a resolution can be found on their records congratulating the country and the world on the entire suppression of the rebellion, on the abolition of slavery, on the destruction of the military and civil power of the Confederacy, on the abolition of the slave oligarchy, on the prospects of the restoration of the freedmen to their domestic, civil, political, educational and commercial rights, and on the abounding resources of the republic to redeem its pledges to its creditors and its freedmen.
On the contrary, they have said and done all they could to array their followers against paying the national debt, against excluding the rebels from voting and holding office in the Federal Government, against admitting the negro to an equality with themselves before the law in the courts, in the rights of marriage and parentage, of education and ownership of land. In a word, they have virtually made repudiation, inequality of the negro, aristocracy of color, and the payment of the rebel debt the great watchwords of their Democracy. They seek to give over the republic into the hands of those who avow their intention to use their power to prevent payment of the interest on the national debt. They, in their resolutions, declare that the supreme power of the Government ought, at once, to be placed in the hands of those who, in their efforts to destroy the republic, have murdered half a million of our sons and brothers, and who now declare their aim to be to destroy it in a war of ballots. At the same time, they avow their intent to exclude from office and suffrage those who, by their blood, have been the means of its salvation. The enemies of freedom and free labor they would make the arbitors of our national destiny; and exclude from all participation in the government those who are ready to suffer and die for ”equality before the law."
Their appeal is to the prejudice against the negro and a national debt. I have just given a lecture on the equality of the negro and white man before the law. The leading bully of the repudiation, negro inequality party undertook to make capital for his party, and asked-"Do you mean that the negro has an equal right to intermarry with the whites?" “ I do, (I said,) mean that a negro man has just as good a right to marry your daughter as your daughter has to marry him. The rights of both are equal" ".But, (he asked,) do you mean that a negro has as good a right to marry a white as a black person?"
“I do mean to say that a negro woman has as good a right to marry you as she has to marry a black man, provided you love her as a husband and wish to have her as a wife. But what has the question of marriage between you and a negro woman to do with the self-evident truth that’ all men are created equal'? Are you afraid that you and all other white men will fall in love with negro women and marry them, if the negro is allowed the ballot?" This seems to be the one great concern of the repudiation Democrats of this region, judging from their public and private talk, and from their Bible-the New York Day-Book- that, if they once admit that ”all men are created equal," and the negroes are allowed to vote, their wives, mothers, daughters and sisters will all fall in love with them, and marry them. Will they? will they?
By the way, that Day Book plays the mischief with some of its readers who worship by its teachings. One man, a red-hot, sweeping Democratic repudiator, in Northern New York, had 2000 pounds of wool last year. He was offered one dollar per pound for it. Would not take it. Why? The Day-Book-his most Holy Bible-told him every week that within one week the Government would fail, become bankrupt, and its bills and bonds would be worthless. So he concluded to keep the wool rather than sell it, and have two thousand dollars in national currency. Now he sells this wool for 55 cents per pound. He is minus one thousand dollars. His wrath is hot against the Day-Book, and those demagogues who, to win the votes of the rebels, defeated in the war of bullets, insist that the national debt must be repudiated, or the rebel debt accepted. Another wool-grower of my acquaintance has lost five hundred dollars in the same way on his last year's crop.
These Democratic repudiators of the national debt and of negro suffrage are moving heaven and earth to get control of Congress next year. They assume that not a man that owned slaves and fought for slavery and lost all, will ever vote to pay the interest and principal of that debt, incurred solely to crush out their slavery and rebellion. The Democratic repudiators of the North will shape their policy to suit the wishes of their repudiating allies of the South, who, as they expect, will be able to control the next Congress.
Will Congress, next winter, admit one rebel State back into the Union till that State comes with guarantees to bear its portion of the national debt-to allow the ballot irrespective of color-and never to moot the question in Congress of accepting the rebel debt? it is certain that those whose plans for a slave empire have been utterly and forever destroyed in the war of bullets, will spare no pains to destroy the republic in the war of ballots. It is certain, also, that the North is full of Democratic repudiators and rebels to freedom,
<c05>
 free labor and equal rights, who will combine with these Southern haters of all that has the prefix ”free" to it, to get control of Congress next year. God speed the missionaries and teachers of freedom into the late rebel States, to teach the people, black and white, to know and defend their rights against Democratic oppressors and tyrants who borrow the livery of heaven (of Democracy) to serve the devil in." "What shall we do to be saved?" Give the negro the ballot," is God's, reply," and thou art saved; DENTDENY IT, AND THOU ART DAMNED."
HENRY C. WRIGHT.

APPEAL TO FREEMASONRY.
Addressed under the form of propositions to the Fraternite Francaise of Newark, N.J., (United States of American,) in its sitting of Wednesday, 16th of August, 1865, by Mr. Felix Vogeli.
GENTLEMEN: The constitutive laws of Freemasonry interdict, to this ancient celebrated order, the right of occupying itself with politics; because this science, arduous as important, creates always, even by the difficulties it engenders and raises, elements of discord and division incompatible with the sentiments of concord, of peace, and of fraternal love, which form the basis of our association.
Therefore, during the four years of war which the United States has just passed through-a war gigantic by the vast extent of its theatre, by the armed multitudes who have taken part in it, the hecatombs and the treasures of every kind which it has cost, and much more by the humanitarian end which it has attained the enfranchisement of four millions of slaves, -Masonry, in its divers centers of action, was only able to pray that there might be a cessation of human blood poured out in these fratricidal conflicts, and to hope for the triumph of human liberty, and only upon the moral and material wounds which it could discover, pour all the balm which its hands could dispose, as well as all the advice and all the consolations which its wisdom and its heart could suggest to it.
On the fields of battle, in the camps, in the hospitals of the army, in the prisons with days without end, with nights without sleep, with cares without termination; the numerous masons who have taken part in the vicissitudes, in the dangers, in the perils, in the glare of the strife, in its griefs, in its privations, (I do not say in its joys, in its triumphs, the combatants in these intestine strifes not being able to enjoy the one or experience the other,) have in the two camps had in remembrance the duties which their condition imposed upon them; and the archives as well as the correspondence of numerous Masonicmasonic groups, if it were necessary, would furnish superabundant proof of that fact.
Now the crash of arms has ceased, peace, if not yet concord, seems to reign in the country. Minds are occupied in cicatrizing the wounds, in repairing the evils, in alleviating the sufferings, in turning to profit for future prosperity all the amount of experience acquired at the price of calamities without number, and of every description, heaped up everywhere, where war has carried its rage; on every side, in fine, the spirit of union endeavors to repair the ruins, to calm, to extinguish resentments, to cause all the traces of the tempest to disappear.
In this immense work, in the multitude of objects which it embraces, can Masonry find no task? I do not think so.
A society whose object is not only to practise all the virtues which bind men together and render them a whole, but which ought still to give form to the law of these virtues, and to diffuse this law over the world-a society which admits only among its members men having, besides other qualities, an intelligence sufficient to cultivate their reason usefully- has, without doubt, a duty to fulfil on this occasion; a duty which she cannot escape without proving false to herself, and without, for her glory, and for her future, fatally isolating herself from the universal movement.
She ought, then, to collect on the field of battle a task noble as its institution, grand as its objects, and which may be a monument of its force and of its wisdom.
It is this task which I attempt to signalize to this respectable assembly, persuaded that, after having heard the reading of my work with the indulgence which it requires in all respects, this auditory will not be frightened by the grandeur of the work offered to its energy, and that it will accept the burden of this initiative in remembering with happiness that "To do what one can, is to do what one ought."
The four years which have elapsed, in breaking the chains of slaves by the force of arms, have led to a result which an age of discussions, of gropings, and of good wishes would scarce have been able to produce. This result, then, is sudden, and all good minds occupy themselves with the means of conciliating the suddenness of this perturbation, in the social and humanitary relations of two races with this "Sage lenteur" (festinalente) which ordinarily mark each of the steps of human reason.
The prejudices of race and of color are to-day as profound and as vivacious as ever. The whites of the North, much more those of the South, (I might in many cases say less than them,) do not wish to see in the black race of men children of the same God, having the same rights as themselves.
During their life, they are excluded from the numerous and various workshops in which are elaborated the "chefs d' ceuvre" of human industry and intelligence; they are received in them only as laborers. They are repelled from the public vehicles, even in the city of "brotherly love," which lies thus to its name of Philadelphia! They are parked in all the theatres where they are admitted. They have their schools, their temples, and their cemeteries. Death itself cannot draw them near to those who accord to them only with repugnance and stammering an immortal soul; and I dare not affirm that prejudice permits their soul to mingle in Paradise with the soul of a white.
Free to-day, what will become of the children of this race? Who will cause to penetrate under their dark eyelids the future, radiating with wisdom and knowledge, which God places before us? Who will say to them: Little ones, become great! Those of your race ought, by progress, to make in the world a trace which, from the fatal past, shall avenge all affronts! Who will open to them the redeeming way of work?
Whites! do not fail to fulfil this task, and for near two centuries and a half of griefs and miseries. To efface at last the trace of their blood shed under the whip of those we call our brothers, be at last their protectors.
Masons! we belong to the group always increasing, of those who, in our day, despise the prejudices of race, of caste, and of color. For us the pariah of India, whose contact alone suffices to soil a man of another caste, and who is permitted to kill him for this reason alone; the negro, slave, and sold as a vile beast, and the proud descendant of the Abyssinian magi, who prostrated himself before the crib of Bethlehem, are men and brethren.
We do not demand any more of the man who practices this summary of the tables of the law, "Love God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself," to whatever human race he belongs, than we demand of him if he is an adorer of fire, a follower of Brahms, of Vishnu, of Moses, of Mahomet, or of Christ, nor of which of the sects of our religion he forms a part. He is moral; his forehead reflects the divine ray which tells us his soul is immortal. He believes in the truth; he wishes it; he seeks it. That suffices us; he is our brother.
Let us be the first to combat in this land of liberty, and of the future of peoples, prejudices of all kinds; let us furnish the example of their irrationality; let us combat, with all the pacific arms at our disposal, and not hesitate to strike the hammer of absolute daoil mtionupon prejudices, of which there ought not
<c06>
to remain sufficient vestiges for the future to testify to their past existence.On the contrary, let us carry everywhere, and always, ways, the trowel and level of reconstruction, of progress, and of well-being, which ought to lead to the realization of this prayer of the Son of Man, "Glory to God in the highest; peace on earth, and good will to men."
Consequently, to arrive at this end, well convinced that the light which now shines over us would be under a bushel if it shone only within the walls of our temple; well penetrated also with the truth that our charity is more extensive than the list of our members; I have the honor to submit to this assembly, to be communicated to all the globe, the resolutions following, that which precedes serving as a preamble:-
ART. 1. The Free Masonic Lodge of Newark, State of New Jersey, United States of America, under the name of the French Fraternity, No.62, submit to the appreciation and acceptation of all Lodges, its siters, expanded over the face of the globe, as well as to all persons who, strangers to its order, may approve the motive and the object of this appeal, the following propositions:
ART 2. An appeal for funds by way of subscription, and individual and collective donation, is made to all persons and to all associations indicated in the preceding article, for the purpose of creating in the United States of America a temporary institution, which shall take the name of THE MASONIC PROTECTORATE OF CHILDREN OF COLOR.
ART 3. The duration of this institution shall be twenty years, and may be prolonged, or the Institution rendered permanent, according to the result obtained, or still to be obtained.
ART 4. Its object shall be to procure for children of color of both sexes manual and industrial professions, which permit them to elevate, at the same time, their moral and social level, and their individual well-being.
ART 5. The Association ought, to arrive at this result, to do everything which depends on it and on each of its members to overcome the actual repugnance of master workmen to receive apprentices of color. It will even open, if it is necessary, and its resources permit, workshops to obviate a systematic and concerted exclusion.
ART. 6. Places of refuge for these apprentices, like those already existing for the young venders of news papers and shoeblacks, will be established for the children who are orphans, or without parents capable of taking care of them.
ART. 7. Religious, moral, and civil instruction will be given to these children in their asylums every evening. 
ART. 8. A committee will be named, as soon as the number of adhesions will permit, to digest general regulations, embracing the organization, the administration, and the discipline of the protectorate; and supply, in a word, everything which the preceding articles could not indicate in this work. These articles, and the preamble which precedes them, not being able to contain all the necessary developments, and being necessarily confined to the sole indication of the work to be accomplished.
ART. 9. The present resolutions and their preamble will be communicated to the periodical press of every language in the city of New York, with the request to translate and publish them.
ART. 10. The Masonic associations of Europe, and of North and South America, are fraternally invited to place themselves in communication with us for the accomplishment of our design, and the periodical press of both hemispheres is respectfully invited to give to this project the inestimable support of its publicity.
Done at Newark, New Jersey, the 9th August, and respectfully submitted.
(Signed,) FELIX VOGELI, of Lyons.

TROUBLES BREWING IN SOUTH CAROLINA,
CHARLESTON, (S.C.) Sept. 20, 1865.
DEAR GARRISON-Things look fearful here in the South. If I can interpret with any correctness, the elements are preparing for a storm of blood and terror far beyond anything yet experienced. The conflict of races seems almost inevitable. The whites despise and hate the negro. They universally predict his entire disapperance in from ten to twenty-five years, and they mean it shall be so. All they tolerate his presence so short a time for is to supply necessary labor until immigration furnishes it.
Some of my old friends here, ,”Union people," express such utter contempt and hate for those they once pretended to love while in slavery, that I tremble for their depravity. I cannot have patience to report to you facts; but I know from facts that the negro can have no chance, nothing endurable, at their hands.
We have asked the ballot for him. I am now fully satisfied that this would be in his hands but a delusive phantom. He could not be allowed to use it. Make as many laws as you please, the white Southron and negro never will go to the same ballot-box. The former would not allow it. I know what I say. It is impossible, utterly impossible for the whites and blacks to hold a free election in this State or Georgia. Hence, the sooner we at the North drop this as a pivotal question, the better.
What then? Equality before the law? How? Admit the negro as a witness? This may be. But what is the value of his testimony when everybody assumes that he cannot speak the truth? Admit him to the jury, then. This will not be allowed where white men are interested. No white man would submit his case to a ”nigger." What then? We must, if possible, by Congress, keep these States under military government; or we must establish in them all United States Courts for the trial of all such cases as either party wish to bring before them. The Constitution guarantees trial by jury and writ of habeas corpus. Make this practicable to every citizen in the country. This is a favorite idea of Mr. Spooner. I think it is the only refuge for the colored man in the Southern States restored to the Union. Trial by jury in United States Courts-this, I think, we could get. But I greatly fear we cannot keep the States out of the Union.
You have doubtless heard of the assaults and assassinations in the 33d regiment. Two officers and two privates killed, two wounded, and many attempts, all at different times, within four or five weeks. The negroes are becoming almost desperate in view of their prospects. If to save a fearful civil war of races only, we have the greatest reasons for continuing military occupation of these States.
When I feel less nervous, I will write you more calmly on this subject.
Yours, with the greatest anxiety,
J.H. FOWLER.

THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for October, is published, and has the conclusion of ”Needle and Garden" and a fine complement of fresh articles. The list of contributions is as follows:-
Saints who have had Bodies, by G. Reynolds; No Time Like the Old Time, by Oliver Wendell Holmes; Coupon Bonds, II., by J. T. Trowbridge; The Author of ”Saul," by Bayard Taylor; Needle and Garden, X.; John Jordan, by Edmund Kirke; Noel, by Henry W. Longfellow; Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship, II., by D. A. Wasson; Dr. Johns, IX., by Donald G. Mitchell; Down the River, by Harriet E Prescott; Abraham Lincoln, by H. H. Brownell; Reviews and Literary Notices.
THE CONDITION OF THE COLORED PEOPLE OF GEORGIA. An adjourned meeting of merchants and others, called to hear the statements of Hon. William King, of Georgia, in reference to the condition of the colored people of that State, was held at No.50 State street Friday. The attendance being small, an informal meeting was held. 
The subject of the best means to be employed to alleviate the sufferings of the poor people at the South was discussed. Remarks were made by Mr. King, Edward S. Tobey, Esq., Rev. Mr. Rice of Charleston, S. C., Rev. Mr. Manning and Rev. Mr. Haven of this city. It was thought that the immediate wants of the people of the South could best be supplied by Mr. King acting under the auspices of the ”Refugees Aid Society." which is an auxiliary of the American Union Commission, and the subject of calling a future public meeting was left to the Executive Committee of that Society.
The Editor of the Liberator has returned from a very delightful trip to Vermont-"the star that never sets"-a sketch of which will be given next week.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
THE TREATMENT OF THE FREEDMEN.
A correspondent who has spent some time in army work at Richmond and  in the South, thus explains the animus of the bad conduct of our soldiers towards the colored population:
1st. We know there is more or less hatred toward the colored man North and South. The valor of the colored troops during the war; their inestimable service as spies and guides in helping us take advantage of the enemy's position; the information and aid given our foraging expeditions, etc.; the kindness shown and assistance rendered our prisoners while escaping from the slaughter-yards and starve-pens; their inexpressible joy over our victories and the rebel defeats; neither one nor all of these have entirely eradicated from the heart of the soldier that inherent, unjust hatred towards the colored man.
2d. Soon after Richmond fell, and the rebel soldiers had returned from the surrender of  there was more or less burglary, garroting, and murder every night. Soldiers were shot while patrolling the city or passing quietly through the streets, or guarding private dwellings in and about the town. All these <Illegible> of course,  did. Strange they did not commit them before the chivalry returned, while intoxicated by the first draughts of that nectar of liberty for which their hearts had panted for two hundred years!
3d. Our soldiers were not paid until recently.  had no money to buy tobacco, liquor, etc., or little delicacies, and in many instances the necessaries of life. The F. F. V., taking advantage of this, invites the soldier in out of the hot sun, and gives him something to drink. They sit down in the shade, and while under the soothing influence of Bacchus, he recounts the beatitudes of the Abrahamic institution, and the evil effect of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, on the grand-sons of Ham-in the mean time, perhaps, Venus comes down, and invites him to stop all night. How is the soldier to reciprocate this friendship?  meets. If arrested, a dozen chivalry are ready to testify that the nigger insulted him; and to the officers that it is true, he pounces on the poor, innocent colored man, and thrashes him well, and then has him taken to Castle Thunder.
4th. The soldiers want to go home. They  war is over; those who received large <Illegible> and did little or no fighting are sent home, while those who have been out two, three or four years performed the fighting and long marching, and have had but small bounties, must remain to do what?" "To guard the lazy nigger," say the chivalry; at the same time reminding them that the nigger  work.
5th. The soldier wants society. Where is the sure way to gain confidence and be admitted?
6th. There are other reasons too delicate for the press-e.g. The evening of the 4th of July, the s in the public square, at Richmond, and beat, clubbed, and drove the male <Illegible> out of the park.
During the day, the colored folks had gone out to celebrate our National Independence on the battle-fields, forts etc., and have little picnics and singing, <Illegible>. The soldiers drove them of upset their tables and little stands, and abused them shamefully. The  you remember, were the only Southern citizens who celebrated the day at Richmond and Petersburg. In a public meeting at Petersburg, the distinguished Hon.--said it did not become them to celebrate the anniversary of their defeat at Gettysburg and Vicksburg.
These are a few of the reasons which occur to me, why the colored people have been treated so  by our soldiers in the South.
ANDREW MORRISON.
MASS MEETING OF FREEDMEN AT WILMINGTON, N.C. The Southern people are now witnessing some novel and instructive events. The colored people awake to the necessity of personal exertion to secure the full rights of citizenship to their race, are holding public meetings and conventions, at which they discuss their objects and plans after the style of their w entirely new  whites,and must start some fresh ideas in their brains. They cannot help regarding the  with more respect when it is found that they can assemble and discuss in an orderly, dispassionate and able manner the great questions which concern their welfare. Such a convention was recently witnessed at Wilmington, N. C., where a  mass meeting of the colored people was held on the 21st. The principal speaker was J.P. Sampson, editor of the Cincinnati Colored Citizen, (formerly a slave in Wilmington,) who made a forcible and telling address, which is reported in the Wilmington Herald. He set out by claiming "the immediate, reconditional and universal enfranchisement of every black man in every State in this Union," and then proceeded to argue the matter. He told his hearers to claim a voice in the North Carolina State Convention, on the ground that all, black and white, were disorganized citizens of the United States, and not of North  and in case their admission is refused carry a protest to Washington. On the subject  he made this good 
"If you read the history of the Norman conquests, you will find that this proud Anglo-Saxon was once looked upon as inferior to his Norman master, and might be found in the highways of England laboring, with a brass collar on his neck, and the name of his master marked upon 
In conclusion, he told his audience that their State rights must be obtained from the State, and not from the general government. -Boston Journal.
PRESIDENT LINCOLN'S OPINION OF UNIVERSAL SUFFRAGE. The  Advocate, of September 16, publishes the following extract from a letter of the late President Lincoln to Gen. Wadsworth, who fell in the battle of the Wilderness. The letter, which is of  private character, is to be sent to General Wadsworth's family. It shows that Mr. Lincoln desired the bestowal of the elective francise upon the blacks, and was also at an early day in favor of granting a universal amnesty. Mr. Lincoln says:
" You desire to know in the event of our complete success in the field, the same being followed by a loyal and cheerful submission on the part of the South, if a universal amnesty should not be accompanied with universal suffrage. Now, since you know any private inclinations as to what terms should be granted to the South in the contigency mentioned, I will here add that if our success should thus be realizeed and followed by such desired results, I  I can avoid exacting in return universal suffrage, or at least suffrage on the basis of intelligence and military service.
"How to better the condition of the colored race has long been a study which has attracted my serious and careful attention, and hence I think I am clear and decided as to what course I shall pursue in the premises, regarding it as a religious duty, as the nation's guardian of these people who have so heroically vindicated their manhood on the battle-field, where in assisting to save the life of the republic, they have demonstrated in blood their right to the ballot, which is that the humane protection of the flag they have so fearlessly defended."
GENERAL SWAIN'S ORDER. Gen. Swain, of the Freedmen's Bureau in Alabama, has given orders that all contracts with the freedmen for labor must be reduced to writing, and approved by the agent of the bureau for plantation labor. Employers must stipulate to provide sufficient food, quarters and medical attendance for the  further compensation as many be agreed upon. Such contracts will be lien upon the crops raised upon plantations, of which not more than one half shall be removed until full payment to the laborers is made, and the contract cancelled by the agent of the Bureau for plantation Absentees from labor, without good cause, will be proceeded against as vagrants, and may be set to work on the public roads, or to do other labor, or turned over to the Freedmen's Bureau.
Gov. Parsons and Gen. Wood have approved of the order, and directed its enforcement.
STRIKE AMONG THE NEGRO LABORERS. Savannah Republican, 5th  morning, about seven o'clock, the hour at which the stevedores and laborers commence their work on the wharves, in loading and discharging steamers and other vessels, a crowd of would-be independent negroes concluded not "let well enough alone," and accordingly struck for higher wages, demanding two  per day for their labor. The demand was, very justly, we think, treated with as bold a refusal from the employers as the unjust and unreasonable request deserved. It seems that a few ignorant negroes, who were receiving $1,50 per day for their labor succeeded in enticing about forty colored laborers to join them in a strike,  finding that there was no prospect of their demand being acceded to, they gathered in a gang and threatened to shoot and kill every man who was willing to work for the just compensation of $1,50 per day. These outrageous proceedings for a while interfered with the important business on the wharves, but in a short time an officer appeared on the whareves, but in a short time an officer appeared on the scene with a squad of soldiers, and the turbulent leaders were provided with a military escort to the guard-house, where they will repose for a while, until brought before the courts to answer to the charge of lawlessness and distubers of the peace. The arrests exerted a salutary influence on the balance of the strikers, who speedily dispersed when they witnessed the fate of their foolish leaders. We should be glad to have an example made of just such men as these strikers, for a favourable  is presented to teach ignorant negroes that the law will not allow a man to demand compensation for The above smacks of the old plantation whip.
<c02>
DISCONTENT AMONG JAMAICA BLACKS. There is considerable distress among the colored people in Jamaica, and threatened starvation; and the Governor was waited upon lately by a committee from one of the  presenting their grievances in resolutions. These, the Governor said, it was his duty to transmit to the Queen, but he differed with their  He believed that the distress was principally among the poor females of the island, and that  the colored people would work all day, as did the laborers in other lands, there would be no distress, as their social condition would be elevated. To this the colored committee replied that they could not get lands of their own, as the large proprietors would not sell except in large lots; that there were so few estates under cultivation that labor could not be had continuously; that often when they did work for the paltry pittance of one shilling and sixpence a day, they were, defrauded of half of it when pay-day came; and that when they applied to courts for redress, the magistrates were generally absent, involving several days' loss of time, not to say any thing of partial judgments when they came. And if the colored people obtained their cases, they were almost sure never again to be employed on the same plantation. This state of  discouraged industry. The Governor disposed of these statements by saying that they were all ex  Traveller.
TIME'S CHANGES. "The Sea Island." of South Carolina and Georgia were deserted by their white owner.-rebels to a man-at an early stage of the war, when occupied by the Federal forces. Being confiscated or sold for Federal taxes, their soil became Union property, and some of it was bought by negroes. A letter from Beaufort says:
" Dr. 8am., who owned' Oaklands,' (our former residence on St. Helena,) has come back, and lives in one of the deserted negro cabins. One of his former slave, lives in the mansion house, which be bought of the United States Tax Commissioner. The Doctor tried to get a room in the house, but Harry would not suffer him to occupy any part of it. The building is a poor one, but the cabin where Sams now lives is not as habitable as many Northern pig pen.. Can retribution go further than this? The former owner of a hundred glares now lire, in an abandoned hovel on the plantation which he owned. That plantation has been divided into small tracts, sold, and occupied by his former chattels. Dr. Florence Trippe asks the patronage of the people of St. Helena; his card (written by himself) says:' He will be found from 10 A. M. until 4 P. M. at the house of John Major. Esq.' That John Major, Esq., was formerly his slave."
THE DANGEROUS ELEMENT. The New York News having stated that" the negro element of the South is dangerous to the peace of the country at large," the Tribune replies:
" Does the' element' eat too many Government rations? In Knoxville, three hundred and fifty-nine eat, but only two belong to the' element.' Is the 'element' lazy? Every writer from the South tells us that the bar-room loafers, the corner loungers, the petty gamblers, are white men. The negro works. Does the' element' cost too much? The rate of wages in the South is from five to seven dollars a month. The labor is severe and harsh. It could not be purchased here for five times the amount. Is the 'element' vicious? We hear stories of oppression and injustice every day, assaults, murders, deceptions; but in all cases the white man is the oppressor; the' element' is dangerous to the country pretty much as the lamb was to the wolf. Whether lie drinks up the stream, or down the stream, or does not drink at all, the wolf will certainty be disturbed."
GEN. GRANT ON NEGRO SUFFRAGE.  General Grant, both from his position as head of the army and from the prestige lie has won, is likely to become as important to our Government for the remainder of his life as the Duke of Wellington in the latter part of his public career. His views, therefore, will always be of interest. In this connection we give the following from the Chicago Tribune:
"General Grant, in conversation with his friends, says that it is too soon to declare that the loyal blacks in the South shall nut be allowed to rote.  Aside from the abstract right and the legal problem of what authority can confer or withhold the franchise-whether it be Congress or the State-the question may assume the shape of a political necessity.  The Government and the people may choose between keeping a standing army of 100,000 men at an expense of $160.000,000 a year to the tax-payer., to support the white minority in the South against the white rebel majority, or of enfranchising the blacks, and thereby enabling them to support the white loyalists. Gen Grant foresees that the suffrage question may take this form."
THE SOUTH CAROLINA CONTENTION. In the South Carolina State Convention on the 15th ult., Mr. William Wallace introduced the following resolutions:
Whereas, by the fortunes of war, our former noble and beloved Chief Magistrate, Jefferson Davis, is now languishing in prison, awaiting his trial for treason; and whereas, the fanatics of the North, not satisfied with the wide-spread ruin and desolation which they hare caused, are shrieking for his blood: 
Resolved, That it is the paramount duty of South Carolina, who led the way in our late struggle for independence, and for which struggle he is now suffering, to use every lawful means in her power to avert the doom which threatens him.
Resolved, That to this end a deputation of members of this body be sent to the city of Washington, in behalf of the people of South Carolina, to ask of His Excellency the President of the United States, to extend to the Hon. Jefferson Davis that clemency which he has shown to us, who are equally the sharers of his guilt, if guilt there be, and which is so accomplishing so much towards restoring the peace and harmony of the Union.
The resolutions were referred to a committee of three, who by an amendment were directed to draft memorials to be addressed by the Convention to the President of the United State., requesting executive clemency for Jefferson Davis, the late President, and A. H. Stephen., the late Vice President of the Confederate States; for A. G. Magrath and Geo. A. Trenholm, citizens of South Carolina, now prisoners of State. 
On the 18th a resolution was adopted, empowering Gov. Perry to send a competent agent to Washington, to ascertain from the President what is the condition of the land, called Abandoned Lands" in South Carolina, and how long it will be before the owners of such lands will be restored to the possession of their property.
PROHIBITION OF SLAVERY IN SOUTH CAROLINA. Who expected to live to see it? But here it is, done by the South Carolinians themselves, on the 22d inst., in State Convention. The following clause was adopted by a vote of 98 to 8:
"Slaves in South Carolina having been de facto emancipated by the United States, neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall be reestablished in this State." 
The ordinance repealing the ordinance of secession was then ratified.
On the 22d ult., a vote was taken on the proposition to make the basis of representation of the State rest upon the whole population, irrespective of color, and was rejected by a large majority, leaving the clause making the white population atone the basis of representation.-Salem Register.
A DOUBLE-DYED FIEND. The trial of Champ Ferguson, at Nashville, develops fearful pictures of the infernal barbarism of that notorious murderer. The following testimony was given in relation to the assassination of an old man named Taylor, who was well known for his attachment to the Union: 
"Ferguson's men seized Mr. Tabor, and Ferguson dismounted, and went to meet him. Tabor got down and was brought to us, pleading for his life. Ferguson said, ‘Oh! Yes., you oughtn't to die: you have done nothing to die for.' at the same time drawing a pistol from his belt, and shot the old man twice-one through the heart, while begging him to desist. He dropped, with his head over a little rising ground Frank Benedict said to Ferguson.' Shoot him in the head' when Ferguson placed his revolver close to Tabor's head, and shot him again. Then be turned to me and said,' I am not in favor of killing you, Thrasher; you have never been bushwhacking or stealing horses. I have killed old Wash Tabor, a d-d good Christian and I don't reckon he minds dying.' Just then, Tabor's, wife and slaughter reached the spot, screaming and going on."
AN INSTANCE OF MODESTY. Secretary Stanton' course in avoiding public parade in his late visit to the North. Had he allowed it, his reception from to people would have been most enthusiastic. Misunderstood, maligned and slandered as has been no one of his contemporaries, Secretary Stanton has outlived all injustice, and today occupies the grandest position before the American people. The verdict of history is already made up, and it will award him the reputation of the ablest man, civil or military, who figured in the war of the Rebellin.-Rozbury Journal.
MONTGOMERY, (Aln.) Sept. 29. The State Convention to-day adapted ordinances, ordering the election of State officers on the 1st Monday in November; legalizing the marriage of negroes; authorizing county commissioners to provide for indigent and helpless negroes; and directing judicial officers to continue as agents of the Freedmen's Bureau. 
<c03>
THE MINNESOTA RESOLUTIONS.
The Union Convention of Minnesota unanimously adopted a platform, of which the following are the principal resolutions. They deserve to be read; they speak with no uncertain sound.
Resolved, That having at all times past denounced the diabolical spirit of human slavery, and having throughout the late war lent our hearts and cordial support to every measure looking to its suppression, we now hail its extinction with unfeigned satisfaction, and with the conviction that we hare been instrumental in cleansing the nation of this foal blot; and we pledge ourselves never to permit it to be revived in any portion of the national dominion., under any new name, or under any cunning pretence.  We are determined that not only shall slavery perish, but that all in forms, appliances and theories shall perish with it.
Resolved, That inasmuch as the existing remnant of the so-called Democratic party is aspiring to thrust its counsels upon the people in the questions arising out of the close of the war; and inasmuch as it is just and right that that party should be held fast to the responsibility of its past record, we therefore charge upon it that by a course of servility, extending through thirty years, it accustomed the Southern people to govern, inspired them with contempt for the North, and prepared them for that day when, failing any longer to constitutionally govern the nation, they should set up the banner of revolt; and that through their leaders they encouraged the outbreak of the rebellion, assuring the insurgents that for every regiment sent by the North against the South, one should be sent to fight in its behalf, and that the streets of Northern cities should run red with blood before the South should be subjugated; that by a denial of the right of the General Government to coerce a State into obedience, a denial resting upon the authority of the last of the Democratic Presidents, they palsied the arm of the Government in the early days of the struggle, and gave time for the treasonable conspiracy to organize and arm itself; that at every stage of the contest their sympathy was upon the side of the rebellion, and that to that end they organized secret societies for traitorous purposes, opposed every decisive measure of the General Government, resisted or indirectly opposed the enforcement of the draft, incited riots in the great cities, filled the people with gloom and despondency, and finally, in the critical moment of the struggle, declared that the war was a failure, that the nation was unable to suppress the rebellion, and clamored for measures which, if carried out, could only have resulted in the division and destruction of the nation; that it is now the intention of the Democratic party, by working on the prejudices of the race, and with a view to their own establishment in power, to preserve the cause of the rebellion by retaining the black man of the South in a condition of peonage or serfdom, as an ignorant and oppressed class, cut off from all hope of future improvement, a source of constant danger to the white population of the South, and a reproach to the humanity and civilization of the entire nation.
Resolved, That the spirit of our institutions requires that the measure of a man's political rights should be neither his religion, his birthplace, his race, his color, nor any merely physical characteristic, and that it would be subversive of both the form and spirit of our institutions to permit any portion of our population to become a degraded and subject caste, taxed to support and compelled to obey a Government in which they have no voice, and whose whole machinery may be directed to their destruction.
COLUMBIA, S. C, Sept. 28. The Convention is adjourned, after a most harmonious and unanimous session of fifteen days. They have repealed the ordinance of secession, abolished slavery, equalized the representation and taxation throughout the State, giving the election of governor and presidential electors to the people, ordered voting in the Legislature viva voce, endorsed the Administration unanimously, and directed a commission to submit a code to the Legislature for the protection of the colored population. They hare likewise appointed Judge Wardlew, Alfred Huger and Col. Dewkins to visit President Johnson in reference to Jefferson Davis, Gov. McGrath, and Mr. Trenholm. 
The election of Governor and members of the Legislature takes place on the 18th of October, and James L. Orr is nominated for Governor. It is understood that Gov. Perry will be sent to the United States Senate. The members of Congress will be elected in November. An extra session of the Legislature meets on the 25th of October.
CHOLERA SCENES AT CONSTANTINOPLE.  The London Times publishes a letter from Constantinople relative to the terrible ravages of the cholera at the East. On the 5th of August, the number of deaths at Constantinople was estimated at between 1000 and 2500. This was formerly the gayest and most dissipated of European cities; but the scene has rapidly changed, and it is now the most solemn. The corpses are imperfectly buried, and the stench is terrible. Dead and dying men are continually carried through the streets, and with all this terror came a rumor that the plague had broken out in Egypt. On the 4th of August, from 1500 to 2000 died at Stamboul, and that place presented a frightful spectacle. Whole families were carried off at once, and many were abandoned by their relatives, when a little assistance might have saved those afflicted. A hospital has been rudely constructed at Stamboul of raised boards, on which the poor patients are hastily thrown and left to die, without doctors, without medicine, without even a friendly hand to assist them. At Therapia 50 deserted houses were found with dead bodies in them.
The correspondent of the Times states that from 50,000 to 80,000 have already died. The opinion of an undertaker is that" the poison of the cholera is in every man's blood; if anything is eaten which has an affinity with the poison, the disease is produced."
PROVIDENCE, R. I., Oct. 1. Rev. Dr. Francis Wayland, who was for more than twenty-eight years President of Brown University, was prostrated by a paralytic stroke on Tuesday last, and died on Saturday afternoon at 5 1-2 o'clock, aged 69 years.
Dr. Wayland was a son of a prominent Baptist clergyman of New York city, and a graduate of Union College. He first studied medicine three years, and after that one year for the ministry, at Andover, when lie accepted the position of tutor at Union College, where he remained four years. 
At the end of that period, he became pastor of the 1st Baptist church in Boston, where he labored successfully a few years, when he became Professor of Union College. After a short term of service, he was elected President of Brown University in 1827, when m his 82d year. 
This position he filled with distinguished ability and great success, for more than twenty-eight years.  Dr. Wayland was twice married. His first wife was a sister of Hon. Heman Lincoln of Boston, and the second a Mrs. Sage, of this city. She survives him, as also do three children. Few clergymen in the country have been more honored and respected than Dr. Wayland.
SOUTHERNERS REALIZING AND ACCEPTING THE SITUATION. The Washington correspondent of the New York Herald says:-
Another illustration of the change going on in the mind, of Southern men concerning negro labor, and the best methods of adapting themselves to the conditions by which they are surrounded, was revealed in conversation this morning with a gentleman of considerable wealth before the war began, and the present owner of two large plantations in Georgia. He intends returning home immediately, subdividing his plantations into small lots containing from ten to fifty acres each, and leasing them out for a number of years to the most reliable and industrious of his former negro servants, at such rates as they will agree to give, and can well afford to pay. In some instances he will give the right of purchase at the expiration of the lease. When the negroes are settled, he will erect a cotton gin and open a country dry goods and grocery store for supplying them with necessaries, and he believes that in ten years his income will quadruple, what it was before the war. He is too sensible to be long without followers. The true interest of large Southern landholders is in this direction.
VIRGINIA F. F.'S. We find the following in the Washington correspondence of the Munich (Ind.) Times. This illustration of Virginia needs no comment. The facts stated, were assured, are strictly true, and of public notoriety at Washington:
" Charlie Syphax, a colored man. having a considerable quantity of white blood in his veins, is a man of intelligence and excellent character, and is messenger to Secretary Harlan. It also happens that this colored man is a half brother to Mrs. General Robert E. Lee, and grandson of George Washington Parke Custis, who was a step-son of George Washington! That is quite a pedigree, is it not There are seven other men of the same patronage, all brothers, two of whom have been employees of the Interior Department for a number of years. It is also asserted as a well known fact, that Mrs. General Lee has in all some forty half-brothers and sisters of the same sort in and around this city."
PROFESSOR NICHOL. This distinguished Glasgow professor, son of the astronomer whose lectures in this country some years ago were so highly commended, is now on a visit to America. his courageous advocacy; of the North during the war marked the man. In season and out of season he has stood up with great is-is intrepidity for Northern principles, and no one in Great Britain has used his voice and pen oftener in oar cause.-Boston Transcript.
<c04>
NEGRO SUFFRAGE VOTE IN CONNECTICUT. HARTFORD. Conn., Oct. 8. Every county in the State votes "No" on the Constitutional amendment question except Windham, which gives about 650 majority in favor of it. Hartford county gives 1700 majority against, New Haven 2000, New London 600, Fairfield f bout 1500, Tolland 400, Litchfield about 500, Middlesex about 600. The majority against it in the State is of less than 6000. The result is largely owing to the conservative Republicans. Shame on them!
POLITICAL. It is estimated that there are two thousand colored persons in the State of Connecticut, and lat the vote denying them the franchise will show six thousand majority. The last vote taken in Connecticut on this question, in 1857, resulted in a majority against enfranchisement of 13,790 in a rote under 25,000. The Presidential vote of the State at the election of 1856 turned out 80,325 rotes, so that less than one-third of the people expressed their mind on he question. The rote of Monday is probably much easier in proportion. It is most disgraceful.
APPEAL FROM AN UNEXPECTED QUARTER. The Washington Star says that on Wednesday two colored men and one colored woman were in attendance at the White House, seeking an interview with the President, to ask pardon for their former master, a man named Williams. Williams is, or was at the breaking out of the rebellion, a wealthy citizen of Virginia, and at one time owned a number of slaves, It appears from the statement of these colored people that Williams made application for pardon some time ago, and as the application has not been acted upon as yet, they are in Washington to intercede in behalf of heir old master.
Major Sargent, of the Freedmen's Bureau, reports from Arkansas the case of a befogged slaveholder, who refuses to recognize the Emancipation Proclamation. A freedman having ineffectually tried to reclaim his personal property from the premises of his former master, was furnished by the Provost Marshal with a circular, indorsed with an authorization to take his property. The master returned the circular, indorsing upon it that he considered the bearer his property, and that" When I am perfectly satisfied that he slaves have been emancipated by such authority is recognized as constitutional by our high courts law and equity, then, and not till then, will I make contracts with slaves, or regard them in any other light than as the property of those who have purchased or raised them. Whereupon this contumacious planter was arrested, and fined $50.
PETERSBURG, Va., Oct. 3. An immense meeting of the freedmen was held last night, the largest African church in the city being crowded to excess. Stewart Barns, of the Freedmen's Bureau, made an address, exhorting the freedmen to labor, and disabusing the minds of the blacks from the idea that lands of their late owners would be divided among them. The address was enthusiastically received, Addresses were also delivered by several colored speakers, all exhorting the freedmen to sobriety and industry, and counseling friendly feelings toward the whites. The meeting adjourned at a late hour.
NARROW ESCAPE OF GENERALS GRANT AND SHERMAN. While Gen. Grant was returning from Indianapolis, the switch at the end of the curve at Guilford had been turned intentionally, and the car in which, he General was seated was thrown from the track and dragged some distance. No one was injured.
About the same time, a train on the Ohio & Mississippi Railroad, carrying General Sherman, was thrown from the track this side of Lawrenceburg. No one was injured.
A curious case of miscegenation has recently occurred in South Carolina. Capt. E. J. Scranton, 128th colored troops, stationed at Beaufort, has been tried, convicted and sentenced by court martial to be dismissed the service, for cohabiting with in camp, and afterward marrying, a colored women of bad reputation. The sentence has been approved by General Gillmore, commanding the Department, in a general order. That is queer; what is the fellow punished or-what he did before marriage, or the marriage itself?-Newsburyport Herald.
It has been ascertained by the Freedmen's Bureau, that parties from that city have recently been engaged in enticing freedmen from Washington on board a vessel bound to the newly discovered guano islands off the Russian coast, where they were placed in close confinement, and carried off against their will. The affair is undergoing an investigation.
The planters on the eastern shore of Mary-and are sending to the Freedmen's Bureau at Washington for free negro laborers.
Major Mahan, in a speech at the Fenian meeting in Worcester on Tuesday evening, intimated that a Fenian on board the Great Eastern purposely damaged the cable, because he was determined that informers should not have the use of the cable until Irish independence is achieved.
It is stated no flag of a Vermont regiment was ever in the keeping of the enemy during the war.
Fanny Jackson, a young colored woman of Washington, D. C, graduated from the classical course of Oberlin College, at the late Commencement. She is the first female college graduate of African descent.
Two hundred slaves hare been landed on the Island of Anguilla, to be transferred to Cuba. A detachment of troops were sent to the island from Nassau in consequence.
Longfellow, Holmes, Bayard Taylor, Miss Prescott, Brownell, Ik Marvel, Wasson, Trowbridge, Higginson, and Edmund Kirke have papers in the October Atlantic.
The books of the Federal undertaker at Nashville, Tenn., show that he has buried, since the Federal occupation of the city, 13,631 soldiers and government employees (1000 of the latter); also 8,000 rebel soldiers, and 10,000 contrabands and refugees.
NEW YORK, Sept. 29. Printing piper has risen materially within the past week or two. The price to-day is 191/2 a 20 cents per pound. It is difficult to get an order taken at all. Dealers say there is a scarcity of stock, and that water is short at the mills. Letter paper is quoted at 50 cents, and fine flat paper at 40 a 401/2 cents.
THE RIGHTS OF NEGROES IN ALABAMA. The Times special dispatch from Montgomery, Ala., 16th, says the Convention passed an ordinance, by a vote of 59 to 16, practically abolishing the right of negroes to testify in courts of justice, to continue until legislation makes a law on the subject.
THE NEW STATE OF COLORADO. Complete returns from Colorado indicate the adoption of the State Constitution by a very large majority. The clause authorizing negro suffrage was defeated.
Gen. Howard, on one occasion, when being entertained with a dinner, taking a glass of water in his hand, said: "Gentlemen, I am from the State of Maine. I don't go back on my State. I give you, gentlemen, the Maine Law, the true beverage of the soldier."
A negro woman, who was baptized a few Sundays ago, at Huntsville, Ala., came forth from the water shooting:" Freed from slavery, freed from sin, bless God and Gen. Grant"
Ann Farrell of Columbus, Indiana, was riding in a buggy with a gentleman, on Saturday last, when the horse ran away. The young lady tried to jump out, but her hoops caught on the buggy, and she was dragged about half a mile. The horse then ran into a mill race, and Miss Farrell was drowned.
The Newburyport Herald says that, on Friday, Mr. Jacob Stickney, 91 years old, was performing his duty on State street, as a measurer of charcoal. It was an hour so early that many people were not out of their beds. This is his 67th consecutive year in town office; and since he was 21 years old, he has been elected to various offices, and taken the official oath 223 times.
The census returns from all the towns of Massachusetts but sixteen indicate a total population of 1,272000, which is an increase of 41,000 from 1860. There has been a loss in Barnstable, Bristol, Duke's, Plymouth, Franklin and Nantucket. The number of voters is 245,000, against 211,000 in 1857.
To show the gigantic scale on which the war supplies were obtained, there remains on hand in one item 1,500,000 pairs of new shoes. The Quartermaster's Department have already sold 89,000 horses and mules, which hare produced upwards of six million dollars.
An old negro man who attends to Judge Bryan's office accidentally found" his long-lost brother" a few day ago. They were sold in Virginia when about ten years old, and separated. They are now upwards of sixty yean of age, and made the discovery that they were brothers while in conversation about the changes worked by the war. The last seen of the old darkies they were giving down Cherry street, arm in arm, full of glory.-Nashville Despatch.
An Ohio Democratic editor boasts that Vallandigham will be chosen to the United States Senate by the next Ohio Legislature.
Harrie Leslie, the rope walker, in a recent exhibition of his feats at Bay field, C. W., was taken by the people to be the devil, and with cries of" d-n him!"" cut the rope!" he was let down a distance of twenty-five feet, catching at a tree in his fall. His agent was severely beaten, sod be narrowly escaped with his life.
The question of freeing the slaves is Cuba is creating considerable discussion, not only among the people of the Island, bat in Spain also.
<c05>
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURE?
The eighth annual course of these favorite and eminently popular lectures will be delivered in Music HALL on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS, at 7 1-2 o'clock, by the following distinguished orators:- 
Oct. 17-WENDELL. PHILLIPS, of Boston.
24-FREDRICK DOUGLASS, of Rochester. 
31-HENRY WARD BEECHER, of Brooklyn.
Nov. 7-JACOB M. MANNING, of Boston.
14-ANNA E. DICKENSON, of Philadelphia.
Dec. 12-GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS, of New York. 
19-DAVID A. WASSOS, of Boston.
26-(To be announced.)
Jan. 2-GEORGE H. HEPWORTH, of Boston.
9-THEODORE TILTON, of New York.
16- (To be announced.)
Concert on the Great Organ each evening at 7 o' clock.
Mrs. FROHOCK, Organist. 
Tickets admitting" the Bearer and Lady" to the course, $3. Tickets admitting" One Person" to the course $2 For sale at OLIVER DITSON & CO.'S, 277 Washington street; J0HN C. HAYNES & CO.'S, 33 "Court street; JOHN & ROGERS', 1077 Washington net, and of the Lecture Committee.
Checks for seats reserved until 7 1-2 o'clock, at one dollar each for the course, for sale only at DITS0N & CO'S and at J. S. ROGERS
N.B.. Only a portion of the seats in the body of the seats (those to the right of the speaker) will be reserved, leaving a large number on the lower floor and both balconies to the other ticket-holders.
ANNUAL MEETING.-The Twenty-eighth Annual Meeting of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society  will be held in Horticultural Hall, West Chester, Oct. 27th, day and evening. A more particular notice hereafter. JAMES MOTT, President.
BENJAMIN C. BACON, Cor. Sect.
OBITUARY.
Died at Reed's Ferry, Merrimack, N. H., Sept 18th, the outward form of DANIEL P. TILTON, aged 33 years.  The deceased, though a young man, was an old Abolitionist having served from boyhood in the moral conflict with slavery. Unaware that war also is a crime, be proved his anti-slavery faith by an early presence on the battlefield, re-enlisted to see the straggle through, and returned only in time to expire in the arms of loved ones at home. he was a man of one idea at least when the majority had one, yet no struggling cause or need ever appealed to him in vain; and, while remembering the slave, he did of forget his mother and sisters, or the poor always with him, discharging all obligations so entirely that he left tie world owing it nothing. His unreserved devotion to principle and rare sense of justice required only to know thing was right In order to stake his all upon it.
A working man, he was also a working mind; and with little leisure for thought, and less for reading, he was yet wiser than books, often helping others to ideas and enterprises be was too modest himself to announce. With a masculine brain and woman's impulses, his nature was singularly robust and tender, ailing so Urge a space in he hearts of relatives and friends, that much less on earth seems worth living for now be is gone. 
His funeral was attended by Rev. Mr. Stuart of Nashua, and Andrew T. Foss of Manchester, whose direct and kindly words were warmly appreciated by the bereaved family -Com.
Died in West Newton, Oct 4, GEORGE ADAMS, publisher of the Boston Directory; an early and devoted friend of he Anti-Slavery cause.
LESSONS IN ORNITHOLOGY.
PARLOR CLASSES.
GRACEANNA LEWIS will give Instruction in the NATURAL HISTORY OF BIRDS, to Schools and Private Classes of Ladies and Gentlemen.
It is not intended, by these Lessons, merely to interest and amuse the learner, but while these objects will be kept in view, efforts will also be made to use the feathered tribes in all their beauty and attractiveness, u a means of affording an insight of the wonderful Order found in every portion of creation 
The familiar Habits of Birds; their Manner of Flight; heir Migrations; their Song.; their Guiding Instincts; their Affections; their Nests and Eggs; their Plumage, with its exquisite colors and ornamentation; Microscopic Examinations of the Down of the Young, and the General Structure and Classification of Birds, will be treated of, as well as the relations of Physical Causes to the Residences of Birds; their Geographical Distribution, and their importance to Agriculture.
Geology, in its connection with Ornithology, will also be considered; and the position of the Class of Birds in the Progressive Order of Creation, so far as revealed by Modern Science, will be made apparent.
Many of the most beautiful or remarkable Birds of the World will be noticed, and their location in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, designated. 
These Lessons will be finely illustrated by numerous Elegant Engravings, and Specimens of the majority of our common Song Birds may be seen by the Class during the continuance of the Courses, while the subject will be farther elucidated by Charts prepared for the purpose. 
TERMS, For a Course of Six Lessons, $3.00 each.
Liberal deduction made to schools and classes of over fifty persons. Those who desire lessons will address GIUCEASNA LEWIS, 
Care of EDWARD PARRISH, 
South west corner of Eighth and South Sts,
PHILADELPHIA.
TESTIMONIALS:
The undersigned have great pleasure in recommending the Lectures of Miss Graceanna Lewis, as in all respects worthy the confidence and encouragement of persons disposed to study Natural History, and especially Ornithology. 
JOHN CASSIN,
Vice-President of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, and author of" Birds of California and Texas," &c, &c, &c.
T. C. PORTER,
President of Franklin Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa. ISAAC P. TRIMBLE, M. D., Author of" Insect Enemies of Fruit and Fruit Trees," and Entomologist of the State Agricultural Society of New Jersey, Newark, N. J. VINCENT BARNARD, Rennet Square, Chester County, Pennsylvania. April 10th, I860.
The undersigned, who have enjoyed the pleasure of Graceanna Lewis's instructions on Ornithology deem it due to her to testify to the interest with which she succeeded in clothing the subject, and the clear and lucid method adopted in her Lectures. We greatly desire that she may find a wide field for her valuable and elevating instructions. 
DILLWYN PARRISH    E. H. CLEVELAND,
HELEN LONGSTRETH,     MAROARAT J. BURLEIGH,
ANN PRESTON,         EDWARD PARRISH,
MARTHA KIMBER,        CALEB S. HALLOWELL,
EDWARD TOWNSEND,    B. M. DAVIS. 
J.G.HUNT,M.D.,
Philadelphia, 7th mo., 1865.
GREAT CHANCE FOR AGENTS. WHAT THE PEOPLE WANT.
COMPLETE History of the War, in one large volume, splendidly illustrated, with over 125 fine portraits of Generals and Battle scenes. The most candid, lucid, complete, authentic and reliable history published. It contains reading matter equal to three large octavo minims Send for circulars, and see oar terms. Address"J0NES, BROS & CO., Philadelphia., Pa."
Sept 29.
WM. P. POWELL,
ATTORNEY AND SOLICITOR,
IN THE ADJUSTMENT AND COLLECTION OF CLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES, 
Office nos. 1 and 2, Dover St. Hew York. NOTARY PUBLIC AND COMMISIONER FOR THE 
STATES OP VERMONT. MASSACHUSETTS AND CONNECTICUT.
Passports and Protections Procured.
New York, Aug. 2.
DR. DI0 LEWIS'S FAMILY SCHOOL
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
LEXINGTON, Mass.
TWENTY superior Teachers, among whom are THEODORE D. WELD, formerly Principal of the Eagles-wood School, New Jersey, and I. N. CARLETON, formerly of Phillips's Academy, Andover. Send far Catalogue and Circulars to Dr. LEWIS, August 11.
$2000 A YEAR
MADE by any one with $15-Stencil Tools. No experience necessary. The Presidents, Cashiers and Treasurers of three ranks endorse the circular. Seat free with samples. Address the American Stencil Tool Works, Springfield Vermont,
October 6. 3m.
<c06>
onderful Invention of the Age!
MORRIL'S
PETROLEUM STOVE.
One of the Most Brilliant Triumphs of American Genius.
IT COOKS, WASHES AND IRONS WITHOUT COAL, WOOD, OR GAS!
DOES the work easier, quicker, better, and with as little expense as any known method; and in its use, without a radiator, does not perceptibility affect the temperature of the room, while it may be used with a radiator to heat a room in a very short time. It is also perfectly free from soot, ashes and smoke, and makes no unpleasant smell.
Ware rooms No. 36 Bromfield St, Boston. Mass.
Baking in these stores, instead of the old imperfect process, is rendered a certainty; the bread comes out of the oven in thirty minutes, with a fair brown crust, neither burnt nor dough, for the heat can be instantaneously regulated. Potatoes and large joints of meat are" done to a turn."
Broiling; Mr. Morrill, the inventor, to use his own language, 
"CHALLENGES THE WORLD
to produce a method by which a steak can BE broiled that ill compare with the Patent Broiler," which always leaves the steak juicy, making even a tough one tender. Not drop of the fat or juice can possibly be wasted, although it is broiled by the pure sweet blaze coming in actual contact with the meat. Ironing is accomplished quite as satisfactorily; the heat being communicated to the interior of be iron, there is no roughness or dirt to trouble, as in irons heated on the face; alone, instead of sweltering the ironer. Washing-day is bereft of half its troubles,-the stove, light and portable, can be carried out-doors even in good weather, and the steam and disagreeables of washing in the house avoided. In fact, every kind of household labor can be accomplished with more certainty and economy, and with far less labor, than with coal or wood. To those confined to rooms requiring cooking done at home, these stoyes must prove an invaluable blessing, the Petroleum costing less by one fourth than gas at two dollars per thousand feet, while the work is performed infinitely better. Young men out all day, wanting a quick heat on returning to their rooms, -families with children needing instant fire at night,-mechanics wanting early breakfasts, and HOT BISCUITS in thirty minutes' time after lighting the fire,-housekeepers wanting heat in rooms without flues,-country houses,-in fact, all who value their time or money, or the health, comfort and convenience of themselves, wives and families, must eventually buy these stoves.
MORRIL PETROLEUM STOVE.
READ THE FOLLOWING TESTIMONIALS.
[From Messers. E. D. and G. Draper, Manufacturers, Hope-dale, Mass.]
The undersigned have used Morill's Patent" Erovapor Stove" in our families, and have thoroughly tested its merits in cooking, and many other families of our acquaintance have it in use, and are well satisfied with it. We consider it a very valuable improvement, and cheerfully recommend it for general use, especially for a summer cook-stove. We think it has been surpassed for broiling and baking meats and baking bread, and is the best stove for heating flats for ironing we ever saw. 
E. D. & G. DRAPER. 
Hopedale, Mass., May 6, 1865.
[From Dr. J. Cheever, of Charlesstown, Mass]
CHARLESTOWN, May 24, 1865.
MR. MOORE-Having fully tested the ErovaporCooking-Stove purchased of you two months since, and promised at that time to give you my opinion of it, after becoming fully satisfied with its merits or demerits, as the case may prove, I now, without hesitation, pronounce it far superior to any cooking apparatus I have ever seen. It not only proves to be all you recommended, but infinitely more, for not half of its advantages were named. In fact, it does not fail in any particular in being all that can be reasonably desired by any one after acquiring a little experience in its use.
JOSEPH CHEEVER, M. D.
[From Mr. Edward Perkins, Proprietor of the large Eating Establishment, Nos.37 and 39, Congress Street, Boston.] 
Boston, May 27, 1865.
TO THE AGENT OF THE MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE CO.:
DEAR SIR-Having fully tested the new Petroleum Stove made by your Company, I am happy to bear testimony to its merits. I have them in use in my eating house, and find them superior to anything I know of for cooking purposes. It takes biscuits and broils steaks splendidly, and indeed performs most admirably all that is claimed for it. 
Wishing you every success, I remain yours, truly,
EDWARD PERKINS.
[From Rev. T. C. Potter, Pastor of the Methodist E. Church, South Reading, Mass.]
SOUTH READING, MASS., May 29, 1865.
TO THE PETROLEUM STOVE CO.:
Allow me a place upon your circular to make the following statement: -
For Several weeks my family have been testing the uses and economy of your" single burners," and find that for the common purposes of a family it excels everything else of the kind we have ever seen. In point of economy, it has cost us less than one and one-fourth cents per hour. My wife can do her ironing in less time than with a common stove, and avoid the necessity of being tortured with excessive heat. We have absented ourselves from the house for hours, and returned to find our beef or beans nicely baked, and ready for the table; and for baking all kinds of pastry, steaming, broiling, and toasting, I do not hesitate to say that I never have seen its equal. I intend to use it as a heater for my study, sparing it to the kitchen a short time when called for to prepare our meals. I have had no experience in the use of the" double burner," but should judge its utility must be in a corresponding ratio. 
T. C. POTTER,
Pastor of M. E. Church
[From Rev. J. P. Cushamn, Pastor of Orthodox Congregational Church, Brighton, Mass.]
BRIGHTON, JUNE 2, 1865.
O. F. MORRILL: 
DEAR SIR-After a brief experience with your stove, it gives me pleasure to say that it gives great satisfaction. 
For baking, it answers better than any stove or range with which we are acquainted: for broiling, it is perhaps unsurpassed, and the arrangements for ironing prove very convenient, while the escape from the heat given out by an ordinary fire must, in the kitchen. 
Very truly yours,     J. P CUSHMAN.
BOSTON, August 10, 1865.
MESSRS. MORRILL & CO.:
GENTLEMEN-I am often asked how I like my "Petroleum Stove." I would here state that it works admirably, and like it much. I have been a housekeeper more than forty years, and have, during that time, used nearly half the same number of cooking apparatus, such as ranges, cook-stoves, &c., but have never found any thing equal to this for summer use, and see no reason why they may not be used equally as well in winter. We can get breakfast with it-viz: boil teakettle, make tea, and cook steak, while a person would be building a fire in a range. We have used ours since early in June, and have never found the least difficulty whatever. Certainly there is nothing that equals it in baking biscuit, bread or pies.
Yours, truly,       V. H. HEWES
No.3 Tremont Place
MOUNT WASHINGTON, August 23, 1865.
SIR: I do certify that, with the thermometer at freezing point, (32 degrees.) I heated my office (ten feet by seven) with one of Morrill's Petroleum Stoves, in five minutes, to such a degree that I was obliged to open the office door. And I would recommend them as the best and cheapest, most portable and safest stove for warming offices or small rooms that ever came under my observation.
Yours, &c., S. A. BATTISON,
Telegraph Operator, Summit of Mt. Washington, N. H.
AYER'S SARSAPARILLA
Is a concentrated extract of the choice root, as combined with other substances of still greater alternative power as to afford an effectual antidote for diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. Such a remedy is surely wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints; and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove, as this of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found in the followings complaints:-
Scrofula, Scrofulous Swellings and Sores, Skin Diseases, Pimples, Pustules, Blotches, Eruptions, St. Anthony's Fire, Rose or Erysipelas, Tetter or salt Rheum, Scalt Head, Ringworm, &c.
Syphilis or Venereal Disease is expelled from the system by the prolonged use of this SARSAPARILLA, and the patient in left in comparative health.
Female Diseases are caused by this Scrofula in the blood, and are often soon cured by this EXTRACT OF SARSAPARILLA.
Do not discard this invaluable medicine because you have been imposed upon by something pretending to be Sarsaparilla while it was not. When you have used AYER'S, then, and not till then, will you know the virtues of Sarsaparilla. For minute particulars of the disease it cures, we refer you to Ayer's American <illegible>, which the agent below named will furnish gratis to all who call for it.
AYER"S CATHARTIC PILSS, for the care of Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Heartburn arising from Disordered Stomach, Pain, or Morbid Inaction of the Bowels, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, and for a Dinner fill.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly and they are the best Aparient in the world for all the purpose of a family physic.
Prepared by J.C.AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
Aug.4. 2m.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
TO THE FREEDMAN.
"The crowning fact, the kingliest act
Of freedom, is the freeman's vote.” WRITTIER.
Man of the dark brow, lift thy head
As proudly to the light
As if, beneath its crisped curls,
That brow were marble-white.
Of Cain's curst mark, if God hath left
On human brows a trace,
'Tis surety, surely, not on thine-
'Tis on the oppressor's face!
What! bow that forehead, shamed for this:-
That, seethed in sweat of toil,
It bent o'er unpaid industry
For years above the soil?
No! let the lordlings of the lash,
Robbers and traitors, bow;
But, in thy wrongs and poverty,
Dark freeman, stoop not thou!
Now star with hope thy midnight eyes,
And speak out clear and free;-
Who stormed Fort Wagner? Turned the tide
For us at Olustee?
Brother American! True friend!
Give us thy brave right hand!
Now claim thy birth-right-native-born,
Thine equal right demand!
Thou need'st not favors;-claim thy RIGHTS,
(The auction-block, the thongs,
The debt we cannot pay, forgive-
Forget thy thousand wrongs!)
Teach SHERMAN truths keen as his sword,
Teach Cox he doth but dote;-
Demand thy "freedom's crowning fact,"
Which "is the freeman's vote!"
Boston, Sept., 1865. KATY CARLISLE.

THE QUESTION.
"Amen!” I have cried in battle-time,
When my beautiful heroes perished;
"The earth of the Lord shall bloom sublime,
By the blood of his martyrs nourished.”
"Amen!” I have said, when limbs were hewn,
And our wounds were blue and ghastly;
"The flesh of a man may fail and swoon,
But God shall conquer lastly.”
And " Amen!” sang I unto the hymn
That rose when our crowned banners
Streamed over the hosts whose eyes were dim,
Because of their hearts' hosannas!
But I will not basely stab my dead
With a poniard-stroke by giving
"Amen!” to the lie that seeks to spread
Its black wrong over the living!
If you shake clean hands with Truth, you shall
See life's essential meaning;
And through the apocalyptical
Vineyards of Light walk gleaning.
But not in your traffic-mongering marts,
Where you place a market value
On the Christward aching of human hearts
Hath His angel aught to tell you.
You think that your opaque eyes are one
With the eagle's eyes for vigor;
Yet you stare God's cause in the face, and shut
That face with a curse for " the Nigger!”
You prate of mercy and-cotton bales;
But I think you are not minded
That Justice, holding the awful scales,
Being blind, is color-blinded.
Can you patch a cloak for your nakedness
From shreds of your contriving?
Will your shoddy endure the strain and stress
Of the looms the gods are driving?
Behold! the winds of the Lord will tear
Our beggarly rags in sunder,
And leave us shivering, shamed and bare,
To the search of his packed thunder.
Shall we drowse our lives with a new pretence,
Ere our blood is dry in the valleys
That were soaked through for the old offence?
Must we learn anew what hell is?
Do we think that the grapes of God will slip
Out of reach when we are sated?
Or that of his Sovran Mastership
One jot will be abated?
From the unsung graves where our comrades died,
In a regnant scorn of dying;
From souls that out of the dark have cried,
Through ages of bitter crying;
From the solemn heavens where all must stand,
Calling to every spirit,
A Voice runs warning across the land:
O, brothers! let us hear it.
RICHARD REALF.
-N. Y. Evening Post.

THE ANDERSONVILLE POST-OFF1CE.
The following touching lines, descriptive of an incident in the pen of prisoners at Andersonville, Ga., are attributed to G. H. Hollister, Esq., of Litchfield, Ct. The war has yet elicited nothing of sadder interest:
No blanket round his wasted limbs,
Under the rainy sky he slept:
Around him, Death, the archer, crept.
He dreamed of hunger, and held out
His hand to clench a little bread-
That the white angel with a torch,
Among the living and the dead,
Seemed bearing, smiling as he went:
The vision waked him, and he spied
The post-boy, followed by a crowd
Of famished prisoners, who cried
For letters from their friends.
He hears his own name called, and, lo!
A letter from his wife be sees!
Gasping for breath, he shrieked aloud,
And, lost in nature's blind eclipse,
Faltering amid the suppliant crowd,
Caught it and pressed it to his lips.
A guard who followed, red and wroth,
And flourishing a rusty brand,
Reviled him with a taunting oath,
And snatched the letter from his hand.
" First pay the postage, whining wretch!”
Despair has made the prisoner brave:
"Then give me back my money, sir!
I am a captive—not a slave!
You took my money and my clothes;
Take my life too-but let me know
How Mary and the children are,
And I will bless you ere I go."
The vary moonlight through his hands,
As he stood supplicating, shone,
And his sharp features shaped themselves
Into a prayer; and such a tone
Of anguish, there was in his cry
For his wife and children, that the guard-
Thinking upon his own-passed by,
And left him swooning on the sward:
Beyond the "dead line” fell his head-
The eager sentry know his mark,
And with a crash the bullet sped
Into his brain, and all was dark.
But when they turned his livid cheek
Up toward the light, the pale lips smiled,
Kissing a picture fair and meek,
That held in either hand a child.

FAREWELL.
Farewell, my son! O, blessed thought,
He cannot go where God is not;
And where He is, there goodness reigns,
And Love fulfils what Love ordains.
On Northern hills, on Southern plains,
In wintry chills, in summer rains,
In deadly conflict-blessed thought,
He cannot be where God is not.
<c02>
The Liberator.
EQUAL SUFFRAGE IN NORFOLK, VA.
Ever since the evacuation of Norfolk by the rebels, and its occupation by the Union army, on May 10th, 1862, the colored people of that district have enjoyed the blessings of freedom, and the more than paternal care and protection of the United States government. The facilities afforded them for the acquisition of knowledge, the necessities of their new position, and the thousand questions as to the future arising from it, led many among them to perceive the necessity of organizing for united political action. A good deal of discussion took place privately without arriving at any result, until, in the early part of the year 1865, an attempt was made by part of the loyal white inhabitants of the city to restore civil government, which had been supplanted by a military administration of affairs, under Major General Butler. The colored people of Norfolk, who by the military authorities had been protected in the full enjoyment of the rights and liberties of loyal men, naturally looked with alarm and dissatisfaction on the proposal to restore the civil government on a basis which contemplated no representation of their rights and interests. A Committee was at once formed, under whose auspices a meeting was held in the Mechanics' Hall, on Feb. 27, Mr. H. F. Trumble in the chair, and G. W. Cook, Secretary, at which resolutions were adopted protesting against the restoration of civil government until the complete restoration of peace, and the possibility of establishing civil government on a " loyal and equal basis." Copies of the resolutions adopted were sent to President Lincoln, Major-General Ord, commanding the department of Virginia, and Brigadier-General Gordon, commanding the District, with a report of the proceedings of the meeting, and a memorial on behalf of the meeting, signed by the Chairman and Secretary.
On the 4th of April, 1865, another meeting of the colored people of Norfolk was held at the Mechanics' Hall, Rev. Wm. I. Hodges, President, which resulted in the formation of the " Colored Monitor Union Club," the primary object of which, as stated in the Constitution, was to be " to promote union and harmony among the colored portion of this community, and to enlighten each other on the important subject of the right of universal suffrage to all loyal men, without distinction of color; to memorialize the Congress of the United States to allow the colored citizens the equal right of franchise with other citizens; to call frequent meetings, and procure suitable speakers for the same; to form auxiliary clubs throughout the Eastern District of Virginia; to give publicity to our views all over the country; to assist the present administration in putting down the enemies of the government; and to protect, strengthen and defend all friends of the Union." The organization of the club was completed April 6th, by the election of President, Vice Presidents, Treasurer and Secretaries. In pursuance of the objects of the club, large and enthusiastic public meetings of the colored citizens of Norfolk were held in the Mechanics' Hall, on April 25th, May 2d, and May 16th, at which much information was disseminated respecting the movement in behalf of negro suffrage.
Besides the discussion of the question by the Colored Monitor Union Club, a lively interest was taken in the matter by the larger body of colored people outside the club organization, and a mass meeting was held May 11th, at the Bute Street Baptist Church(colored). The church was crowded, and Dr. Thomas Bayne was chosen President, and A. Portlock, Secretary. After prayer by the President, a Committee on Business was appointed, who reported the following resolutions, to wit:
1st. Resolved, That the rights and interests of the colored citizens of Virginia are more directly, immediately and deeply affected in the restoration of the State to the Federal Union than any other class of citizens; and hence, that we have peculiar claims to be heard in regard to the question of its reconstruction, and that we cannot keep silence without dereliction of duty to ourselves, to our country, and to our God.
2d. Resolved, That personal servitude having been abolished in Virginia, it behooves us, and is demanded of us, by every consideration of right and duty, to speak and act as freemen, and, as such, to claim and insist upon equality before the law, and equal rights of suffrage at the ballot-box.
3d. Resolved, That it is a wretched policy, and most unwise statesmanship, that would withhold from the laboring population of the country any of the rights of citizenship essential to their well-being, and to their advancement and improvement as citizens.
4th. Resolved, That invidious political or legal distinctions, on account of color merely, if acquiesced in, or voluntarily submitted to, is inconsistent with our own self-respect, or the respect of others, placing us at great disadvantages, and seriously retarding our advancement or progress in improvement; and that the removal of such disabilities and distinctions is alike demanded by sound political economy, patriotism, humanity and religion.
5th. Resolved, That we will prove ourselves worthy of the elective franchise by insisting upon it as a right, by not tamely submitting to its deprivation, by never abusing it by voting the State out of the Union, and never using it for purposes of rebellion, treason or oppression.
6th. Resolved, That the safety of all loyal men, black and white, in the midst of the recently slaveholding States, requires that all loyal men, black or white, should have equal political and civil rights, and that this is a necessity, as a protection against the votes of secessionists and disloyal men. 
7th. Resolved, That traitors shall not dictate or prescribe to us the terms or conditions of our citizenship; so help us God.
8th. Resolved, That, as far as in us lies, we will not patronize or hold business relations with those who would deny us our equal rights.
9. Resolved, That we recommend that a Delegate Convention be held, for the purpose of carrying out the foregoing objects and designs, and that this meeting appoint a committee of seven to aid in getting up said Convention.
On motion, Lemuel W. Lee, Rev. John M. Brown, Rev. Thomas Henson, and Edward 
W. Williams, were appointed a committee to carry out the objects and designs of the resolutions, and call this meeting again as soon as practicable.
In the meantime, the collapse of the rebellion, and the subsequent recognition by President Johnson of Governor Pierpont as the Governor of the State of Virginia, also the approach of the time appointed by the new so-called Constitution of the State of Virginia for the State and Congressional elections, led to the appearance of several candidates for the honor of representing Norfolk in Congress and the State Legislature. Of the opinions and character of these candidates it is not necessary here to say one word, save that most of them were entirely unfavorable to negro suffrage. By proclamation of Gov. Pierpont, the Congressional elections were postponed, owing to the absence of county organizations, but the State elections were authorized to proceed. In view of the position of affairs, a call was issued by a number of white Unionists of the city for a "mass meeting of all loyal citizens, without distinction of birth or color, to be held at the City Hall, May 23d, 1865," to take such action as might be deemed desirable, in view of the coming elections. Although but short notice had been given, the meeting was attended by about 150 white, and over 2000 colored citizens. The meeting was organized by the choice of Calvin Pepper, Esq., Chairman, and Messrs. Dear, Baker and Paige, as Secretaries. A Committee of seven, five of whom were colored citizens, was appointed to draft resolutions to be submitted to the meeting. Addresses were delivered, during the absence of the Committee on Resolutions, and, on the Committee returning, the
<c03>
following preamble and resolutions were reported, which, after a little discussion, were put to the meeting seriatim, and adopted unanimously:-
Whereas, it is proposed to hold an election for representatives to the General Assembly of Virginia, from this, the 2d District, in accordance with the provisions of a Constitution framed by a Convention assembled at Alexandria, Va., on the 13th day of February, 1864; and,
Whereas, the said Constitution has never been submitted to the people of the State for their approval, and has therefore no claim to be regarded as otherwise than provisional; and,
Whereas, by this so-called Constitution there is no provision by -which the votes of loyal colored men can be received by the conductors of elections; and,
Whereas, It is desirable that the civil government of the State should be reorganized as soon as compatible with the interests of the United States, upon a basis which shall give to all loyal citizens the right of suffrage, and of deciding upon the Constitution of the reorganized State: therefore,
Resolved, That, as loyal citizens, we can recognize no civil government or civil officers in this State, except so far as recognized or approved by the general government; and that we will sustain and carry out. to the best of our ability, the policy of the general government in the reconstruction of the “Federal Union.
Resolved, That justice, humanity, sound political economy, and the public safety, require that all loyal men should be equal before the law, and have equal rights of suffrage at the ballot-box, without distinction of birth, sect, creed, or color.
Resolved, That in view of the natural rights, enunciated in the last resolution, the political necessities of the times, and the fact that the Constitution of the State authorizing the coming election is but provisional, and that the results of the said election will depend for their validity on their recognition by the government of the United States, the colored people of this district already possess the legal as well as the natural right to vote, and that we call upon the loyal colored men of this District to go to the polls on Thursday next, in their respective election precincts, and there tender their votes on behalf of the candidates of their choice.
Resolved, That a committee of five be appointed by the chair, to take such action as may be deemed desirable, in case of the rejection, by the conductors of the election, of the votes so offered.
Resolved, That, in view of the exigencies of the times, and the necessity that all men elected to State offices should be men of tried fidelity to the Union, and of liberal sentiments, and that the candidates now before the public are in no way representative of the loyal citizens of Norfolk, but only of themselves, we therefore nominate and pledge ourselves to the support at the polls of the following candidates:-
For the Senate-D. W. Todd, Sr.
House of Delegates-Francis De Cordy and James H. Hall.
Resolved, That he Secretary be instructed to transmit the foregoing resolutions to the Secretary of State, with a request that they be laid before the President of the United States, and that copies of the same be sent to those members of Congress who have shown themselves favorable to the elective franchise of the colored man, and the same be published in the local paper, and also sent to the other papers friendly to the cause, with a request for insertion.
CALVIN PEPPER, President.
T. L. R. BAKER,
JOSEPH A. DEAR, Secretaries.
A committee was appointed to request the attendance of the gentlemen named as candidates, who had also previously been nominated by the Union League of white loyal citizens, that the meeting might have an expression of their political views. All the candidates attended, and, with the exception of Mr. De Cordy, distinctly pledged themselves to vote for the enfranchisement of the colored population, if elected to the State Legislature. It is needless to inform those who know the colored people, that the greatest order and decorum prevailed at the meeting, although the speeches delivered there were by the newspapers of the city characterized as "incendiary.”
The above resolutions were also endorsed at a meeting of the "Monitor Union Club,” held the same evening at the Bute Street Baptist Church,(colored.) 
On the morning of Thursday, May 25th, the day of election, a large gathering of colored men took place at the Bute Street Methodist Church, at 8 A. M., over five hundred being present at the commencement of the proceedings, which number was afterwards largely increased. A committee having been appointed by the chairman of the public meeting, in accordance with the resolution, the Committee proceeded to make, arrangements for conducting the voting by dividing the persons present into four bodies, according to the ward in which each lived. It was at first determined to proceed in a body to the polls, and there tender the votes, but lest the obstruction to the polling, caused by the presence of such large bodies of men at the, polling place, should afford a pretext for disturbance, it was decided to appoint four Committees to proceed to the polling places in each ward, and ascertain, by tendering their own individual votes, whether the votes of colored citizens would be received, either on the polling book, or if not, on the separate list provided by law for contested or disputed votes. The Committees appointed were as follows:
1st Ward-Albert Portlock, Thomas Wisher, and Junius Fraser.
2d Ward-T. F. Paige, Jr., J. T. Wilson, and Peter Shepherd.
3d Ward-E. W. Williams, Geo. W. Cook, W. Southall.
4th Ward-Geo. W. Dawley, B. Woodhouse, Rev. Mr. Lewis, and A. Wilson.
The Rev. J. M. Brown was elected Chairman, and Dr. Thomas Bayne Secretary.
During the absence of the committees appointed as above, the meeting engaged in prayer for the success of their efforts. On their return, the committees from the 1st, 3d, and 4th wards reported that the conductors of the elections in those wards refused to receive the votes of colored people, in any manner whatever, while the committee from the 2d ward alone reported that the conductors of the election in that ward had consented to receive the votes of colored men upon a separate list, as of voters whose qualifications were a matter of dispute. On this announcement being made, the whole assembly rose, and, at the instance of the Chairman, sang the hymn, "Praise God, from whom all blessings flow.”
Arrangements were immediately made by which the colored citizens of that ward should proceed to. the polling place, ten at a time, and there tender their votes and for recording at the Bute Street African Methodist Church the votes rejected at the other polling places. The names of the voters living in the 1st, 3d and 4th wards were registered, and their votes received by the committees for those wards, before mentioned, and though occupying the whole day, the proceedings were conducted with the most perfect order and decorum.
The results of the day's polling were, at the church:
Todd, 712 De Cordy, 712 Hall, 712
which, with 354 votes cast for the same candidates, in the second ward, made the whole number of colored votes 1066; no colored vote being cast for any other than the candidates mentioned. The result of the white voting was widely different, though full of encouragement to the friends of negro suffrage, since the candidates pledged to that policy stood second on the poll, the result of the day's polling being as follows:
Robinson, 150 Todd, 89 Harrison, 81
Ellis, 124 DeCordy, 83 Hill, 81
Hardey, 133 Hall, 108 Cole, 20
When it is considered that only three years ago any man suspected of the slightest tinge of abolitionism would have been, at least, ridden on a rail out of the
<c04>
city, if he were fortunate enough to escape hanging in the market-place, while now the avowed advocates of negro suffrage, on their first appeal to the people of this city, stand only second at the poll, there is quite enough in that single fact to fill every patriotic heart with wonder and gratitude at the astounding progress which, under Providence, has been made by public opinion in the direction of impartial freedom. 
A meeting was held in the same place in the evening, Thomas Wisher in the chair. F. F. Paige, Jr., and A. T. Wilson acting as Secretaries, and after various congratulatory remarks on the proceedings of the day, it was resolved " that Calvin Pepper,. Esq., and the committees of election held in this place today, be requested to attend at the meeting of the Inspectors of Election, at the City Hall, to-morrow, to take such measures as may seem desirable, in consequence of the proceedings of to-day." It was also resolved that the proceedings of to-day be published in pamphlet form, to be accompanied by an address to men of all classes and conditions throughout the country, and that five thousand copies there-of should be printed for distribution.
No meeting of Inspectors of the Elections was held next morning, but the result of the polling was published by the Sheriff, from the returns of the conductors of elections, and no notice taken, or remark made, respecting the colored votes registered in the second ward. The Committees of the election held at the Bute Street Church met at Mr. Pepper's office, when affidavits were prepared, setting forth the circumstances attending the registry of the votes rejected in the 1st, 3d and 4th wards, but taken at the church, and also as to the number of votes given in the 2d ward. On these affidavits, it is proposed when the legislature meets, to present a petition claiming the election, on the ground that these votes were improperly refused.

Selections.
THE ANDERSONVILLE HORRORS.
Mr. O. S. Belcher testified that he had served in the 16th Illinois Cavalry, and was a prisoner at Andersonville from the 8th of March until September, 1864. He thought that Capt. Wirz assumed command about the 1st of April. On one occasion, Wirz came into the stockade, when a cripple, walking on crutches, approached, and asked to go outside. The request was refused, and the cripple said he would rather be shot than stay there. The witness soon heard Wirz order a sentinel to tell that man if he did not go back he would shoot him. The man did not return, when the sentinel fired, and shot him in the jaw. Wirz afterward threatened to shoot the other men, if they did not go away. On another occasion, while the prisoners were being divided into squads of hundreds, one of the men, owing to sickness, did not fall in, and Wirz threatened to shoot him, and did shoot him; the ball went through the man's hat. The prisoners were kept in the sun all day, and not allowed to procure water. If the squad could not give a satisfactory account of any one of their missing number, they were deprived of their rations. This was the case for three days early in July. He had heard Wirz say he was killing more Yankees than those who were serving at the front. Witness had seen twenty or thirty men shot over the "deadline,” and others fired at who were not over the " dead line.”
The witness gave various instances of men being shot; one was shot while in his tent for merely stretching his arm beyond the " dead line "; another was shot at for treading over the line. He heard Capt. Wirz order the sentinel to shoot the cripple. Some of those shot were killed, and others were taken to the hospital.
James H. Davidson testified that he was a member of the Iowa cavalry, and taken as a prisoner to Andersonville on the 8th of March. He described the filthy condition of the prisoners. For a week be drove the dead wagon; sometimes twenty-five men were thrown into the wagon at a time, and on the return, he would bring wood and rations in the same cart. He had seen the rebel soldiers with shirts, blankets and shoes on them that were sent there by the Sanitary Commission for the use of our men. Capt. Wirz, he knew, made a breakfast on some of the crackers, cheese and beef sent there for our prisoners. He had seen four hundred or five hundred boxes at the depot with supplies. They were marked " U. S." It was a common thing for men to be put in the chain-gang. One man died in the chain-gang, with an iron collar around his neck. He had seen the hounds there; there were two kinds, ketch dogs and bull terriers. One of the dogs badly tore the flesh from a man's leg. Another man was hanging up his clothes, which he had washed, to dry; one of the pieces blew over the "dead line.” He stepped beyond the line to get the piece, when he was fired upon, and shot in the breast. Another man had reached beyond the "dead line” for some crumbs of bread, when he was shot in the head. Wirz shot a man a short time after he assumed command of the prison; the latter was sick, lying on the ground, and asked Wirz for something, when Wirz shot him. Wirz remarked that he was killing more Yankees there than Lee was at Richmond. This was said in August. Wirz was at the time with witness in the grave-yard in the wagon with a dead body. The witness had seen men starve to death. Food was so scarce at one time that some of them picked up particles of food that had already passed through the system.
John H. Goldsmith, of the 14th Illinois Infantry, testified to Wirz giving orders to the guards to fire upon any one who spoke to them, etc. Witness heard Wirz say he was doing more good there than in the field, and that he whipped more men than Gen. Johnson did. Witness, while employed in Wirz's office, made out a furlough for a rebel soldier named Scott, who said he earned it by killing a Union prisoner. The latter's name was Henry Lack-mire, of the Pennsylvania Reserves.
Jarvis Dyer, of the 12th United States colored troops, testified that Wirz proposed to the colored prisoners that if they took the oath to the South, they could choose their own masters; and some of the guard said Wirz declared he would make the white prisoners join the Confederates by starving them. Witness was for some time a servant at the house of Dr. White, and was sent thither by Wirz, for which he received no pay. Wirz brought to Dr. White three thousand letters, addressed to Union prisoners. He handed them to Capt. Reed's wife, who was staying there. She took everything out of the letters, such as money, needles, thread, pictures, &c. She laughed at the contents of the letters, making fun of them, and then ordered him to burn them. He had seen the rebels wearing the clothing which had been sent to the prisoners. He heard one of the surgeons at Dr. White's say, "I have poisoned five Yankees to-day “; and another would say, " I have poisoned ten." They were laughing and drinking at the time. He also heard surgeons say they were going to vaccinate and take off the arms of the Yankees. They would be frequently laughing about the poison. Mrs. Reed took from the letters four or five hundred dollars, which she kept in a box until the prison was broken up. He did not know what became of the money.
Felix de la Baume, of the 79th New York, testified, among other things, of Capt. Wirz's firing two shots at two men who were drawing water; he saw one of them in a dying condition. Capt. Wirz accompanied the act with the exclamation: "That's the way I get rid of you damned sons of bitches.” The witness related other perpetrations of cruelty, such as keeping men for long periods without water, putting men in the stocks, fastening them with ball and chain, bucking and gagging, and the hunting by the hounds. He saw two men killed at the dead line. As for himself, when he was conveyed to the prison, he weighed 150 pounds, but when be left he weighed only 90 pounds, and was a mere skeleton; he owed the saving of his life to Dr. Bates, an Acting Assistant-Surgeon at the hospital. Owing to the starved condition of the prisoners, rats were a great delicacy. Dr. Bates managed to get them something to eat, and therefore no more rats were caught.
Charles E. Tibets, of the 4th Iowa Regiment, testified to the cruelties of Capt. Wirz, and the filthy condition of the grounds; the filth was buried from a foot to l8 inches deep, but when the rain fell, it was all washed out, filled with lice and maggots, and this extended throughout the prison,. On one occasion, Wirz said to the witness and his companions:" Bring me Bill Crandall, and I'll give
<c05>
you $500 out of my own pocket; and you young sons of bitches, I'll make you smell hell before night; you are sentenced to work in the graveyard every day, be put on half-rations, stand in the stocks at night, and be the last men exchanged. If you don't work, I'll put you on top of the dead, and cover you up." The next day, Capt. Wirz, in pursuance of orders, sent them to Florence.
W. W. Cradall, Fourth Iowa, testified as to a man being badly bitten in the calves by dogs, and soon thereafter fastened at each ankle with a chain and ball; the man having been kept in this condition for several weeks, the witness went to Wirz and pleaded for the release of the prisoner; but Wirz said he could not do it; the legs were swollen and had a putrified look; a rebel surgeon being appealed to, said he could not conscientiously take off more than one chain, which he did; the man finally died. The witness, as one of the detailed sextons, helped to bury thirty or forty of the men who had been shot. During the time General Sherman was marching from Atlanta to the coast, the prisoners were of course very anxious to hear the news; a report came that Sherman and his staff and fifteen thousand prisoners had been captured; Captain Wirz said be hoped this was true, and that if the prisoners were sent there, he could take care of more damned Yankees than four regiments in the front. On one occasion, a barrel of rotten perk was sent to the Commissary's office to be used by the Yankees; the witness was employed in that office; the next day he received orders to weigh out the same number of pounds of beef, and turn it over to Captain Wirz, who wanted the best, saying it was for his own eating; he knew the pork came from Captain Wirz's headquarters. Prisoners who had money could procure food; one of them bought a pie, but soon vomited it up; another prisoner near by grabbed up the rejected pieces, and ate them.
Cross-examined by Mr. Baker-The dead were buried by Union prisoners, under the superintendence of a rebel sergeant; the bodies were not treated indecently, excepting that they were carted like logs of wood, in order to get a full load, as there was only one wagon; officers and soldiers frequently came to the grave-yard, and upbraided-them for not burying the dead in better style, saying they ought to work at night as well as day; there were not more than thirty men employed in burying the dead, and in vain they had endeavored to procure more help; some of the visiting rebels said: " This graveyard would make a good vineyard, the Yankee bones affording good manure; let us invite their Yankee, friends to come and eat of the grapes.” He himself was put in the stocks for attempting to escape; he had proceeded one hundred and sixty miles before he was apprehended by scouts as a rebel deserter; fearing he would be hung for being a deserter, he told them he was a Yankee; this was in September, 1864.
William Van Buren, Second New York cavalry, testified as to blankets and pants from the Sanitary Commission having been appropriated by the rebels. Wirz said to him he could "take care of more God damned Yankees than Lee at the front;” Wirz had threatened to shoot the witness for some trivial complaint, and ordered the guard to fire upon a man who had stepped out to pick up a piece of wood; he hastened back to the ranks before the guard could shoot. The witness said, among other things, that prisoners were reduced to skeletons, and would go to the sinks to pick up undigested particles of food. He mentioned several cases of shooting men; one of them was said by at least twenty men to have been shot by Captain Wirz himself.

THE WIRZ TRIAL.
At the close of the proceedings in the Wirz trial lately, a remarkable scene took place. The witness on the stand, an Indiana cavalryman, named George W. Gray, had been testifying to some outrage on the part of Wirz, that had not been put in evidence before. He stated that the party of prisoners, in whose company he arrived at Andersonville, were ordered to place their blankets, knapsacks, haversacks, canteens, etc., in one place, when an officer mounted on a gray horse rode up, and told the Confederate soldiers to help themselves, and let the prisoners have the remainder.
The Confederates helped themselves, and there was nothing left. He was not certain whether the mounted officer was Wirz or not. In June or July, 1864, the witness, and a young man named Underwood, of the 7th Indiana Cavalry, went to the sutler's tent. Wirz was there, and Underwood asked for something to rub his wound with. The sutler said he would give it, when Wirz said, "No, he cannot have it unless he pays me a dollar.” Underwood gave him his only money, which was a $10 bill, and when he asked for the change, Wirz kicked him out of the door.
The witness was put in the stocks four days for attempting to escape; he knew a man to die in the stocks, in August or September, 1864; the negroes took him out of the stocks after he was dead, threw his body into a wagon, and hauled it off; he knew Wirz to shoot a young fellow, named William Stewart, of the 9th Minnesota Infantry; he and the witness had gone our of the stockade with a dead body, which they had begged, when they met Captain Wirz, who rode up to them after they had left the body in the dead-house, and asked them by what authority they were out there; Stewart replied that they were there by proper authority; Wirz said no more, but drew his revolver and shot him; after Steward was dead, the guards took from his body twenty or thirty dollars, and Wirz took the money from the guards and rode off, telling them lo carry the witness to prison; it was witness' determination to escape if be could, and for that reason he had gone out, but was not attempting to do so at the time; when the prisoners were being removed to the cars to be exchanged, Wirz gave orders to Lieut. Davis to bayonet any man who laid down in the road, and witness had seen men who were crawling on their hands and knees to the cars bayoneted by the guards; witness heard one to the surgeons ask Wirz when he was going to remove the Yankees, and Wirz reply was, "Damn these Yankees; they will all be dead in a few days anyhow;” witness had seen a prisoner, who had been caught by the dogs, with part of his cheek torn off, and his arms and legs gnawed, so that be only lived twenty-four hours.
The first time that he had known Wirz personally was one day when he heard Lieutenant Davis call his name, at the gate.”
Col. Chipman said, "Captain Wirz, will you be good enough to stand up?”
The prisoner, who had been lying all day on a lounge, squirmed round, partly raising himself till his his eyes, lit up with a wild and haggard expression, and yet glaring like those of a wild animal brought to bay, met the eyes of the witness.
Col. Chipman to the witness—"Do you recognize that man as the man who shot your comrade?”
The witness slowly and emphatically said, "That is the man.”
The prisoner here made an effort to contradict the witness, muttering some incoherent expressions about not having been seen by the witness with Lieutenant Davis. He was with difficulty restrained and silenced by the officers having him in charge. The Judge Advocate, apparently not satisfied with the opportunity which the witness had for identification, asked the prisoner to rise. Gathering up as well as he could his loose, ill-jointed frame, which appeared as if it might fall to pieces, the prisoner tottered lo his feet, and was supported in that attitude by the officer of the guard, while his eyes wore such a wild expression that it was hard to repress sympathy for the unfortunate man. Again the Judge Advocate repeated his question to the witness, whose reply this time was more hesitating, "I think that is the man.” Another wild and fruitless attempt at contradiction was made by Wirz, when he was partly drawn and partly rank on the lounge, where, by order of General Wallace, he was furnished with cold water, and was fanned by the officers. The court thereupon adjourned, General Wallace ordering the room to be cleared instantly, so that the fainting and apparently dying man might have more air.

TERRIBLE SCENE AT SUSPENSION BRIDGE.
On Friday morning last, an affair occurred at Suspension Bridge, New York, which has created the greatest excitement in the community where it transpired, but which, for some unaccountable reason, has not found its way generally into the daily press. From the statement of an eye-witness of the greater portion of the scenes, a conductor on the Great Western Railroad, who resides in the vicinity, we are enabled to give a summary of the particulars. It appears that at a house of ill-fame kept by Jenny and Maria Jones, a place of the most unenviable notoriety in the locality, where
<c06>
genteel debauchery holds nightly revel, a person from Buffalo or New York was robbed of all his personal possessions. The character of this house and adjoining ones has been such that for some time the proper efforts of the law have been set at defiance. It is utterly impossible to explain perfectly why these sinks of infamy have been allowed to flourish, except that influence, money, or intimidation, or all three, have given them nutriment or support. These houses are all situated along the line of the New York Central Railroad, between the bridge and the falls, and being furnished with all the magnificence that money could procure, were the habitual resort of male visitors to the favorite watering-place. The good people of the struggling town were almost powerless, socially, to put a stop to the scandalous proceeding which transpired immediately beneath their notice, and were per force obliged to submit. On Thursday night, however, when the outrage was committed, a constable named Andrew Franks, an officer whose bold determination made him the terror of evil-doers, and whose services as such were almost constantly in requisition, was called upon to exercise the functions of his position. And here a veil of mystery hangs over the dark proceedings which followed. It is known that he went to the house alluded to, but that is all, until the next morning, when he was found in the street, a short distance from the house, with a bullet through his heart.
When the news of the tragedy had spread throughout the place, the indignation of the people knew no bounds. As if by common consent, they rose in their might, and determined to wipe out at one stroke the cause of the foul murder. Shortly after ten o'clock the people of the village, both male and female, gathered in strength, and surrounded the premises. Several men sprang forward with axes in their hands, among whom were two sons of the murdered man, and commenced their work of demolition. When the places were ripe for the torch, it was applied, and soon the row of fine buildings, in which crime and corruption festered in the broad glare of civilization and society, were a blazing pile. The female inmates were soon smoked out, and as soon as they presented themselves outside, were arrested and taken to the lock-up. The work of destruction was carried on until one house after another was turned into a funeral pile. Not a dollar's worth of the costly furniture, including grand and square pianos, and the most expensive furniture which the extravagance of luxury could procure, was saved. Jewels, of rare value were handed out through the doors and windows, and consigned to the hissing tomb. All were massed in one heap, and ruthlessly destroyed. Such an awful scene of indignation and utter destruction has been very seldom witnessed. The women of the place turned out in hundreds, and, exulting in the riddance of the pest-houses, continually cheered and applauded the men in their work of demolition. Throughout the day, the excitement was of the most intense kind, and threats were made openly against the lives of the inmates of the houses. An inquest was held on the body of Franks, and the facts developed thereat strongly pointed to certain parties belonging to the houses destroyed. They were all arrested, but were subsequently released, and left the place, and came west as far as London, C. W., where they now are.

HOW PETROLEUM NASBY CAME TO JOIN THE DEMOCRACY.
SAINT'S REST, (wich is in the Stait uv Noo Gersey,) Aug. 20, 1865.}
I wuz born a Whig. My parents wuz a member uv that party, leastways my mother quz, and she alluz did the votin, allowin my father, uv course, to go through the manual labor uv castin the ballot, in deference to the laws uv the country, wich does not permit females or niggers to vote, no matter how much intelleck they may hav in2 em.
In all probability I shood hev cast my lot with that party hed not a insident occurred, in my boyhood days, with satisfied me that the Dimoerisy wuz my approprit and nateral abiding place, It wuz in this wise:
In a playful mood, wun nite, I bustid open a grosery, and appropriated, ez a jest, what loose change ther wuz in the drawer,(alars! in these degenerit days uv paper currency, the enterprisin theef hez to steel at 40 per sent, discount,) and sich other notions ez struck my boyish fancy. I indoost a nigger boy, sumwhat younger than myself, to aid me, and when we had bagged the game, I, feelin in my pride ez wun hevin the proud Anglo-Sacksun blood a coursin toomulchusly thro his vanes, what Cheef Justice Taney hez since made law, to wit: that the nigger hez no rites wich the white man is bound to respeck, whaled him till he resined the entire proceeds uv the speckulashun tome. The degraded wretch, devoid uv every principle uv honor, blowed on me, and we wuz both arrestid. 
The Justis of the Pease wuz a whig, and after a burried eggsaminashen, he sentenst me! one uv his own race! one uv his own blud! uv his own parentige! to emprizenment for THIRTY DAYS! on bread and water, and the nigger to only ten, on the ground that I wuz the chief offender!
My muther beggd and prayd, with tears a streamin down her venerable cheeks faster than she could wipe em up with her gingum apern; that the arrangement might be reversed—the nigger the 30 and I the 10, but no. Cold as a stun, inflexible as iron, bludlis ez a turnip, I wuz inkarseratid, and stayed my time.
Sullenly I emerged from them walls, on the evening uv the 30th day, a changed individjoel. Liftin my hands 2 heven, I vowed 3 vows, to wit:
1. That I wood devote my life to the work uv redoosin the African to his normal speer. 
2. That I would adopt a perfershin in2 which I I cood steel without being hauled up fer it.
3. That the water I bed consoomed while in doorance vile, wuz the last that wood ever find its way, undilooted, into my stummick.
Henz I jined the Dimocrisy, and whoever eggsamines my record, will find that I HEV KEP MY OATH!
PETROLEUM V. NASBY,
Lait Paster uv the Church uv the Noo Dispensashun.

WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Jr.,
WOOL COMMISSION MERCHANT,
No. 6 Channing Street, Boston. 
WITH every facility for for selling Wool to the best advantage,—a good store, situated the centre of the Boston trade, and an extensive acquaintance with manufacturers,—I respectfully solicit consignments.
No market offers greater inducements to the Wool Grower than this. It is the headquarters for New-England manufacturers; here are their agencies, and here it is most convenient for them to buy. My terms for selling are as follows:
WHEN ADVANCE ARE NOT REQUIRED,
One par cent. per pound, and one per cent.(and government tax of one-tenth of one per cent) on sales.
WHEN ADVANCE ARE REQUIRED,
Five per cent. (and government tax) on sales. These charges cover all expenses after the Wool is received in store, for three months,—labor, storage, insurance and selling. If required to carry it over three months, additional expenses will be charged. Interest on advances and other dibursements reckoned at the legal rate of this State.
I shall aim to keep my consignors thoroughly informed; and all Wool sent to me will be carefully graded to suit the market. Letters, asking information, will be promptly answered. Address P. 0. Box 1861.
References:
Messrs. HALLOWELL & CORURN, Boston.
Messrs. HALLOWELL & PRESCOTT & Co. New York.
Messrs. DAVIS, FISS & BANES, Philadelphia.
Boston, August, 1865.

NEW ENGLAND 
FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.
THE Eighteenth Annual Term of seventeen weeks will commence Nov. 1, 1865. PROFESSORS-Stephen Tracy, M. D., Theory and Practice of Medicine; Frances S. Cooke, M. D., Anatomy, also of Physiology and Hygiene; Edward Aiken, M. D., Materia Medica, Therapeuties and Chemistry; Minerva C. Meriam, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children; Albert B. Robinson, M. D., Principles and Practice of Surgery and Medical Jurisprudence; Mercie H. Dyer, M. D., Demonstrator of Anatomy. Tuition fees, to the six Professors and Demonstrators, $65-free to students needing aid.
SAMUEL GREGORY, Secretary,
30, Canton Street, Boston, Mass.
Sept 8. 3w

WEST NEWTON
ENGLISH AND CLASSICAL SCHOOL
THE next term begins Wednesday, Sept. 6, 1865. For particulars, address NATH'L T. ALLEN.
Sept 1
