THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING
AT
231 WASHING STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
<illegible> TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, it advance.
<illegible> Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLARS, if payment is made in advance.
<illegible> All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
<illegible> Advertisement inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
<illegible> The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvanian, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
<illegible> The following gentlemen constitute the Financial (committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the <illegible>, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMOND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers 
VOL. XXXII. NO. 24. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 13, 1862 WHOLEN NO 1642
Selections.
<c01>
REBEL BARBARITIES.
In the Senate of the United States, May 1, 1862, Mr. WADE submitted the following
REPORT:
The Joint Committee on the conduct of the present war beg <illegible> respectfully to submit a report, in part, as follows:
On the first day of April the Senate of the United States adopted the following resolution which was referred to the committee on the conduct of the war:
<illegible>, That the select committee on the conduct of the war be directed to collect the evidence with regard to the barbarous treatment by the rebels at Manassas, of the remains of officers and soldiers of the United States killed in battle there; and that the said selected committee also inquire into the fact whether the Indian savages have been employed by the rebels, in their military services, against the government of the United States, and how such warfare has been conducted by said savages.
In pursuance of the instructions contained in this resolution. Your committee have the honor to report that they examined a number of witnesses, whose testimony is herewith submitted.
Mr. Nathaniel F. Parker, who was captured at Falling Waters. Virginia, testifies that he was kept in close confinement, denied exercise, and, with a number of others, huddled up in a room; that their food, generally scant, was always bad, and sometimes <illegible> that the wounded had neither medical attention nor humane treatment, and that many of these latter died from sheer neglect; that five of the prisoners were shot by the sentries outside, and that he saw one man. Tibbitts, of the New York 27th regiment, shot as he was passing his window on the <illegible> of November, and that he died of the wound on the 12th. The perpetrator of this foul murder was subsequently promoted by the rebel government.
Dr. J. M. Homiston, surgeon of the 14th New York, or Brooklyn regiment, captured at Bull Run, testifies that when he solicited permission to remain of the field and attend to wounded men, some of whom were in a helpless and painful condition and suffering for water, .he was brutally refused. They offered him neither water nor anything in the shape of food. He and his companions stood in the streets of Manassas, surrounded by a threatening and <illegible> crowd, and were afterwards thrust into an old building, and left, without sustenance or <illegible>, to sleep on the bare floor. It was only when <illegible> and exhausted, in response to their earnest petitions, they having been without food for 24 hours, that some cold bacon was grudgingly given to them. When, at last, they were permitted to go to the relief of our wounded, the secession surgeon would not allow them to perform operations, but intrusted the wounded to his young assistants, "some of them with no more knowledge of what they attempted to do than an apothecary's clerk;” and further, "that these inexperienced surgeons performed operations upon our men in a most horrible manner; some of them were absolutely frightful.” "When,” he adds, "I asked Doctor Darby to allow me to amputate the leg of Corporal Prescott, of our regiment, and said that the man must die if it were not done, he told me that I should be allowed to do it. ”While Doctor Homiston was waiting, he says a secessionist, came through the room and said, "They are operating upon one of the Yankees' legs up stairs.” I went and found that they had cut off Prescott's leg. The assistants were pulling on the flesh at each side, trying to get flap enough to cover the bone. They had <illegible> off the bone without leaving any of the flesh <illegible> from the flaps to cover it; and with all the force they could use they could not get flap enough to cover the bone. They were them obliged to saw off about an inch more of the bone, and even then, when they came to put in the sutures (the stitches) they could not approximate the edges within less than an inch and a half of each other; of course, as soon at there was any swelling, the stitches tore out and the bone stuck through again. Doctor Swalm <illegible> afterwards to remedy it by performing another operation, but Prescott had become so debilitated that he did not survive.” Corporal Prescott was a <illegible> man of high position, and had received a very liberal education."
The same witness describes the suffering of the wounded after the battle as inconceivably horrible-with had food, no covering, no water. "They were <illegible> upon the floor as thickly as they could be <illegible> "There was not a particle of light in the <illegible> to enable us to move among them.” Deaf to all his appeals, they continued to refuse water to these suffering men, and he was only enabled to procure it by setting cups under the eaves to catch the main that was falling, and in this way he spent the <illegible> catching the water and conveying it to the wounded to drink. As there was no light, he was obliged to crawl on his hands and knees to avoid <illegible> on their wounded limbs; and he adds, "It is not wonder that next morning we found that several had died during the night.” The young surgeons who seemed to delight in hacking and butchering these brave defenders of our country's flag, were not, it would seem, permitted to perform any operations upon the rebel wounded. "Some of our wounded,” says this witness, "were left lying upon the battle-field until Tuesday night and Wednesday morning. When brought in, their wounds were completely alive with larvae deposited there by the flies, having lain out through all the rain <illegible> of Monday, and the hot sultry sunshine of Tuesday. “The dead laid upon the field unburied for five days; and this included men not only of his own, the 14th regiment, but of other regiments. This witness testifies that the rebel dead were earned off and interred decently. In answer to a question whether the confederates themselves were also destitute of medicines, he replied, "They could not have been, for they took all ours, even to our surgical instruments.” He received none of the attention from the surgeons on the other side, "which,” to use his own language, "I should have show to them, had our position been reversed."
The testimony of William F. Swalm, assistant surgeon of the 14th New York regiment, who was taken prisoner at Sudley's church, confirms the statement of Dr. Homiston in regard to the brutal operations on Corporal Prescott. He also states that after he himself had been removed to Richmond, when seated one day with his feet on the <illegible> the sentry outside called to him to take them in and on looking out he saw the sentry with his musket cocked and pointed at him, and withdrew in time to save his life. He gives evidence of the careless, heartless and cruel manner in which the surgeous operated upon our men. Previous to leaving for Richmond, and ten or twelve days after the battle, he saw some of the Union soldiers unburied on the field, and entirely naked. Walking around were a great many women, gloating over the horrid sight.
The case of Dr. Ferguson, of one of the New York regiments, is mentioned by Dr. Swalm. When get-
<c02>
ting into his ambulance to look after his own wounded, he was fired upon by the rebels. When he told them who he was, they said they would take a parting shot at him, which they did, wounding him in the leg. He had his boots on, and his spurs on his boots, and as they drove along, his spurs would catch in the tail-board of the ambulance, causing him to shriek with agony. An officer rode up, and, placing his pistol to his head, threatened to shot him if he continued to scream. This was on Sunday the day of the battle.
One of the most important witnesses was General James B. Ricketts, well known in Washington and throughout the country, lately promoted for his daring and self-sacrificing courage. After having been wounded in the battle of Bull Run, he was captured, and as he lay helpless on his back, a party of rebels passing him cried out, "Knock out his brains, the d-d Yankee.” He met General Beauregard, an old acquaintance, only a year his senior at the United States Military Academy, where both were educated. He had met the rebel general in the south a number of times. By this head of the rebel army on the day after the battle, he was told that his (General Ricketts's) treatment would depend on the treatment extended to the rebel privateers. His first lieutenant, Ramsay, who was killed, was stripped of every article of his clothing but his socks, and left naked on the field. He testified that those of our wounded who died in Richmond were buried in the negro burying-ground among the negroes, and were put into the earth in the most unfeeling manner. The statement of other witnesses as to how the prisoners were treated, is fully confirmed by General Ricketts. He himself, while in prison, subsisted mainly upon what he purchased with his own money, the money brought to him by his wife. "We had,” he says. "what they called bacon soup-soup made of boiled bacon, the bacon being a little rancid-which you could not possibly eat; and that, for a man whose system is being drained by a wound, is no diet at all.”In reply to a question whether he had heard anything about our prisoners being shot by rebel sentries, he answered: "Yes, a number of our men were shot. In one instance two were shot In one was killed and the other wounded, by a man who rested his gun on the window-sill while he capped it."
General Ricketts, in reference to his having been held as one of the hostages for the privateers, states: "I considered it bad treatment to be selected as a hostage for a privateer, when I was so lame that I could not walk, and while my wounds were still open and unhealed. At this time General Winder came to see me. He had been an officer in my regiment: I had known him for twenty odd years. It was on the 9th of November that he came to see me. He saw that my wounds were still unhealed; he saw my condition; but that very day he received an order to select hostages for the privateers, and notwithstanding he knew my condition, the next day, Sunday, the 10th of November, I was selected as one of the hostages.” "I heard,” he continues, "of a great many of our prisoners who had been bayonetted and shot. I saw three of them-two that had been bayonetted and one of them shot. One was named Louis Francis, of the New York 14th. He had received fourteen bayonet wounds-one through his privates-and he had one wound very much like mind, on the knee, in consequence of which his leg was amputated after twelve weeks had passed; and I would state here that in regard to his case, when it was determined to amputate his leg, I heard Dr. Peachy the rebel surgeon remark to one of his young assistants, "I won't be greedy; you may do it;” and the young man did it. I saw a number in my room, many of whom had been badly amputated. The flaps over the stump were drawn too tight, and in some the bones protruded. A man by the name of Prescott (the same referred to in the testimony of Surgeon Homiston) was amputated twice, and was then, I think, removed to Richmond before the taps were healed-Prescott died under this treatment. I heard a rebel doctor on the steps below my room say, that ’he wished he could take out the hearts of the d-d Yankees as easily as he could take off their legs.' Some of the Southern gentlemen treated me very handsomely. Wade Hampton, who was opposed to my battery came to see me, and behaved like a generous enemy."
It appears, as a part of the history of this rebellion that General Ricketts was visited by his wife, who, having first heard that he killed in battle, afterwards that he was alive, but wounded, travelled under great difficulties to Manassas to see her husband. He says, "She had almost to fight her way through, but succeeded finally in reaching me on the fourth day after the battle. There were eight persons in the Lewis House at Manassas, in the room where I lay, and my wife for two weeks slept in that room on the floor by my side, without a bed. When we got to Richmond, there were six of us in a room, among them Colonel Wilcox, who remained with us until he was taken to Charleston. There we were all in one room. There was no door to it. It was all in one room. There was no door to it. It was much as it would be here, if you should take off the doors of this committee-room, and then fill the passage with wounded soldiers. In the hot summer months the stench from their wounds, and from the utensils they used was fearful.' There was no privacy at all, because, there being no door, the room could not be closed. We were there as a common show. Colonel Wilcox and myself were objects of interests, and were gazed upon ad if we were a couple of savages. The people would come in there and say all sorts of things to us and about us, until I was obliged to tell them that I was a prisoner and had nothing to say. On our way to Richmond, when we reached Gordonsville, many women crowded around the cars, and asked my wife if she cooked? if she washed? how she got there?' Finally Mrs. Ricketts appealed to the officer in charge, and told him that it was not the intention that we should be subjected to this treatment, and if it was continued, she would make it known to the authorities. General Johnson took my wife's carriage and horses at Manassas, kept them, and them, and has them yet for aught I know. When I got to Richmond I spoke to several gentlemen about this, and so did Mrs. Ricketts. They said, of course the carriage and horses should be returned, but they never were. "There is one debt,” says this gallant soldier, "that I desire very much to pay, and nothing troubles me so much now as the fact my wounds prevent me from entering upon active service at once."
The case of Lewis Francis, who was terrible wounded and maltreated, and lost a leg, is referred to by General Ricketts; but the testimony of Francis himself is startling. He was a private in the New York 14th regiment. He says; "I was attacked by two rebel soldiers, and wounded in the right knee with the bayonet. As I lay on the sod, they kept beyonetting me until I received fourteen wounds. One then left me, the other remaining over me, when a Union soldier coming up shot him in the breast, and he fell dead. I lay on the ground until 10 o'clock next day. I was then removed in a wagon to a building, my wounds examined and partially dressed. On the Saturday following, we were carried to Manassas, and from there to the general
<c03>
hospital at Richmond. My leg having partially mortified, I consented that it should be amputated which operation was performed by a young man. I insisted that they should allow Dr. Swalm to be present, for I wanted one Union man there if I died under the operation. The stitches and the band slipped from neglect, and the bone protruded; and about two weeks after, another operation was performed, at which time another piece of the thigh bone was sawed off. Six weeks after the amputation and before it healed, I was removed to the tobacco factory."
Two operations were subsequently performed on Francis-one at Fortress Munroe, and one at Brooklyn, New York-after his release from captivity.
Revolting as these disclosures are, it was when the committee came to examine witnesses in reference to the treatment of our heroic dead, that the fiendish spirit of the rebel leaders was most prominently exhibited. Daniel Bixby, jr., of Washington, testifies that he went out in company with Mr. G. A. Smart, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, who went to search for the body of his brother, who fell at Blackburn's ford in the action of the 18th of July. They found the grave. The clothes were identified as those of his brother on account of some peculiarity in the make, for they had been made by his mother: and in order to identify them, other clothes made by her were taken, they might compare them. "We found no head in the grave, and portions of the flesh. We found the remains of three other bodies all together. The clothes were there; some flesh was left, but no bones.” The witness also states that Mrs. Pierce Butler, who lives near the place, said that she had seen the rebels boiling portions of the bodies of our dead, in order to obtain their bones as relics. They could not wait for them to decay. She said that she had seen drumsticks made of "Yankee shinbones,” as they called them. Mrs. Butler also stated that she had seen a skull that one of the New Orleans artillery had, which, he said, he was going to send home and have mounted, and that he intended to drink a brandy punch out of it the day he was married.
Frederick Scholes, of the city of Brooklyn, New York, testified that he proceeded to the battle field of Bull Run on the fourth of this month (April), to find the place where he supposed his brother's body was buried. Mr. Scholes, who is a man of unquestioned character, by his testimony fully confirms the report of other witnesses. He met a free negro, named Simon, or Simons, who stated that it was a common thing for the rebel soldiers to exhibit the bones of the Yankees. "I found,” he says, "in the bushes in the neighborhood, a part of Zouave uniform, with the sleeve sticking out of the grave, and a portion of the pantaloons. Attempting to pull it up, I saw the two ends of the grave were still unopened, but the middle had been pried up, pulling up the extremities of the uniform in some places, the sleeves of the shirt in another, and a portion of the pantaloons. Dr. Swalm (one of the surgeons, whose testimony has already been referred to,) pointed out the trenches where the secessionists had buried their own dead, and, on examination, it appeared that their remains has not been disturbed at all. Mr. Scholes met a free negro, named Hampton, who resided near the place, and when he told him the manner in which these bodies had been dug up, he said he knew it had been done, and added that the rebels had commenced digging bodies two or three days after they were buried, for the purpose, at first, of obtaining the buttons off their uniforms, and that afterwards they disinterred them to get their bones. He said they had taken rails and pushed the ends down in the centre under the middle of the bodies, and pried them up. The information of the negroes of Benjamin Franklin Lewis corroborated fully the statement of this man Hampton. They said that a good many of the bodies had been stripped naked on the field before they were buried, and that some were buried naked. I went to Mr. Lewis's house and spoke to him of the manner in which these bodies had been disinterred. He admitted that it was infamous, and condemned principally the Louisiana Tigers of General Wheat's division. He admitted that our wounded had been very badly treated.” In confirmation of the testimony of Dr. Swalm and Dr. Homiston, this witness avers that Mr. Louis mentioned a number of instances of men who had been murdered by bad surgical treatment. Mr. Lewis was afraid that a pestilence would break out in consequence of the dead being left unburied, and stated that he had gone out and warned the neighborhood and had the dead buried. sending his own men to assist in doing so. "On Sunday morning (yesterday) I went out in search of my brother's grave. We found the trench, and dug for the bodies below. They were eighteen inches to two feet below the surface, and had been hustled in any way. In one end of the trench we found, not more than two or three inches below the surface, the thigh bone of a man which head evidently been dug up after the burial. At the other end of the trench we found the shin-bone of a man which had been struck by a musket ball and split. The bodies at the ends had been pried up. While digging there, a party of soldiers came along and showed us a part of a shinbone five or six inches long, which had the end sawed off. They said that they had found it among other pieces in one of the cabins the rebels had deserted. From the appearances the rebels had deserted. From the appearance of it, pieces had been sawed off to make fingerings. As soon as the negros noticed this, they said that the rebels had had rings made of the bones of our dead, and that they had them for sale in their camps. When Dr. Swalm saw the bone, he said it was part of the shinbone of a man. The soldiers represented that there were lots of these bones scattered through the rebel huts sawed into rings,”&c. Mr. Lewis and his negros all spoke of Colonel James Cameron's body, and knew that "it had been stripped and also where it had been buried.”Mr. Scholes, in answer to a question of one of the committee, described the different treatment extended to the Union soldiers and the rebel dead. The latter had little head-boards placed at the head of their respective graves and marked; none of them had the appearance of having been distrubed.
The evidence of that distinguished and partriotic citizen, Hon. William Sprague, governor of the State of Rhode Island, confirms and fortifies some of the most revolting statements of former witnesses. His object in visiting the battle-field was to recover the Rhode Island regiment. He took out with him several of his own men to identify the graves. On reaching the place, he states that "we commenced digging for the bodies of Colonel Slocum and Major Ballou, at the spot pointed out to them by these men who had been in the action. While digging, some negro women came up and asked whom we were looking for and at the same time said that ’Colonel Slocum ' had been dug up by the rebel, by some men of a Georgia regiment, his head cut off, and his body taken to a ravine thirty or forty yards below, and there burned. We stopped digging and went to the spot designated, where we found coals
<c04>
and ashes and bones mingled together. A little distance from there we found a shirt (still buttoned at the neck) and blanket with large quantities of hair upon it, everything indicating the burning of a body there. We returned and dug down at the spot indicated as the grave of Major Ballou, but found no body there; but at the place pointed out as the grave where Colonel Slocum was buried, we found a box, which, upon being raised and opened, was found to contain the body of Colonel Slocum. The soldiers who had buried the two bodies were satisfied that the grave had been opened; the body taken out, beheaded, and burned, was that of Major Ballou, because it was not in the spot where Colonel Slocum was buried, but rather to the right of it. They at once said that the rebels had made a mistake, and had taken the body of Major Ballou for that of Colonel Slocum. The shirt found near the place where the body was burned, I recognized as one belonging to Major Ballou, as I had been very intimate with him. We gathered up the ashes containing the portion of his remains that were left, and put them in a coffin together with his shirt and the blanket with the hair left upon it. After we had done this, we went to that portion of the field where the battle had first commenced, and began to dig for the remains of Captain Tower. We brought a soldier with us to designate the place where he was buried. He had been wounded in the battle, and had seen from the window of the house where the captain was interred. On opening the ditch or trench, we round it filled with soldiers, all buried with their faces downward. On taking up some four or five we discovered the remains of Captain Tower, mingled with those of the men. We took them, placed them in a coffin, and brought them home."
In reply to a question of a member of the committee as to whether he was satisfied that they were buried intentionally with their faces downward, Gov. Sprague's answer was, "Undoubtdly! beyond all controversy!” In answer to another question as to what their object could have been, especially in regard to the body of Colonel Slocum, he replied: "Sheer brutality, and nothing else. They did it on account of his courage and chivalry in forcing his regiment fearlessly and bravely upon them. He destroyed about one half of that Georgia regiment, which was made up of their best citizens. ”When the inquiry was put, whether he thought these barbarities were committed by that regiment, he responded, "But that <illegible> regiment, as I was told.” While their own dead were buried with marble head and foot stones, and names upon them, ours were buried, as I have stated, in trenches. This eminent witness concludes his testimony as follows: "I have published an order to my second regiment to which these officers were attached, that I shall not be satisfied with what they shall do, unless they give an account of one rebel killed for each one of their own number."
The members of your committee might content themselves by leaving this testimony to the Senate and the people without a word of comment; but when the enemies of a just and generous government are attempting to excite the sympathy of disloyal men in our own country, and to solicit the aid of foreign governments by the grossest misrepresentations of the objects of the war, and of the conduct of the officers and soldiers of the republic, this, the most startling evidence of their insincerity and inhumanity, deserves some notice at our hands. History will be examined in vain for a parallel to this rebellion against a good government. Long prepared for by ambitious men, who were made doubly confident of success by the aid and counsel of former administrations, and by the belief that their plans were unobserved by a magnanimous people, they precipitated the war (at a moment when the general administration had just been changed) under circumstances of astounding perfidy. Without a single reasonable ground of complaint, and in the face of repeated manifestations of moderation and peace on the part of the President and his friends, they took up arms and declared that they would never surrender until their rebellion had been recognized, or the institutions established by our fathers had been destroyed. The people of the loyal States, at last convinced that they could preserve their liberties only by an appeal to the God of battles, rushed to the standard of the republic, in response to the call of the Chief Magistrate.
Every step of this monstrous treason has been marked by violence and crime. No transgression has been too great, no wrong too startling, for its leaders. They disregarded the sanctity of the oaths they had taken to support the Constitution; they repudiated all their obligations to the people of the free States; they deceived and betrayed their own fellow-citizens, and crowded their armies with forced levies; they drove from their midst all who would not yield to their despotism, or filled their prisons with men who would not enlist under their flag. They have now crowned the rebellion by the perpetration of deeds scarcely known even to savage warfare. The investigations of your committee have established this fact beyond controversy. The witnesses called before us were men of undoubted veracity and character. Some of them occupy high positions in the army, and others high positions in civil life. Differing in political sentiments, their evidence presents remarkable concurrence of opinion and of judgment. Our Fellow-countrymen, heretofore sufficiently impressed by the generosity and forbearance of the government of the United States, and by the barbarous character of the crusade against it, will be shocked by the statements of these unimpeached and unimpeachable witnesses; and foreign nations must, with one accord, however they have hesitated heretofore, consign to lasting odium the authors of crimes which, in all their details, exceed the worst excesses of the Sepoys of India.
Inhumanity to the living has been the leading trait of the rebel leaders; but it was reserved for your committee to disclose as a concerted system their insults to the wounded, and their mutilation and desecration of the gallant dead. Our soldiers taken prisoners in honorable battle have been subjected to the most shameful treatment. All the considerations that inspire chivalric emotion and generous consideration for brave men have been disregarded. It is almost beyond belief that men fighting in such a cause as ours, and sustained by a government which, in the midst of violence and treachery, has given repeated evidences of its indulgence, should be subjected to treatment never before resorted to by one foreign nation in a conflict with another.
All the courtesies of professional and civil life seem to have been disregarded. General Beauregard himself, who on a very recent occasion boasted that he had been controlled by humane feelings after the battle of Bull Run, coolly proposed to hold General Ricketts as a hostage for one of the murderous privateers, and the rebel surgeons disdained intercourse and communication with our own surgeons taken in honorable battle.
The outrages upon the dead will revive the recollections of the cruelties to which savage tribes sub
<c05>
ject their prisoners. They were buried in many cases naked, with their faces downward; they were left to decay in the open air; their bones were carried off as trophies, sometimes, as the testimony proves, to be used as personal adornments, and one witness deliberately avers that the head of one of our most-gallant officers was cut off by a secessionist to be turned into a drinking-cup on the occasion of his marriage. Monstrous as this revelation may appear to be, your committee have been informed that during the last two weeks the skull of a Union soldier has been exhibited in the office of the Sergeant-at-Arms of the House of Representatives, which had been converted to such a purpose, and which had been found on the person of one of the rebel prisoners taken in a recent conflict. The testimony of Governor Sprague, of Rhode Island, is most interesting. It confirms the worst reports against the rebel soldiers, and conclusively proves that the body of one of the bravest officers in the volunteer service was burned. He does not hesitate to add, that this hyena desecration of the honored corpse was because the rebels believed it to be the body of Colonel Slocum, against whom they were infuriated for having displayed so much courage and chivalry in forcing his regiment fearlessly and bravely upon them.
These disclosures, establishing, as they incontestably do, the consistent inhumanity of the rebel leaders, will be read with sorrow and indignation by the people of the loyal States. They should inspire these people to renewed exertions to protect our country from the restoration to power of such men. They should, and we believe they will, arouse the disgust and horror of foreign nations against this unholy rebellion. Let it be ours to furnish, nevertheless, a contrast to such barbarities and crimes. Let us persevere in the good work of maintaining the authority of the Constitution, and of refusing to imitate the monstrous practices we have been called upon to investigate.
Your committee beg to say, in conclusion, that they have not yet been enabled to gather testimony in regard to the additional inquiry suggested by the resolution of the Senate, whether Indian savages have been employed by the rebels in military service against the government of the United States, and how such warfare has been conducted by said savages, but that they have taken proper steps to attend to this important duty.
B. F. WADE, Chairman.

REBEL BARBARITIES—SECESSION WOMEN.
The Washington correspondent of the Boston Journal gives the particulars of the experience of Mr. G. A. Smart, of Cambridge, who went to Manassas to search for the remains of his brother, William H. Smart, a member of the Boston Fusileers, who was killed at the battle of Bull Run. A comrade of the deceased accompanied Mr. S., and pointed out the spot where the dead fell, and where it was known they were interred; but, upon searching for the remains, “it was too plainly evident that the graves had been violated—that the bones had been dug or pried up with sticks from beneath their thin covering of earth—and that nothing remained of these brave sons of Massachusetts but a few of the smaller bones and some locks of hair.” Some of the hair was recognized by Messrs. Smart and Hildreth, especially some light curls, which were unmistakably those of Mr. Fields of the Fusileers. Passing to where the Chelsea corps fought, they found that it was doubtful whether the bodies there had been buried, although some loose earth had originally been thrown over them. They had also been earned off in fragments, and nothing remained but a few fragments of decayed flesh, and clothing cut for the withdrawal of the limbs. A lady who resides near by informed the seekers after the dead, that members of a Georgia and of a Louisiana regiment had, up to as late a date as November, obtained bones from these and other graves. Skulls had been set up on poles, with insulting mottoes, and one chivalric Georgia Lieutenant had a skull neatly cleaned, to send home, with instructions that it be mounted in silver, as a punch-bowl. "He said it was the skull of one of the d—d Massachusetts Yankees."
The New York Commercial Advertiser, which is not apt to reproduce mere gossip and sensation stories, relates the following:— 
"In a railway car on a road running out of Macon, Ga., hangs, or did hang, a human skull, purporting to be that of a Yankee soldier killed at Bull Run. This fact rests upon the authority of a gentleman in New York city, who went to Georgia after the fall of Fort Sumter, and returned to New York a few weeks since, having lived the entire time of his absence at Macon. The statement is undeniably true."
There have been other well authenticated statements of the use of the skulls of our dead soldiers by the rebel barbarians, sufficiently numerous at least to indicate a condition of things in the rebel army which the army of no civilized people in the world would tolerate for a moment. Well may the Commercial Advertiser, in commenting upon these facts, remark:—
"The palace of the King of Dahomey is fringed with human skulls. Savages use skulls as drinking vessels. It is reserved for these purists of the nineteenth century to return with alacrity to a state of barbarity, worthy the days of Fetichism, and unheard of where Christian civilization has ever penetrated. Hundreds of letters found in the Southern camps show the prevalent and inbred cruelty of heart that characterizes a people, who have lived so long beneath the gentle influences and tender amenities of slavery. They who can torture negroes at the stake, or whip them to the death, or hunt the panting fugitive with bloodhounds, make an easy transition to the barbarities of a battle-field which would disgrace the most sanguinary savage that ever made war. The institution of slavery is necessarily barbarizing. It must forever lower the tone of Christianity and of morals, blast the kindlier feelings of the heart, deprave the aspirations of the soul, and close up every sense and sentiment against the better instincts of our nature.”
Jefferson, in his Notes on Virginia, placed upon record the declaration that “The whole commerce between master and slave is a perpetual exercise of the boisterous passions; * * * the child looks on; catches the lineaments of wrath; gives loose to the worst of passions; and, thus nursed and educated, and daily exercised in tyranny, cannot but be stamped by it with odious peculiarities.” The events of this rebellion have proved the keenness of Jefferson's observation and the literal truth of his declaration in more ways than one. They nave exhibited the awful consequences of slavery, not only upon the men, but also upon the women of a community where the deadly blight is cherished. Wherever our armies have marched in the Slave States, they have found women the foremost, the loudest, the most malignant, the most persistent in annoyance and insult. Letters from women, found in the rebel camps, give expression to the deadliest hate and the most disgusting requests for a Yankee skin, or scalp, or skull. Depending upon personal immunity, they lose no occasion to exhibit their contempt for our soldiers, and to insult our officers. Many of them act towards our troops as though they had divested themselves of the attributes of humanity. A fierce little rebel 
<c06>
lady writes to Prentice of the Louisville Journal that if she were to give him a bouquet, she would poison it. The Alexandria correspondent of the Press writes that many of the women there are handsome, but inanimate, slothful, and generally badly informed, while the poorer females are, of all womankind, the most abject, depraved, and stupid. From Tennessee we have had numerous reports of the unladylike deportment of Secession women towards our troops, and everywhere in rebeldom the “odious peculiarities “spoken of by Jefferson are distinctly visible.
The correspondent of the Baltimore American, giving an account of the battle near Winchester, relates some further illustrations of these "odious peculiarities,” which appear strangely in contrast with the humanity and kindness of the Union soldiers whom they affect so strongly to despise and loathe. He says:—
"Rebel and Federal wounded receive exactly the same care and attention at the hands of our Surgeons and attendants. Every one seems to forget that they were our enemies in remembering that they are our fellow creatures in want of care and attention, and, as such, deserving everything we can do for them. I saw this forcibly illustrated by a rough-looking man who had been preparing some gruel for the wounded. The first man he came to was a Federal, the next two were Rebels. With the same tenderness he held up their heads, and gently put the gruel into their mouths. He did not stop to question to which side they belonged. It was enough for him that they were in distress. In painful contrast to this true nobility of soul has been the conduct of some of the Secession women. They have been to the hospital to inquire if there were any "Confederates wounded there, and, if so, tendering their services; but if not, they went away, doing nothing, and offering no assistance.
The Secession women here will receive as terrible a retribution as any one can wish them when the whole result of the fight is known. Scarcely a family in the own but has one or more relatives in Jackson's army, and there is scarcely a family in the county but will have to bemoan the loss of some friend. I cannot pity <illegible> women. To them belongs more than half of the me of this war. They have urged on young brothers and friends, and pushed them into it."
—Salem Register.

WHENCE FLOW THE REBEL BARBARITIES?
The New York World sets forth the barbarities of the rebels in their manner of conducting the <illegible> or the Federal troops, and then proceeds to explain their difference on the ground that "slavery is a barbarous and barbarizing power.” The World says:—
“Will some partisan of the ’peculiar institution’ __and there are plenty of them here in the North yet __be so good as to tell us what mean the barbarous acts which so constantly attend the Southern rebel warfare. The leaving of our dead unburied, though encamped for months in their vicinity; the conversion of their bones into pipes, and rings, and cups; the neglect and maltreatment of our wounded; the inhumanities practised upon our prisoners; the employment of Indians, with tomahawks and scalping-knives, as allies; the poisoning of wells; the laying of mines foe wholesale destruction; the murder of pickets; the wanton destruction of private property;—these, and all the other horrid accompaniments of their fighting, what mean they? It is vain to deny them. Some of our prints, which habitually seek to shield slavery, undertook at first to hoot down these stories as libels. It did not answer. The facts were continually accumulating. These journals soon sink into silence on the subject. But it is not a subject upon which a civilized man has a right to keep silence. Such acts of the Southern rebels are an outrage upon humanity, and a disgrace to the American name. They are a monstrous anomaly in the age—a startling phenomenon __and we have a right to know how they came and what they mean."
After remarking that their barbarity does not proceed "from anything peculiar to American nature,” nor from the fact that the North is the invader and the South the invaded, nor from the-fact that the South bears a peculiar personal hatred to the North, the World proceeds:—
"Where are we to look for the explanation? What is there that peculiarly belongs to this Southern people which makes them so peculiarly capable of these inhumanities? What else can it be but the ’peculiar institution 'itself? The great political economist, John Stuart Mill, as clear and calm an observer as the world affords, in his essay the other day on the contest in America, characterized slavery as a ’barbarous and barbarizing power.' Is not this true, and is it not here that we find the solution of the barbarities in this war, so out of keeping with the century?"
"It is but a crowning illustration of the great truth, attested by all history, that man cannot enslave man without a fatal recoil upon his own higher nature. When circumstances make man an unwilling master, he may keep his humanity erect. Our fathers deemed it their misfortune that they were placed in this relation, and they were great and noble in spite of it, because their souls resisted it. But the slaveholders of our time love the institution; their souls cleave to their supreme dominion over their fellow-beings as their chief earthly good. It has become a passion with them that pervades and rules their entire nature. Thus, and thus, only, have they degenerated so deplorably from their fathers in moral principle, in humane refinement, and in all the higher qualities of manhood. The ’poor white trash' around them, for the advantage of slavery, have been kept in primitive ignorance, and, though owning no slaves, have caught to the full all the baleful spirit of the institution, and are ever ready to join in working out its end in its own way. Protect slavery as we may, and perhaps must, by constitutional law, there is yet no shutting of the eyes to the glaring fact that it is a just what our English champion styles it, ’a barbarous and a barbarizing power.'"
An Albany correspondent of the New York commercial Advertiser relates another instance of rebel barbarity thus:—
“I have before me a letter from a young relative who is attached to an artillery regiment as an officer and who was at Manassas and Centreville since the evacuation of those places by the rebels. He says there were wooden guns in place at Manassas; that on one of the camp huts was a notice ’to any d-d Yankee' who might occupy it, that its erection had cost some money and time, and that the Yankee aforesaid would find a pair of human ribs taken from the body of a cursed Yankee who had been shot, and that having polished them up and used them as castanets, he had left them for the use and amusement of his Yankee successor. These human ribs were found hanging upon the inside of the hut, as specified in the notice. Can more disgraceful and degrading barbarism than this be imagined?

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof"
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES but the COMMADER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVESS. . . From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. . . . It is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTLAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to <illegible> all the slaves is the Invaded territory.” J.Q ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
EMANCIPATION.
The Boston Post says they should like to see this question fairly presented, and have those in favor of continuing the war for emancipation lake one side, and those who would continue it only to preserve the Constitution and restore the Union the other. The Post evidently feels, as every man who watches "the signs of the times" must, that the emancipation party is every day increasing. If men were called upon to say whether they would continue the war for emancipation, the majority would say not but very many say—"This is not a war caused by us. We have been forced into the field; let as now cut up the root of the matter and secure the country against future disturbance." Put the question in the form the Post does, and those who sympathize with the Post, and would have the government restored—the Union saved, and the Constitution preserved, without regard to slavery, might have the majority; but put it in another form, and-inquire how many there are who would restore the Union, preserving the equality of the States under the Constitution as expounded by the Supreme Court of the United States—so that South Carolina should be the equal of Massachusetts—in other words, to return us all to the exact condition we held previous to November last—slavery remaining as it was then—and we should find that a great change in public sentiment had taken place. This locality is the most conservative of any section of Massachusetts and we see bow it is here. The men who a year ago talked of compromise would scorn it to-day; and those who talked of the rights of States demand that the rebellion shall be swept away, if we are forced to subjugate the whole country and hold it by a standing army. In other words, everywhere <illegible> to the traitors and increased hostility to the traitors, and increased <illegible> to their institutions and state of society. And this goes on from day to day, and to all human appearance its volume and force are destined to increase. We state this as a simple fact, without designing to offer a single comment thereon. A year ago, if Mr. Lincoln had proposed emancipation, it would have bred rebellion in the North; to-day, if he should declare it, one-half at least would hail it gladly, and the remainder would submit to it silently; and let the war go on till next November, and upon our souls we believe a declaration of emancipation to all slaves in the country would be hailed by the ringing of bells, the firing of guns, and bonfires on all the hills, as the anniversary of national independence is greeted.
We have declared over and over again our own opinions on this matter; but it is of no use to blind ourselves and fool ourselves upon the present state of public sentiment and the feeling that this war does and will generate. The safety of the South was in the Union; if it puts itself without that, it will fall and perish", the safety of the South was in peace and law; on resorting to war and revolution it lays itself open to ten thousand-assaults. What the future will bring forth, no one can say with any degree of positiveness; but taking the facts as they are, we look forward to confiscation of property, emancipation of slaves, and the desolation of the South, as the almost inevitable consequences of the course of present events. The only thing that <illegible> stay the tide is an uprising of the Union men of the South to bring the war to a speedy termination. As yet they have not appeared; and if they do not, the immediate end of the war cannot be expected, nor the consequences foretold. Every day of war renders the restoration of the old order of things more difficult; and it may even become impossible before many weeks shall pass.
The foregoing, from the Newburyport Herald of the 4th inst., a paper which has heretofore occupied in form, as it still does in heart, the extremest ground of conservatism, is a most significant sign of the times.

GOV. STANLY'S INSTRUOTIONS.
WASHINGTON, June 4, 1862.
The instructions given to the Hon. Edward Stanly. Military Governor of North Carolina, are identically those furnished to Hon. Andrew Johnson. The following is a copy of the letter of instructions:—
WAR DEPARTMENT,
WASHINGTON, D. C, May 2, 1862. 
SIR-The commission you nave received, expresses on its face the nature and extent of the duties and power devolved on you by the appointment of Military Governor of North Carolina.
Instructions have been given to Major-General Burnside to aid you in the performance of your duties and the exercise of your authority. He has also been instructed to detail an adequate military force for the special purpose of a Governor's Guard, and to act under your direction. It is obvious to you that the great purpose of your appointment is to reestablish the authority of the Federal Government in the State of North Carolina, and to provide the means of maintaining peace and security to the loyal inhabitants of that State until they shall be able to establish Government.
Upon your wisdom and energetic action much will depend in accomplishing that result. It is not deemed necessary to give any specific instructions, but rather to confide in your sound discretion to adopt such measures as circumstances may demand. You may rely upon the perfect confidence and full support of this Department in the performance of your duties.
With respect, I am your obedient servant,
Edwin M. Stanton, Sec'y of War.
Hon. Edward Stanly, Military Governor of North Carolina."
Gov. Stanly's commission invests him with the powers, duties and functions pertaining to the office of Military Governor, including the power to establish all necessary offices and tribunals, and suspend the writ of habeas corpus during the pleasure of the President, or until the loyal inhabitants of North Carolina shall organize a civil Government in accordance with the Constitution of the United States.
The letters from Newbern in the New York papers which reached Washington to-night, created great wrath in the minds of leading men here. Senators who read them before the adjournment, were so indignant that they talked of laying aside the tax bill to consider the case of this pro-slavery despot.
Resolutions of inquiry will be introduced in both Houses to-morrow. Mr. Sumner, when introducing the resolution of inquiry into Gov. Stanly's order, closing the colored schools on Monday, made the following remarks, now first published, "a portion of which apply to Gov. Stanly's general action:-
"If any person, in the name of the United States, has undertaken to close a school for little children, whether black or white, it is important that we should know the authority under which he has assumed to act. Surely nobody here will be willing to take the responsibility for such an act
It is difficult to conceive that one of the first fruits of National victories, and the reestablishment of National power, 'should be such an enormity, which it is difficult to characterize in any terms of moderation.
Jefferson tells us, that, in a certain contest, there is no attribute of the Almighty which would not be against us. And permit me to say, that, if in the war in which we are now unhappily engaged, the military power of the United States is to be employed in closing schools, there is no attribute of the Almighty which would not be against us, nor can we expect any true success.
Sir, in the name of the Constitution, of humanity and of common sense, I protest against such an impiety under the sanction of the United States. The proper rule of conduct is simple. It will be found in the instructions to which I referred in debate the other day, from the British Commissioner in a conquered province of India."
After indicating certain crimes which were to be treated with summary punishment, he proceeded to say:—
"'All other crimes you will investigate according to the forms of justice usual in this country, modified as you may think expedient; in all cases, you will endeavor to enforce the existing laws and customs, unless where they are clearly repugnant to reason and equity.'—[See Elphinstone vs. Pedrachen, I Kneff's Pricy Council rep. 337.]
Here, is the proper limitation. Anything else is unworthy of a civilized country. Whatever is clearly repugnant to reason and equity, must be rejected. Surely such a thing cannot be enforced. But what can be more clearly repugnant to reason and equity than the barbarous law which an officer in the name of the United States has threatened to enforce!"
Friends of Gov. Stanly here describe him as a very proud, headstrong man, and say that when he receives the letter revoking his order, he will undoubtedly resign.—N. Y. Tribune.
<c02>
MR. COLYER AND THE NEGRO SCHOOLS AT NEWBERN.
On Sunday evening, at St. George's Chapel, Mr. Vincent Colyer gave an account of the colored (evening) schools in Newbern, recently, closed by Gov. Stanly, with many other interesting statements. When the Military Governor arrived, it became Mr. Colyer's duty, as Superintendent of the Poor, to call upon him. The Governor said there was one thing he did not approve of—the establishment of the negro schools. He said the laws of the State made it a criminal offence, and that his instructions from Washington were to administer the old laws so far as it was possible. Mr. Colyer particularly noted this language, as he had previously been told that Gov. Stanly's instructions were very indefinite. If called upon, the Governor said he would decide against him. Mr. Colyer had opened the schools under the sanction of Brig. Gen. Foster, and of course he conferred with that official, and that night announced to the public that the schools would be closed. The next day-four days after the arrival of Gov. Stanly-came the rendition of fugitive slaves. The (Governor said he gave authority for the man to take the slave wherever he found him. This man had never taken the oath of allegiance, al though he promised to do so. He had also been served with Government rations three times by Mr. Colyer. He took his slave-a girl nearly white. There was immediately a great state of alarm through the whole 5,000 contrabands. That night two of the colored scouts came in. They had been gone for a week or more through the marshes, through the pickets of rebel regiments, without blankets, without food, except such as they could get by chance; with nothing, in fact, but a few shillings and a good revolver in their breast, furnished them by Government. They were full of information that they and <illegible> it was hard to tell them now that they could not claim protection. Twenty left that night. The instinct of self-preservation told them this was their only course—to go back as soon as possible to those who would afford them the same kind of protection. The next morning the General, upon reflection on the effect of thus sending out men who knew every- thing about the strength and position of his forces, decided that he would be guided by that act of Congress which says that no officer of the army shall re turn a fugitive slave. [Applause] That night some soldiers went to Master Bray's house and recaptured the slave. Not five minutes before Mr. Colyer left, be saw this same Bray prowling round for the "chattel." A number of instances were related where the blacks had been of great service to the army. In one case 100 soldiers went in a vessel under the entire guidance of a negro, and 200 bales of cotton were found piled up in the woods, covered with brush. All that could be taken on board was carried away.
Dr. Tyng confirmed what he said in regard to the Secretary of War, as he told him in a decided manner that he would not sustain nor would he be long to a Government that would sustain such a course.—New York Tribune.

THE NORTH CAROLINA EXPERIMENT.
We should do injustice both to our feelings and our convictions, if we did not characterize the course of Governor Stanly of North Carolina as at least a great blunder. He has undertaken to re turn fugitives in a way violative of an express act of Congress. He has summarily closed schools for the instruction of colored persons. And he has expelled a citizen and exercised other arbitrary acts, for which he seems to have no other shadow of authority than his own will. It is true, he is said to rest his authority on the local laws of North Carolina. But if that were his sole guide, the first thing he would do would be to abandon his own office, for the laws of North Carolina know nothing of a "military Governor," and their strict enforcement would expel him from the State.
The truth is, Gov. Stanly is appointed to an extraordinary office for the general purpose-as ex pressed in his letter of instructions-"to re-establish the authority of the national government in the State of North Carolina, and to provide the means of maintaining peace and security to the loyal inhabitants of that State until they shall be able to <illegible> a civil government." Hence, with the material of the State laws and the Constitution and United States laws about him, and the great exigencies of the crisis, his "sound discretion" must be the main guide of his conduct. And that must embrace considerations altogether wider than the local law. By these considerations this unfortunate opening of his course must be judged. But it should be remembered that Governor Stanly derives his authority from the President, and that the whole subject of the exercise of it rests, therefore, in safe hands.
We trust, then, that there will be no undue excitement about this matter. It will come out all right in the end. We think it will be safe to consider it an experiment, so far as the President has will had anything to do with it, dictated by his desire to not evoke a controlling Union sentiment in North Carolina. He did not, of course, foresee these acts of Governor Stanly, but he was animated by the motive we mention to select such a man as he believed Mr. Stanly to be, and to clothe him with almost unlimited powers. And so Mr. Stanly comes-up from California, doubtless believing that the majority his neighbors of the "Old North State" are for the Union at heart, and if he can only get at them, will finally rally around him and redeem the State. Hence he would disarm the prejudices of the planters and gain their confidence by a prompt carrying out of the local law. We give this interpretation of Gov. Stanly's course, to save his character, as it was formerly understood by the country, and probably by the President when he made the appointment.
It is needless to say that he made a terrible mistake. His absence in California had prevented him from understanding the true character of this rebel lion, and from seeing how utterly any pro-slavery leniency would be thrown away upon its victims. Nor could be appreciate that feeling which the experience of the war has drilled into the soldiers and the people of the North". But the whole question is now in the hands of the President. Gen. Burnside and his noble army should have the sympathy of the loyal community. They keenly feel the ignominy to which Gov. Stanly's course subjects them, but they have no alternative but obedience. The letter of instruction to Gov. Stanly says:—"Instructions have been given to Major General Burnside to aid you in the performance of your duties and the exercise of your authority." We trust that there will be no resignations and no open resistance. The present state of things must be of short duration. Even Gov. Stanly may have discovered his mistake 'by this time. If not, the President will soon have had enough of this experiment, which, if it has failed in the purposes for which it was instituted, has certainly succeeded in demonstrating the stern resolution of our people and army to sanction no more truckling to the slave power, and not to relieve it from' the ruin it has so plainly brought upon itself. —Boston Journal. 

OFFICIAL BLUNDERS.
Edward Stanly, the newly appointed Military Governor of North Carolina, when a whig representative in Congress from that State, was reckoned a man of more than ordinary character and intelligence, but his long residence in California, or some thing else, has rendered him singularly oblivious to the change in the condition of things in the old States. We had high hopes that his appointment would prove a most fortunate one, and that the influence which he formerly possessed in his native State would be exerted in doing all that he could to remove the debasing thraldom exercised by the leaders of the rebellion: But his very first act proves that he is unworthy of the high trust reposed in him, and that he is wanting in that wise discretion, the constant exercise of which is absolutely necessary in the high position to which he has been called. He clearly-shows by his recent- action in declaring war upon the contrabands, that the Union is to be re-constructed upon the old basis of chains and slavery, and the preservation of the American System (of Slavery) is to be the grand result of this protracted and costly contest
Whatever views Mr. Stanly entertains, we are glad to see that his only supporters are the New York Herald and the Boston Post, and their myrmidons, whilst, on the other hand his outrageous course has produced great dissatisfaction among the gallant men under General Burnside, and has been made the object of an order of censure from the President and the Secretary of War. Mr. Stanly's vocation is gone, and he will soon follow.—Dedham Gazette.
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 13, 1862.
FOURTH OF JULY!
It has been the invariable custom of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society to commemorate this National Anniversary; not, however, in the boastful spirit and inflated manner of those who rejoiced in a Union with Slaveholders, and who could see no contradiction, in such a Union, to the great principles of the immortal Declaration of Independence of July 4th, 1776. Our celebration has ever been with the distinct and simple purpose of recalling to the mind and impressing upon the heart of the people the great "self-evident truths, that all men are created equal, and are endowed by their Creator with an inalienable right to Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness."
Confident that our repeated testimonies on these National Anniversaries have been as good seed, sown upon soil long indeed stubborn and unyielding, but at length fertilized, and now full of promise of a glorious harvest,-soon, we trust, to be gathered in,-we again invite and summon the friends of Freedom, of every name and age, and whether living within or beyond the bounds of this our honored Commonwealth, to meet with us, as aforetime, and in even greater numbers than ever before, at the beautiful and well-known FRAMINGHAM' GROVE, on the ensuing Fourth of July.
We need say nothing of the beauty and many attractions of the spot, whether for adults or for the young. The day and the occasion constitute the real claims upon our attention, and to these let the Anti-Slavery men and women of Massachusetts, and of New England, respond fitly, as they so well know how to do.
The Boston and Worcester Railroad Co. will convey passengers to and from the Grove, upon their main road and its branches, on that day, at hours to be more particularly announced hereafter, and at the same reduced fares as last year, and in some instances at lower rates.
Speakers, and other particulars, to be announced in future papers.
Friends, one and all! Let us be like those who wait for their Lord, at his coming; that, whether it be at midnight, or at cock-crowing, or in the morning, we may be found ready, our lamps trimmed and burning. Now is the time for us to work with redoubled energy and zeal. The enemy everywhere is sowing tares. If possible, the very elect will be deceived. Let not one stay his hand, or hold back his testimony; but, with renewed purpose and with increased hope, do battle valiantly for God and humanity, until the diminishing advocates of Slavery are driven forever from the field, and "Liberty be proclaimed throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof."
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., WM. LLOYD GARRISON E. H. HEYWOOD,.HENRY O. STONE,.CHARLES A. HOVEY, Committee of Arrangements.

PROGRESS.
The rapid succession of new and strange events in this year might satisfy even the demands of Mr. Micawber. Never before did so many things "turn up" in so short a space of time. The difficulty is that they are left to turn up as nearly in accordance with chance as the arrangements of a superintending Providence will allow; they are left, for the most part, without such direction as the faithful performance of human duties, official and individual, might give to them. The great Divine law, that sin constantly tends towards the ruin of the sinner, goes on uninterruptedly, because that is independent of man's action or negligence; but, all these long dreary months of war, we are missing the benefit of another great law of God, for want of fulfilling its conditions; the law, namely, that the sinner must repent and reform before he can possibly attain true welfare. God does much in our affairs, but it is His ordinance that man shall do something; and in the great housekeeping of this world, repentance and reformation are matters entirely and exclusively in man's department. God never transacts that sort of business; and the sinner who waits for Him to do it does so at his own cost and peril.
Everybody is now asking everybody-What do you think? What is the prospect? How are matters going? How shall we come out of this struggle? When shall we come out of it? These questions, as yet, can have no direct answer, only a contingent one. Our troubles will end only in proportion as we apply the right means, and in the right direction.
A wise old physician, teaching his pupils to search for the cause of the disease, in order that they might intelligently apply the means for its cure, instead of ignorantly trying various kinds of remedies in succession, for the chance of some one of them being a specific-said to them-If a man comes to you with a splinter in his finger, it is useless to give medicine, or to apply ointments and bandages. The splinter must come out. Whether anything else be necessary or not, this is the first, and the indispensable thing, because the foreign body is still there to prolong and increase the trouble it originally caused. So, if the man has a splinter in his stomach, (that is to say, if he has some foreign substance in his stomach which pains and irritates it,) the first and indispensable thing to be done is to get rid of this splinter; the cause of the trouble must come out, must be removed and abolished.
When we apply a similar course of reasoning and of action to our national troubles, we shall be in the way towards prosperity. Until then, we shall be going further and further from it. If victories would do the business, we have plenty of them. Suppose them to go on, without interruption, until the bitterness of utter and final defeat is added to that intense hatred which the South now bears towards the North. Suppose our armies able to march all over the immense extent of the rebel country without meeting an opposing army. What is to be done next? We shall be no nearer a Union then than now. The United States Government will be no more respected and supported then than now, in those regions; and there is no prospect of the functionaries of that Government being able to act there, except as they are sustained by a large military force in each place. To fulfil the purposes of the general Government in so many States filled with a hostile population, an army of occupation would be required, thrice as large as the army of conquest. And we should then have a permanent expense of two millions a day to provide for; we should commit the unspeakable folly of undertaking to unite the advantages of peace with the machinery and operations of war; and we should become the laughing-stock of the civilized world, by attempting to enforce our laws against an unwilling people, assuming, at the same time, that governments derive their just powers only "from the consent of the governed." Is such a result worth its cost? Is it a good result at all? Is it worth having, even if it could be attained without cost?
Two things are needed before we can possibly have either a peace worthy the name, or that prosperity which should follow a permanent peace.
First, it is indispensable that the cause of the rebellion and the war be thoroughly removed. While slavery remains in existence in our country, it must necessarily and constantly tend to a repetition of these same troubles. He who has established, and who maintains by force, an unjust authority over his neighbor blacks, will of necessity seek to extend that authority over his neighbor whites. While that system is suffered to continue, no neighbor of his is safe. For the common safety, no less than for the common welfare, this nuisance must be abated and eradicated.
<c04>
Next, it is indispensable that a loyal population occupy those Southern States, giving allegiance and rapport to the Federal Government, and carrying on the State government in cooperation with it. Thus only can the enormous expense and the manifold absurdity of a permanent army of occupation be avoided. The vast majority of those who have hitherto carried on the Southern State governments being utterly disloyal and hostile, how shall the needful population of loyalists be attained? This is the problem.
Two methods of attaining this end, or making a beginning of it, are obvious. First, the love, loyalty and hearty cooperation of four millions of the existing population there could be secured and rendered permanent by a single stroke of the President's pen. Whenever he chooses to write and publish the word LIBERTY, and direct his armies to enforce it, not only will the four millions of slaves be immediately and ineradicably united in interest with the Union, but the half million of free blacks, now scattered over the whole country, would immediately be attracted to that congenial climate. Slavery alone has caused them to flee from it. The abolition of slavery would draw them thither again.
By all the laws and usages of civilized nations, rebels against a government forfeit their property, as well as their other rights and privileges, under it. The lands formerly occupied by the rebels, the cotton, rice and sugar plantations, the wheat and tobacco fields, the turpentine forests, arc now without owners, and are within the jurisdiction of the Federal Government. They are not only without owners, but the persons who ought to own them, the laborers by whose toil all their products have been raised, are the very persons who are now to be attracted or repelled by the action of this Government in relation to them. The assignment of a large portion of these lands to the laborers who have hitherto tilled them, and to such free people of color as now exist there, or may choose to settle there, would have the following very great advantages.
It would be the natural, normal, just, appropriate retribution for the rebellion, and for the war made in support of it. It would be the wisest treatment of the existing rebels, and the greatest possible discouragement to any who might contemplate such a movement in future.
It would be just to those laborers who have hitherto sowed and reaped under compulsion, and who have been systematically robbed of the harvest, by complicity of the very Government whose remedial action is now in question. That Government certainly owes this retribution, both to them and to the free people of color, whom it has helped to keep under various unjust limitations and disabilities.
It would be the very roost effective step towards a permanent restoration of the United States authority in the Southern States, fixing there a loyal population, and inspiring them with the strongest motives to uphold the national Government.
It would be the most thorough security possible against a renewal of the cause of the rebellion.
The second of the two methods of providing a loyal population for the South—a method no less recommended by justice and expediency than the first, and in every way suited to accomplish both the immediate and the ultimate purposes which the Government should have in view—is the allotment of another portion of those Southern lands, first to such soldiers regularly discharged from the army, and next, to such other Northern men, as may wish to settle there. Many of our people who prefer the soil and climate of the South, but who have been prevented from living there by the manifold evils of slavery, would now be glad to try the experiment under a new order of things. Their residence there would be not only the best of supports to the Government in its approaching trial, but would introduce the customs of civilized life into that barbarous region, commence a system of common school education, improve agriculture, establish manufactures, cause labor to be respected, and give a new impulse to art and science of every sort. And, if these new-comers choose to establish just and friendly relations towards the existing colored population, each might be an unspeakable benefit to the other, and both could secure themselves and the Government against further trouble from the ex-slaveholders.
If the Administration is not ready to arrange for measures so needful as these, why should not the people call for them, urge them, and offer their cooperation in executing them?—C. K. W. 

"RELIGIOUS" HINDRANCES TO REFORM. 
The Reformed Presbyterian, (Pittsburgh, Pa.,) in an excellent article on "Reformatory Agencies," admits that the religious press is far behind the secular press in criticisms of vicious action on the part of the Government, and condemns silence in regard to such action as tacit approval and encouragement of it. After saying that associations for moral and religious objects ought to be, much more extensively than they are, agencies of reform, it speaks thus of the American Bible Society and the American Tract Society:—
"The avowed design of the first of these is to put the Bible into the hand of every person who can read it. The object is a grand one, and it cannot be denied that the Society was well sustained in its efforts to accomplish it. But while this was the main end of the Society, it was bound to wield its great power in advancing other collateral interests. For instance, as the Bible teaches me their mutual obligations, it should not have been withheld from those who were denied that liberty which is the common inheritance of all. It is no apology to say that they could not read it, for this was not universally true, and, besides, this was not the reason assigned for refusing to make donations of Bibles to the slaves. The reason given was, that by the laws of slaveholding States, slaves were not allowed to read the Bible, and the Society would not interfere with, or seem to oppose civil enactments. In thus yielding to an unjust and cruel exercise of power, the Society shut itself out from the opportunity of protesting against an interference with it by the civil authorities, in accomplishing its noble undertaking of giving the Bible to all. Nothing short of physical resistance could justify the shutting out of slaves from the advantages included in the comprehensive object of the Society's organization.
And now, when this difficulty is in part removed, what is the Society doing in this matter? Before we go to press with this number, the anniversary will be held, and we will likely have an opportunity to give our readers some information on this subject. If the Society shall continue to pursue its policy of refusing to slaves, or those who were slaves, the Bible, the fact must be known, that funds that have gone into its treasury may seek and find other channels to reach those so unkindly overlooked. If, on the other hand, the Society put their hand to this great work and prosecute it with the energy that its importance demands, let new channels be opened through which money will be furnished to an amount far exceeding all that will be lost by the withholding of contributions from the South. By such a course, the Society will exert an indirect but most salutary influence for the good of the country—educating and preparing the bondmen for the enjoyment of freedom, and directing attention to the claims of the Bible, the gift which it proposes to give, as superior to all human constitutions and enactments.
With regard to the American Tract Society, our first article under "Selections," taken from the Liberator, will show where it is in the progressive movements of the day. Like the other agencies which we have noticed in this article, it is the tail, and not the head. It is waiting to see what direction public opinion on the question of emancipation will take, instead of going forward to give it the proper shape and lead it in the right course.
It gives us no pleasure to record these failures in their duty of what might be efficient reformatory agencies, working out, under God, the problem of the destiny and welfare of our country. If what we have written will avail anything to excite those who have the means in their hands to prosecute the cause of liberty, morality and religion, our object will be accomplished:"
An editorial article subsequently written, after the annual meetings of these two Societies had foreshadowed their intended course of operation for the present year, represents the Tract Society as making amends for past remissness in regard to the colored people of the South; but it points out the significant fact that the American Bible Society has made no reform whatever in this direction, and appropriately suggests that those who wish the Bible distributed to the freedmen must entrust their funds for that purpose
<c05>
to some better agent that the American Bible Society. The tame spirit still rules it which, in 1884 and 1836, refuted the offer of fire thousand dollars to the treasury, on condition of a distribution of Bibles to the slaves.-C. K. W.
Not Bad. Wells Brown, or "Box" Brown, as he is usually called, a bright mulatto, who stole himself from slavery some years ago, made a capital speech lately. The following is a specimen of his answer to some of the objections to the abolition or slavery:—
"But they tell us, 'If the slaves are emancipated, they won't receive them upon an equality.' Why, every man must make equality for himself, No society, no government, can make this equality. I do not expect the slave of the Sooth to jump into equality; all I claim for him is, that be may be allowed to jump into liberty, and let him make equality for himself. I have got some white neighbors around me; they are not very intellectual; they don't associate with my family; but whenever they shall improve themselves, and bring themselves up by their own intellectual and moral worth, I shall not object to their coming into my society."
The Independent, from which the above paragraph is clipped, should have known that William Wells Brown, whose wit and intelligence are well shown in the paragraph quoted, is a very different person from Box Brown."
Both escaped from slavery. But the latter, after getting out of the box, from transportation in which he derived his name, confined his attention to looking out for No. 1, a work for which he was as competent as any Yankee; while the former, besides supporting himself and his family, has always assiduously labored in the twofold work of overthrowing slavery, and inciting the free people of color to aspiration and improvement.
Box Brown went, many years ago, to England, as an exhibitor of a panoramic painting, since which I have heard nothing of him. William Wells Brown has been abroad, but is now in this country, giving anti-slavery and other lectures and readings, all of which are well worth hearing, as the reader may judge from the specimen above quoted.—C. K. W.

NEW PUBLICATIONS.
THE EXCHANGE: A Home and Colonial Monthly Review of Commerce, Manufactures and General Politics. London: Sampson Low, Son & Co., 47 Ludgate Hill. May: No. 2
The object of this new magazine, we are informed in the prospectus, is to supply the British public with a periodical corresponding to the Journal des Economistes in France, and to Hunt's Merchants' Magazine and De Bow's Review in this country, and occupying a middle place between the Economist and the Times. That it meets a very sensible want may be inferred from the fact that the first number has reached a second edition. The contents of the number before us are as follows:—Ships in Armor; Our Colonial Empire,—Colonial Emancipation; Co operative Associations, and the Christian Socialists; Federal Finance; Exhibitions of Industry, National and Inter national; Mexico and the Intervention (concluded); Legal Securities for English Settlers and Capital in Bengal (concluded); The Budget and the Income-Tax; The Finances of France; The Import Trade of 1860 and 1861; English and Foreign Literature; Money, Banking and Shares; English and Scotch Metals and Metal Manufactures; Textiles and Textile Manufactures; Corn, Provision, and Foreign and Colonial Produce, &c.
For sale in New York by Walter Low, 39 Walker street, and 823 Broadway: in Boston, by Walker, Wise & Co., 245 Washington street.
CONCORD FIGHT. By S. It. Bartlett. Second edition. Concord: Albert Stacy. 1862. pp. 34.
A pleasant little poem to embalm the memories of the scenes and the actors in the inaugural conflict of the revolution. Elegantly printed, and embellished with at <illegible> of the battle-ground.
For sale by Crosby, Nichols & Co.
SPIRITUAL SUNDAY SCHOOL CLASS-BOOK. No. I. Boston: William White & Co., Publishers of the Banner of Light, 158 Washington-St. 1862. pp. 54. The chief point of difference between this work and others of a similar design, would appear to be the inculcation of the fundamental ideas of modern spiritualism, viz., the existence, proximity and communication of the departed. For the rest, the introduction seems to us quite too elevated in style for the "little children" to whom it is addressed; and perhaps the objection may extend even farther. A few extracts will suffice to show the spirit and the tact with which the book is put together:—
"Teacher. Is it your duty to resist evil?
Scholar. No; it is my duty to avoid it, not resist it; for if I resist it, I take part in what I resist: I come nearer to it.
T. Is it your duty to accuse others of their wickedness?
S. No; it is my duty to see to my own wickedness, to lessen and avoid it. This will take all my time.
T. Is it your duty to talk to others and try to make them act right?
S. No; for I am not certain that I act right myself. But it 1 do right always, my deeds will have a better influence upon others than my words."—p. 9.
The foregoing, as a specimen of practical morality; the following, us indicative of theological orthodoxy:—
"T. What do you think of the Ten Commandments given by Moses in the twentieth chapter of Exodus?
S. I think that they We good; but the commands of Christ are better.
T. Must you keep the commands of Moses before you can keep the commands of Christ?
S. Yes; the commands of Moses were made for men when they knew less, and the commands of Christ were made for men when they shall know more about the spiritual world."—pp. 20, 21.
Lastly, to see the naturalness of the conversation, take the annexed from the mouth of a "little child":
"T. What other reason can you give for believing that your deceased friends are with you still?
S. I fed that it is so, and this is the beat and the truest reason. Cicero believed that the souls of men were immortal, because he felt that they were," &c. &c—p. 42.
The italics of the learned quotation are ours.—W. P. G.
NEW MUSIC. The following pieces have just been issued by Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington street, Boston:—
In Memoriam:' His Royal Highness the Prince Consort. Elegy for the Pianoforte, by Brinley Richards.
Juanita Quadrille. On popular airs, by P. Laroche.
The Doctor of Alcantara. Opera bouffe. Libretto by Benj. E. Woolf. Music by Julius Eichberg.
Almeda Quadrille. Composed for the piano by Robert Bell.
Bellona March. Composed by J. C. Kremky.
The Leaving of the old Home. Song. Words by J. E. Carpenter. Music by C. W. Glover.
Rest! Where shall we Rest! Song. Composed by E. Silas.

CHANGES
The tone of the press concerning slavery is undergoing a marked change. The truths concerning it which the slaveholders themselves have forced upon our attention, are fast bringing forth fruit; and we now see in many papers such facts and such reflections as the following from the Transcript of the 2d inst. The peculiar institution is doomed:-
"A NOTEWORTHY ANNIVERSARY. Eight years age to day, Anthony Burns was delivered to his master Boston was the scene of great excitement on the occasion, and thousands of strangers flocked to the city to witness the novel spectacle of marshalling the power of the United States to return one fugitive to slavery. We recur to the affair merely to show the changes which a few years have produced. Burns had a memorable escort to the vessel which was to convey him to bondage. Many of the military, who were ordered out to prevent his rescue by the populace, are now in Southern States, the masters of slave masters."
<c06>
LETTER TO HON. JACOB COLLAMER
HON. JACOB COLLAMER, Washington, D. C.
SIR,-I am one of the humblest of your constituents, with little influence at home, and less aboard; and otherwise under circumstances in which I if any one. might feel a perfect indifference to passing events, as I am on the down-hill side of fourscore, and not a drop of my blood is coursing in the veins of any living being. But, sir, notwithstanding all this, many of the events of the past few months have alternately raised my blood to fever heat and again sunk it to near freezing point. When I have witnessed the labors of a very few to remove the cause of our national calamities, I could but bid them God-speed, and pray fro their success. When I have witnessed a disposition of the majority to retain, nay, worse, to cherish the cause, and only remove the effect, my blood is chilled and I am almost ready to despair of ever witnessing the extinction of slavery, and the dawn of universal peace and reign of righteousness, sure to follow.
I have read your remarks on the Confiscation Bill as copied into the Tribune of the 3d with painful interest. You say, "The Republican party pledged them-selves not to interfere with slavery in the Stated; but if it is possible to free a large portion of the slaves, can they make the world believe they have nor interfered with slavery in the States? With all due deference to your high position as a citizen of our State, and your still higher position as a Senator of the United States, is this nation of thirty-four millions, now bleeding at every pore, bound by the pledges of a few scores of timid politicians, as heartless as they were timid, made in a time of peace? Is it not enough that the bones of fifty thousand men already lei bleaching in Southern sands, when a proclamation of ten lines, nine months ago, giving freedom to the slaves, might have ended the rebellion at once, which near three-fourths of a million of men in arms, at an ex- expenditure of near a thousand million of dollars has
thus far failed to do? Have you, kind sir, fully considered the condition of four millions of human beings, who were born on republican soil, have labored on publican soil, and never received any protection of liberty or property from any government, State or National, and owe no more allegiance to our governments than they do to the king of Dahomy, or the Emperor of Japan? 
The rebels appeal to Jehovah for the justice of their cause, and implore his protection. We do the same The rebels mutilate dead men to show their <illegible> of free men and free institutions, and we call barbarous. Government officials, civil and military volunteer their services to send living men into the hell of slavery, to show their fealty to "the sum of at villanies," and we call it obedience to law. Now, if the principle and the practice were applied to ourselves friends, which should we regard as the most <illegible>?
If a true and impartial narrative of our country, far the last twelve months, is ever written, it will be a chapter in the world's history that will astonish all the ends of the earth; and I verily believe the good of every land will be at a loss which most to <illegible> the wickedness of the rebels, or the folly of the government. In acts of meanness, we have outdone the rebels. While they have mutilated the dead, are have stripped from a negro's back a soldier's cast-off uniform, to show the world that are despise those <illegible> and unprotected wretches as much as they <illegible> them. They despatch at once their bondmen, who refuse to follow their runaway masters. We such armed rebels to enter our camps, and seize the victims who have fled to our lines for protection, and drag them into a bondage second only to the torments of the damned. While they manifest their malignity  maltreating their prisoners, we show our pitiful <illegible> and fealty to slavery, by suffering captured officers, with hands red with Northern blood, to we their side arms, and hold their slaves in a free <illegible> in defiance of all law and the breach of property When the Sumners, the Hales, the Love joys, the Julians, ay more, even many of the pro-slaver Democrats, cry, "Cut it down!" the Senator from we <illegible> cries out, " Spare that Upas tree which spread its poisonous branches to heaven, and its <illegible> to the depths of hell! We must redeem our pledge, though the nation perish!"
In conclusion, sir, let me say, even at the risk of giving offence, that my own little State is the last of the thirty-four in which I could have expected to <illegible> a man of any note, in the inner temple of <illegible> and political blasphemy, worshipping at the shrine of the god of slavery. O, if the history of the <illegible> actions of the rebels and the government, for the last twelve months, could reach the grave, methinks a premature resurrection of the revolutionary dead would startle the world, and their first exclamation would be a shriek of despair at witnessing the down-fall of the principles they shed their blood to <illegible>
Even while I write, a soldier passes my window, with one arm less than when he left us for the war and had you been here at their funeral, to witness the bitter anguish of two mothers and five orphan children whose husbands and fathers had been slain in battle is does seem to me you would have had but little to say in support of " Republican pledges" to sustain that prolific source of all our woes!
Are you still bound by that infamous volunteer pledge, foolish as uncalled for when given, now when the storms of war are upon us, and the nation in peril It strikes me that Herod of yore was no more <illegible> less and foolish in binding himself by his oath, and more wicked in performing it, than the Republican party in theirs, with this difference against them-they are bound by the command of God, and the <illegible> tates of justice and humanity, to liberate ever slave pledge or no pledge; and while they refuse or neglect to do so, are little less guilty than the rebels themselves.
If I have written with some little warmth. I let you to make all due allowance. I was born on Massachusetts soil, but am no less proud of my adopted the of my native State. My father was a revolutionary soldier, and the revolutionary blood is not all run in the second generation; and when I receive "marching orders," God being my helper, it shall not be send I was recreant to the great principles of civil liberty for all, adopted, in a day of peril that tried men's souls nor guilty of binding myself hand and foot to any party at their expense. 
JESSE STEDMAN.
SPRINGFIELD, Vt., May 8, 1862.
P. S. Since writing the above, I have read, your Confiscation Bill, by which it appears, in section <illegible> that after a rebellion has been in full blast for six months, the President is authorized, if he thinks <illegible> to issue his proclamation to fix and appoint a day of course, a long while hence, if he be a slaveholder, of Northern man with Southern principles.) in which ad persons held to service or labor shall be set free if the rebels do not hold up! A terrible proclamation that to be sure! coming right in the face and eyes of "pledges" to let slavery alone in the States! of the 850,000 rebel slaveholders, you would give each a trial and call at least two witnesses to prove an overt at work enough for all the courts in Christendom for half a century! I hazard nothing in saying, three is not a loyal slaveholder upon the earth. A loyal slave holder and a Christian devil are alike contradictions terms. Free every slave at once, and you hit every, <illegible> and none but rebels, and more than half their property is gone at one fell swoop; and restore two thousand millions of stolen property to four millions of rightful owners, and the benediction of a thousand millions of earth's population will rest upon you, and all that lend a helping hand to end forever the CRIME OF CRIMES, which has been the rain of most, and the curse of every nation that ever tolerated it; and God grant that the sentence of moral and political damnation be pronounced against it, on the very soil where eighty-six years ago, the declaration went forth that startled every tyrant upon the thrones of Europe, "that ALL MEN ARE BORN FREE AND EQUAL." J.S.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTERS FROM MRS. CUTLER.
ELMWOOD, (III.) May 26, 1862.
DEAR LIBERATOR:
Since I wrote you last, I have been working in a region by no means very thoroughly cultivated with the good husbandry of Anti-Slavery truth, yet the war is turning up the soil with its mighty ploughshare, and the steel blades that bristle in the battle-field are leading to harvest little dreamed of by those who <Illegible> the seed. Never was there a time when the people were so ready to hear the truth, and whole truth.
I lectured in several small towns on the Peoria and Oquawka road, to fair audiences, every where commanding the most marked attention. One good feature has seemed to me the earnestness with which young boys, of from fourteen to twenty, seem to listen to the most radical truths.
In Henry, a pretty little town on the road leading to the Rock Island railroad, I met with the rare honor of having eggs, which the donors evidently thought rotten, thrown against the house; but no one was injured, and even the odor, which seems so legitimately from the pit, had not been attained. The people were much chagrined, and attributed it to a small secession faction that had for a long time been held in abeyance, but was becoming rampant.
In Peoria, various obstacles seemed to be placed in my way, so much so that I felt it important to over come them, even at considerable sacrifice of time and effort. It is an old and highly conservative town, occupying a border position between the North and Egypt, where reformers find but little sympathy, or have hitherto done so. Its river commerce unites it with Missouri, and a large trade circulates through here from St. Louis. This accounts for its so-termed conservatism. (How odious a good word may become by bad associations!) On Thursday evening, Edward Everett lectured on the war. Those who know the accuracy of his historical statements, the polish of his diction, and the rhetorical grace of his manner, will realize how great a treat his lecture proffered to the literary epicure. And he does good with a class of minds not easily reached by more radical ideas. But I saw plainly, (this is all a secret between you and I, dear Liberator,) that I ought to follow him, and expound the way more perfectly. With great effort, I succeeded in getting arrangements made that brought out a good audience, and I did not spare the truth. Strange to say, it met with the most cordial reception, as you will see from the notice enclosed.
After the lecture, friends and strangers crowded round me, and wished me to lecture again-some kindly whispering-"It was worth a dozen of Everett's, for you touched the foundations of truth."
I mention this not as personal, but to show that the people are hungry, and want to be fed. To-night I expect to return and lecture again at Peoria; to-morrow at Farmington, and then down into Egypt. As I go alone, my heart cries out for the early laborers in this great field. Surely, "he that growth forth weeping, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him."
H. M. T. CUTLER.
The following is the notice referred to above:-
Mrs. CUTLER'S LECTURE. The lecture at Rouse's Hall, last evening, by Mrs. Cutler, on "The Christian Policy of Emancipation," was listened to by a large audience. The lecture was an earnest, truthful, calm and well-considered appeal to rational people, on the importance of taking hold of the golden opportunity now presented by a God whose justice sleepeth not forever, to rid the nation of the infamous institution, which, like a venomous viper, is now stinging to death those who nurtured it into life, and outraged law to shield its damning injustice. Mrs. Cutler showed, by the testimony of the most illustrious ancient and modern expounders of jurisprudence, that slavery never existed by virtue of law; that no so-called law can override the eternal principles of justice, and that when human enactments do so, they cease to be law. We firmly believe there was not a sentiment enunciated by the speaker that did not meet a response in the inmost hearts of those who heard her; and we could not help inwardly thanking God that Liberty, in its broad and legitimate sense, was at last becoming welcome in the house of its friends.-Peoria Transcript.
CANTON, III., June 2, 1862.
DEAR LIBERATOR:-Since I wrote you last, I have been very busily engaged in the good work, and I trust not altogether unprofitably. On Monday evening I lectured at Peoria, Tuesday at Farmington, Thursday and Friday at Canton, and twice on the Sabbath at Buckheart, a nice country neighborhood a few miles from Canton.
My efforts at Peoria were of two-fold value, for the town has not only been strongly opposed to Anti Slavery that had any vitality in it, but also to woman's public labors. To be able to lecture successfully under such circumstances, and to receive the cordial approbation of those hitherto so deeply prejudiced against hearing the voice of woman pleading for the voice of woman pleasing for the wronged, was indeed gratifying.
At Farmington, I met a most cordial reception from the Rev. Mr. Williams, an old friend to the cause, and a former student at Oberlin. He, too, I think, had never cordially welcomed women to any public ministrations, though he most fully values the sterling judgment and self denying labors of his amiable and accomplished wife, who was also educated at Oberlin. I often wonder if the people will ever recognize the great work done by this pioneer institution, in proving to the world that both women and negroes are fully endowed with human souls, absolutely capable of indefinite expansion of intellect and aspiration of soul. And in the great work which the new-born freedom of so many slaves will give the philanthropist, how needful that these should have been prepared by education for the glorious work of raising up these long bowed children of toil.
I need not say, that, in a community that has for years been instructed by such a teacher as Mr. Williams, the Anti-Slavery sentiment is strong and wholesome, though it needed to be stirred up to practical exertion. They had wanted to know what they could do in the cause of humanity, and the petitions I circulated were just what they desired.
I left Farmington with some regret, for from that point I expected to find but few friends, and fewer still who would sympathize in the work of emancipation which the Providence of God seems so distinctly to call us up to now, not only for the sake of humanity, but for the sake of maintaining this Government against the assaults of traitors.
Mr. W. gave me a kind word of introduction to the Rev. Mr. Marsh, pastor of the Congregational Church in this place. He and his family received me with a cordiality not soon to be forgotten; and through his instrumentality I had two good meetings. The second was somewhat interrupted by a severe shower of rain that came up just at the hour appointed, but the audience was highly respectable notwithstanding.
This district is the one that sent Kellogg to Congress as a Republican; but he has fallen from grace, much to the chagrin of his constituents. Canton is his place of residence, and I do not wonder, from what I hear, that he has been drawn aside by the Democratic clique. When will our American people learn that it is unsafe to elect men to Congress who are debauched in character, and can by no means withstand the influences of strong drink? And yet, such men are too frequently the popular favorites, even with men who profess to be Christians.
There is a strong pro-slavery element mixed up with the better class, as I had occasion to understand. As I was leaving town, one of this class remarked with an oath, he would like to see every Abolitionist hung. They still retain the memory of anti-slavery mobs. some twenty-five years ago. Now they only vent their feelings in wishing for ropes and rotten eggs.
Here I have met with Mrs. Leavey, who for many years taught an infant school in Lowell, Mass. She is now in her seventy-fifth year, but is still engaged in her old vocation,-a rare example of energy and
<c02>
usefulness in one so old. Her heart is all aglow with interest in everything that concerns human progress.
The country, in this vicinity, is as rich and as beautiful as any land can well be. Fine old orchards abound, and cherries and other small fruits are raised in abundance.
The country town in which I spent the Sabbath, was settled some thirty years since, by a few families from Kentucky. I found an old gentleman eighty six years of age, living with his old wife, who has shared life's journey with him for sixty-one years. From his childhood he has amused himself with mathematics and astronomy, and he still solves difficult problems, and derives rules in mathematics in a manner that would do credit to the most learned professors. On his parlor table lay his telescope and microscope, with globes and prisms and dials. He is self-educated, having enjoyed only a few months' schooling in his younger years. He was a native of North Carolina, but when about twenty years of age emigrated to Kentucky. Shortly after, a friend of his, a very earnest Christian, asked him if a person could be a true Christian and hold a slave. She called his attention to the essential nature of slavery, its separation of families and consequent desecration of the marriage relation, and all the sacred ties growing out of it. He said he would think of it, and then answer. He said he would think of it, and then answer, In a week he went to her and said, "Now I am ready to answer your question, good aunt. Slavery cannot be otherwise than wrong." From that moment he never swerved in his opposition to slavery, and he has reared a large family of God-fearing and man-loving children.
His mind is still vigorous, and he enters into the questions of the present with as much zest as though he were younger by fifty years. May he live to realize his hope of seeing the great day of jubilee.
Yours truly, H. M. T. C.
PORTSMOUTH, N. H.
Miss Dickinson lectured on Sunday afternoon and evening last to the largest audiences which assembled on that day in our city; and the clear, earnest and logical manner in which she handled the subject of the rebellion will long be remembered by those who listened to her eloquent addresses. Her labors in the free States cannot fail of doing much good; and that the Davis-sympathizers were also impressed is evident from the notice which appeared in the Portsmouth Daily Chronicle of this morning. The writer of the article alluded to was evidently hit, and, like his prototype who in olden times wandered among the tombs, cries out-" Hast thou come to torment us before the time?" The agitation of the slavery question and the name of Fremont cause many to tremble and be dismayed. The writer alluded to is evidently a sufferer from the reproof he, with all such spirits, received from the truth set forth by Miss D. A. HEARER.
Portsmouth, May 27.
The following is the notice referred to:-
"Miss Dickinson spoke at the Temple, Sunday afternoon and evening, to larger audiences than most clergymen in the city probably had-on the subject of slavery, (which is almost worn out, it would seem, in more than one sense-as a topic, some think, and as an institution, others.) She has a pleasant voice, and is a fluent and earnest speaker; but, of course, it would be difficult to present many new facts or arguments on her subject. As usual on such occasions, she denounced almost every body but Gen. Fremont and "niggers." Her remarks were often applauded, even though it was on the Sabbath."
Shocking! to manifest approbation at the utterance of sentiments of humanity and freedom on "the Sabbath"! If the Chronicle should manifest its approval of such sentiments on any day of the week, it would be hailed as a hopeful omen.-y.
WOMAN AND THE PRESS.
On Friday afternoon, May 30th, a meeting was held in Studio Building, Boston, for conference in regard to a new periodical to be devoted to the interests of woman. While none questioned the value and the need of such and instrument in the Woman's Rights cause, the difficulties that would endanger or even defeat the enterprise were fully discussed, but with this issue that the experiment should be made. For the furtherance, therefore, of so desirable an object, we insert and call attention to the following

PROSPECTUS OF THE WOMAN'S JOURNAL.
When we consider that there is scarcely a party, sect, business organization or reform which is not represented in the press, it appears strange that women, constituting one half of humanity, should have no organ in America, especially devoted to the promotion of their interests, particularly as these interests have excited more wide-spread attention in this country than in any other, while in no other country can the double power of free speech and a free press be made so effective in their behalf. This appears stranger from the fact that conservative England has successfully supported a journal of this sort for years with acknowledged utility.
America needs such a journal to centralize and give impetus to the efforts which are being made in various directions to advance the interests of woman. It needs it most of all at this time, when the civil war is calling forth the capabilities of women in an unwonted degree, both as actors and sufferers-when so many on both sides are seen to exert a most potent influence over the destinies of the nation, while so many others are forced by the loss of husbands, sons and brothers to seek employment for the support of themselves and families. Social problems, too, are gradually becoming solved by the progress of events, which will leave to that of woman the most prominent place henceforth.
To meet this want of the times, we propose to establish a WOMAN'S JOURNAL, based on the motto, "Equal Rights For All Mankind," and designed especially to treat of all questions pertaining to the interests of women, and to furnish an impartial platform for the free discussion of these interests in their various phases. It will aim to collect and compare the divers theories promulgated on the subject, to chronicle and centralize the effects made in behalf of women in this country and elsewhere, and to render all possible aid to such undertakings, while at the same time it will neglect no field of intellectual effort or human progress of general interest to men of culture. It will comprise reviews of current social and political events, articles on literature, education, hygiene, etc., a feuilleton composed chiefly of translations from foreign literature-in shore, whatever may contribute to make it a useful and entertaining family paper. Its columns will be open, and respectful attention ensured, to all thinkers on the subjects of which it treats, under shall accept a priori the motto of the paper, and shall abstain from all personal discussion.
Among the contributors already secured to the JOURNAL whom we are permitted to name, are Mrs. Lydia Maria Child, Mrs. Caroline M. Severance, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mrs. Frances D. Gage, Miss Elizabeth Palmer Peabody, William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, George Wm. Curtis, T. W. Higginson, Moncure D. Conway, Theodore Tilton, and William H. Channing; and other distinguished writers have promised us their aid. No pains will be spared to enlist the best talent in the country, and to make the paper on of literary merit, as well as practical utility.
The JOURNAL will issued semi-monthly, in octavo form, sixteen pages, at Two Dollars per annum, the first number appearing on the 1st of October next, and will be published in Boston.
Subscriptions will be received from this date by agents of JOURNAL, or by the Editors, Roxbury, Mass., Lockbox 2, to be paid on receipt of the first number of the JOURNAL. In this connection, we would earnestly solicit the cooperation of friends of woman throughout the country, in extending the subscription list of the JOURNAL, and thus placing it on that permanent basis which will ensure its continued utility and success. Those interested in the enterprise
<c03>
are respectfully requested to communicate with the Editors at the above address.
A discount of twenty-fire per cent will be made to agents.

Agents will please return all prospectuses with names before the 15th of July.
MART L. BOOTH.
MARIE E. ZAKRZEWSKA, M. D.
Boston, May 15,1862.

THE BATTLE OF FAIR OAKS.
The details of this battle leave no doubt that it was second in importance and desperation only to that of Shiloh, which it resembled not a little. Gen. Casey's division, very much weakened, and composed of comparatively raw troops, was selected for the overwhelming attack of the rebels at noon on Saturday, May 31. Though suffering terribly from their fire, and almost demoralized, the division for three hours and a half disputed a half mile of advance with the enemy, and fell back on Gen. Couch's division, consisting of parts of twelve regiments. In the engagement which ensued, the 10th Massachusetts, among others, displayed conspicuous bravery. Reinforcements from Kearney and Sedgwick, on Couch's left and right, confirmed his stubborn resistance, and put a decisive check to the last attempt of the rebels to advance at 6 o'clock. On this day our losses were heaviest, the number of officers who were wounded being very large. The contest was renewed early on Sunday morning, Sickles', French's, Howard's and the Irish brigades being involved. The fighting was extremely severe, though over at 9 o'clock, A. M.
The position at the conclusion of the second day is summed up as follows:—
"Two divisions, much reduced in strength from various causes, had been attacked by a greatly superior force of good troops, and driven fully a mile from the first point of attack; but by the arrival of fresh troops, the enemy's course had been arrested, and his purpose to drive us into the Chickahominy decidedly defeated. Yet he occupied our camps and the position he had taken.
On Sunday, he had again attacked us, and been compelled to retire with loss. But though Richardson's division had driven him on the railroad, and the Sickle's brigade through the woods on the Williamsburg road, he still held nearly all, and certainly much the greater part of the ground taken on Saturday." 
On Monday, the camp of Saturday was reoccupied, and the rebels pushed back, with little resistance, a considerable space beyond. 
Washington, June 8. The following statement of the loss in the battle of Fair Oaks has been received at the War Department:— 
Hon. Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
Statement of the killed, wounded and missing of the 31st May, and June 1, 1862, in front of Richmond:— 
Gen. Stunner's corps, 2d—183 killed, 894 wounded, 146 missing.
Gen. Heintzelman's corps, 3d—259 killed, 980 wounded, 155 missing.
Gen. Key's corps, 4th—448 killed, 1753 wounded, 921 missing. 
Total—890 killed, 3627 wounded, 1222 missing.
The grand total of killed, wounded and missing is 5739.
A nominal list will be furnished as soon as the data can be received. (Signed,) G. B. McCLELLAN,
Major General Commanding.
New York, June 9. The Richmond Dispatch of the 5th states that the rebel loss in the late battle wag 8009 men, including 5 Generals, 23 Colonels, 10 Majors, and 57 Captains.
The Dispatch complains that the Federals can at any time cut off the retreat of the Confederates by seizing the railroads at Petersburg, and intimates that the retreat to Lynchburg and the mountains wag the only one left them.
A special dispatch to the Post says Col. Polk, of Tennessee, declares the flower of Beauregard's army at Richmond.
CASUALTIES IN THE MASSACHUSETTS REGIMENT. The official report of the casualties in the 10th Massachusetts Regiment, Col. Briggs, at the battle of Fair Oaks, gives 27 killed, 85 wounded, and 12 missing. Col. Briggs was severely but not dangerously wounded. Capt. Smart of Company B, after being wounded in the leg, was bayoneted by a rebel. Capt. Day, of Company G., while being assisted by two of his men, was shot dead by a rebel.
New York, June 7. The Times' correspondent states that John Washington, an aid General Johnston's staff, while carrying a message through the woods, unconsciously rode into our lines. On his person was found a book containing a complete list of our army divisions, corps, regiments and officers, together with their disposition before Richmond.
This capture proves that the rebels have more reliable means of obtaining information than by collecting it from newspapers. Washington was a cadet at West Point, and only graduated last year. On his person, and in the same book which contained the disposition and number of our officers, was a full and complete statement of the rebel force now under Gen. Johnston, and its disposition likewise. 

EVACUATION OF FORTS PILLOW AND RANDOLPH.
Washington, June 8. The following dispatch, ( written the day before the Memphis battle, was telegraphed from Cairo to-day, and was received at the War Department after those describing the ram engagement:—
OPPOSITE RANDOLPH, BELOW FORT PILLOW, JUNE 5, via CAIRO, 8th.
Hon. E. M. Stanton: 
To my mortification, the enemy evacuated Fort Pillow last night. They carried away or destroyed everything valuable. Early this morning Lieut. Col. Ellet and a few men in a yawl went ashore, followed immediately by Col. Fitch and a party of his command. The gunboats then came down and anchored across the channel.
I proceeded with three rams 12 miles below the fort to a point opposite Randolph, and sent Lieut. Col. Ellett ashore with a flag of truce to demand the surrender of the place. Their forces had all left in two of their gunboats only an hour or two before we approached. The people seemed to respect the flag which Lieut. Col. Ellett planted. The guns had been dismantled and some piles of cotton were burning.
I shall leave Lieut. Col. Ellett here in the advance, and return immediately to Fort Pillow to bring on my entire force. The people attributed the suddenness of the evacuation to the attempt made night before, last to sink one of their gunboats at Fort Pillow. Randolph, like Pillow, is weak, and could not have held out long against a vigorous attack. The people express a desire for the restoration of the old order of things, though still professing to be secessionists.
(Signed) Charles Ellett, Jr.,
Colonel Commanding Ram Flotilla.

CAPTURE OF THE REBEL FLEET ON THE MISSISSIPPI.
THE SURRENDER OF MEMPHIS. 
WASHINGTON, June 8. The following dispatch has been received at the Navy Department:—
"U. S. STEAMER BENTON, Off Memphis, June 6, 1862.
To Hon. Gideon Welles, Secretary of the Nary: 
Sir: I arrived here last evening at 9 o'clock, accompanied by the mortar fleet under Capt. Maynadier, the ordnance steamers, storeships. &c., and anchored a mile and a half above the city. This morning I discovered the rebel fleet, which had been reinforced, and now consisted of eight rams and gunboats, lying at the levee. The engagement which commenced at 5.30 A. M. and ended at 7 o'clock, terminated in a running fight. I was ably supported by the ram fleet, under command of Col. Ellet, who was conspicuous for his gallantry, and is seriously but not dangerously wounded. The result of this action was the capture or destruction of seven vessels of the rebel fleet, as follows: The General Beauregard, blown up and burned; the General Sterling Price, one wheel carried away; the Jeff Thompson, set on fire by a shell and burned, and magazine blown up: the Sumter, badly cut up by shot, but will be repaired; the Little
Rebel, boiler exploded by shot, and otherwise injured, but will be repaired. Besides this, one of the rebel boats was sunk in the beginning of the action; her name is not known.
A boat, supposed to be the Van Dorn, escaped from the flotilla by her superior speed. Two rams are in pursuit of her.
The officers and crews of the rebel boats endeavored to take to the shore. Many of the wounded and, prisoners are now in our hands.
The Mayor surrendered the city to me after the engagement. Col Fitch came down at 11 o'clock and has taken military possession.
(Signed) C. H. Davis,
Flag Officer Commanding pro tem.
WASHINGTON, Jane 8. The following message in relation to the action of the rams in the naval engagement off Memphis was received at the War Department this evening:— 
OPPOSITE MEMPHIS, JUME 6,
via Cairo, Jane 8.
Hon. Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
The rebel gunboats made a stand early this morning opposite Memphis, and opened a vigorous fire upon
<c04>
our gunboats, which returned it with equal spirit. I ordered the Queen, my flag ship, to pass between the gunboats and run down ahead of them upon the two rams of the enemy! which just then boldly stood their ground. Lieut. Colonel Ellett in the Monarch, of which Captain Dryden is first Master, followed gallantly. The rebel rams endeavored to back down stream and then to turn and ran, but the movement was fatal to them. The Queen struck one of them fairly, and for a few minutes was fast to the wreck. After separating, the rebel steamer sunk. My steamer (the Queen) was then herself struck by another rebel steamer and disabled, but though damaged can be saved.
A pistol shot wound in the leg deprived me of the power to witness the remainder of the fight.
The Monarch also passed ahead of our gunboats and went most gallantly into the action. She first struck the rebel boat that struck my flag ship, and sunk the rebel. She was then struck by one of the rebel rams, but not injured. She then pushed on and struck the Beauregard and bunt in her side. Simultaneously, the Beauregard was struck in the boiler by shots from one of our gunboats.
The Monarch then pushed at the gunboat Little Rebel—the rebel flag ship—and having got a little headway pushed her before her, the rebel Commodore and crew escaping. The Monarch then finding the Beauregard sinking, took her in tow until she sunk in shoal water. Then, in compliance with the request of, Com. Davis, Lieut. Col. Ellett dispatched the Monarch and Switzerland in pursuit of the one remaining gunboat and some transports which had escaped the gunboats, and two of my rams have gone below.
I cannot too much praise the conduct of the pilots, and engineers and military guard of the Monarch and Queen, and the brave conduct of Capt. Dryden or the , heroic conduct of Lieut. Col. Ellett. I will name all the parties in a special report.
I am myself the only person in my fleet who was disabled. (Signed) CHARLES ELLETT,
Colonel Comd'g the Ram Fleet.
CAIRO, June 8. After the return of our gunboats from the pursuit. Com. Davis sent the following note to the Mayor of the city of Memphis:— 
"U. S. STEAMER BENTON,
Off Memphis, June 6, 1862.
I have respectfully to request that you will surrender the city of Memphis to the authority of the United States, which I have the honor to represent. 
I am, Mr. Mayor, with high respect, your obedient servant,
C. H. DAVIS, Flag Officer."
In reply the Mayor says:—
"Your note is received, and in reply I have only to say, as the civil authorities have no means of defence, by the force of circumstances the city is in your hands." 
Immediately after our boats' crews landed, the National flag was hoisted over the Post Office. The party wag followed by an excited crowd, but was not interfered with. 
The 43d and 46th Indiana Regiments now occupy Memphis. Col. Fitch is in command. The city is quiet. No demonstrations whatever have been made. It is even asserted that it will not-be necessary to declare martial law. Five of our gunboats now lie abreast of the city.
We captured five large steamers, which were moored at the levee. The rebels burned a new gunboat which was nearly ready to be launched.
The Vicksburg Whig of the 4th says the Federals have landed 6000 troops at Baton Rouge. 
The Memphis Avalanche of the 6th says that the locomotives run off by the railroad employees have been recovered. 
The same paper says that alt the bridges between Memphis and Humboldt have been destroyed. 

IMPORTANT FROM CHARLESTON. 
FEDERAL FLEET WITHIN FOUR MILES OF THE CITY. 
NEW YORK, June 7. The following is from the correspondence of the Newark Advertiser:
UNITED STATES STEAMER AUGUSTA, Off CHARLESTON,
Off Charleston, S. C, Thursday, May 29.
I have barely time to forward a letter, by the prize just captured off this place, and which is on its way northward. The news here is quite important. Our gunboats are within four miles of Charleston, by way of Stone Inlet, and we expect soon to attack it.
WASHINGTON, June 8. Dispatches from Flag Officer Du Pan state the gunboats have possession of Stono, near Charleston. The capture was made in consequence of information from Robert Small.
PHILADELPHIA, June 9. The following telegram is taken from a Southern paper:—
CHARLESTON, June 4. The enemy landed 2,000 men at John's Island, opposite the city. A battle took place. The enemy were repulsed with a loss of twenty men taken prisoners by the forces of General Gist. They will be nut to Selma, Alabama, immediately.
NEW YORK, June 8. A Hilton Head letter of the 31st of May reports that an expedition, consisting of the 50th Pennsylvania Regiment, two companies of the Massachusetts cavalry and the 1st Connecticut Battery, advanced to the Pocotoligo, and had a skirmish with 1,000 rebels, who were driven from their position, leaving seven dead and two prisoners in our hands. Our loss was two killed and five wounded all of the 50th Pennsylvania Regiment. One of the killed was Capt. Parker. After the rebels retired, our forces tore up the railroad track for some distance. They remained until the next morning, when the enemy appearing in strong force, they retired successfully a to Beaufort. 
The enemy is reported to be 10,000 strong near Charleston. A battle is looked for soon. 
Cutting the railroad interrupts communication by that route between Savannah and Charleston. 
The negro brigade has been disbanded.

THE PURSUIT OF BEAUREGARD'S ARMY.
LOUISVILLE, Ky., June 9. Our forces now occupy Baldwin, Guntown, Jackson and Bolivar. Railroad repairs are progressing rapidly. The enemy passed Guntown last night, retreating southward from Baldwin. It is estimated that 20,000 have deserted since they left Corinth, mostly from Kentucky, Tennessee and Arkansas regiments. All the regiments from those States passed down, closely guarded on both side by Mississippians and Alabamians. 
It is believed by country people that Beauregard cannot enter Columbus with half the troops he brought away from Corinth. The whole country north and east of Baldwin is full of armed soldiers returning to Tennessee and Kentucky.
General Pope telegraphs from the advance that the I prisoners who first deserted to be exchanged, now want to take the oath of allegiance.
The enemy drove and carried off everything for miles around. The wealthiest families are destitute and starving, women and children crying for food, and all the males have been forced into the army. The enemy is represented as suffering greatly for food.

FROM NEW MEXICO.
KANSAS CITY, June 7. Disastrous Retreat of the Texan Rebel—Battle near Fort Craig. The Santa Fe mails with dates to the 28th ult., have arrived. The Texans had reached Mesilla with five pieces of artillery and seven wagons. It is said that after stopping at Fort Fillmore to recruit their exhausted energies, they would continue their homeward-bound march. 
Gen. Sibley is reported to be at Fort Bliss, far in advance of his command, taking care of himself.
Capt. Cray ton, who followed the trail of the enemy's retreat, reports that it bears evidence of suffering and destitution from one end to the other. Some remains of men were found which had not been interred, while others partly interred had been <illegible> by wolves and the flesh devoured. The ruins of wagons, I ambulances, caissons, and abundance of clothing, I arms and carcasses of mules and horses marked the line of their retreat.
Great discontent prevailed among the people of the Territory, owing to the partial disbanding of the volunteers.
Fort Craig advices to the 24th ult., state that early on the morning of the 23d, Capt. Tilford, who was stationed with thirty-five or forty men on the east side of the Rio Grande, seven miles below Fort Craig, received a summons to surrender from a band of 200 Texans, supposed to be straggling bands of guerillas of Sibley's command. He refused to do so, and immediately gave battle and fought three hours, when he retreated to Fort Craig with the loss of three wounded. Three of his men were drowned while crossing the river. The loss of the Texans was not known. Two companies of the Colorado volunteers were immediately .sent in pursuit of the Texans.
WASHINGTON, June 7. Dispatches have been received at the War Department from General Mitchell, dated at Huntsville, Alabama, June 6th, stating that an expedition under General Negley had driven the enemy, commanded by General Adams, from Winchester through Jasper back to Chattanooga, and utterly defeated and routed them at that point. Their baggage wagons, ammunition and supplies have fallen into our hands, and still more important results may be expected to follow this movement.
REVOLT OF SLAVES IN BALTIMORE — Baltimore, June 1st. On Saturday evening at the private slave jail of the Messrs. Campbell, On Pratt street, near Howard, some sixty slaves, who were sent to the jail by their owners, for fear they would abscond, manifested vicious conduct, and refused to be locked up as usual at dark. The police had to be called in, and not until after a severe struggle, in which the police had to use their pistols, was order restored. The keeper of the jail was knocked down during the fight. No one was seriously injured.
<c05>
FROM GEN. FREMONT'S DIVISION.
Particulars of the. Skirmish am Saturday—Jackson’s Army Attacked on Sunday and Routed milk Heavy Loss—Terrible Slaughter on Both Sides—Our Loss from 600 to 800 Killed, Wounded and Missing.
HEADQUARTERS, ARMY IN THE FIELD, HARRISONBURG, JUNE 7, 9 P.M.
The attack upon the enemy's rear yesterday precipitated fain retreat. Their loss in killed and wounded was very severe, and many of both were left on the field.
Their retreat is by an almost impassable road, along which many wagons were left in the woods, and wagon loads of blankets, clothing, and other equipments are piled up in ail directions.
Daring the evening many of the rebels were killed by shell* from a battery of Gen. Stahl's Brigade.
Gen. Ashby, who covered the retreat with his whole cavalry force and three regiments of infantry, and who exhibited admirable skill and audacity, was among the
Gen. Milroy made a reconnoissance to-day about seven miles on the Fort Republic road, and discovered a portion of the enemy's font' encamped in the timber. (Signed) J. C. Fremont, Major General.
FREMONT’S HEADQUARTERS, HARRISONBURG, Va., June 7. In the skirmish yesterday, beyond the town, the rebel loss is ascertained to have been very heavy. Most of our wounded have been brought in. Colonel Kane of the Bucktails is in the enemy's hands. The body of Cape Haines of the 1st New Jersey Cavalry has been found. Capts Stilline and Clark of the same regiment are prisoners, and not wounded.
Col. Ashby, the famous rebel cavalry leader, is undoubtedly killed. This is ascertained from people living near the battle-Held, and from prisoners. Major Green, of his regiment, was shot by Capt. Broderick of the New Jersey Cavalry.
FREMONT’S HEADQUARTERS BATTLE-FIELD EIGHT MILES BEYOND HARRISONBURG, Va., June 8. General Fremont has overtaken the enemy, of whom he has been in pursuit for a week, forced him to light, and driven him from his chosen position with heavy loss.
Our forces were outnumbered at alt points, but have occupied the rebel lines, and forced them to retreat.
The loss is heavy on both sides, the enemy suffering especially from our artillery. The Garibaldi Guards lost nearly 200, and the 25th Ohio, 60. The total loss is estimated at from 6U0 to 800 in killed, wounded and missing. Col. Van Gilsa of the De Kalb Regiment, Capt. Paull of the 8th New York Regiment, Capt. Milesner of the 2yth New York, Capt. Bischute of the 3yth New York, Capt. Charles North of the 25th Ohio, Surgeon Cantwell of the 82d Ohio, are all wounded. Many other officers are wounded and killed.
The rebels fought wholly under cover, while our troops were forced to advance through open fields.
The enemy's advantages of position and numbers were counterbalanced and defeated by Gen. Fremont's skilful handling of his troops, and the coolness and determination with which he. pressed hi« success. The fight was furious for three hours, and continued until nearly dark. Our army sleeps on the field of battle.
HEADQUARTERS, ARMY IN THE FIELD, CAMP NEAR FORT REPUBLIC, June 8-9 A.M.
To E.M. Stanton, Secretary of War:
The army left Harrisonburg at 6 o'clock this morning, and at half-past 8 my advance engaged the rebels about seven miles from that place, near Union Church. The enemy was very advantageously posted in the timber, having chosen his own position, forming a smaller circle than our own, and with his troops formed en masse. It consisted undoubtedly of Jackson's entire force.
The battle began with heavy firing at 11 o'clock, and lasted with great obstinacy and violence until 4 in the afternoon, some skirmishing and artillery firing continuing from that time until dark. Our troops fought occasionally under the murderous fire of greatly superior numbers, the hottest of the small arms tire being on the left wing, which was held by Staples's brigade, consisting of five regiments.
The bayonet and canister shot were used freely and with great effect by our men. The loss on both sides is very great. Ours is very heavy among the officers. A full report of those who distinguished themselves will be made without partiality. I desire to say that both officers and men behaved with splendid gallantry, and that the service of the artillery was especially admirable.
We are encamped on the field of battle, and the fight may be renewed at any moment.
(Signed) J. C. Fremont, Major General.
We hear to-day from Richmond. An omni-! bus with four horses, driven by a mulatto, and having two African gentlemen as inside passengers, came into Heintzelman's camp this afternoon, amid more laughter and cheering than I have heard in a year. A South Carolinian chartered it this morning of the keeper of the Columbia House, to remove wounded friends from the field of the Seven Pines. Jehu, of mulatto tint, drove the four bays right into our pickets, on Casey's old ground. The South Carolinian tumbled out of the 'bus, and ran like a lamplighter away from his grinning driver, and the dangerous consequences of his impudent mistake. A musket ball stopped his flight, and the 'bus and the three blacks were sent to head quarters. The driver, a very sharp fellow, says that the rebel wounded of yesterday are awfully numerous—that every carriage in Richmond was impressed to carry them away—that all the houses in the city contain more or less of them, and there was talk of turning the hotels into hospitals —that the inhabitants are removing to Danville, and that the army was retreating from before us in large masses.—Correspondence of the New York Tribune from the army near Richmond.
Gen. Butler is comfortably established at the St. Charles Hotel, with seven cannon planted upon the sidewalk in front.
Speaking of the day and night before the fleet arrived, a writer states that the destruction of property by order of the Rebel Government was an awful sight. On that night, any expression of favor for the Union, or Lincoln's Government, met with summary punishment. Several Germans, who shouted for the Union flag, were killed, and one was three times run up to a lamp-post, and was only rescued by the moderate portion of the crowd, when life was nearly extinct. Even after the troops reached the city, a man who was seen speaking to a Federal sentinel, was attacked by the mob, beaten, and obliged to fly to escape death.
It was remarkable to witness the forbearance of the Federal soldiers. Epithets of abuse were heaped upon them, and yet they maintained the even tenor of their way, receiving abuse in dignified silence.
The rebel loss in killed must have been enormous. Out of three hundred on board the rebel iron-clad gunboat Morgan, sunk by the Varuna, all that the I Surgeon could find after the battle was thirteen.
FREE LABOR PRODUCE-HIGH COMPLIMENT TO THE BLACK PLANTERS OF ST. CROIX.
At this time, when the great question of the capability of free blacks to maintain themselves and successfully conduct business is more widely mooted than ever, it may not be uninteresting to mention that the cargo of sugar and molasses received at this port in the L. P. Snow, and sold by auction on Thursday last, the 29th alt., was pronounced by the company present to be in finer order and better packed than any similar cargo ever offered Jot sale in Boston. The product was wholly the labor of free blacks in the Island of St Croix, and brought; prices which indicated its excellence—the sugar at $8 50a$8 80 per hundred lbs., and the molasses at 381/4a40 1/2c per gallon. Chenery & Co. were the consignees of this cargo, and were generally felicitated upon the handsome manner in which their correspondents sent their produce to market.—Boston Transcript, June 3d.
FROM PORT ROYAL A letter from Port Royal, under date of May 14th, says that the lath instant is the extreme date when it is safe for whites to be exposed I in certain localities, and even on Hilton Head the ordinary duties (lessened as they have been by General Hunter's sanitary precautions), have caused a great deal of sickness. It is clear that, if the war lasts, we must profit by the example of England in tike East and West Indies, and in the hot season keep our white troops only for an emergency, and put as much of the needful work and exposure as possible upon the negroes, now made free, as a military necessity.

FROM TEXAS-RUMORED PLAN TO RESTORE THE STATE TO THE UNION.—New York, June. 7th. The Tribune editorially says:—"We learn through a private channel, in which we confide, that the Unionists of Texas will soon be heard from. We understand that their arrangements for restoring their State to the Union have been quietly matured, and that they have ere this thrown the old flag to the breeze under the lead of General Sam Houston. We cherish strong hopes that the rebels of Texas will soon torn up missing, and that old Sam and Uncle Sam will have possession of the State.
The regular correspondent of the Boston Journal, "Perley," writes from Washington:—
"RESTORATION A MYTH Some Members of Congress, who have recently come from the vicinity of Richmond, bring tidings of but little Union spirit A Norfolk, or other places now occupied by the Federal troops; and it is probable that the details of Union demonstrations in North Carolina, so minutely given, have little foundation in fact Those who have fondly hoped for a restoration of the States, on the old platforms, are gradually losing confidence, and listen with more attention to those who believe in confiscation, emancipation and subjugation."
<c06>
REBEL OUTRAGES AND A REBEL DEFEAT.-Louisville, June 7th. A letter to the Democrat from Clinton, Ohio, says Champ Ferguson's men, of Morgan's cavalry, are murdering, robbing and committing ravages of all kinds at Tompkinsville, Monroe county, Ky.
Yesterday, Capt. McCullough, of the Ninth Pennsylvania cavalry, with 65 men, was attacked by 100 of Morgan's men, under Capt. Hamilton. McCullough and Hamilton were both killed, three were wounded on each side, and the rebel cavalry driven off.
ATROICIOUS CONDUCT OF STEARNS'S REBEL CAVALRY.-Nashville, June 8th. Six hundred of Stearns's rebel cavalry attacked 60 <illegible> of Lester's 3d Minnesota regiment while breakfasting near Reading, twelve miles from Murfreesboro', killing six and capturing all the rest but five. The rebels afterwards murdered several of their prisoners. The scouts belonged to Wynkoops cavalry. An attack on Murfreesboro' is reported, and forces have been dispatched there.
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo., June 7. In the Convention to-day a gradual emancipation scheme was offered, but laid on the table by a vote of 52 against 19, and a motion of reconsideration was moved and tabled, which effectually kills any such scheme. The bill defining the qualifications of voters was reported back from the committee, minus the section disfranchising those who have been engaged in the rebellion.
FREE LANDS FOR THE LANDLESS. The Senate has passed the Free Homestead bill by a vote of 33 to 7. The bill had previously passed the House, and the President's signature will make it a law. This beneficent measure could never prevail while the slaveholders controlled the government, but they order these things differently now. It is a happy idea thus to encourage the poorer classes to become small proprietors and cultivate their own acres.-Salem Observer.
By the steamer Guide from Newbern, N.C., We learn that "Governor Stanly has greatly disappointed the loyal people of North Carolina. Civilians and soldiers are exasperated at his despotic away. The house in which the negro girl was arrested by the marshal, to be returned to her master, has been burned to the ground. Governor Stanly sent orders to the Harbor-Master to search vessels leaving Newbern for contrabands. The Harbor-Master, with more patriotism than piety, replied that he would see the Governor d-d before he would obey such orders."
To the long list of Union victories we have to add the capture of Little Rock, the capital of Arkansas, by the division of Gen. Curtis, and the taking of Vicksburg by our gunboats. The bombastic assertion of the Mayor of that city, that "Mississippians never surrender," has been very speedily falsified. In striving to imitate the Mayor of New Orleans, the Vicksburg civic functionary made a zany of himself.
Gen. Banks, in his official report of the retreat of his forces from Strasburg to Williamsport, on the 24th and 25th ult., states his whole loss at 38 killed, 155 wounded, 711 missing-total, 905; but he thinks many of the missing are safe, and estimates the full loss at but 700. All the guns were saved; out of 500 wagons, only 55 were lost, and these, with but few exceptions, were burned on the road.
A Baltimore paper says there is well authenticated information in that city that the rebel loss in the battle of Hanover Court House was 1000 killed, 3000 wounded and 1200 taken prisoners.

ESSEX COUNTY.
The Annual Meeting of the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society will be hold on Sunday, June 15th, at ESSEX, in Century Chapel; commencing at half-past 10 o'clock, A.M.
ANDREW T. FOSS, PARKER PILLSBURY, and other speakers, are expected to attend.
It is earnestly hoped and desired that the members of the Society will take more than usual pains to be present. The times demand the earnest and united voices of all the friends of freedom and of their country.
CHARLES L. REMOND, President.
E.II HEYWOOD will speak at the Music Hall, Sunday morning next, June 15. Subject-"The Church."
NASHUA' N,H.-PARKER PILLSUBURY will give two addresses on "The Country and the Times," in Nashua, (N.H.) Town Hall, on Sunday afternoon and evening, 22d instant, at the usual hours of public assembly.
AARON M. POWELL will speak at Tivoli, N.Y., Sunday, June 15. Subject-"Emancipation."
NOTICE.-Members of the American, Pennsylvania, Western, or Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, contributing annually to the funds of either of these Societies, can receive a copy of the last very valuable Report of the American Society, entitled The Anti-Slavery History of the John Brown Year, by sending a request to that effect to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston, and enclosing stamps sufficient to pay the postage, viz., fourteen cents.
DIED-In Elmwood,. (III.) May 28, very suddenly, of congestion of the brain, HENRY A. JENKINS, aged 30 years, formerly of Cummington, Mass.
Physically, this our friend and brother was one of Nature's models; a walking illustration of perfect health and surpassing strength. His powerful frame, as the fine proportions lay in the repose of death, was a rare study for an artist. But better far than that exuberance of physical strength and vigor in which he always seemed to luxuriate, and which it was refreshing to look upon, was his unlimited faith in the right and the true, always and everywhere. Poor in this world's goods, he was yet rich in that devotion to the right, and that God-trusting spirit, which are the kingdom of heaven already come in the soul.
Very early in life he espoused the unpopular cause of the slave, and never did he forget to be true to that cause, through evil as well as through good report, up to the hour of his death.
He prized his Liberator highly, and never spoke of its veteran editor but with a glow of enthusiasm. He desired his wife to read to him from it only a few hours before his death, and his last words showed his unabated interest in the great work of human redemption to which it is devoted. In sunshine and in storm, he was always ready with his team, or with his rich voice in song, to assist anti-slavery lecturers in their work, and most sadly shall we miss him in future meetings.
He was generous and open in his nature, with a heart as large and manly and true as his broad breast could hold. In his own domestic circle he was gentle, tender and affection. That circle is now broken, and he is gone, but
"Where is the victory of the grave?
What dust upon the spirit lies?
God keeps the sacred life he gave,
And Goodness never dies." E. R. B.
A GOOD CHANCE
TO LEASE A SMALL FARM FOR ONE, OR A TERM OF YEARS.
A MIDDLE aged or young man, with a small family, with no other capital than a pair of willing bands, frugal and industrious habits, intelligent mind, a good moral character, somewhat acquainted with agricultural pursuits, will find a rare chance to lease-on the most favorable terms-a small farm, with all the stock and tools, and household furniture, situated in Pepperell, 3-4 mile from the district school, nearly three miles from the post office, stores, churches, and a flourishing academy, under the management of an accomplished preceptor, four miles from the railway station, and two hours' ride, by rail, from the city of Boston,-by making immediate application to the subscriber, on the premises. For particulars, inquire of WM. SPARRELL, Architect, No. 9 State Street, or at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston, where ambrotype views of the buildings may be seen.
No person need apply, who cannot furnish satisfactory references as to all the above qualifications, or who uses intoxicating drinks, moderately or immoderately, or is passionately fond of dogs, since the lessor is desirous of making his home with the lessee, and could not tolerate such <illegible> A.H. WOOD.
Oak Hall, Pepperell, Mass., May 12.

REPRESENTATIVE WOMEN.
Lucretia Mott, Maria Weston Chapman.
Abby Kelly Foster, Lydia Maria Child,
Harriet Beecher Stowe, Lucy Stone,
Antoinette L. Brown.
Those friends who have so long been desiring copies of the above group,-executed in Grozelier's best style,-can now be supplied, by sending their orders, enclosing one dollar for each copy, which will ensure their being promptly mailed, and in perfect condition.
An early application is necessary, as the edition is very limited.
ALSO, ON HAND,
A few copies of the original Grozelier Hthogradph of William Lloyd Garrison. Pries including mailing, 1.
WILLIAM C. NEIL,
Anti-Slavery Rooms, 221 Washington St, Boston. June 6.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
From the Vermonter.
JACK SCROGGINS.
On Maryland's proud soil,
Where the negro's lot is toil,
And the master lolls at leisure, lived a man;
His face perhaps was black,
And seamed with scars his back,
But his soul was stirred with visions of the great and grand.
He had heard the welcome cry,
"Union and liberty!"
And that the army of the North brought freedom to the slave:
He knew where traitors hid
Their implements of blood,
And bravely risked his life to carry tidings to the brave.
In the dark and dreary night,
Guided by the North Star's light,
He wends his weary footsteps through the dismal Southern swamp;
With wand'rings long and dreary,
With body worn and weary,
Just as the day-light dawns, reached the Northern army's camp.
"I can tell—though oft forbidden—
Where the rebels' guns are hidden,
And to see your brave commander, I have come this dreary night."
So with mingled sneers and blessings,
And with many Yankee guessings,
The loyal slave was taken to the tent of Col. Dwight.
Oh, many a soldier's life
Was saved in battle strife,
By the tidings that Jack Scroggins had risked his life to tell;
But no recompense or station,
Or even commendation,
Rewarded the brave fugitive who earned them all so well!
But the master claimed the man,
And—believe it ye who can—
This loyal soul was given up to a rebel black as night!
To strife and torture back
The traitor dragged poor Jack,
And with horrid blows and beatings cursed the hours till morning light!
The rise and set of day
Witnessed horrid agony!
Unpitied and alone, the noble slave was lying;
And when the sun went down,
And the cheerless night came on,
On the cold and bloody ground the martyr bold was dying.
Dying for liberty—
Dying from treachery—
In this our boasted land of light, was murderously dying!
How long, o Lord, how long
The weak yield to the strong?
How long shall brother's blood from the ground in vain be crying?
My fathers' God, I pray,
Take my bitter heart away,
And give a trusting spirit that unceasingly can pray;
Let not the curse of blood
Sweep o'er us like a flood,
But pardon, Father, and remove blood-guiltiness away.
Weybridge, Vt. JANE RIDER.

From the Christian Inquirer.
SONG OF THE CONTRABAND.
BY J.C. HAGEN.
TUNE-"The Braes of Balquither.”
Let us sing, brothers, sing,
But no longer in sadness!
Let the old cabin ring
With the shouts of our gladness!
Our bondage is o'er,
To return again never;
We are chattels no more —
We are freemen forever!
The glad tidings we hear
Shall silence our grieving;
The glad tidings from fear
The crushed spirit relieving;
And it thrills through our hearts,
Like a song of salvation,
On the white cotton-field
And the sugar plantation.
When our enemies sought
In their pride to conceal it,
Oh! how little they thought
That their fears would reveal it!
And our hearts danced with glee,
Round our hearthstones assembled;
For we knew we were free
When our task-masters trembled!
Praise to God! praise to God!
For the word that was spoken;
‘Twas by him that the rod
Of the smiter was broken.
He has answered the prayer
Of the poor and forsaken;
To his sheltering care
The oppressed he has taken.
Oh! how gladly we'll toil
When the lash does not drive us;
Of the fruits of the soil
They no more can deprive us;
When husband and wife
Can no longer be parted,
Or robbed of their dear ones,	
To die broken-hearted!
Then we'll sing, brothers, sing,
But no longer in sadness;
Let the old cabin ring	
With the songs of our gladness!
Praise to God! praise to God!	
For 'tis he who has done it;
Praise to him! praise to him!	
For his mercy has won it.
From the Anti-Slavery Standard.
TO JOHN G. WHITTIER.
There leaned at supper on His breast
One whom He loved, and each confessed,
"He loves not me, but him, the best."
And still, in later days, around
The board His chosen few are found; 
Sage, Hero, Poet—laurel-crowned. 
But one upon His bosom lies,
John the Beloved; his kindly eyes
Waiting the Master's low replies. 
—Oh, Poet of the Poor, the Oppressed,
Nearest to Jesus' pitying breast,
He loves not us, but thee, the best!
So, more than unto all the Eleven,
His pitying grace to thee has given
To ope for them the gate of heaven.
Oh, Hero-bard, among thy peers
God-chosen through these stormy years,
To bear His Ark, albeit with tears—
When Africa, so bruited now,
Among the nations lifts her brow,
Washed clean as infancy—and thou,
Still lingering on these earthly banks,
Shalt raise thine eyes and give God thanks,
No name along the shining ranks 
Of Cherubim God's throne around,
Shall louder swell or worthier sound,
As weighed, and yet not wanting found,
Than thine! Then live on, blessing, blest!
John the Beloved! Jesus' breast
Ne'er pillowed nobler, worthier guest.
Fitchburg, Mass. C. A. M.

MORAL SCALES.
What will ye weigh against the Lord? Yourselves?
Bring out your balance: get in, man by man:
Add earth, heaven, hell, the universe; that's all.
God puts his finger in the other scale,
And up we bounce, a bubble.
<c02>
The Liberator.
SPEECH OF WILLIAM WELLS BEOWN. 
Delivered at the New England Anti-Slavery Convention Wednesday, May 28tf, 1862.
MR. PRESIDENT,—Of the great family of man, the Negro has, during the last half century, been more prominently before the world than any other race. He did not seek this notoriety. Isolated away in his own land, be would bare remained there, had it not been for the avarice of other races, who sought him out as a victim of slavery. Two and a half centuries of the negro's enslavement have created, in many minds, the opinion that he is intellectually inferior to the rest of mankind;—and now that the blacks seem in a fair way to get their freedom in this country, it has been asserted, and from high authority in the Government, that the natural inferiority of the negro makes it impossible for him to live on this continent with the white man, unless in a state of bondage. Mr. Postmaster-General Blair, in his letter to the Union Mass Meeting, held at the Cooper Institute, New York, in March last, takes this ground. The Boston Post and Courier both take the same position.
I admit that the condition of my race, whether considered in a menial, moral or intellectual point of view, at the present time, cannot compare favorably with the Anglo-Saxon. But it does not become the whites to point the finger of scorn at the blacks, when they hare so long been degrading them. The negro has not always been-considered the inferior race. The time was when he stood at the head of science and literature. Let us see. I claim that the blacks are the legitimate descendants of the Egyptians.
Nearly all historians agree that the Egyptians were black. Volney assumes it as a settled point. Herodotus, who travelled extensively through that interesting land, set them down as black, with curled hair, and having the negro features. The sacred writers were aware of their complexion—hence the question, "Can the Ethiopian change his skin" The image of the negro is engraved upon the monuments of Egypt,—not as a bondman, but as the master of art. The Sphinx, one of the wonders of the world, surviving the wreck of centuries, exhibits these same features at the present day. Minerva, the Goddess o Wisdom, was supposed to have been an African princess. Atlas, whose shoulders sustained the globe, and even the great Jupiter Amman himself, were located by the mythologists in Africa. Though there may not be much in these fables, they teach us, nevertheless, who were then considered the nobles of the human race. Euclid, Homer and Plato were Ethiopians. Terence, the most refined and accomplished scholar of his time, was of the same race. Hanno, the father of Hamilcar, and grandfather of Hannibal, was a negro. Alexander H. Everett, the ablest writer of his day upon this question, took the ground that I do. These are the antecedents of the enslaved blacks on this continent
From whence sprang the Anglo-Saxon? For, mark you, it is he that denies the equality of the negro. "When the Britons first became known to the Tyrian mariners," says Macaulay, "they were little superior to the Sandwich Islanders." Hume says they were a rude and barbarous people, divided into numerous tribes, dressed in the skins of wild beasts. Druidism was their religion, and they were very superstitious. Such is the first account we have of the Britons. When the Romans invaded that country, they reduced the people to a state of vassalage as degrading as that of slavery in the Southern States. Their king, Caractacus, was captured and sent a slave to Rome. Still later, Henghist and Horsa, the Saxon generals, presented another yoke which the Britons were compelled to wear. But the last dregs of the bitter cup of humiliation were drunk when William of Normandy met Harold at Hastings, and, with a single blow, completely annihilated the nationality of the Britons. Thousands of the conquered people were then sent to the slave markets of Rome, where they were sold very cheap, on account of their inaptitude to learn. This is not very flattering, Mr. President, to your ancestors, but it is just. (Laughter and applause.) Caesar, in writing home, said of the Britons, "They are the most ignorant people I ever conquered. They cannot be taught music." Cicero, writing to his friend Atticus, advised him not to buy slaves from England, "because," said he, "they cannot be taught to read, and are the ugliest and most stupid race I ever saw." I am sorry that Montgomery Blair came from such a low origin; but he is not to blame. I only find fault with him for making mouths at me. (Loud applause.)
"You should not the ignorant negro despise,—
Just each your fires appeared in Cesar's eyes."
The Britons lost their nationality because amalgamated with the Romans, Saxons and Normans, and out of this conglomeration sprang the proud Anglo-Saxon of to-day. I once stood upon the walls of an English city, built by enslaved Britons when Julius Cesar was their master. The image of the ancestors of Montgomery Blair, as represented in Briton, was carved upon the monuments of Rome, where they may still be seen in their chains. Ancestry is something which the white American should not speak of, unless with his lips to the dust.
"Nothing," says Macaulay, "in the early existence of Britain, indicated the greatness which she was destined to attain." Britain has risen, while proud Rome, once the mistress of the world, has fallen; but the image of the early Englishman in his chains, as carved twenty centuries ago, is still to be seen upon her broken monuments. So has Egypt fallen; and her sable sons and daughters have been scattered into nearly every land where the white man has introduced slavery and disgraced the soil with his footprint As I gazed upon the beautiful and classic obelisk of Luxor, removed from Thebes, where it had stood 4000 years, and transplanted to the Place de la Concorde, at Paris, and contemplated its hieroglyphic inscription of the noble daring of Sesostris, the African general, who drew kings at his chariot-wheels, and left monumental inscriptions from Ethiopia to India, I felt proud of my antecedents,—proud of the glorious pa*t, which no amount of hate and prejudice could wipe from history's page, while I had to mo0urn over the fall and the degradation of my race. Bat I do not despair; for the negro has that intellectual genius which God has planted in the mind of man, that distinguishes him from the rest of creation, and which needs only cultivation to make it bring forth fruit No nation has ever been found, which, by its own unaided efforts, by some powerful' inward impulse, has arisen from barbarism and degradation to civilization and respectability. There is nothing in race or blood, in color or features, that imparts susceptibility of improvement to one race over another. The mind left to itself from infancy, without culture, remains a blank. Knowledge is not innate. Development makes the man. As the Greeks and Romans and Jews drew knowledge from the Egyptians three thousand years ago, and the Europeans received it from the Romans, so must the blacks of this land rise in the same way. As one man learns j from another, so nation learns from nation. Civilization is handed from one people to another, its great I fountain and source being God our Father. No one, in the days of Cicero and Tacitus, could have predicted that the barbarism and savage wildness of the Germans would give place to the learning, refinement and culture which that people now exhibit Already the blacks on this continent, though kept down under the heel of the white man, are fast rising in the scale of intellectual development, and proving their equality with the brotherhood of man.
In his address before the Colonization Society at Washington, on the 18th of Jan., 1853, Hon. Edward Everett said:—
"When I lived in Cambridge, a few years ago, I used to attend, as one of the Board of Visitors, the examinations of a classical school, in which was a colored boy, the son of a slave in Mississippi, I think. He appeared to me to be of pure African blood. There were at the same time two youths from Georgia,
<c03>
and one of my own sons, attending the same school. I must say that this poor negro boy, Beverly Williams, was one of the best scholars at the school, and in the Latin language he was the best scholar in his class. There are others, I am told, which show still more conclusively the aptitude of the colored race for every kind of intellectual culture."
Mr. Everett cited several other instances which had fallen under his notice, and utterly scouted the idea that there was any general inferiority of the African race. He said, "They have done as well as persons of European or Anglo-American origin would have done, after three thousand years of similar depression and hardship. The question has been asked, 'Does not the negro labor under some incurable, natural inferiority?' In this, for myself, I have no belief."
I think, Mr. President, that is ample refutation of the charge of inferiority, as brought by Mr. Blair, against the blacks.
There is another point connected with the cause of negro emancipation in this country that I must speak of, and that is the asserted incapability of the slave to take care of himself in a state of freedom. This charge is entirely and forever refuted by the history of the West Indies, since the abolition of slavery in those islands. We have heard a great deal about the "ruin of Jamaica"; and such journals as the Boston Courier, the Boston Post, and the New York Journal of Commerce, lose no opportunity to parade this falsehood in their columns, to prove that the same fate awaits the Southern States, if emancipation shall take place. As to the British Colonies, the fact is well established that slavery had impoverished the soil, demoralized the people, bond and free, brought the planters to a state of bankruptcy, and all the islands to ruin, long before Parliament had passed the Act of Emancipation. All the Colonies, including Jamaica, had petitioned the home government for assistance, ten years prior to the liberation of their slaves. It is a noticeable fact that the free blacks were the least embarrassed, in a pecuniary point of view, and that they appeared in more comfortable circumstances than the whites. There was a large proportion of free blacks in each of the Colonies',—Jamaica alone having 55,000 before the day of emancipation. A large majority of the West India estates were owned by persons residing in Europe, and who had never seen the Colonies. These plantations were carried on by agents, overseers and clerks, whose mismanagement, together with the blighting influence which chattel slavery takes with it wherever it goes, brought the islands under impending ruin, and many of the estates were mortgaged in Europe for more than their value. One man alone, Neil Malcomb, of London, had forty plantations to fall upon his hands for money advanced on them before the abolition of slavery. These European, proprietors, despairing of getting any returns from the West Indies, gladly pocketed their share of the twenty millions pounds sterling, which the home government gave them, and abandoned their estates to their ruin. Other proprietors residing in the Colonies, formed combinations to make the emancipated people labor for scarcely enough to purchase food for them. If found idle, the tread-wheel, the chain-gang, the dungeon, with black bread, and water from the moat, and other modes of legalized torture, were inflicted upon the negroes. Through the determined and combined efforts of the land-owners, the condition of the freed people was as bad, if not worse, for the first three years after their liberation, than it was before. Never was an experiment more severely tested than that of emancipation in the West Indies. Nevertheless, the principles of freedom triumphed, not a drop of blood was shed by the enfranchised blacks; the Colonies have arisen from the blight which they labored under in the time of slavery, the land has increased in value, and, above all, that which is more valuable than cotton, sugar, or rice, the moral and intellectual condition of both blacks and whites is in a better state now, than ever before. (Applause.) Sir William Colebrook, Governor of Antigua, said, six years after the islands were freed, "At the lowest computation, the land, without a single slave upon it, is fully as valuable now, as it was, including all the slaves, before emancipation." In a report made to the British Parliament, in 1859, it was stated that three-fifths of the cultivated land of Jamaica was the bona fide property of the blacks. The land is in a better state of cultivation now, than it was while slavery existed, and both imports and exports show a great increase. Everything demonstrates that emancipation in the West India Islands has resulted in the most satisfactory manner, and fulfilled the expectation of the friends of freedom throughout the world. (Applause.)
I now turn from the islands of the sea to our own land. If any proof were wanted of the capacity of the blacks to take care of themselves, it could be found without leaving these shores. The majority of the colored people in the Northern States, descended from slaves: many of them were slaves themselves. In 		education, in morals, and in the development of mechanical genius, the free blacks of the United States will compare favorably with any laboring class in the world. And considering the fact that we have been shut out, by a cruel prejudice, from nearly all the mechanical branches, and all the professions, it is marvellous that we have attained the position we now occupy. Notwithstanding these bars, our young men have learned trades, become artists, gone into the professions, although bitter prejudice may prevent their having a great deal of practice. When it is considered that they have mostly come out of bondage, and that their calling has been the lowest kind id every community, it is still more strange that the colored people have amassed so much wealth in every State in the Union. If this is not an exhibition of capacity, I don't understand the meaning of the term. 
The Boston Post says, "Free the slaves, and your poor-houses will be filled with them." A refutation of that slander may be found in the prosperous condition of the two hundred thousand free blacks in the slave States, who have not been induced to leave the congenial climate of the South for no advantage which they could have derived by the change. Though taxed for the support of schools to which they were never allowed to send their children, and though shut out from all school privileges, the free colored people of the South have educated themselves, and by their industry, sobriety, and good behavior, have gained the respect, esteem and good wishes of all impartial friends of humanity who have travelled through that section of the country. The editor of the New Orleans True Delta says—"The free colored people here are honorable in their intercourse with society, and in good deportment cannot be surpassed by any equal number of persons in any place, North or South." The abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia has developed the fact, that the largest number of property-holders in the Federal Capital are colored, and that they own church property amounting to more than $100,000. I commend these facts to the editor of the Boston Post, and would suggest that he take a few lessons from Dr. South-Side Adams, who says, that while in South Carolina, a prosecuting officer stated to him, that out of two thousand indictments made out in fix years, only twelve were against colored persons; and yet the majority of the inhabitants of that State are colored. The Boston Courier thinks that the natural inferiority of the negro makes it impossible for the two races to live together, without the inferior race being slaves. Now, as I have elsewhere shown the low origin of the Anglo-Saxon, and as the whites of the South have not exhibited any superiority over the blacks, I would suggest, that if we must have an enslaved race, that the slaveholders try it awhile. If patriotism and devotion to the cause of freedom be tests of loyalty, and should establish one's claim to all the privileges that the government can confer, then surely the black man can demand his rights with a good grace. From the fall of Attucks, the first martyr of the American Revolution in 1770, down to the present day, the colored people have shown themselves worthy of any confidence that the nation can place in its citizens in the time that tries men's souls. At the battle of Bunker Hill, on the heights of Groton, at the ever-memorable battle of
<c04>
Red Bank, the sable sons of our country stood side by side with their white brethren. On lakes Erie and Champlain, on the Hudson, and down in the valley of the Mississippi, they established their valor and their invincibility. Whenever the rights of the nation have been assailed, the negro has always responded to his country's call, at once, and with every pulsation of his heart beating for freedom. And yet the editors of the Boston Post and the Boston Courier would have us driven from the land of our birth. If these two gentlemen wish to show their patriotism, and are really desirous of doing their country a lasting service, and at the same time to immortalize their names, let them take themselves off to Lapland, or some other land, and give bonds not to disgrace America by their presence again. (Laughter and applause.)
There is a class who have done our country more injury, both in the United States and in Europe, than we can possibly imagine. I refer to those Union-savers, speakers and writers, who say one word in favor of the Constitution and the Union, and ten against the negro and his friends. We have lately been disgraced abroad by one of this class, a Mr. Geo. Francis Train, who, on arriving in London, made several flaming speeches Against the rebels and in favor of the Federal Government, by which he secured the ear and sympathy of the British people, and then showed his cloven foot by attacking and libelling the colored people of America, and the Abolitionists generally. These speeches have been extensively circulated here in pamphlet form among the laboring classes, for the express purpose of prejudicing their minds against the slaves' liberation, asserting his inferiority and incapability of taking care of himself if freed. A harlequin without genius, a railroad builder without originality, an upstart with only the merit of audacity and love of falsehood, Mr. Train's speeches are of the lowest possible order, and calculated to suit the ignorant and the unsuspecting. His assertion that the slaves cling to their masters on account of their attachment, called forth laughter and derision from the audience, while his claim that slavery Christianized, educated and refined the negro, brought down a volley of hisses from all parts of the hall. Finding, from the state of feeling of the audience, that he had missed his aim, he changed his tune before the conclusion of his first speech, and promised that he would give them his plan of emancipation on the following evening; and here it is, as taken from his second address:—
Let the States pass a law, under the guidance of the Constitution, compelling the planter, as a slight tax upon his treason, to give the slave his own labor one day in the week to work out his own freedom— his price fixed at a fair value, and arranged under guarantees that the slave shall have that day as well as over hours to purchase his liberty. This knowledge stimulates ambition, gives him self-reliance, so that when he has earned his freedom, he is also educated to appreciate it. The world will have before them a plan. Public opinion will so act upon the planter that many will emancipate such slaves as can take care of themselves at once; the strong and active negroes should be made to work out the freedom of their parents and children where they are unable to do it themselves."
The deception which he tried to practise upon the English people in this plan turned the whole tide of public opinion against Mr. Train, and he complains bitterly at what he calls the "prejudices in England against Americans." At the conclusion of his last speech, Mr. Train received a severe and well-merited castigation from J. Passmore Edwards, Esq., who said in his remarks—"While holding your country's banner high against Secession, I applauded you, but I feel that it is a disgrace to America to hear her Union champion advocating negro slavery." The idea of freeing the country from slavery, by allowing the slave one day in each week by which to earn the means of purchasing his freedom, and that the able-bodied should be compelled to buy the liberty of the old, the halt and the blind, is ridiclous in the extreme. Upon such a plan, no man could work out his freedom in a life-time. Mr. Train exhibited his mendacity still more in his attempt to prove the inferiority of the blacks. His dealing with the different races of men created considerable merriment for the Londoners, who set him down as a mountebank.
Such men as this Train, the editors of the New York Herald, the Boston Post, and the Boston Courier, have done great injury to the cause of liberty and the Union. (Applause.) If hatred to justice, humanity and the negro race should entitle one to the highest seat in the lowest kingdom, I am sure that the editors of the Post and the Courier will be amply provided for in the warmest corner of the lowest pit, in the world to come. (Loud and prolonged applause.)

ULTEAISTS.
Truth is always ultra and extreme to ignorant and darkened minds. The lover of freedom is the so-called extremist or ultraist of the day. By an ultraist is understood one who forces, as it were, his fundamental idea upon the world. He has a fixed principle, around which he revolves, and all the radiations from that centre partake of the central idea.
The majority of mankind are conservative, or middle men—politicians. They buy of the producer and sell to the retailer. They occupy this middle-ground — a position of mischief-making. They consider themselves of great use in the market and the world. They are always ready for some form of compromise, and will lean to cither side for small favors. The sun in yonder sky shines for the purpose of sending through all the world the great principle of life. A great life-force emanates from its rays. Truth, like a central orb, sends forth its wonder-working powers, and the life of humanity rises to its high and holy purpose, according to its reception.
From all minds filled with the idea of liberty, much good must result. The rabble cry, "Crazy fanatic!" but what harm ensues? In the extensive fields of science and art,—in that broad expanse for mental rambles, how many extreme and ultra minds you find rushing off in some wild freak, in pursuit of one leading idea or principle. Instantly is heard the cry, "He is insane!" But years roll on, and science advances with rapid strides, and suddenly the very law discovered by this so-called insane mind, is found true and exact, of great and vital importance.
Religion, Politics and Science all have these ultra followers and students. The founders of the Christianity of Jesus Christ were of this type. They stood up manfully against the bitter mockery of the conservative crowd. Crucifixion and death had no dread. They boldly proclaimed the truth, because they knew that the glorious revelations they beheld were for the eternal good of humanity. An extreme view of certain political principles is hooted against: the ignorant crowd cry out, "Crucify it!" "Crucify it!"
Humanity, in its sound life, when all the functions of its organism are in a healthy and perfect order, discovers no such men as ultraists. The bold enunciator of the idea of freedom is not ultra: he stands firm on the living principle of truth. The world may shout, "Put him down! put him down!" but though an earthquake should engulf the world, the true and divine order of liberty to all would be still living.
The fire-eater of South Carolina is called an extremist or ultraist. No, he believes in human bondage,—that slavery is of God,—and, as such, he rallies to its support. His belief is, to him, true. He endeavors to extend the powers of his God-bestowed gift of slavery over the world; but when lie does so, he strikes against the eternal Rock of Freedom. The middle class—the poor conservative politician—is to be pitied. He expects to reap some fat office, to be the recipient of some evanescent good. He is neutral; he is neither warm nor cold; and the edict in reference to lukewarm persons has already gone forth.
Abolition—how it jars and grates on the ears of slavery-loving men. They despise the word; they cannot bear the destruction of their golden calf. They hurl their unhealthy arguments against the man who favors freedom—who boldly says he represents the idea of liberty in its proudest and noblest aspects,— when he declares there is no union between slavery and
<c05>
freedom, and cannot be; when he is in favor of a Union founded in truth, and when he says that, for such a Union as these base middle-men would patch up, by compromise and concession, he has no love. Why is it that such men are despised and scorned? Why is it that such men are not listened to? And why is it that the reason of men leave them, and mental Wind-ness so fatally seals their perception, when the truth is proclaimed by such lovers of God and freedom?
Shame! shame! that an American citizen should believe in the principle of slavery! Shame, that the pore flag of oar country should float over the Goddess of Liberty, at whose feet a slave is kneeling, not asking for liberty, but protected in slavery by the power of the start and stripes! How absurd the picture; how conflicting the emblems.
"Proclaim liberty throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof." This motto, inscribed on the old bell, once in the tower of Independence Hall, Philadelphia, is not an ultra motto. It is the grand and eternal idea of God; and its the tone of harmony sounded over the land, what a corresponding type of the harmonious echo in the hearts of all free men— the happy unison of free thought in a free body.
May the harmony of freedom swell in pealing tones of thunder over this fair and goodly land, in years not far distant.
I. L. WADE, M. D.

CIVIL BULE IN NOBTH OABOLIHA.
THE COLORED SCHOOLS BROKEN UP.
Slaves Sent Back—Consternation Among the Fugitives—The Slaveholders Exultant—Indignation of the Officers and Soldiers— H. H. Helper Expatriated—Four Hundred More Released Prisoners on their Way to New York.
[Correspondence of the New York Times.]
Newbern, N. C, Saturday. May 31, 1802. The experiment of placating the Old North State has commenced, under the rule of the new Governor. The first acts in the drama have the virtue of being intelligible, and pleasing at least to one class of! people. As usual, in all attempts to soothe Southern wrath, the negro is thrown in as the offering.
CLOSING THE COLORED SCHOOLS.
The schools established by Mr. Colyer for the instruction of the colored people were suddenly closed on Wednesday evening. It was the first administrative act of the new Governor, since whose advent the military authority seems, to a great extent, suspended.
Hearing that this was to be done, I went early to the Methodist Church on Hancock street, where one of the colored schools is held. Very few had, as yet, arrived. Sitting at a side door, I observed an old couple of at least sixty years of age, each of whom held a little primer, in hand, into which they were intently peering, and by the aid of the dim twilight were endeavoring to master their first lesson in letters. Approaching them, I asked, "How do you get along with your book?" "O, master, we is trying right hard, but git on slow." “Don't you know how to read!" I asked. “No, but we wants to, master, very much; we wants to learn more dan we does to eat a good dinner when we is hungry; we want to learn so dat we can read de Word of God," said the man.
In a few minutes the pupils began to come in. They came—young, old and middle-aged, male and female—and quietly took seats, filling-the body of the house, as well as the galleries, and numbering five or six hundred. In front of the altar were sixteen bright and wakeful little boys of from eight to twelve years, ranged on two benches, and confronting the lesson of the evening, which had been written upon a sheet in large letters, and hung over the pulpit:—
"Love your enemies; bless them that curse you; do good to them that hate you, and pray for them that despitefully use you and persecute you."—Matt. 5th ch.
When all had become seated, Mr. Colyer gave out the Sabbath school hymn:—
"Joyfully, joyfully, onward we more,"
which was sung with earnest pathos by the whole congregation.
During the prayer, when incidental reference was made to the closing of the school, a sob was heard in all parts of the house. That single sentence dashed all hopes, and sent a pang to every heart. The Superintendent remarked that during the six weeks the schools had been opened, no disorder had occurred, and not the slightest complaint had been made by the authorities. The schools had been uniformly closed before the hour of guard-mounting, though by this course they had been obliged to assemble at an inconvenient hour, leaving their work at the fortification and on the bridge frequently without their suppers, in order to be early at the school. They had made rapid progress, over one hundred, only a few days since, having been selected as teachers, who could read with facility, and the remainder were able, after a few minutes' instruction, to read the common lesson. He alluded to the fact that three or four hundred of them had been engaged upon one work—the fort—and that no disturbance had occurred, not a fight had taken place among them. Meantime they had lived in most inconvenient places, generally kitchens and outbuildings in the town, crowded together in unhealthy and irritating circumstances.
"These, schools," said the speaker, “are now to be closed, not by the officers of the army, under whose sanction they have been commenced, but by the necessity laid upon me by Gov. Stanly, who has informed me that it is a criminal offence, under the laws of North Carolina, to teach the blacks to read, which laws he has come from Washington with instructions to enforce."
The teacher said he hoped that the schools would be closed only for a brief time, and exhorted them to submit patiently to the deprivation like good, law-abiding people, such as they had always proved themselves to be. Those who followed the injunction before them, on the pulpit, and trusted in the Saviour, who had given the command, would not only have this blessing restored to them, but must, ultimately, enjoy even greater blessings than this.
The old people dropped their heads upon their breasts, and wept in silence; the young looked at each other with mute surprise and grief at this sudden termination of their bright hopes. It was a sad and impressive spectacle. Mr. Colyer himself could hardly conceal his emotion. A few moments of silence followed, when, as if by one impulse, the whole audience rose and sang, with mournful cadence, “Praise God from whom all blessings flow," and then shook hands and parted.
The school at the Baptist Church, where the more advanced scholars were placed, was closed in a similar manner.
THE SCHOOL FOR THE CHILDREN OF CITIZENS.
Mr. Colyer continues the white school for poor children, as usual. This is right. It is better to educate a small part of the rising generation than to neglect the whole. The State raised, during the war 1860-61, for educational purposes, less than $100,000. The sum expended in powder during the same period is not stated. Generals Burnside and Reno visited the schools for the whites, and were received by over fifty children—some very pretty-with bouquets of flowers. These they presented to the General, who expressed himself greatly pleased.
SENDING BACK THE SLAVES.
Yesterday the Governor was waited upon by large numbers of the residents, in and out of town, who congratulated him upon the auspicious beginning of his administration. Among others, several persons applied for the restoration of their fugitive property who have sought protection from the tyranny of the plantation within our lines. One Nicholas Bray, living a few miles from town on the Falmouth road, obtained an order to carry off two slave women. With his wife be proceeded to an old school building where one of them was lying sick abed, he dragged her forth, and drove away with her to the plantation. Her sister, a bright mulatto young woman of unusual attractions, hearing of the proceedings, was made almost frantic, and sought asylum at the only place she knew — the headquarters of the poor. Elated at his success, Bray drove up, and without ceremony began a search of the premises, Mr. Colyer at the time was away. Apprised of his coming, Harriet flew with lightning speed, and concealed herself in an out-building almost under the eaves of j Gen. Burn»de*s headquarters. Not finding the object of his search, Bray drove off, probably to renew the search at a more convenient season. 'Harriet is only about seventeen years of age, and Bray asserts that he has been offered fifteen hundred dollars fur her.
<c06>
Bray is a brother-in-law of A. G. Eubank, the Quartermaster of the rebel militia, lately at this place. He is a well known rebel; was mustered into the service, it is said, and only escaped taking part in the battle of Newborn on account of some alleged injury to his back. He promised to take the oath of allegiance.
Several other orders were given for the capture and taking away of slaves from the town. Four were reported to have been captured and carried out of our lines yesterday.
FLIGHT OF THE NEGROES.
Frightened at this turn of affairs, a number of the slaves who have congregated in the town had scattered like a flock of frightened birds. Some have taken to the swamps, and others have concealed themselves in out-of-the-way place. A perfect panic prevails among them. The greater part who were employed on the fortifications are so much alarmed at the prospect of being returned to their enraged masters, and being punished, that they are of little use as laborers. 
It is believed that many will find their way to the rebel lines, and, in order to make friends with them, will reveal important facts touching the condition of affairs in this department. The slaves express the greatest horror at the prospect of being sent back to their old homes, and say that they will be unmercifully "cut up" for having absconded. One old man of sixty told me to-day that he would rather be placed before a cannon and blown to prices than go back. Multitudes say they would rather die.
FEELING AMONG THE OFFICERS AND SOLIDERS.
The new administration has fallen upon the offers and soldiers in this place like a wet blanket. Prominent officers, from colonels and quartermasters down to the humblest soldiers in the ranks. speak in terms of the most vehement indignation of the course which the new Governor is pursuing; and I have not met an individual, either officer or soldier and I have seen a large number, who does not condemn, in the plainest language, the course which has been adopted.
Nevertheless, no whisper of disloyalty to the Government has or will be uttered or tolerated in any quarter. Massachusetts, as well as New York troops it is assumed, will conquer their prejudices and execute the behests of the Government, believing that patriotic motives inspire whatever measure are adopted for the putting down of the slaveholding rebellion.
It would be a dereliction of duty on my part however, to conceal, at the present time, the state of feeling which prevails, and to predict that military force will, before long, be required to assist in compelling the return of fugitive slaves to their claimants.
I have carefully watched in every quarter for the uprising of the Union sentiment in this State, but, unlike the reporters of the Tribune, have failed to see it. Hence, I have refrained from misleading the public on that subject. For the correctness of my reports, in this respect, I appeal with confidence to every officer and soldier in the department.
MORE RELEASED UN1ON PR1SONERS.
Four hundred more of the released Union prisoners arrived here, via Washington, last night, on board of the steamer Virginia. They are in a deplorable condition, many having scurvy in its worst tones. One man whom I saw, had large scorbutic sores on his limbs, and his flesh turning black and blue. Many have ulcerous gums and loosened teeth, from the constant use of salt, fat pork, and no vegetables They include the letters G and part of M. Sergeant Mathews, the color-bearer of Col. Corcoran, is on board. They will receive medical attention, some necessary comforts, and sail at once for New York.-Morrell, Third United States Infantry, died on board to-day, of dropsy.
ACT THIRD-THE “CRISIS"—MR. H. H. HELPER EXPATRIATED.
The following correspondence, explains itself.
Mr. Helper, like Gov. Stanly, is a native of this State, and belongs in Rowan County. As his letter states, he has been employed in the army, and also in other important positions of the Government service. He is a brother of Hinton Helper, author of The Impending Crisis.
NEWBERN, N. C, May 30, 1862.
To his Excellency Gov. Stanly:
DEAR SIR,—I wish you to believe me when I tell you that what I say to you to-day, is said in a Spirit of love and kindness,—they are only the words of one man, a son of the State, who heartily desires to become again a permanent citizen.
I enlisted in the service a private soldier for the purpose of fighting down the slaveholders' rebellion and was mustered out of said service on the 1st of February last, on my own application, to join this division of the army, in either a military or civil capacity, in the hope that I might be more useful in my native State than elsewhere. This course way by some thought to be impolitic.
I have awaited your arrival with no little impatience, under the expectation that a new era was to be inaugurated by your administration, which would favor my long cherished hopes of again setting on my native soil, and becoming useful. Without any means of knowing the policy to be adopted by you, upon your arrival, the recent acts of the General Government have led me to expect that you might try the effect of an earnest appeal to the people to listen to the gracious offer of the President in his late proclamation, and seek deliverance from the incubus of slavery, which weighs so heavily upon its industry—an appeal which, backed by the high reputation you have enjoyed in the State for moderation and patriotism, could hardly fail to make an impression upon the people, even in the midst of the wild tumults of war. It had occurred to me, that while you, possibly, thus held out the olive branch to the few large dace-owner in the State, whose interest of convenience might temporarily suffer by the change I might possibly make myself useful among that larger class of non-slaveholding citizens, who have no direct interest in perpetuating the system, and who, I have reason to believe, would be brought by judicious management, soon to acquiesce in the paternal policy of the President. Thus much I will reveal to you of my feelings and hopes.
I have had no good opportunity, since you came, to learn what course you proposed to pursue; but your first act, closing the schools which have been established for the instruction of the negroes has seemed to me to point in quite another direction from that which 1 had supposed you might pursue.
It strikes me that this is a bad beginning, whether viewed as a stroke of policy or of justice, and my object in this communication is to respectfully inquire —presuming it not to be improper for me to do so, since you observe that you would be glad to hear any suggestions I might offer—whether the course indicated by this first act is to be the line of policy to be adopted by you. If so I shall need no farther light and will prepare as soon as practicable to leave the State, satisfied as I am that I can render the State no service so acceptable to you and them.
I am, Governor, very respectfully, your obedient servant, H. H. HELPER.
GOVERNOR STANLY'S REPLY. OFFICE OF THE PROVOSR MARSHAL, NEWBERN, S. C, Saturday, May 31, 1862. H. H.-HELPER, Esq.:
SIR,—I am instructed by his Excellency the Military Governor of North Carolina, to inform you that the requires you to leave this department in the first vessel going North.
Capt. C. G. Loring, Jr., Assistant Quartermaster, will furnish you with the necessary order for transportation. I am, very respectfully, yours,
DAN MESSENGER, Provost-Marshal.
RETALIATION ON BRAY.
Last night, a party of men, distinguished with the letter "M" on their caps, proceeded to the house of Nicholas Bray, at a distance of two miles from town, and took out the slave woman who was yesterday carried away, and then burned the house. This morning, the wife of Bray appeared before the Governor and made complaint of the facts, and asked again for her negro woman. The Governor calmly advised her to return home, without making any present effort to find her. At last accounts things look mixed, though Bray had disregarded the Governor's advice, and armed with the power which had been previously given him, was still searching the town for his slave.
VESSELS TO BE OVERHAULED-
I am informed that an order has been issued to search closely every steamer or vessel leaving this port, for the purpose of stopping any colored people who may be found on board with the design of getting away to the North. It is also intimated that the names of certain Captains of vessels are on the list of suspicious persons who will be subject to arrest on their arrival here, on charges of carrying away black per sons from the State.
Adams & Co.'s Express agents have Been waited on and required to show their way-bills for some weeks back, and persons are to be sent to Massachusetts and other places in pursuit of stray articles of <Illegible>ertu, sewing machines, &c. E.S.
