THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square <illegible> three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 27. BOSTON, FIRDAY, JULY 6, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1541.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
From the Watchman and Reflector.
'THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT.'
A SOUTHERN VIEW.
‘We cheerfully insert the following article from an esteemed minister at the South, whose name has become a sort of synonym for kindliness of spirit and wisdom of counsel. His views diverge from ours almost as widely as the Poles, but it is only by temperate discussion in a Christian spirit that differences of opinion can be reconciled. We wish that our Southern brethren would oftener use the columns of Northern journals for the frank and manly utterance of their sentiments. It might remove our misapprehensions; it might be a safety-valve for the escape of their irritation. We hope our readers will give the article a careful examination, as embodying the sentiments of a large body of Southern Christians. Some further comments may be found in our editorial columns.]
MESSRS. EDITORS,-It has been my pleasure of-ten to allude to the ability with which your paper is conducted, and to believe that it is contributing, in many respects, to promote the cause and kingdom of our blessed Redeemer. That it should coincide with us at the South, in the views it furnishes of the question of slavery, is perhaps not to be expected, and yet we might naturally suppose that those views would more fully accord with the facts of the case. As our brethren at the North are, in reference to this question, our assailants, it may be expected that occasionally a word of defence may receive attention. If you will not object, I conclude to say a few things on the subject.
Our brethren at the North mistake, in supposing, that, according to a long article of yours, published a little time since, an irrepressible conflict is going on at the South, between free and slave labor. So far as I have been able to perceive, no such conflict exists. Our country being largely, I may say principally, agricultural, the cultivation of the soil is mostly performed by slave labor. But other spheres of toil are open, and occupied by free laborers. Nor is there any collision between these two distinct classes. Thousands of German, Irish, English, Welsh and New England citizens are here conducting mercantile, mechanical and manufacturing operations, and never coming in conflict with slave labor, or suffering any interference from it. These are regarded with respect and esteem in proportion to the character they sustain, as industrious, truth-loving, law-abiding people. If any violate law, they may not expect to escape the penalty, whether they be slave or non-slaveholders, bond or free. The collisions to which you allude are of this class; they result from the violation of equitable law. In some instances, when public opinion and the peace of society are outraged, a community may adopt a summary method of disposing of the case, and an improper violence may be allowed. But these are of very rare occurrence at the South. I doubt whether a comparison of the North and South, in these respects, would not be in favor of the latter. I may say, too, that if you knew of the many instances in which the confidence of the South has been abused by Northern men, you would only be surprised that distrust and collision were not more frequent. John Brown himself passed through our State, ostensibly for business purposes, assuming the character of a Christian, and professing to regard Spurgeon as unworthy of respect, on account of his Abolition views. He was kindly entertained in the homes of many of our brethren, and listened to me in one of my discourses, not thirty miles from this place. Cases of this sort are of frequent occurrence. But, as I have said, this irrepressible conflict between free and slave labor does not exist at the South. But I can tell you where it is found. The conflict is going on at the North, between the white and black man. Who that looks at things as they are, does not see this? In the Providence of God, it has been made my duty to travel much at the North and South, within the last fifteen years, and I am greatly mistaken, if the black man at the South is not, physically, intellectually, socially and religiously, elevated many degrees above his brother at the North. At the North it is a perpetual struggle, an irrepressible conflict of the colored race with the more favored classes. My opinion has been distinctly and maturely made up, that the truest friends of the blacks are found in the Southern countries, and a more fearful evil could not befall them than the immediate abolition of slavery, scattering the emancipated ones among the whites of the North.
There is another respect in which a fearful conflict is being waged-a conflict of sections. An unnatural,. fratricidal war is taking place between the North and the South. What is to be the issue, no mortal can tell. How soon this land is to be deluged in blood, no one can foresee. This war was commenced at the North. The John Brown raid, enkindled and fanned by Northern presses, even by some that call themselves conservative-the long-continued silence of those presses after its occurrence, or their faint condemnation of the man and his measures-the Helper book, written by a man, who, when he resided in this city, was so strongly proslavery, and so vindictive, as to find few sympathizers-and whose scheme, if carried out, would drench our land in blood-the countenance given to this book by wealthy men, and men of official distinction in different parts of the North; all these things have awakened a distrust and indignation which may be said to be universal at the South.
This irrepressible sectional conflict is one which the South have not sought. It has been forced upon them. The interests of the North and South are intimately related. The two sections ought to be one, commercially, politically and religiously. This glorious Union ought never to be rent in twain. The South have not desired it. They have been willing to stand upon the same platform with their Northern brethren, but they would not consent to occupy an inferior position. What are the facts of the case? First, the war began religiously. The North insisted that the South should not occupy the same ground of Christian equality. Thirty years ago I attended, for the first time, in a Northern city, the triennial meeting of the Baptist Convention. I saw Johnson, Manly, Semple, Crane, Staughton, Cone, Knowles, Lincoln and others, in warm Christian love, deliberating on the best <illegible> of sending abroad the glorious Gospel. It was a sight which made my young heart beat with unwanted emotions. I afterwards attended nearly, if not all the meetings that occurred. In a few years, this question was introduced by Northern men. The South said, we have not come together for this purpose. We meet as a missionary body; let us attend to our proper business. But the North insisted on seizing these occasions to agitate the subject. Then, the Boards at the North began to legislate in reference to it, refusing to appoint slaveholders as missionaries. The compact was broken. The South peaceably retired, to attend to their own work in their own way. What has occurred with the Baptists, is history with respect to other denominations. The bonds of religious brotherhood are rent asunder. But a little while ago, and hundreds of Southern ministers and private brethren spent their summers at the North while our Northern brethren were willing to escape the rigors of a Northern winter,
<c02>
by coming South. This association was pleasant and profitable. But the intercourse is now seriously interrupted, if not destroyed. The same process is going on in the commercial world. It may require a longer time to bring about a separation, but things are tending in that direction. And what shall I say on the political question? More than sixty members of Congress unite in commending a book which urges that Northern men shall go South, as ministers, merchants, teachers, &c., for the purpose of freeing the slaves, peaceably if they can, but forcibly if they must. Northern and Southern Representatives in Congress are ranged on different sides of the house in which they sit. The South desire not disunion, not one man in ten thousand pleads for it, but I ask how long can such a state of things continue, and the Union remain unbroken? What, indeed, will the Union be worth, if distrust, alienation and hatred become the characteristics, North and South?
I propose to notice another point. It is assumed by our Northern friends, that the change which has taken place in public sentiment at the South, on the subject of slavery, is traceable to the unfaithfulness of Northern men-that if Northern men had been more decided in their testimony, the South would not now be found the apologists and defenders of the system. A great change has indeed taken place. Thirty years ago, many cases of emancipation were occurring, and slaveholders were often heard to express doubts of the lawfulness of the relation. Such cases are now exceedingly rare. The general sentiment now is, that God does not disapprove of this relation, but that it is recognized by His holy Word. Indeed, many of our most consistently pious men would regard it as a wrong inflicted on their slaves, and on society at large, to carry out the views of Abolitionists. I see that some Northern men are beginning to blame themselves for this change of popular sentiment at the South. Dr. Wayland is of this number. He, who a few years ago seemed mortified and distressed at the conduct of the Abolitionists, clamorous as they were for a separation from Southern Christians, is now lamenting that the North had not been more faithful. But Dr. Wayland, and those who think with him, are mistaken. The North have surely been sufficiently clamorous on the subject. The South also have been looking into it. The whole body of the North may become intensified in their hatred of slavery, and may renounce and denounce slaveholders. But Southern Christians will examine this subject for themselves. They read the Bible, and desire to be governed in all their relations by its principles and commands. With them it is a small matter that they are judged of men-He that judgeth them is the Lord. The North may shamefully caricature them, as you have done, by an article published in your columns not long since, from the New York Tribune. All sorts of misstatements and misconstructions may circulate in their papers, and thus popular sentiment at the North be imbued and embittered by the influence, but the South will not be terrified or ridiculed into measures. It is probable that at the South many may be driven to an extreme position, may say and do foolish things, but the great body of Christian people here will endeavor to know, and will do their duty. They will not lose their self-respect, nor less regard themselves as approved of God, because of this relation. They may be in danger, by this outside pressure, of an extreme in the other direction, but if I do not greatly mistake, they will, by the grace of God, resist this danger. There are evils among them, as there are evils at the North. These they will endeavor to rectify, notwithstanding the increased difficulty produced by this outside pressure.
This leads one to refer to the position taken by Mr. Spurgeon on this subject, induced manifestly by some appeal from this side of the water. There is, it seems to me, a vindictiveness approaching to malignity, in his allusion to slaveholders, so little in keeping with the genius of the Gospel, that it will send a pang to the heart of many a lover of Jesus, at the North and the South. He can take John Brown into his heart, where, as he says, ' he lives'; but it Richard Fuller were to appear in his 'neighborhood’, he would get a mark which he would carry to his grave, if it did not carry him there.' And who is John Brown, whom he loves with such a tender, enduring affection? An infidel! who could say, 'Christ was a pretty good teacher-plenty of others like him-I don't believe in him as a Saviour-I do not want anybody else to bear my sins-I am not such an extra sinner.’ &c. Who was John Brown? A traitor to his country!-who had prepared the plan of a provisional government, to be adopted when he should have overturned and trampled under foot the authority of the land, a premeditated, as well as an actual murderer! who had provided weapons to put into the hands of the slaves, and who seized a United States Arsenal, to carry out more fully his diabolical schemes: and, when he had failed in his plans, he passed away from the earth with all the unconcern of a hardened desperado, ridiculing and scoffing at the name of a Divine, atoning Saviour; this is the man that Mr. Spurgeon would receive into his heart, to ‘live’ there as a welcome, cherished guest. Alas! alas!
I have written much more than I intended. I have written not in anger, but with grief. And what I have written would find a concurrence in the sentiment of the more than one hundred thousand Baptists of Virginia; nay, more, of the five hundred thousand Baptists of the South. Many of these Baptists are slaves, recognized as our brethren whom we love in the Lord. Even they, as they become acquainted with the subject, are annoyed by these outside influences. These, who for the most part are hardy, healthy, happy sons and daughters of toil, when properly informed, would not exchange positions with those at the North, who are engaged in similar employments.
After all, you will still say. the conflict is irrepressible. Well, my consolation in all is, that Jehovah reigns. May he still the tumult of the people, and preserve this American people, one and indivisible! JAS. B. TAYLOR. 
Richmond, Va., March 8, 1860.
For a racy review of this letter, by Rev. Mr. BLAME, Baptist clergyman, see 4th page.]-Ed. Lib.

SENATOR SUMNER'S LATE SPEECH.
This gentleman has the repute of an elegant scholar. We regret that such distinguished fame is sullied by fanaticism, religious bigotry, and determined falsehood. In his recent bombastic, demagogue rhetoric against slavery on the floor of the Senate, he declared in the most unblushing manner, that ‘six thousand skulls of infants are said to have been taken from a fish pond near a nunnery, to the dismay of Pope Gregory.' Statements of this kind require no refutation. They are plainly untrue, and no one has gullibility enough to give them credence. It is an indelible shame for Mr. Sumner to tell in his office as a Senator of the United States so wicked a lie. What have the nuns done to him, that he should thus attempt to rob them of their name? It is infamous enough to injure the character of a man: how much more so is it to make a universal charge of the blackest nature, without the smallest ground for it, against the most sainted
<c03>
and useful class of ladies in society? But, what ever our indignation may be on this atrocious calumny, we are in no way surprised at its utterance by the Hon. Mr. Sumner. He has written and spoken the rankest treason against the Constitution of his country; his mendacious effrontery in political fanaticism is notorious throughout the nation; he has no religion that is worth a button, and he has ever regarded Catholicity with a fiendish eye:-what wonder, therefore, that he has slandered, in the universal degree he has, the prayerful inmates of the convents? Shame on him! He may yet be in a bad way for the assistance of the nuns. Before he expressed his lie, he should have reflected on the elevation of his office, on what was due to the Senate House itself, and on the high character of the public men whom he addressed. But no matter. The foul charge refutes itself. No one, not a persistent fanatic and bigot, believes it. We hope, however, that the happy day will come when unscrupulous demagogues like Mr. Sumner will have no seats in the United States Senate-'That is a consummation devoutly to be wished for.' They have already done irretrievable damage-more than would have their bawling, lying, seditious tongues plucked out for them, and their heads set rolling on the scaffold in other countries,-and very justly too. Mr. Sumner should be made to give up his seat. He is an unscrupulous firebrand in the nation.-Boston Pilot.
In speaking of Mr. Sumner's speech, the New York News says:-
‘We have not taken the pains to ascertain the exact number of times the word slave an I its compounds and synonyms occur in his speech. A low estimate, we think, would be a thousand. From this our readers can form a fair estimate of the character of the speech. It is in keeping with all the speeches of Republicans at this time. It supports the irrepressible conflict doctrines of Seward, and the Abolition doctrines of Garrison. It demonstrates beyond the power of caviling, that the abolition of negro slavery, in all the States of the Union, is the great object and aim of the self-styled Republican party, and that to accomplish it they are willing to trample the Constitution our fathers gave us in the dust, array State against State in civil war, and incite servile insurrections in those States where slavery of the negro race exists by law.'
The New York Herald thus analyzes Mr. S. 's four years' labor:-
‘He opens with an ostentation of the pure and holy feeling of charity; but does that quality predominate in his conceptions, breathe in his utterances, and live in his ideas, to stimulate men to deeds of forbearance and mercy towards each other? No. His self-adopted phrase for the denomination of his theme is the "barbarism of slavery;" and all his learning, memory, wit, eloquence and logic are directed to heighten and embitter the brutal and bloody conflict which Lincoln and Seward have proclaimed against the social existence of fifteen of the sovereign States of this Union. After the fashion of the self -appointed saints of the earth, he tells us that “there is austere work to be done;” and we well know what such language in the mouths of such men means. It means carnage and the flames of war. It means swords dripping with fraternal gore, torches put to the homes of brothers, desolation spread over happy and prosperous States, for opinion's sake. No man can assert that the South inflicts, or desires to inflict, one single positive injury upon the North. Every man admits that our fraternal relations with the Southern States are productive of unmixed benefit to us and to ours; and yet Lincoln and Seward incite the North to an "irrepressible conflict" with the South; and now comes another mighty leader among the Black Republicans, and proclaims it to be a “sacred animosity."
This is the burthen of Mr. Sumner's eloquence, and we need not enter upon its details. But there is one characteristic of this speech which is in perfect accordance with the policy of the Black Republican party in the present campaign. The bloody and terrible results which must ensue if that party succeeds in getting possession of the federal government are kept carefully out of view. John Brown's practice is taught; but there is no word of John Brown. The social condition of fifteen populous, rich and powerful States is to be revolutionized; but not a hint of the possibility of resistance on their part, or of the reactive effect of such resistance upon the aggressive North, is dropped. This "irrepressible conflict," this "sacred animosity,” is to be pursued to its bitter end, without the supposition of a single sacrifice or a single danger to the conquering aggressor. Mr. Sumner adopts, in all its consequences, the sophistical and illusive theory of Spooner. The meaning of the Constitution is suddenly to be wrested from that harmonious interpretation which has given us so marvellous a career of individual happiness and national greatness. Federal laws, administered by federal courts, presided over by Abolition judges, and protected, and their decrees enforced by a federal army, are to do all the bloody work, and confine its presence, and its multitudinous results and perils, to the Southern States.
Therein lie the fallacy and the folly of the Black Republican argument. It is an impossibility. The South is united as one man against this aggression of the North, while the North itself is divided. With the success of the Black Republican party in its present attempt to seize upon the federal government would come the first blast of resistance from the South, which would be echoed from every hill and dale between the Delaware and the Rio Grande, and from the Atlantic to the Pacific shore. Fanaticism would then at once be hushed, and the voice of reason would prevail in the North. But repentance would come too late. Blows struck in fraternal strife are not like those given where indifference has preceded conflict. Civil wars are not stopped by the efforts of diplomacy. Mr. Sumner's eloquence has, therefore, come in good time to awaken the conservative, the judicious and the tolerant men of this country to the necessity of union and action against that fanaticism which, making abstract moral questions the ground of political rule, is hastening them to the abyss of revolution and ruin. The issue now before the people is fairly made. Shall Abolitionism be exalted and the Union destroyed, or shall the political Abolitionists be put down, and the Union-the palladium of our liberties and our happiness-be preserved?'
The Washington correspondent of the New York Times says:-
Mr. Sumner's speech is pronounced the most ultra, violent and offensive speech ever delivered in either branch of Congress.
On the day of its delivery, the Washington correspondent of the New York Herald wrote:-
The irrepressible nigger was again dragged before the Senate to-day by Mr. Sumner. His speech was full of bitter invective and venom. It was the same stale and exploded dogmas which he has often dilated upon in the Senate, dished up, however, in very aggravated and offensive style. It also abounded in misrepresentation and false statements, and is generally disapproved by his own party.
<c04>
SELECTIONS.
From the Indiana Republican. 
SENATOR SUMNER'S SPEECH. 
We have not yet seen a copy entire of the great speech of Charles Sumner, recently delivered in the Senate, and we fear we shall have to wait for a pamphlet copy, or send for the New York Herald, before we can get it. What good reason such papers as the New York Tribune and Cincinnati Gazette can give for not publishing the speech we cannot understand. The Gazette says the speech, is ‘calculated to provoke angry feelings,’ and this is one of its excuses for withholding it from its readers. What loving kindness towards our brethren in the South! Four years ago Mr. Sumner, sitting unarmed at his desk on the Senate floor, was attacked by a slaveholding Carolina assassin who pelted him over the head with a heavy bludgeon till life was nearly extinct. Sumner was made a wanderer and an exile for years, in the pursuit of his lost health, suffering a thousand deaths in consequence of this murderous deed. The deed, too, be it remembered, was applauded by South Carolina, and by all slave lands; whilst Southern men, for refusing to unite in it, or for condemning the act of Brooks, were driven from their native States. The act was thus made that of the fifteen slave States, and not the individual deed of one man; thus demonstrating the ' barbarism of slavery.' Mr. Sumner at last returns to the place which had been spattered with his blood, and in a speech which was in order under the question before the Senate, and in language entirely parliamentary, he discussed the whole question of slavery, bringing to his help all the resources of his genius, scholarship and eloquence. He demonstrated the utter barbarism of slavery by proof overwhelming. Socially, morally, politically, economically and religiously, he showed it to be evil, and that continually; and he has thus made a speech that must powerfully aid our cause, by kindling up a renewed determination to resist the extension of such a curse over our Territories. For it ought to be remembered, that if the dogmas of the South are right, and slavery is really a blessing, the Republican party, so far as this question is concerned, has no right to exist. Our right to oppose the extension of slavery into the Territories depends upon the previous question as to the character of the institution, and nothing could have been more proper than the line of argument pursued by Mr. Sumner. We rejoice that he entered upon it, and did it thoroughly. We rejoice that he poured out all his heart in his magnificent endeavor; that he shrunk from nothing in the way of argument or illustration that could enforce his positions, that he probed to the very core the malady preying upon our body politic, and laid bare its hideous rottenness, and that he did all this with the calmness and nerve of an accomplished surgeon, who knew exactly what the patient required, and was resolved to use the knife accordingly. 
But it provoked ' angry feelings '! Ah! Could anything else have been expected? Must no speeches be made in Congress until they are first submitted to a slaveholding inquisition, who shall have power to expurgate offensive matter? Is the political millennium so near at hand that the lamb of Republicanism will be safe in lying down with the fierce lion of slavery? ‘Angry feeling' is inevitable. The idea recommended by a leading Republican some time ago, of a policy 'inoffensively hostile to slavery,' is simply an absurdity. Despotism is always remorseless and exacting. Every demand it makes must be yielded, if we desire to avoid 'angry feelings.' Nothing short of the Dred Scott decision as a finality, and the supremacy of slavery in all things, will satisfy the demand upon the free States, and we are thus driven to meet the Slave Power upon the broad issue discussed by Mr. Sumner. If he has so touched the ‘vital part' of the monster as to set every slaveholder in the South to howling with rage, then we suppose such howling had become necessary, since we are driven to the wall, and can hardly be justified in suppressing the truth and surrendering our liberties, simply to avoid exciting 'angry feelings.' Mr. Sumner's speech was doubtless a severe one, for he could not be faithful to truth without severity; but Republican critics should ' pardon something to the spirit of liberty,' and remember that neither in dealing with Mr. Sumner, nor any other representative of freedom, has the South been accustomed to regard the feelings of the people of the free States. What the country has needed for the last thirty or forty years was backbone in Congress. We are glad that the article can now be found in both the Senate and House. We hope it may abound more and more continually; for whenever the slave interest shall see that we are thoroughly in earnest, that we love freedom as well as the slaveholders love slavery, and that we are ready to peril everything in standing by our rights, the day of our deliverance will be at hand. 
We shall try to find room for this speech at an early day; for we regard it as not only a most capital campaign document, but a contribution to those enduring moral forces that must ultimately sweep slavery from the land. It is a speech for posterity as well as the present time, and we honor the Republican cause too much to suppose for a moment that our national ticket can be damaged by the widest circulation of such documents.

From the Ohio Jeffersonian Democrat.
MR. SUMNER'S SPEECH.
The recent speech of Charles Sumner in the United States Senate, on the ' Barbarism of Slavery,' is undoubtedly the greatest effort of his life. It is very lengthy, elaborate in argument, and adorned with the classical illustrations peculiar to all the productions of its author. We have read it with pleasure, and should publish it entire, did not our limited space forbid. 
We regret to notice that some leading Republican journals are disposed to censure Mr. Sumner for this speech, which they regard as intemperate and ill-timed. Without pretending that it does not present a faithful picture of slavery in all its forms, they think it impolitic to make such a speech. This complaint would be more plausible, if Southern Senators had not put the character of slavery directly in issue, by claiming that it is the basis of the only safe and permanent social system, and, as such, not only to be tolerated where it now exists, but to be extended into all the new Territories. When such a claim is made and persisted in with the greatest boldness, should Northern Senators, who know its falsity, and have the ability to expose it, alone remain silent? To do so would be an admission of weakness sure to be followed by deserved humiliation and defeat. Mr. Sumner has shown, by a collection of facts and figures, and an array of arguments perfectly overwhelming, how groundless is this monstrous pretension; and, for so doing, is entitled to gratitude rather than censure. We are glad that he has done the work so ably and well.
It was fitting that Mr. Sumner, of all the Republican Senators, should make such a speech; and, if
<c05>
anything in it may seem to savor of undue severity, let it be remembered that he has had occasion to know too well the power he opposes. The early part of his career in the Senate was characterized by a degree of courtesy unusual in that body. A scholar in his tastes and habits, a gentleman in all his intercourse with others, and proverbially averse to angry controversy, he soon became an object of the most gross and vulgar abuse that the disordered minds of his Senatorial opponents could invent. His uniform urbanity was mistaken for a want of courage, and he was therefore the more bitterly and persistently assailed. At the close of his first great speech in the Senate, in which he demonstrated in a most thorough and skillful, though perfectly parliamentary manner, that Freedom is national and Slavery sectional, he was attacked in a style more befitting a brothel than that honorable body.
But Charles Sumner, by a series of insults and abuses, culminating in the murderous assault of Preston S. Brooks, is at last aroused, and has shown his unscrupulous assailants how much power there is in the truth, when it assumes the form of ‘thoughts that breathe and words that burn.' Who that cares aught for the cause he has so ably and eloquently vindicated, can blame him? Let such ungracious work be left for its enemies! Would he have proven himself a man of true spirit, if, after all he had suffered for opinion's sake, he could speak less freely of the great wrong of our nation and age?

From the Sunday Transcript.
SPEECH OF SENATOR SUMNER.
The greatest speech of the season is certainly Charles Sumner's magnificent philippic against 'The Great Barbarism.' The learning and research, the array of facts, the apt and eloquent quotations, the striking illustrations, and the vivid imagery of the oration, are its least merits. The style and diction are as clear as crystal, as pure as water, and sonorously musical. The entire tone of the speech is dignified and lofty-it is an overwhelming expose and rebuke of what he conceives to be a gigantic and horrible wrong. Its facts, its figures, and its arguments strike the pro-slaveryites dumb; and they can only relieve themselves by impotent abuse of the orator himself.
We admire his courage, his unequalled moral pluck. In this day of compromise and timidity, of bated breath and base concession, when it is the loathsome fashion to say that the slavery question should be discussed only as a matter of profit and loss, it is refreshing to hear a Senator speak in the spirit of Jefferson and the Fathers. Besides, does not the South challenge us to discuss the abstract question? Do not Benjamin, Toombs, Stephens, Curry, Keitt, Lamar, Hunter, Slidell, Brown, Hammond, Chestnut, Mason, Pryor, Clingman, Fitzhugh and all Southern politicians discuss the question of slavery in the abstract? Do they not deliver long arguments to prove that slavery is right, just, benign, civilizing, and necessary?-that it is the proper condition of the negro and the working man? And is any free Northern man so poor a poltroon as to say that these men shall not be replied to? What! shall all the South be privileged to praise and applaud human slavery, and not even Charles Sumner be allowed to describe it as it really is?
Ay! as it really is! For, after all, the main question-the alpha and omega of the controversy-is this: Does he tell the truth about slavery? This institution now claims to be national-to travel with the national flag-to be one of the specially cherished peculiarities of the nation. Therefore, it concerns us all to know what it is. We in Pennsylvania have a right to discuss it, for it no longer confines itself to the slave States; it claims to be a national thing, and we are all concerned in what is national. In a word, the pertinent inquiry is,' Does Charles Sumner speak true or false?' To the speech then. Does he not quote the law aright? Are not his figures and calculations all correct? Is not his history true? Who can point out a single error in his facts or his argument? Why then single out this speech for objurgation and attack before you answer it? Thus far, no one has answered it, and no one we presume will attempt to do so.
We are not Abolitionists: we do not agree with Charles Sumner's plan or method of abolition. We are sorry that the slavery question engenders so much heat and violence. But we are thoroughly sick and tired of that wretched, doughface, brutal slang which has its caresses and apologies for the 'slave-master,' and only abuse and falsehood for those who believe in the anti-slavery doctrines of Jefferson and Washington.

From the Boston Christian Watchman & Reflector.
MR. SUMNER'S SPEECH.
The want of parliamentary fitness, which has been remarked, is no peculiarity of Mr. Sumner's speeches. A majority of the speeches in both Houses of Congress are really addressed to the people. They are ‘campaign documents.' Mr. Sumner makes the same kind of orations, only his are superior specimens of the kind, having few equals.
But, whatever may be its parliamentary merits, there was an eminent moral fitness in the delivery of this speech. Repeatedly, habitually, with an audacity that shocks the moral sense of Christendom, Senators have arisen and proclaimed that slavery is a form of civilization superior to any organization of free labor. This is fast becoming a commonplace of Southern oratory. It is humiliating to us, as a nation, that in our most dignified legislative body, so many should be found to glory in our shame. It would be still more humiliating, it would be ignominious, if the representatives of the free-labor States were all content to hear their freedom aspersed without a word of rebuke. We rejoice that Massachusetts is not silent in such a cause.
If Senators from the slave States do not wish the merits of slavery discussed in the Senate, let them cease to intrude the question. Let us hear no more of their boasted superiority. But if they must discourse upon this subject, and make it a theme for panegyric, with what justice can they complain that other Senators make it a theme for invective?
Mr. Sumner's style of discourse, generally, as we have intimated, seems to us open to criticism. But we are unable to see in his recent speech any special ground of condemnation. There is not an offensive personal allusion in it, from beginning to end. It is severe-terribly severe-but its severity is in its facts. There is not an assertion which is left without due voucher. ‘Slavery paints itself.' The Senator only exhibits the canvas, with the colors as they are laid on by the subject. It is suspended in the view of the nation. Let the people all look upon it, and learn against what they contend when they resist the aggressions of slavery.
Hon. Revered Johnson, who twice argued the case against Dared Scott before the Supreme Court, declares in his letter to the New York Douglas meeting, that the question of the power of a Territorial Legislature to abolish slavery ‘was not only not decided by the Court, but was neither argued nor in my way presented for decision.’
<c06>
THE BARBARITY OF SLAVERY.
Mr. Charles H. Watson, of Rochester, N. Y., informs as that he is by profession a machinist and locomotive engineer; that he has been employed on the Orange and Alexandria Railroad; and that on the 9th of April, he was imprisoned in the jail at Alexandria, Va., under the following circumstances: On the day named he was standing upon the wharf, in conversation with a negro. Walter Penn, the jailer of Alexandria, asked him what he was doing; to this question he answered, very naturally, that it was none of his business, that he proposed to talk with whom he pleased, that he did not please to hold any conversation with the jailer, and that any further remarks would be out of place. The jailer desired to be informed if Mr. Watson knew whom he was addressing. Mr. Watson said that he neither knew nor cared. Thereupon the jailer retired for a brief interval; then returned with a reinforcement of three persons. The four took Mr. Watson into custody, and conveyed him to the office of the Mayor, Mr. Taylor. The charge preferred against him was that he was a suspicious character, and that he had spoken with a negro. The examination was further continued thus:-
The Mayor-Have you security to offer to the amount of $550?
The Prisoner-No.
The Mayor-Go to jail.
And to jail the prisoner was carried. Arriving there, he was taunted with his supposed connection with 'Old John Brown,' then locked up. His hours of liberty were from early morning till five o'clock in the afternoon. When we speak of liberty, we mean room enough to turn about; for his daily walk was confined to a narrow corridor, while his conversation was restricted by the even narrower bounds of an under-jailer's intellect. For food, Mr. Watson had corn-meal bread once a day, rye coffee once a day, one fresh herring, one bowl of soup. The coffee was served without sugar, but the bread had salt in its composition. The incarceration of Mr. Watson extended from April 9th to June 4th. During that time he was taken out twice, the first time undergoing an examination before one Alderman Becker, the second time falling into the hands of the Mayor. The Alderman asked the prisoner concerning his birth, parentage, occupation, his financial condition, ideas of his probable future if he talked with negroes, and many other things. At the end of this cheerful interview, Mr. Watson was remanded to his herring and his rye coffee, and his attempts to skim something from the surface of the under-jailer's intellect. When the Mayor had another turn at the prisoner, he talked to him in a fatherly way on the impropriety of conversing with negroes, and assured him that he could be sent for twenty years to the Penitentiary for what he had done, or for what he was suspected of doing. The official finally concluded with the declaration, that the law, loving to be kind, would let him go. Therefore, Mr. Watson was put on board a vessel, and carried to Washington.
Any other Northern man who does as Mr. Watson did will be treated in like manner, if not worse, unless he owns the negro; then he can talk with him or her as much as be chooses.-Tribune.

From the N. Y. State League.
A CANDIDATE FOR ABOLITIONISTS.
In the discussion between Mr. Lincoln and Judge Douglas at Freeport, III., August 27, 1858, the Republican nominee said of the infamous Fugitive Slave Act, 'I think it should have been framed so as to be free from some of the objections that pertain to it, without lessening its efficiency.'
So we see that this man, whom the Abolitionists are expected to support, and whom, no less an Abolitionist than Frederick Douglass seems to have already given in his adhesion to, is in favor of a fugitive law, but one that would excite less opposition in the minds of the people than the present odious enactment. He further says he would not commence an agitation, or alter even the present law. He says, again, 'I think, under the Constitution of the United States, the people of the Southern States are entitled to a Congressional Fugitive Slave Law.'
Again: he would not favor abolition, even in the District of Columbia, unless such abolition should be not only gradually, but by the vote of a majority of present voters in the District, and unless compensation were made to unwilling slaveholders. In other words, if the majority of the man-thieves wanted to give up their stolen men, and would do so gradually, he would compel the minority to submit, on their receiving pay for so doing.
Again: he says if a Territory from which slavery has been excluded during its territorial condition wants to come into the Union as a slave State, he sees no alternative but to admit her. Yet this is the man for whom Abolitionists are preparing to cast their suffrages. No candidate seems to be proposed on an Abolition platform. Can infatuation further go? C. A. HAMMOND.

THE GHOST OF JOHN BROWN.
After more than six months of vexatious inquiry, prosecuted with intense personal malignity, with partisan zeal, and with most arbitrary and inquisitorial powers, the Commission of the Senate to search out the accomplices of John Brown in the Harper's Ferry invasion have been obliged to confess that they have found nothing upon which to base an accusation against any living man. John Brown was the sum and centre of the whole movement. He relied upon himself and his cause. 
But though the Senatorial Committee have laid the ghost of a Northern conspiracy, which they alone had raised, they have not laid the ghost of John Brown. Though none were linked with him in a conspiracy against Virginia, though no party survives to avenge his death or to repeat his forlorn attempt, yet the soul of John Brown, in his heroic words and deeds, lives as a vitalizing power against slavery. The moral dignity of the hero of Harper's Ferry survives his mental hallucination.
There is no power among men so great as that of a soul conscious of its own rectitude, and sternly devoted to the right. The body in which that soul for a time resides may be weak and frail, its nerves shattered, its brain overtasked or enfeebled; there may be fetters on the limbs and prison walk about it but when that soul shines forth in the simplicity of its nature, in the integrity of its truth and love, there is something sublime, even awful, in its mien. We feel it to be greater than kings and priests and emperors; greater than courts and states and armies. When the favorite poet of freedom in France, after a long and cruel imprisonment, was offered his liberty by Louis Napoleon, if he would acknowledge his dynasty, pointing to the 2d of December,-a day now twice execrable in the annals of tyranny,-the day when Napoleon usurped power in France by wholesale butchery.-the noble Barbes said,' I cannot take a gift from the man of December.' The patriot, poor, in prison as an enemy of the State, judged the Emperor before the world as his tribunal. The throne was in that cell, not in the palace.
And when a poor bewildered old man, whose soul was too large for the brain by which it acted, but
NO UNION WITH SLAVHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ‘a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.’
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.
-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
whose moral character appears the greater by contrast with his errors of judgment, stands forth upon, the verge of eternity, with the scaffold just before him, and declares that ministers, of religion who hold as their property men for whom Christ died, shall not come high his soul to speak to it of the Gospel we feel that this is an excommunications more real and terrible than ever issued from the Vacation in the height of its power. This is not a hardened felon spurning the offices of religion; it is not a bigot refusing a minister of another name; it is not an unbeliever making light of sacred things; it is a soul so filled with the thought of God and its own conviction of right, that it will not endure that the wrong against which it has waged battle, even unto death, should come nigh it in a saintly garb with religious consolations! Rather have the' God bless you of some poor slave-mother than all the priestly offices of one who buysï¿½ and sells the image of god. Such souls as these rule the world. They give men ideas that grow into powers, John Brown yet lives.ï¿½New York Independent. 

THE LIBERATOR
BOSTON, JULY 6, 1860. 

WOMAN'S RIGHT MEETINGS.
We have been waiting for an official report of the well-attended and highly successful meetings for the furtherance of Woman's rights and interests, held at the Melodeon, in this city, on Friday, June 1; but as, by some oversight, none was made, we are obliged to avail ourselves, at this late day, of the brief sketches of the proceedings made for the Boston Journal, which we give below. The hall was crowded at both sessions, notwithstanding unpropitious circumstances. 
Those who have been in the habit of observing the audiences at such meetings, since 1855, could not fail to be struck with the character of those in attendance. The newspapers said the audience wasï¿½ fashionable' ï¿½but it was superlatively better than that. 
The meetings in Boston are not conventions for free discussions, but anniversary meetings for the delivery of addresses, by speakers previously engaged. They differ from those previously held in other places, by confining their speakers to the three points of Education, Vocation, and Civil Position. 
A preliminary meeting was held, at which the following Committee was chosen, to make preparations for another year:ï¿½Wendell Phillips, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, John T. Sargent, Mrs. C. M. Severance, Mrs. C. H. Dall, Miss S. H Southwick. Of this Committee, Mrs. Severance was elected President, and Miss S. H. Southwick, Secretary. 
With the next meetings will begin, we trust, a new era for the cause.
The Woman's Rights Convention assembled at the new Melodeon yesterday afternoon. Mrs. Caroline M. Severance was called to preside over the body. She read a short speech, in which she alluded to the loss which the Society had sustained in the death of, Rev. Theodore Parker. She also read several letters from friends of the cause, of the same tenor. One of the letters was accompanied by a resolution, expressive of the profound sense of their loss, which the women of America entertain. 
Mrs. Caroline H. Dall, of Boston, was introduced. After alluding to the death of Mr. Parker, she proceeded to discuss the progress of the cause. In this connection, she alluded to various papers which had been published, and various efforts which had been, made in England, in the way of enlarging the field of female labor. In conclusion, she argued that there was no better place for American girls than the kitchen. And the reason that many now abandoned it was not the influx of emigrants from England and Ireland, but because they, the higher women of Boston, did not consider household work so respectable as did their mothers and grandmothers. (Applause.) 
Rev. Samuel J. May spoke next. He said he had no new truth to offer; the great primeval truth of the equality of man and woman was not yet recognized as it should be. He would say that there was nothing that man had done that, under favorable circumstances, woman was not able to do, and there were some things which woman had done, which no man could do. He gave some account of his observations in Europe, and particularly referred to a prison for women, managed exclusively by women. 
Mr. Richard J. Hinton was the next speaker. He gave a report of the state of the Woman's Rights movement in Kansas, saying that that Territory was far in advance of any State in legislation in behalf of the sex. He gave a history of the various attempts of the people of Kansas to establish a State Constitution, showing that they only failed by a neglect to accord to women all the rights which this Society claimed in their behalf. 
A colored woman of the name of Moses, who, herself a fugitive, has eight times returned to the slave States for the purpose of rescuing others from bondage, and who has met with extraordinary success in her efforts, was then introduced. She told the story of her adventures in a modest but quaint and amusing style, which won much applause.
Speeches were also made by Mr. William L. Garrison and others, after which the convention adjourned to the evening.
EVENING SESSIONï¿½ The hall was well filled at the evening session. 
Mrs. Dall continued her remarks, commenced at the afternoon meeting. She first spoke of conventions in New York and throughout that State, and the work done by the women during the last year. The speaker alluded to the labor of Mrs. Stanton before the Legislature at Albany, and commented on the report of her address as published in the newspapers. She then spoke of the act passed at the last session of the New York Legislature, granting further rights to women over their property and children. Our own Legislature came in for a share of condemnation for refusing to make an appropriation for the Female College Institute at Worcester. 
Mrs. Dall paid beautiful tribute to the memory of the deceased friends of the Woman's Rights cause during the past year, these being Charles F. Hovey, of this city. Countess Van Heidenbach, Eliza Lee fallen, Lady Byron, Mrs. Jamieson, John W. Browne, of Boston, and Theodore Parker. Her remarks in relation to Mr. Parker were particularly touching, bringing tears into the eyes of a majority of the audience She offered the following resolution, which, was adopted by the whole assembly rising:-
Resolved, That the women of America cannot meet in Boston to-day, without placing a wreath of immortal honor on the grave of Theodore Parker. 
Rev. James Freeman Clarke was then introduced by Mrs. Severance. He said he was an advocate of Woman's Rights, which he understood to mean Occupation, Education, Culture, and Equal Rights be fore the law. In relation to occupation, he said there were hundreds of kinds of employment which men now done solely by men, and which could be better done by women, although not perhaps by the same process. On the subject of education, he said he wanted to see woman have the same advantages that man has. With reference to the equality of women before the law, he said that the only objection urged against allowing suffrage to women was that the were not designed to share in the Government. To this he answered that if it was so, then it would be the best plan to try the experiment, and allow then to vote; and if they were not designed for voters, is would be seen, and the evil at once remedied. 
Miss Powell, of New York, a young lady, read a well prepared address on the rights of woman, which was received with applause.
Wendell Phillips was then introduced; and was loudly cheered. He commenced by reading a fragment on Woman's Rights, written by the late J. W. Browne, Esq., in which the writer gives his opinion
<c02>
that the platform of the Woman's Rights party should be occupied by women, and he closed by inviting Mrs. Dr. Jackson to address the meeting.
On the lady appearing, she was much cheered, She apologized for not having prepared herself, but said she would say a few words. She considered that woman should legislate for herself in order to secure her own rights, and she asked whether it was to be a supposed we could raise giant men if we dwarf our women, and by closing our halls of learning to our mothers and sisters, we expected to advance in learning 
At the close of the remarks of Mrs. Jackson, Wendell Phillips again took the stand. He said this Woman's Rights movement ran side by side with the necessities of every day life, and he instanced the law relating to deposits of married women in banks, and that allowing women to hold real estate in their own name. 
Mr. Phillips alluded, in a humorous manner, to the matter of allowing women to vote, contending that in nine cases out of ten, a man's vote was controlled or dictated by a woman, so that if suffrage was granted woman, it would not make a great difference. He said the only objection to women voting was, that it was contrary to custom, and he insisted that this was not so in reality, and instanced numerous illustrations in support of his theory. If woman is incapable of understanding law, then she cannot be punished.
Alluding to the injustice done to women in the matter of education, Mr. Phillips said that the day was close at hand when this injustice would be in a measure removed, and woman would show the world that she was at least the equal in capacity of man.
In closing, the speaker congratulated the audience on the success of the cause, as he said right by right had been granted women, and the ballot would come soon, and this would be in the day of many of the audience.
After a few remarks by Mrs. Dall, the proceedings closed. 

NEW PUBLICATIONS.
No. 1 of Anti-Slavery Tracts for the Times.' 
The American Board of Missions and Slavery.' 
This tract of twenty pages (published in Leeds, England) is a reprint of a correspondence in the Nonconformist' newspaper, in which the falsehoods of Rev. Dr. Pomroy respecting the relation of the Board to American Slavery are ably exposed by Joseph A. Homer, Esq., of Wakefield, and others.
No greater service can be done, in Great Britain, either towards the abolition of slavery or the purification of religion, than such a publication as this, of the proofs establishing those facts of which unscrupulous denial is made by such men as Drs. Pomroy, Stow, Kirk and Murray. The state of the patient must be made known, and clearly understood, before the radical remedy for his disease can be fairly applied and steadily persevered in.
One of the facts, proof of which is presented in this pamphlet, is the proposal made by one of the Corporate Membersï¿½ of the Board (then a Pastor in the Presbyterian Church, Old School, in Richmond, Virginia,) to burn alive such Abolitionists as could beï¿½ caught' there! Perhaps Englishmen take for, granted that a clergyman, who could use such an expression and show such a spirit as this, would immediately lose credit and influence among all reputable men. Not at all! Slavery bears such away here, and holds suchï¿½ good and regular standing' in the Church, that such a proposal as this is not noticed to the discredit of its maker, except among Abolitionists! And the Rev. gentleman -in question, W. S. Plummer, D. D., has, since that time, been chosenï¿½ Professor of Didactic and Pastoral Theologyï¿½ in the Western Theological Seminary at Allegheny City, Pennsylvania, where he now resides. And, to far from the American Board rebuking him in this wickedness, he has virtually rebuked the Board by resigning his membership at the last Annual Meeting, (October, 1859.) probably because the Board had sneaked out of the support of slavery in the Choctaw Mission, instead of continuing to uphold it, as they still do in the Cherokee Mission. But, since the American Tract Society has never made even to small a concession as this to the demands of Anti-Slavery, Dr. Plumer remains one of itsï¿½ Directors,'(as he has been ever since 1836.) and made a speech at its last annual meeting, May 9th, 1860, in support of the following resolution, presented by another pro-slavery Divine, Rev. Dr. Richard Fuller of Baltimore, as follows:-
ï¿½Resolved, That the national and catholic spirit of the American Tract Society, and its influence upon the literature of the land, ought to make it dear to every Christian and patriot.'
Think of the wickedness compressed into this resolution! The national spirit of the American Tract Society, always taking a South-side view! Its catholic spirit, cutting out from its publications all rebuke of slavery! And its influence upon our literature, encouraging, arguing for, and insisting upon the toleration of slavery in the church! But these are the very characteristics which recommend the Society to Drs. Plumer and Fuller. 
Just as in the case of Dr. Plumer, so in that of Dr. Nehemiah Adams, of Boston; far from losing any credit among his clerical brethren as a Christian minister by the publication of hisï¿½ South-side View of Slavery,' he has seemed to be more honored and praised since that time than ever before. A new edition of that infamous book has just been published, with numerous recommendations by clergymen and others; and its author is not only very frequently applied to, to assist in ordinations, installations, and ecclesiastical councils, by his Orthodox Congregational clerical brethren, but he has given, by request, numerous addresses at the anniversaries of college societies,ï¿½ Young Men's Christian Associations,' and other bodies of a religious or semi-religious character. His active pro-slavery is not reckoned, among churches and clergymen, as the slightest abatement of his Christian character. 
It is to be hoped that other numbers will soon appear in a series so important, both for England and this country, asï¿½ Anti-Slavery Tracts for the Times.'-C. K. W.
TRIBUTE TO THEODORE PARKER: Comprising the Exercises at Music Hall, June 17, 1860. With the Proceedings of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, at the Melodeon, May 31, and the Resolutions of the Fraternity and the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society. Boston: Published by the Fraternity, and sold by A. Williams & Co., Booksellers, Publishers, &c, 100 Washington street. 
The neat, cheap and popular form in which these eloquent and well-bestowed Tributes are here embodied must secure for them a wide circulationï¿½the price of the pamphlet being only 12 cents. It contains the speeches of Charles M. Ellis, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Wendell Phillips, (two,) Rev. Samuel J. May, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, James Freeman Clarke, &c. Also, a Letter from David A. Waason, which we have inserted in another column.
THEODORE PARKER: A Sermon preached in New York, June 10,1860. By Rev. O. B. Frothingham. Boston: Walker, Wise & Co., 245 Washington Street. 1860.
This sermon is eminently beautiful, discriminating, appreciative, just and eloquent. Nothing better has yet appeared in print. Of Mr. Parker it is fitly said -'The man only seems greater as we try to say how great he was. It will require a great many voices to tell all the truth about one who was in himself a great many men. He who would only have the Beatitudes read over his grave shall have the benedictions of the pure in heart strewn over his memory.ï¿½
<c03>
PRINCETON CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION.
BOSTON, June 21, 1860. 
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
I need not ask for the catholic columns of the Liberator to unweave aï¿½ tangled web' of misstatement in the recently-published report of the Centennial at Princeton, celebrated last autumn. In a note, appended to a brief response which I was called upon to make to a sentiment touching the question of human freedom, three of the Committee of Publication, Messrs. Chas. Russell, Wm. B. Goodnow, and E. E. Hartwell, (the minority being of an opposite opinion,) ï¿½deem it but simple justice to state, that, in their judgment, the remarks of Mr. Hey wood, in the particulars indicated by reference to this note, were untrue in point of fact; and, moreover, were an un unwarranted, though we charitably believe an unintentional, trespass upon the proprieties of the occasion.' 
Here are the ï¿½remarks' referred to, with the designating asterisks of the Committee.ï¿½ In 1641, Massachusetts, young, weak, destitute as an orphan girl, spread her arms to all who could fly to her from the tyranny and oppression of their persecutors, and pledged them protection and maintenance at the public cost. In 1859, rich, luxurious, powerful, studded all over with churches, schools and temples of justice, the legislature, refusing to shelter the hounded fugitive from oppression, deliberately votes (the representative from this town concurring) that our soil, hallowed with heroes' graves, shall continue open ground for the slave-hunter.' Also: ï¿½I have told you how the early settlers of this town, rude, untaught, scarcely able to wring a subsistence from this tough, unthankful soil, risked the ruin of their church by hurrying from their sacred desk a minister, on mere suspicion of indifference to the interests of freedom, and of sympathizing with a comparatively respectable despotism beyond the Atlantic. I would gladly forget to say, did truth and the solemn monitions of this hour allow it, that lately there stood in this pulpit, with the consent of these pews, the great New England apologist of the most cruel and remorseless system of bondage in modern history.ï¿½
To correct the Committee's first correction, I will refer them to the Journal of the House of Representatives for 1858-9, page 624, which records that, March 30, Solon S. Hastings voted against the bill for the protection of fugitives from oppression, and hence for the legal continuance of slave-hunting in Massachusetts. To their second denial, I wish to say, that Dr. Adams, since the publication of hisï¿½ South-side View of Slavery,' and his strenuous and successful efforts to shield our great national crime from Christian rebuke in the Tract Society, specimens of moral obliquity that will make the blackest infamy of the Jesuits respectable,ï¿½has repeatedly preached in the pulpit referred toï¿½once when I was present, and once, at least, by invitation of the pastor and consent of the church, has broken bread at their communion-table. These facts, which the Worcester Spy of yesterday generously allowed me to express in its columns, will enable those interested to judge whether the truth is so veryï¿½ untrue,' as the majority of the Committee, with such unscrupulously scrupulosity, assert. This noteï¿½as Cecil said of commentaries upon the Bible, that they are very good, excepting on the hard passagesï¿½is only a bungling attempt to cover up unpleasant things with blundering falsification. 
I may add, that the minority, (Messrs. J. T. Everett and A. C. Howe, who stood bravely for free speech and fair play, in the multiplied and stormy sessions of the Committee held to discuss this troublesomeï¿½ Tartar,') while disclaiming their right to sit as censors upon any of the speakers whom they were appointed to report, prepared a substitute to the above note, simply stating the notorious facts, that Mr. Hastings did vote against the Personal Liberty Bill, and that Dr. Adams had preached in Rev. Mr. Briggs's pulpit. But the nervous and gingerly majority, not denying the statements, declared the substitute worse than the speech itself! Thus, from their own mouth it falls that it was the truth which lied so awfully. The venerable chairman also conceded as much, when, blenching under the eye of history, officially and with an insolent threat of suppression, he requested me to eliminate the offending sentences, saying,ï¿½ If they go down to the future, posterity will think us pro-slavery.' But posterity and theï¿½ fanatical' present happening to agree in that opinion, the facts, trusting that the suppression might speak louder than the insertion, would not budge. 
As toï¿½ trespassing' upon theï¿½ proprieties of the occasion,' you know when one looks into a popular sin, the door is always slammed in his face.
ï¿½No rogue eï¿½er felt the halter draw 
With good opinion of the law.'
Certainly, a haphazard, after-dinner squib of a speech could not have been charged with lightning enough to strike so many dignitaries! It was only the fluttering in the dovecots of a conscience-stricken conservatism, that called attention to the allusions at all. And the mousing, industrious inquisition of the Committee, alone clothed what was merely a mild testimony with the dignity and emphasis of a scathing rebuke. Even rotten wood becomes luminous when smitten in the dark. 
But it was scarcely to be expected, where the utmost liberty was allowed to glorify theï¿½ Union,' the Constitution,' ourï¿½ great free country,' and all other respectable means of oppression; in the presence of a studied avoidance of the remotest allusion to the enslaved millions of this land, and in a church, which, for twenty years, has pursued, with the whip and scorpion of a remorseless persecution, all suspected of remembering those in bonds as bound with themï¿½on such an occasion it was not probable, or desirable, that impartial lips would be fashionable. As old Fuller had it, ï¿½Unless some galled horse did wince, there would be no salt in the preaching.' In a community dying with pro-slaveryï¿½ proprieties,' and in a church solicitous for the good opinion of slaveholders, their abettors and apologists, and deaf to the cry of the victims of its, cold-blooded complicity, one may well be thankful ifï¿½ the suffering and the dumb' are remembered, even by an iron tongue, in the absence of golden lips, encouraged by the fact, that in every age truth goes into Jerusalem riding upon an ass colt. 
Yours for free speech, and the impartial use of it, E. H. HEYWOOD.
From the published proceedings of the Centennial Celebration at Princeton, October 20, 1859, we copy the timely, eloquent and courageous speech of Mr. E. H. HEYWOOD, to which a majority of the Committee of Publication appended their disclaimer, as spiritedly commented upon by Mr. H. in the foregoing letter:-
The next regular sentiment was read, as follows:
The Second Centennial Celebration.ï¿½The heroic and successful resistance of our ancestors to British tyranny secured freedom to one race of one age. May it be the glad privilege of those who shall stand here to celebrate, one hundred years this day, that the nobler patriotism and holier self-sacrifice of the friends of unrestricted human rights in this century have bequeathed impartial liberty to every tribe, of every race, forevermore!
Mr. E. H. HEYWOOD, of Worcester, called upon to respond, said:-
It may seem unfortunate that it should fall to meï¿½ to give the improvement,' as the old Puritans would say, of the sentiment just read, fellowshipped as I am with a class of persons who have the reputation of not being very economical of truth, who sometimes have a weakness for telling the whole truth, in dealing with the question of freedom. I appreciate the feelings of that slip of the clerical profession, who, caught holding forth in strait Puritan Boston, without proper authority, was called to order by one who sat in Moses' seat.ï¿½ But don't the Bible say, we must preach the Gospel to every critter? asked the sprig.ï¿½ Yes,' replied the venerable divine;ï¿½ but it don't say that every critter must preach the Gospel.'
I find that, as early as 1763, the settlers of this
<c04>
town passed resolutions, showing a clear-sighted, resolute and unswerving devotion to the principles of that inspired and immortal declaration, which, in 1776, leaped from the brain of Jefferson, full-armed for the revolutionary conflict. Subsequently, they dismissed their minister, (Rev. Mr. Fuller,) for entertaining, as they erroneously supposed, Tory proclivitiesï¿½then inaugurating the itinerant method, so popular here, for Princeton has always settled its ministers on horseback. Thus early did our fathers evince a faith in principle, and a spirit of self-sacrifice of every worldly interest, in adherence to the cause of freedom. "They saw that human rights are antecedent to all human governments, and hence above the reach or refusal of all human laws. They made institutions for man. The political and ecclesiastical policy of the present day, makes man for institutions. It circumscribes the ï¿½boundaries of human rights; spells negro with two as;ï¿½ preaches Jesus and practices Judas. Our ancestors overleaped the fences of custom and traditionï¿½were theï¿½ rebels,' theï¿½ insurrectionists, and madmenï¿½ of their day. Hence, their lesson to us is:ï¿½ Break with the huckstering "law and order" of your age; project your thoughts from, behind institutions; build on ideas; trample under foot all compromising organizations; "be governed, by the laws of God, until you can make better.ï¿½ 
Some years later, Mr. Fuller returningï¿½a prophet to be honored in his own countryï¿½showed, conclusively, that be was right on the question of freedom, In the State Convention, to ratify the Federal Constitution, he voted against that iniquitous instrument, on the ground of its pro-slavery clauses. I am proud that the representative of my native town took so noble a position in that crisis, so fatal to the black man,ï¿½proud that the first clergyman of this district bore so high a moral testimony to the politicians of his age. The test of principle is to disagree with our immediate cotemporaries, when conscience bids. Mr. Fuller, doing that, proved his superiority, He was taller than his peersï¿½a moral. Wachusett, crowned by the light of opposite centuries. Let us thank God that this heroic minister of Christ had the moral courage to outface his compromising fellows, and repudiate a Constitution that consigned the black man to perpetual slavery. 
I do not wish to preach you an anti-slavery lecture, but I must say, I was saddened this morning, on looking around, to find not a single motto, significant of the fact, that four million slaves are crushed under the political and ecclesiastical institutions of this countryï¿½not one word to alleviate the intolerable woes that weigh upon their hearts. Are not the sainted insurrectionists ofï¿½76 still on the side of the oppressed? Do not they yearn to-day, from their higher seats, towards these millions of suffering and dumb' victims of a bondage, ï¿½one hour of which,' Jefferson being the judge,ï¿½ is fraught with more misery than whole ages of that which we rose in rebellion to opposeï¿½? 
Pluck aside the centuries, and see how far we have strayed from that sublime ancestry, which began with Puritanism and the wilderness;' from that martyr faith, which, hurling British tyranny across the Atlantic, sounded boldly out into the great deep of equal rights, the Columbus of a true popular sovereignty. In 1641, Massachusetts, young, weak, destitute as an orphan girl, spread her armsï¿½ to all who could fly to her from the tyranny and oppression of their persecutors,' and pledged them protection and maintenance at the public cost. In 1859, rich, luxurious, powerful, studded- all over with churches, colleges, and temples of justice, the Legislature refusing to shelter the hounded fugitive from oppression, deliberately votes, (the representative of this town concurring,) ï¿½that our soil, hallowed with heroes' graves, shall continue open ground for the slave-hunter! Thank God for Massachusetts! She was the first of civilized States in history to abolish slavery by law. It was done in 1780, and the glorious event should be distinguished by a red letter day in our Calender. But in 1789, she went into partnership with slave dealers, and the firm is yet undissolved. When Webster was grinding out his trousers upon the school benches at Salisbury, Washington wrote to New Hampshire for the return of a fugitive woman. But, said he, if the moral sentiment of the people is against it, let her go. In 1859, Massachusetts erects a statue to the man, who, beyond all others, has insulted the moral sentiment of New England, by commanding her toï¿½ conquer her prejudicesï¿½ in favor of liberty, and return men to bondageï¿½ with alacrity.' But why travel so far from home? I have told you how the early settlers of this town, rude, untaught, scarcely able to wring a subsistence from this tough, unthankful soil, risked the ruin of their church, and the loss of educational advantages, by hurrying from their sacred desk a minister, on mere suspicion of indifference to the interests of freedom, and of sympathizing with a comparatively respectable despotism beyond the Atlantic. I would gladly forget to say, did truth and, the solemn monitions of this hour allow it, that lately there stood in this pulpit, with the consent of these pews, the great New England apologist of the most cruel and remorseless system of bondage in modern history. 
We meet to celebrate the deeds of revolutionists, of traitors, of insurrectionists. To-day, with a chastened, reverent enthusiasm, we take into our hands the consecrated sword or musket, with which they slew oppressors. We wear next our very hearts every brave word, whereby they pledged themselves to sink the government, the church, and the world, rather than relinquish justice or liberty. We glory in that Congregationalism which made every man a church; in that democracy which made every man a monarchy. Those sainted farmers, play-fellows of these venerable hills, wherever they walked, society heaved with the volcanic throes of revolt. We are all the children, the heirs apparent, of treason and rebellion. Put your ear to the ground, and you will hear the echoing, earthquake tread of the impending second American Revolution. This very week, its Bunker's Hill was fought at Harper's Ferry, The' timid, faithless toryism of to-day pales and trembles at the crack of insurgent rifles, whose echoes still linger among the Alleghanies and Shenandoahs. John Brown, braver than Warren, more self-sacrificing than Lafayette, with his Spartan score of followers, throws himself against a gigantic despotism, in defence of the principles of the fathers. From these sacred graves, on which we stretch ourselves to-day, they speak:ï¿½ Go thou and do likewise; be true to our memory; execute justice for the oppressed; launch upon equal inalienable rights, and let God take care of the consequences. 
As Luther said, ï¿½God never can do without brave men.' The age of brute force, the reign of bullets, is over. Ideas are gradually ascending to absolute power. It is our privilege to rely upon moral force agitationï¿½upon the omnipotence of abstract principles. The times ï¿½demand an arm of tougher sinew than the sword.' It is for us to side with the oppressed and down-trodden in the great moral Bunker Hills and Solferinos of human conflict, to make ourselves of no reputation, and suffer the loss of all things, if need be, in defence of Jesus in theï¿½ little ones.' Every crown of glory must first be a crown of thorns. As for me, I believe in the inalienable and absolute right of every man toï¿½ life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.' I am for the immediate and unconditional emancipation of every slave of every race, clime, or condition. In the great conflict for the rights of black men, now shaking this country to its foundations,ï¿½ no union with slaveholders is the highest moral ground, the only Christian position, the only Pisgah that overlooks the promised land of impartial liberty from this wilderness of compromise. Our fathers rest from the labors. The beloved sleep well. We, also, are before the world, who will judge us according to our works. To equal our predecessors, we must surpass them. To do as much, we must do more.
ï¿½New occasions teach new duties; Time makes ancient good uncouth; 
They must upward still, and onward, who would keep abreast of truth. 
Lo, before us gleam her campfires! We ourselves must Pilgrims be; 
Launch our Mayflower, and steer boldly through the desperate winter sea, 
Nor attempt the Future's portal with the Past's blood rusted key.'
IDEAS AND INSTITUTIONS. The services at Music Hall, Sunday forenoon, (says the Atlas & Bee,) were conducted by Mr. E. H. Heywood, a young man of very marked talent and promise, and a graduate, we believe, of Brown University. The subject of his discourse was Ideas and Institutions.' The central argument of the discourse was, ideas have progressed in the world, not by the aid, but in spite of institutions; in other words, that in proportion as institutions had declined, civilization advanced. Mr. H. is destined to a high position and an honored career, we cannot doubt.
<c05>
SUMNER, ADAMS, AND FREEDOM,
Liberty first, and every thing else afterwards, is only another way of saying what the great Teacher once said,ï¿½ Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness.ï¿½
Any one reading Sumner's, or Adams's, or Love, joy's speech, would feel their moral superiority to the more politic productions of Seward and Wilson. 
Charles Sumner, in the Senate, has none to compare with him in the pulpit, for moral eloquence and Christ-like purity of heart. Had he come to Boston a few weeks since, while fresh from that 4th of June, oration, tears of pride and of joy would have been his welcome homeï¿½the tribute always paid to moral excellence.
The question of parchment sinks into insignificance by the side of anti-slavery earnestness. Great souls have a shorter method with written Constitutions than Leslie's short Method with Deists. 
It is a high and noble principle of jurisprudence, that immoral contracts and unrighteous laws are null and void. Anything in the Constitution of the United States, which contradicts the spirit of its Preamble, is, in the sight of God and of good men, of no account at all. No matter whether our fathers swerved from the right or not, we are under no moral nor legal obligation to mind the pro-slavery parts of the Constitution. The question of their strength of character, or their weakness, is comparatively an unprofitable one. The main thing is for us to be Abolitionists, constitutionally or unconstitutionally. Mr. Sumner, with his large and clear sight of what the Constitution ought to be, can see no pro-slavery provisions in itï¿½no fugitive slave clauseï¿½no three-fifth representation for slaveryï¿½and no sufferance of the slave trade for twenty years. Charles Francis Adams does see the three-fifth rule, and trembles at its application! But both are Abolitionists. Both think more of liberty than of the Union. Both are fear-less and eloquent Anti-Slavery men. By position, they may be partakers with barbarians and adulterers, but not by character. They are uncompromising men. They are Garrisonian in spirit and truth, because they prize justice more highly than compromises.
I think the Constitution does recognize property in man, by recognizing other than, free persons.' I think with John Quincy Adams and Channing, with Garrison and Phillips, that the parchment is an impure one, vitiated by sinful compromises; but I also agree with Sewall and Sumner, that no immoral provisions are worth noticing. One or two more speeches like Sumner's, or Lovejoy's, or Adams's, will make the compromises a dead letter. W. G. B.
P. S. Speaking of pulpit eloquence, Charles Sumner's appropriate place would be Music Hall as successor to Theodore Parker.

THE NEXT DEMAND OF THE SLAVE POWER.
MR. GARRISON:
The Annual Report of the American Anti-Slavery Society, for 1859, just published, says, speaking of the demand of the Slave Power for protection to slavery in the Territories,ï¿½ The next demand most likely will be, that the Federal Government shall protect slavery in every State into which any slaveholder may choose to carry it. As an entering wedge for that demand, it is now pressing its claim for such a decision of the well-known Lemmon case as will affirm the right to hold slaves in transit across any State, slave or free.' 
That the apprehensions of the writer of the report, Mr. Burleigh, are only too well founded, no one can, doubt for a moment, who has observed the steady strides and the ever-increasing impudence of the demands and the attempts of the Slave Power, for a few years past. My object in referring to this subject just now, is, to present declarations which have come under my notice, going to substantiate the fears of the writer, and showing us what we must prepare to, meet.
The Washington Union of 17th Nov., 1857, in an editorial article, held the following language:-
The Constitution declares that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States." Every citizen of one State, coming into another State, has therefore a right to the protection of his person, and that property which is recognized as such by the Constitution of the United States, any law of a State to the contrary notwithstanding. So far from any State having a right to deprive him of this property, it is its bounden duty to protect him in its possession.
If these views are correctï¿½and we believe it would be difficult to invalidate themï¿½it follows that all State laws, whether organic or otherwise, which prohibit a citizen of one State from SETTLING in another, and bringing his slave property with him, and most especially declaring it forfeited, are direct violations of the original intention of a Government which, as before stated, is the protection of person and property, and of the Constitution of the United States, which recognizes property in slaves, and declares that " the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States," among the most essential of which is the protection of person and property.'
I do not propose to make a word of comment upon this exhibition of logical acumen and constitutional lore. This was three years ago. During this very session of Congress, the same doctrine has been boldly and clearly announced. 
A Washington correspondent of the Daily Atlas and Bee sends to that paper aï¿½ corrected report of the remarks of Mr. Gooch, of Mass.,' in which he interrogated Mr. Reagan, of Texas. I subjoin the report of the colloquy. It will be seen that, according to Mr. Reagan's idea of the Constitution, for a free State to prohibit its own citizens from holding slaves is a revolutionary procedure! D'Israeli wrote a work calledï¿½ Curiosities of Literature.' Should some future Israeli compile a work bearing the title of Curiosities of Politics, the insane antics of Reagan and his confreres will doubtless find a conspicuous place therein. E. R. P.
Mr. Goochï¿½Do I understand the gentleman to say that the people of a Territory, when they adopt a State Constitution, have no right to exclude slavery?
Mr. Reaganï¿½I will answer the gentleman. What I say is this: that the right has been admitted by all political parties in the country. I say that they have the right; but that it is a revolutionary right, and not a right resting upon law or upon natural justice; and when a government comes to exercise its sovereignty, and undertakes in its sovereign capacity to destroy that right, it departs from a great principle which ought to govern it always. It should protect the condition of society when the government was formed, and should protect all the property of the people which form that government, destroying none of it. 
Mr. Goochï¿½I ask the gentleman not for the opinion of parties, because I desire to understand him. I understood him to say that, in his judgment, it was the exercise of a power which ought not to be used; and I now wish him to state distinctly whether he considers it in accordance with the Constitution of the United States for the people of a State, when they adopt their constitution, to exclude slavery, or whether be regards it as a violation of the Constitution? 
Mr. Reaganï¿½I will answer the gentleman, that the Constitution of the United States does not undertake to control the States in regard to their domestic institutions; and in that sense I would not assume, and do not assume, that the Constitution of the United States has anything to do in forbidding States, in their sovereign capacity, to abolish slavery. I only mean to say this: that while they may exercise that right under the Constitution of the United States, without derogation to any of its provisions?, they have to do it upon a revolutionary principle, a principle which looks to the destruction of property; and that this is against that spirit of common justice and common right which ought to animate the action of every people in the formation and conduct of their government, that of preserving the rights and property of all the people within their limits. 
Mr. Goochï¿½The gentleman will permit me. I
<c06>
understand him to say that the exercise of that right is in violation of the common principles of justice. Am I right?
Mr. Reagan-Yes, sir.
Mr. Goochï¿½If that be so, then, if I understand the gentleman, it is also in violation of the common principle of justice to exclude slavery from any State in the Union where it does not exist?
Mr. Reaganï¿½I think that it is not only in violation of the common principles of justice, but a violation of the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. Gooch-I am answered. 
ANOTHER NOBLE WOMAN REMOVED.
DIED-In Dover,(N. H.) April 6, of congestion of the brain, MARIA J. PAGE, of Deerfield, N.H., aged 30 years.
Maria had suffered from very poor health for a number of years, but with much fortitude. She was an excellent scholar, acquired knowledge very early and rapidly, and excelled as a teacher and trainees of children. She had quite a taste for the fine arts, and was somewhat skilled in drawing and painting, As a writer,ï¿½for several journals, at different times, she was apt, clear and forcible, always taking a deep interest in the Temperance, Peace, and Anti-Slavery movements, and was ardently devoted to the improvement of womanï¿½s position, morally, socially and politically.
As a lecturer, she was bold and fearless, but modest and firmï¿½a real woman, strong in the truth. She was always an active member of the Lyceum in her own town, and was, often advocating the causes she had espoused in adjoining or distant towers. Every friend of humanity found in her a real helper, as noble a earnest. She approached death with Pleasure, as she believed it was to her a gate of wider usefulnessï¿½a sphere in which she could develop her abilities and joys, freed from the hindrances of the sickly, infirm flesh. She longed to be there. Thus a noble advocate for the real womanhood of woman has passed away.
Miss Page's funeral was made on occasion for a demonstration quite as disgraceful on one part, and glorious on the other, as the intensest opposition to her anti-slavery sentiments could well call for.
Her body was removed to Deerfield for interment and as she had not been a, member of either of the religious societies there, it was thought best,ï¿½in order to give the officiating clergyman (Rev. Mr. When lock of Dover) an opportunity to make, his remarks where he could be heard by her numerous friends,-to secure the Town Hall, which was occupied from Sabbath to Sabbath by a ï¿½Society called ï¿½Methodist,ï¿½ as a place of worship.
The proper officers were sought, and permission obtained of them for the use of the Hall as desired, they not knowing what clergyman was to officiate on the occasion.
The Hall was opened at the proper time, and began to fill with the people, who came to pay the last debt due the remains of Miss Page.
While this was going on, rumor said,ï¿½for the first time in the hearing of the persons holdings the Hall,ï¿½that the Rev. Mr. Wï¿½, of Dover, who had eulogized John Brown, was to conduct the services of the occasion!
A hasty consultation was had, and it was resolved that Mr. W. could not go into the hall, because he was so bad a men as to speak of John Brown as an honest man, and one who believed himself to be doing God's will in his descent upon Harper's Ferry, and the people were dispersed, and the hall shut up. 
The Rev. Mr. Condit, pastor of the Congregational Society, immediately opened their house, and the people resorted thither, and the funeral services were held there to the profit and edification of the town's people who had come up to the hall in answer to a noticeï¿½very widely dominatedï¿½given of the funeral the previous Sabbath in all the churches.
The pastor of the Free Will Baptist Society (Rev. Mr. Tuttle) assisted in the services, as did Rev. Mr. Condit, who was not afraid to speak his appreciation of the noble character Miss P. had sustained in the community.
Whatever others though,ï¿½the official members of the Methodist Society especially, (evidently these clergymen,) who, by the way, have always stood up manfully for the truth,) thought and felt that they had depth of pity and strength of principle sufficient as save them in the terrors of contact with a man as bad as to allow himself to eulogize John Brown.
We certainly pity thoseï¿½ official members,' whose piety was not sufficient to allow them to come into the assembly of such men.
Poor ï¿½official members!' what a pity that a little of the ripe manhood of John Brown cannot be imports of to you, so that you many not only be strong to meet the Rev. Mr. W., but those for whom he pleads,ï¿½in pleading the truth he has so fully spoken,-when you and they stand, face to face, before Him, who said.ï¿½ Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself' alsoï¿½ Inasmuch as did it to one of the least of these, ye did it unto me.' Possibly, they may yet become worthy to hold the trail of that' johnï¿½ who so fully dared to do, or to attempt, at least, what has ever been required of all menï¿½' Proclaim liberty through out all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof. But it looks doubtful. Still, it may be that few more such suicidal attempts may establish this truly hunker fraternityï¿½ in its own place.'
IOTA.
EXTRACTS FROM A PRIVATE LETTER 
WEST RANDOLPH, (Vt.) June 12, 1868.
DEAR MR. MAY:
One year ago, we confidently, anticipated attending the anniversary of the New England Convention, but my husband's serious accident disabled him, and made it my duty as well as dearest privilege to remain with him. This year, during all those days we had hoped to be in Boston. I was lying in my chamber and my husband was my sick-bed attendant. Favoring the principles advocated by the Anti-Slavery Society, we have most ardently desired to attend sense of your anniversary gatheringsï¿½the more so, since we felt the influence of the elevating gospel of humanity as proclaimed by, Mr. Garrison and yourself when you made your short tour among our mountains. In view of that irresistible law, fashioning men by their surroundings, (so aptly alluded to by Mr. Sumner we felt the need of contact with that ever freshly, and healthy excitement which is no where to be found in more inviting purity than where the devoted labors for the down-trodden are wont to congregate. The Liberator comes to us Laden with the good report, besides supplying us with a copy of Charles Sumner's noble speech. Better substitutes we could not command.
Were it not for this same law of surroundings, I could wish to see Charles Sumner occupy a seat on the Anti-Slavery platform, (he would seem to be a home there,) instead of one in the halls of Congress. I do not mean that it, would not be well for him, and well for you all, were be there. But what would they do in Congress were there not a few faithful and brave men to counteract theï¿½ barbarism of slavery': ï¿½a picture, of virtue, framed in real gold, to charm and encourage? The honorable mention of Mr. Garrison, made by Mr. Sumner, and his reference to many facts familiar to the readers of anti-slavery literature, but by no means so to all who read political speeches, can hardly fail of a favorable effect. Many people who regard Mr. Sumner very highly accept to found their opinion of Mr. Garrison upon the representation, of professedly Christian calumniation and when they see this Public recognition from a reliable a source ofï¿½ his purest life and perfect integrity.' they must think somebody has made a mistake.
We have seldom read anything with more satisfaction than the magnanimous vindication of Mr. Garrison by Mr. Phillips. It is pitiable that such a vindication should be called for, and highly suggestion that the Independent should refuse to publish only a
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
portion of it. They could not afford to give to their readers the light of such resplendent truths.
Ah! how we had hoped some time to listen to the living words of Theodore Parker-to feel the influence of his presence, and his eloquence! His printed sermons have been to us encouragement, comfort and strength. They never fail to touch us with that magnetic power which elevates the soul. Such utterances as he has left on record are a rich legacy, which time will faithfully appropriate to the needy, and inquiring ones grown bold enough to demand and receive. 
Very truly, A. B. 
TRIBUTE TO THEODORE PARKER. 
Extracts from a Sermon, preached June 10, by Rev. A. Battles: Bangor.
In Mr. Parker's death, New England has lost one of her greatest and noblest men, and one, too, in whom her richest culture blossomed. Though not old, yet, for the last fifteen years, he has occupied a place in American Theology such as no other one ever occupied. More have hung upon his spoken or written words than upon any preacher's, living or dead, this country has ever produced. Surely, then, in turning your thoughts from the topics which usually occupy our attention in an hour like this, to the life and character of such a man, no apology is called for. Indeed, though unable to speak the fitting word, should such an opportunity pass unnoticed, I should feel I had neglected a duty. It is incumbent on the minister to draw lessons from God's revelation in the present as well as in the past. And Heaven never makes richer or fuller revealments than through the lives and characters of those royal souls, which, by their love, fidelity and heroism, quicken our sense of justice, increase our moral courage, deepen our faith in God and virtue, and inspire new endeavors to introduce the kingdom of heaven upon the earth. Such a revelation, it seems to me, we have had in the life which his has so recently come to its earthly close on the beautiful banks of the Arno in Florence.
In looking at Mr. Parker, the first thing which strikes our attention is his mighty intellectual power and intense intellectual activity. There was no end to the mental labor he performed. Then, everything he did showed the master hand. I will not say that he lifted his head into those empyrean heights, whence the great leaders of the race, Plato, Newton, Leibnitz and Kant, drew their inspiration, but in the comprehensive range of his thoughts, in his keen sighted and far-reaching analyzations of human events and human character; in tracing the intricate connection between cause and effect, inward thought and outward deed:; in presenting to view the great headlands of history from which the race, at different epochs, has taken its departure; in classifying, under their appropriate heads, the scattered facts of man's political, moral and religious life, he occupied the very first rank. Indeed, I know of but one in England or America who equals him in these respects, and that is Henry Thomas Buckle of England, whose recent work on English Civilization has opened a new era in historical composition.
In the second place, Mr. Parker's moral nature was as largely developed as his intellectual. In his ‘Experience as a Minister.’ he says, ‘In my earliest boyhood, I was taught to respect the instinctive promptings of conscience, regarding it as the voice of God in the soul of man, which must always be obeyed, and to speak the truth without evasion or concealment.' I believe he ever tried to live true to his teaching. No theological writer ever displayed a greater love of truth. No man, more thoroughly upright and downright honest, ever stepped into the pulpit.
We see the richness of his moral nature in his zeal for moral reform, both in the pulpit and out of it. No man ever labored more zealously for Temperance, following in the steps of Dr. Channing, who had died two years before Mr. Parker went to Boston, and of Mr. Pierpont, whom the rumsellers and rum manufacturers had driven from the Hollis street pulpit. He called most earnestly and eloquently for the reform of the drunkard, the closing of the distillery and dram-shop. I am sorry he modified his views during his last sickness in Europe.
But the social sin which he oftenest and most vehemently denounced was American slavery. He entered the ministry soon after the Abolition agitation commenced in New England, under the leadership of Wm. Lloyd Garrison. There were violent commotions in those times. George Thompson of England had been mobbed in Faneuil Hall; Henry Ware had greatly excited Dr. Channing's congregation by reading a notice for a meeting of the Ladies' Anti-Slavery Society. A few weeks after, this same Society was driven from their hall, by well-dressed men, whose outrages Mayor Lyman had confessed his incompetency to restrain. Mr. Garrison was at the same time dragged through the streets, his clothes torn from his back, and he finally lodged in Leverett street jail by the civil authorities, to protect him from the mob. The Governor of Massachusetts (Edward Everett) had virtually recommended the Legislature to prohibit the freedom of speech. These things made an impression upon the young student's mind. 
In after years, when he took up his abode in Boston, when he saw churches turning cold from the slave's appeal, when he saw ministers more willing to preach against than for Abolitionism, and ready to curse, as fanatics or infidels, the devoted friends of the oppressed who were risking and perilling name, health, ease and life itself, in the holy canse, he gave it his warm support. He opened the rich argosies of his learning, and laid all he had upon the altar of the righteous, yet buffeted cause of Freedom. He did it, too, when the almost entire ministry of America stood aloof from the Anti-Slavery movement, with sanctimonious coldness; when the Press joined the Pulpit in crying’ Fanaticism!' and’ Infidelity!' and when the Scholarship of New England, with here and there an exception, like an oasis in the desert, wrapped in its classic robes, cast proud and contemptuous looks upon the same movement. To this position he always adhered. 
We see a further illustration of Mr. Parker's rich moral nature in the depth of his religiousness. He was a man of deep and earnest piety. Some have supposed Mr. Parker was a mere controversialist—a writer of moral and political essays. They have deemed him destitute of that higher religious life which brings the soul into conscious union with God, and leads it to repose on the Infinite bosom with joy and trust. This is a great mistake. A serener, sweeter piety never blossomed in a human soul than in his. I might substantiate this by many extracts from his writings. In a sermon, published two years ago, these words are found: ‘I must confess, that the chiefest of all my delights is the religious. This is the deepest down, the inwardest of all—it is also the highest up. What delight have I in my consciousness of God, the certainty of his protection, and of his infinite love!’ ‘O, young men and women! men and women no longer young! It is not enough to be brave and thoughtful; not enough to be moral also, and friendly to each other. There is a joy which is not in wisdom, with all its science and its art of beauty and of use; nor yet in morality, with its grand works of justice. There is a life within the veil of the temple; it is the life with God, the innermost delight of human consciousness.’ ‘But, to realize his deep and beautiful religiousness, you should have heard him pray, when ‘he seemed to gather the hearts of his hearers in his arms, and take them up to heaven with him.' 
Yet it is this man, whom the American Church for the last fifteen years has persisted in calling’ infidel!,' ‘atheist, ‘the arch heretic of the land'! Alas! there is no prejudice so blind as theological prejudice, and no hatred so bitter as religious hatred. Infidelity 
<c02>
What is it? Taking the literal definition given by dictionaries, who can escape? According to them, Dr. Arnold, one of the brightest lights of the English church, and Mr. Robertston, one of the most gifted, preachers who ever stood in an Episcopalian pulpit, were infidels. So were Dr. Channing and Professor Norton. So are Henry Ward Beecher, James Martineau, and Dr. Hedge. Mr. Parker undoubtedly taught many false things; but that he was obnoxious to the charge of infidelity preferred against him, I deny. Not he is the infidel who believes this or disbelieves that, but he who is false to the convictions of his conscience, and recreant to the great principle of justice and love. This is the infidelity Jesus denounced in such terrific language—the heresy that Paul rebuked with such telling power.
I say I think Mr. Parker taught theological errors. It seems to me that he misinterpreted some portions of the Bible, and made it teach some things the writers never intended. Still, we have to thank him for the many positive truths which he announced—the universal love of God, His constant and universal presence, the perpetual outgoings of His divine spirit into the hearts of his children; also for his manly independence and noble defence of the rights of conscience against ecclesiastical usurpations. 
I have alluded to the treatment he received at the hands of the American Church. In that treatment, we have painful evidence of the apostacy of the Church from the spirit of charity. It shows us how ‘the Decalogue has been shortened, while the creed has been lengthened.’ We congratulate ourselves that modern civilization has outgrown persecution. True, we have no racks to torture the bodies of unbelievers; we kindle no faggot around the heretic's head; but if it be not persecution in all its malignity, to heap the most odious epithets upon a man whose daily life was a bright exhibition of all the Christian virtues, simply because, in his honest investigations, he was forced to reject many of the popular theological opinions; to cut him off from the delights of friendship; to shun him in the streets as the Jews shunned a leper; to rob ministers, who dared exchange with him, of their standing and means of support; to shut men and women out of social circles, because they attended his meeting; to pray that God would put hooks in his jaws;—I say, if this be not persecution, I know not what is. Aye, it is the very spirit of Anti-Christ, the same that nailed Jesus to the cross, thrust Paul and Peter into prison, drove the early Christians to the scaffold and the stake, and has drenched the earth with the blood of martyrs.
Perhaps, with all the facts of ecclesiastical history before us, it is not surprising that the so-called evangelical church should have calumniated Mr. Parker as it did; but that Unitarians and Universalists, who to-day have hardly laid aside the weapons with which they have been obliged to defend the right of private judgment against the assumption of ecclesiastical authority, and around whose head bigots still keep up the cry of ‘Heresy!’ ‘Infidelity!’—that they should have joined, as they have, in the assault, is not only strange but pitiful. But it is a historic fact, that the persecuted of to-day become the persecutors of tomorrow.
I have said that Mr. Parker was not an infidel, in the obnoxious sense alleged. I go further. I claim that he was a Christian. For what is it to be a Christian? Is it to have an outward reverence for a book, even though that book be true in every word? Is it to cry, ‘Lord! Lord!’ with the lips, or to confess that Jesus healed the sick with a touch? Taking the text laid down by Jesus himself, it is not these. Never did he make a belief in the plenary inspiration of Moses or the prophets, nor an acknowledgment of his miracles, a test of discipleship; but he did say,’ Whosoever shall do and teach these my commandments, shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.' And taking this test, I must believe Mr. Parker was a Christian.
If Mr. Parker was not a Christian but an infidel; if to cherish a firm, yet tender and sweet trust in an all-loving Father; if to visit the sick, the widow, and the fatherless; if to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, and guide the weak; if to plead for temperance, peace and freedom; if to strive to lead men to God, and keep his commandments—to love each other, and serve man, with a self-sacrificing charity—I say, if this be not Christianity but infidelity, would it not be better to have more infidelity in the world? 
Less than a year ago, Horace Mann, full of vigor and power, whose large mind and larger heart were enthusiastically devoted to the welfare of his race, and who has put every boy and girl of America under obligation to him, was cut down. Now Theodore Parker, in the ripeness and strength of his manhood, feeling as though he had but just begun the work God gave him to do, has gone. Thus the workmen perish, yet the work goes on. In Pentecostal gales, the divine spirit is going out to inspire and refresh the hearts of men and women. Here and there we see his children, with a sublime trust and love, accepting the mission to which God has called them, and going out it to flash his truth into the faces of the disobedient.
I ask you not to be the followers of any man, because great and powerful; neither receive any theological opinion, because taught by a scholar; but let every one be true to his own light and conviction. That is the lesson of the noble life we have been examining. I believe Mr. Parker was true to his convictions of right and truth. The word God spoke in his ear, he received and obeyed. So may we be. Let the prayer of each of us be, ‘Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth!’—and wheresoever that word points, whether to the cross or a palace, let us follow, for it is the way of peace, the way of salvation for ourselves and the race.
LETTER FROM D. A. WASSON. 
 Not only ages, but entire civilizations may pass, before another man shall arise, just so gifted and equipped as him whom we commemorate to-day. (1) It is not so much that his powers were rare in kind, though they were surely rare—very rare in degree; but his distinction is, that he combined in himself qualities, which commonly go to the making of a large number of men, and are considered incompatible; and, as oxygen and carbon in their chemical union make flame, and hydrogen and oxygen produce water, though in their separate accumulation the former are cold and the latter dry, so qualities and powers which separately would have made only a multitude of strong men, in their vital union produce that brand of the Lord, that Missouri of manhood, whom we remember as Theodore Parker. Winckelmann, in his work on Greek art, shows that the finest forms were achieved by an admirable blending into one of the characteristics of man and woman; and I think that in great excellence everywhere there is a conjunction of natural opposites. So was it with our hero. He was in spirit a union of Cato the Censor, and some sweetest Sister of Charity; he was both Freya, the gentle and prophetic, and Thor with the thunder hammer. So while his learning and reading were so vast that the entire faculty of a college could have been well fitted out from his single brain, on the other hand, he could teach common sense to mechanics, homely simplicity of speech to draymen, and sympathy with the every-day interests of mankind to all. He was more a recluse student than any merest scholar; and he inhabited a wider out-of-doors than sea-captains. He had such trust in God and such sureness of the future,—or rather a thousand times more than such—as those have who ‘wait God's time;’ while yet he toiled as though the weight of the world rested upon his shoulders alone, and as if no plant of blessing should spring up for the future whose seed was not sown out of his own heart. It is often said that he was chiefly a destroyer. That is not true. He joined opposites here as elsewhere. He 
(1) This letter was prepared for the Commemorative Meeting held at Music Hall, Sunday, June 17, in reference to the death of Theodore Parker. 
<c03>
indeed pulled down with power, but also with power and assiduity he built up. He spurned the false; but it was for love of the true. He lopped away with an unsparing hand the foolish or hidden excrescences of theological speculation; but so much and more did he enlarge and affirm the simple elements, the universal truths, of faith and morals. But I misstate—I said that he pulled down;-this, however, is not so. To cleanse the Augean stables is not to destroy them. To push away ruin and corruption is no work of destruction. He swept, indeed, the house of Faith, intolerant of the abominations which profaned it; but at the same time, and with no less industrious, hand, he strengthened and buttressed its walls. He was a reverent man, —profoundly religious and reverent. True, he did not split hairs about the Trinity; he did not maunder of the Logos; he did not prate of the Fathers; he was not tender toward superstitions that slander God; and did not earn a cheap reputation for a reverent habit so; but that man is reverent who bows before the attributes of God, and who can honor all men, be they white or black; that man is reverent to whom justice is commanding and goodness adorable; and of whom could this be affirmed more than of Theodore Parker? 
He was a rare learner, humble, docile, intent; a perpetual child at the text-book of Nature, constantly correcting himself, never ashamed to confess a mistake; yet he had pre-eminently the spirit and genius of a teacher,—methodical, clear, positive, endlessly varying his statements, and never, by a hundred or a thousand repetitions of his cardinal facts and doctrines, wearying either himself or his hearers. 
So self-respecting he was that he forgot not the rights of his manhood even in the most awed moment of his adoration—so humble that there was no hind, no idiot, to whom his heart beat not with equal love as a brother. He was capable of a mighty wrath, but it was born of his love, and never expended upon account of his private wrongs; he was angry and sinned not, for it was the anger of the prophet; indignation at wrongs done to humanity; a grand, a noble, a sacred passion. Treachery to truth, to justice, to mercy, to God and man—this it was, and this alone, that flushed his brow. A blow at himself he never in his life returned; but the wretch, especially the great, the powerful, the prosperous wretch, who came to stab at the heart of humanity, him he confronted, and in no trivial mood! He was the war-horse of God—he was the Coeur de Lion of conscience and common sense—he was a sanctified Titan—he was THEODORE PARKER!

THE WILL OF THEODORE PARKER. 
The Will of the late Theodore Parker was presented for probate a few days since. From it we learn that he gives to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts ‘the two fire-arms formerly the property of my honored grandfather, Captain John Parker, late of Lexington; to wit, the large musket, or king's arm, which was by him captured from the British, on the morning of the 19th of April, 1775, in the battle of Lexington, and which is the first firearm taken from the enemy in the war for Independence; and also the smaller musket which was used by him in that battle, while fighting the” sacred cause of God and his country”; and I desire that these relics of the Revolution may be placed in the Senate Chamber of this Commonwealth, and there sacredly kept in perpetuam rei memoriam.’
To ‘his much valued friend, Wendell Phillips,’ he gives his ‘folio copy of the English State Trials, in eleven volumes, with many portraits interleaved.’ 
To his ‘much valued friend, Charles Sumner,’ he gives his ‘copy of the Parliamentary History of England, in thirty-six volumes.’ 
To other friends he makes bequests of particular works from his library as mementoes and of special significance, and then the remainder of his very extensive and valuable collection he gives to the city of Boston, ‘to put into the Public Library of the city for the use and benefit of such as have access thereto, and to be read on such terms as the Directors of the said Library shall think just; and I desire that, so far as consistent with public utility, the said books be kept in alcoves or on shelves by themselves: and I desire that the said books shall in no case be sold, or given away, or exchanged for other books.’ In case the city declines to accept them, then they are to be offered to the library of Harvard College; and Mrs. Parker's consent is necessary to any disposal of them in any event, and she may entirely change their direction if she choose. 
All the remainder of his property is left to his wife; certain provisions being made for its disposal in case Mrs. Parker should not survive him; these, of course, are now of no force. 
The will, of five folio pages, is dated May 25, 1857, and it names for executors John R. Manley and Frederick W. G. May of Boston, and Franklin B. Sanborn of Concord. 
FUGITIVES FROM JUSTICE. 
The following is the correspondence between Gov. Denison of Ohio, and Gov. Harris of Tennessee, in relation to the rendition of negro-runners:— 
GOT. HARRIS TO GOV. DENISON. 
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, 
Nashville, Tennessee, May 26, 1860. 
His Excellency, W. Denison, Governor of the State of Ohio: 
SIR-There was issued from this Department on the 17th inst., a requisition demanding of your Excellency, as fugitives from justice from this State, Stephen G. Kennedy and Mary Ann C. Hatch, alias Mary Ann C. Calhoun, charged with the crime of negro stealing, which is a felony under the statute laws of Tennessee. 
I am informed by James H. Swan, the agent appointed by me to receive the fugitives, that your Excellency refused to cause said fugitives to be arrested and delivered to him. 
Upon examination of the record in this Department, I am unable to discover any defect in the requisition, and deem it due to the aggrieved party, who is a citizen of this State, to ask your Excellency to point out such defect as, in your opinion, vitiates the requisition, so that in future I may understand the practice of the State of Ohio under the Act of Congress of Feb. 12, 1793, respecting the surrender of fugitives from justice. 
Very respectfully, 
ISHAM G. HARRIS.
GOV. DENISON TO GOV. HARRIS. 
STATE OF OHIO, EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, 
COLUMBUS, June 2, 1860. 
His Excellency, Isham G. Harris, Governor of the State of Tennessee: 
SIR—I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 26th ultimo. 
In reply, I beg to say that the crime of negro stealing, not being known to either the Common Law or the Criminal Code of this State, it is not of that class of crimes contemplated by the Federal Constitution, for the commission of which I am authorized, as the Executive of this State, to surrender a fugitive from the justice of a sister State; and hence declined to issue a warrant upon the requisition of your Excellency for the extradition of Stephen G. Kennedy and Mary Ann Hatch, alias Mary Ann C. Calhoun, charged with that offence, which you advise is a felony under the statute laws of Tennessee. 
Upon the second requisition for the same parties, charged with the crime of grand larceny, in having stolen certain jewelry, I had the pleasure of issuing a warrant on Thursday last. 
Very respectfully yours, &c., 
W. DENISON. 
To this Gov. Harris replied on the 12th of June last, in a very long letter, endeavoring to sustain his requisition upon constitutional grounds, and closes thus:— 
‘It is impossible to conceal the fact that already much has been done, calculated to produce alienation and distrust. Day by day confidence is lessening in the power of mere constitutional guaranties to protect the rights of the citizen, or the States, because one by one of the guaranties of the Constitution have been shaken or totally disregarded, until it has become the imperative duty of every patriot to rebuke rather than pander to the dangerous fanaticism of the times.’ 
A number of persons in Washington County, Md., have set their slaves free previous to the first day of June, when the law of the last Legislature, prohibiting manumissions, unless the negroes leave the State, went into effect. The Hagerstown Herald says that the absconding, manumission and sales to the South of slaves there, within recent years, have greatly reduced their number in that county. The census of 1860 shows that then were then two thousand and ninety slaves in the county: the census of the present year will probably show a falling off of more than one-half. In this town there are not over ten able-bodied male slaves, against three times that number ten years ago. 
<c04>
PARKER PILLSBURY IN HYANNIS. 
DEAR GARRISON—The free gospel of Christ and of the down-trodden slave was preached by Parker Pillsbury, in all its quickening power and purity, in the new hall of this village, on Sunday, July 1st. Practical scriptural quotations, by the most able D. D. s, were never better made. Had such a gospel been preached in Hyannis, instead of the heartless, accommodating one that is preached in the Baptist and Universalist Churches, Columbus Jones would never have been carried back, and thrown into the bottomless pit of American slavery by the Church. 
The hall in the afternoon was full, and in the evening it was crowded; and with emphasis I can say, that two meetings more deeply interesting are seldom held. 
Mr. Pillsbury treated his subject so skillfully, and handled the Scriptures so ably, that I must call him Doctor of Anti-Slavery Divinity. His sermon in the afternoon, from the text,’ I came not to bring peace, but a sword,' was very powerful, and reminded me of dear Theodore Parker's great reformatory sermons, and I should be most happy to have it repeated from his desk. 
Your true friend for ‘No union with slaveholders,’
THOMAS P. KNOX. 
ARRIVAL OF THE GREAT EASTERN. The steamship Great Eastern is no longer the ‘Great Uncertain’ on this side of the Atlantic. She arrived at New York last week on Thursday, eleven days from Southampton, England. A telegraph dispatch from New York gives the following particulars:— 
She dropped anchor off Sandy Hook, New York, at 71/2 o'clock, Thursday morning, and waiting there until the full noon tide, she crossed the bar at about 3 o'clock, without trouble, and passed the Battery at 41/2 on the way to her pier at the foot of West 12th street, on the North river. Her arrival produced intense excitement in the city, and every floating thing was got ready to meet her on the passage up. The bay was, therefore, literally covered with craft of all descriptions, with bunting flying, guns booming, &c., as the monster plowed her way swiftly to her moorings. She moved gracefully and easily through the water, drawing 27 feet, and was handled as easily as a pilot boat. The steam frigate Niagara, lying in the stream waiting for the Japanese, and heretofore thought to be ‘some vessel,’ looked small in comparison; while our ordinary sea steamers looked like shallops by her side, and common river craft like so many minnows in the wake of a great whale. 
The Great Eastern left Southampton, England, on the 16th, and passed out of the Needles at 10 a. m. of the 17th. The passage has, therefore, been more than 141/2 knots an hour, or varying from 280 to 333 miles a day. But her bottom being covered with barnacles is estimated to have made a difference against her of two knots an hour. The passengers state that the voyage has been particularly fine, fully demonstrating the fine sea-going qualities of the vessel, and the excellence and reliability of her machinery. 
There are but thirty-eight paying passengers and eight guests aboard, among them George Wilkes, N. A. Woods of the London Times, and several directors of the company. 
THE SANBORN KIDNAPPING CASE AT CONCORD—Indictment against the United States Authorities.—In the Superior Court for Middlesex County, to-day, Judge Morton presiding, the Grand Jury returned an indictment against James Carleton, Geo. J. Cooledge, Wm. B. Tarleton and Watson Freeman, Jr., of Boston, for kidnapping Frank B. Sanborn, of Concord, April 3d. There are four counts, charging,— 
First—That they inveigled and seized Sanborn, without any lawful warrant or authority, with intent to send him out of the Commonwealth. 
Second—An assault. 
Third—A forcible seizure, with intent to confine in the Commonwealth. And 
Fourth—That they seized, confined and handcuffed him, with design of transporting him out of the Commonwealth. 
The cases will not be called up until after Jail cases are disposed of. 
No bill was returned against Sanborn for assaulting the officers. 
None of the above parties were arraigned to-day. The time for trial was not assigned. 
KEY WEST. June 10th, 1860. 
A steam propeller, manned and officered by Englishmen and Spaniards, and said to be English built, landed at Sagua, on the 3d, 1,200 slaves. The steamer was afterwards set adrift, and a boat or two from this place have gone in quest of her. If found, she will prove a valuable prize. 
We learn that the Colonization Society are to remove the negroes here to Africa, and that two ships will soon be on their way here to take them back to their native land. The policy and humanity of this act is questioned in many minds; but as the law stands, their transit should be accompanied with as little suffering and delay as is possible. At this season their voyage will be long, and if- they should become short of water and food, their condition will be lamentable. Should the time of departure be protracted to the hurricane months, the depot here would stand but a small chance from the rush of waters on Whalehead Point. 
The barks Wildfire and William have been condemned and ordered for sale, and a libel has been filed by the District Attorney against the unknown bark. The negroes who have good constitutions generally keep up to a healthy standard, but the diseased and broken down by suffering fail fast. The hospital is full. On an average, its inmates have numbered about 100 per day since the arrival of the William, whose living freight was in a truly pitiable condition; and up to date, the deaths are 139.—Correspondence of the New York Journal of Commerce. 
FIENDISH MURDER IN KANSAS.—On last Friday night, about midnight, the house of Mr. Joseph Gardner—one of the most respected citizens in this county, living on Washington creek—was attacked by a gang of armed assassins, who attempted to enter the house and murder its inmates. Mr. Gardner and his family bravely defended themselves; and a colored man working for Mr. Gardner, named Napoleon Simpson, going to the door during the attack, was fatally wounded so that he died in less than an hour. Volley after volley was fired in at the windows, and it was only by a miracle that more of the inmates were not murdered. Mr. Gardner is a quiet man, very highly esteemed by the community at large, and knows of no cause of enmity against him, except that he is a radical anti-slavery man, and never betrays the fleeing fugitive. It is supposed that the attack must have been made by a gang of wretches who are prowling about the Territory, stealing horses, kidnapping colored people, and committing like crimes. Those who think that the battle with the Slave Power is fought and won, on the soil of Kansas, will see that it is only just begun!—Lawrence (Kansas) Republican, June 14. 
A WHITE NEGRO.—At Lewisburg, Va., recently, the town was thrown into some commotion by the arrival in its midst of two gentlemen in pursuit of a man, whom they had been informed had been living here for some four years, and had passed himself off as a white man, marrying a white woman, and now the father of two children. The man was found and claimed by the parties in pursuit, as a slave. He acknowledged the charge to be true, and was accordingly tied and taken away to one of the adjoining counties, from which it is said he made his escape. Well might his arrest create some excitement, for it is said that he has lived amongst the while people as a white citizen, eaten, slept, partaken of the hospitality extended to white men, and also deposited his vote at the ballot box time and again, and so far as the color of his skin was concerned, we presume would hardly have been taken as one of the off springs of an advocate of amalgamation. 
THE SALE OF SLAVES OF THB INTERNAL IMPROVEMENT DEPARTMENT.—There were sold, on the 9th inst., seventy-nine negroes, ranging in years from thirty-seven to sixty-five years of age, the property of the Internal Improvement Department of the State of Louisiana, sold on account of the approval of an act, entitled’ An act providing for the sale of the slaves belonging to the Internal Improvement Department of the State,' which act makes it the duty of the Governor to cause to be sold, in the city of New Orleans, for cash, to the highest bidder, after sixty days notice, and under such regulations and restrictions as he may prescribe, all the slaves belonging to the Internal Improvement Department of the State, except eight. The slaves brought a fraction over $974,000, which is a very good sale, considering their ages. Among them were two engineers, four blacksmiths, good and tolerable; three carpenters, two cooks, ten mates, &c.—New Orleans Delta. 
ADDRESS BY MR. SUMNER—Charles Sumner has designated Monday evening. July 9th, as the date of his proposed address before the Young Men's Republican Union of New York city. The occasion will undoubtedly prove to be the political event of the season. 
<c05>
NEW SERIES OF ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS.
The new Series now consists of Six Tracts, to which we would again call the attention of our readers and of all friends of Anti-Slavery Reform, as just the publications which the times and the cause now require. Call for them—send for title-circulate them: 
No. 1. Correspondence between Lydia <illegible> child and Governor Wise and Mrs. Mason, of Virginia. 5 cents. 
No. 2. Victor Hugo on American Slavery, with letters of other distinguished individuals, viz., De Tocqueville, Mazzini, Humboldt, Lafayette, &c. 5 cents. 
No. 3. An Account of some of the Principal Slave Insurrections during the last two Centuries. By JOSHUA COFFIN. 5 cents. 
No. 4. The New Reign of Terror in the Slaveholding States, for 1859-60. 10 cents. 
No. 5. The Right Way the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the West Indies and elsewhere. By L. MARIA CHILD. 10 cents.
No. 6. Daniel O'Connell on American Slavery; with other Irish Testimonies. 5 cents. 
The prices will be one third less where a dozen or more copies are taken. 
To be had at the Anti-Slavery Offices, 5 Beekman street, New York; 107 North Fifth street, Philadelphia; and 221 Washington street, Boston. 
A CARD—The subscriber, a practical Chemist and Manufacturer of Chemical Preparations, French Cosmetics, Fine Perfumes, &c., for the past seventeen years, now offers (free of charge) to all who desire it, the Recipe and directions for making a simple Vegetable Balm, that will, in from two to eight days, remove Pimples, Blotches, Tan, Freckles, Sallowness, and all impurities and roughness of the Skin, leaving the same—as Nature intended it should be— soft, clear, smooth and beautiful. This is no humbug or catch-penny affair, and those who think it such will please not notice the advertisement. Those desiring the Recipe, with full instructions, directions and advice, will please call on or address (with return postage). 
JAS. S. MARSHALL, 
Practical Chemist, 
No. 32 City Buildings, New York. 
New York, June 6. 3m 
40,000 COPIES OF CHARLES SUMNER'S GREAT SPEECH! The undersigned has determined to supply the Clergy of the country, each one of them, with a copy of this, 
THE GREAT SPEECH OF THE COUNTRY! 
ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS is required for this purpose. Such friends of freedom as desire to share with me the pleasure of this undertaking, may enclose their subscriptions to my friend, the Hon. SAMUEL E. SEWALL, No, 46 Washington street, Boston. 
THADDEUS HYATT. 
Washington Jail, June 13, 1860. 
TIME EXTENDED. 
The $100 and $200 Prizes!! 
In consequence of the limited notice through the press of the above offer, I am now taking measures to thoroughly ADVERTISE the same, and of consequence extend the time, which is hereby extended to the 10th day of August, 1860. 
The following distinguished gentlemen have accepted the duty of making the awards:— 
John Jay, Esq., Hiram Barney, Esq., and Edgar Ketchum, Esq., of New York; the Hon. S. E. Sewall, John A. Andrew, Esq., and the Rev. John Pierpont, of Massachusetts. 
My offer is $100 for the best POPULAR ESSAY and $200 for the best LEGAL ESSAY on the following questions, viz.:— 
1. In what, if any, cases, does the Constitution permit the Senate of the United States to coerce witnesses for information to merely aid legislation? 
2. In what, if any, cases, does the Constitution permit the Senate of the United States to seize and force witnesses from their States to merely aid legislation? 
3. In what, if any, cases, does the Constitution permit the Senate of the United States to investigate alleged crime to merely aid legislation? 
Essays not to exceed 40 pages octavo, long primer. 
The POPULAR ESSAYS to be sent to the Hon. S. E. SEWALL. NO. 46 Washington street, Boston. The LEGAL ESSAYS to EDGAR KETCHUM, Esq., No. 79 Nassau street, New York. 
Each Essay to be submitted with a motto attached. The name and address of the writer to be in a sealed envelope, bearing the motto of the Essay. 
THADDEUS HYATT. 
Washington Jail, June 5, 1860. 
RECEIPTS
Into the Treasury of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, from June 1, to July 2, 1860. 
Wendell Phillips, to redeem pledge for May, 
1859, $100 00 
Wendell Phillips, to redeem pledge for Jan., 
1860, 200 00 
Wendell Phillips, to redeem pledge for May, 
1860, 100 00 
Mary P. Chase, to redeem pledge, 1 00 
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer. Boston, July 2, 1860. 
MILFORD, N. H.-PARKER PILLSBURY and H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak in Milford, N. H., Sunday, July 8. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture in Groveland on Sunday next, July 8th, at the usual time for public services. 
VERMONT.—WM. WELLS BROWN is now on a lecturing tour in the State of Vermont, where he intends remaining, and will visit the principal towns. Friends of the cause, wishing him to lecture in their localities, can write to Rev. N. R. Johnston, Topsham, Orange Co., Vt. 
Miss SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture. in the lower Town Hall, at ANDOVER, on Sunday, July 8th, at half-past 1 and at half-past 5, P. M. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in MILFORD, Mass., on Sunday next, July 8. Also in LAWERNCE, Sunday, July 15. 
MIDDLESEX CO. A. S. SOCIETY. -A meeting of the Middlesex County Anti-Slavery Society will be held at CONCORD, Sunday, July 15th, afternoon and evening. PARKER PILLSBURY, H. FORD DOUGLASS, and other speakers, will be present. Friends of the cause and the public generally are cordially invited. 
WM. WHITING, President. 
F. B. SANBORN, Sec'y. 
All letters, &c., for the undersigned, should be addressed to Leicester, Mass. 
SAMUEL MAY, JR. 
TO THE FRIENDS OF FUGITIVE SLAVES.
A place is wanted for a fugitive slave, just in from the South—an able-bodied man, about 34 years of age. He has long been used to the care of horses, and is expert in managing and driving them, and can also work on the land. Apply to R. F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington street, or by letter to FRANCIS JACKSON, Boston. 
FOR A SHORT TIME! 
MUSICAL PRODIGY. 
MARTHA S. P. STORY, of Essex, aged three years! There will be an exhibition of this little Musical Genius, at Mercantile Hall, Summer street, Boston, for a few days, at 10 o'clock, A. M., and 3, P. M. 
All who desire to see rare musical gifts developed in mere infancy, should visit this exhibition. The proceeds to be used for her musical education. 
Admission, 25 cents; children, 10 cents. 
Tickets to be had at the bookstore of TICKNOR & FIELDS, corner Washington and School streets; at DITSON & Co's Music Store, 277 Washington street, and at the door of the Hall. 
MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity. 
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark. M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D, Portland, Me. 
Rooms No. 34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M. 
PARKER AND PHILLIPS. 
MINIATURE Photographs of THEODORE PARKER and WENDELL. PHILLIPS, executed in beautiful style, have just been published. Price only 15 cts. For 30 cents in stamps, one of each will be sent in a letter, post-paid, to any address. Liberal discount to those who desire to aid in circulating them.
Address R. THAYER, at this office. 
<c06>
BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment. 
New. 68 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET,
BROOKLYN, L. I.
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any ‘Water Cure’ Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements, as the locations is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at the Hotels.
Address GEO. F. ADAMS, M. D.,
April 20. physician and sole Proprietor.
READ THIS.
THE subscriber will furnish copies of the following Likenesses in response to orders accompanied with the cash, viz.:—
Lithograph of THEODORE PARKER, 
Lithograph of JOHN BROWN
Lithograph of WM. LLOYD GARRISON. 
ALSO, 
Lithograph of WENDELL PHILLIPS, 
Lithograph of THADUEUS HYATT, 
now in press, and soon to be published by C. H. Brainard, both in the highest style of the celebrated artist D'Avignon, each of these for one dollar. 
Also on hand, a few copies each of the Photographs of John Brown, Lydia Maria Child, and Theodore Parker, each for 50 cents. These will be safely mailed without additional cost. 
Send your orders to WILLIAM C. NELL, 221 Washington street.
June 15. 
'A thing of beauty is a joy forever.' 
THE LIGHT OF OUR HOME.
A BEAUTIFUL picture of a beautiful female child, drawn from life by Thomas M. Johnston, and photographed by Black & Batchelder. Price, One Dollar. 
Sent by mail, free of postage, on receipt of the price. 
Published by 
C. H. BRAINARD, 
322 Washington street, 
at the store of Elliot & Whits. 
June 15. 2wis
WEDDING AND VISITING
CARDS, 
FASHIONABLY ENGRAVED BY 
E. A. TEULON. 
149 1-2 WASINGTON STBEET, BOSTON.
Directly opposite the Old South Church. 
—ALSO—
WEDDING BILLETS, ‘At Home,’ &c. 
WEDDING ENVELOPES, in great variety. 
WEDDING CAKE BOXES, new styles. 
MOURNING NOTE PAPER and ENVELOPES. 
ALL AT VERY LOW PRICES. 
May 18. eop6m. 
PROUTY &, MEARS'S 
CELEBRATED 
HOT-AIR FURNACES. 
PARLOR GRATES in great variety, embracing more than sixty different patterns, varying in prices from three to sixty-five dollars.
PARLOR STOVES of superior designs, including the PORTABLE HOT-AIR RADIATING PARLOR GRATE, the most elegant heating apparatus for drawing-rooms and parlors ever invented. 
COOKING-STOVES of the latest and most approved patterns, including the’ Clipper Improved,’ ‘Mount Vernon,’ and ‘Gold Medal.’
DINING-ROOM STOVES, with ovens, including the ‘Beauty,’ of new and chaste design, and in its operation entirely superior to any cast iron ‘Parlor Oven Stove' ever introduced into this market. 
-ALSO-
A large assortment of Office and Shop Stoves; Castings for the PROUTY & MEARS'S Stoves and Furnaces, &c. &c.
AT 
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. 
BY 
ALLEN S. WEEKS. 
23, 25 and 27 New Friend Street, 
(Between Union and Hanover Streets,) 
BOSTON. 
June 1—eoptf 

CARPETING
‘All the Year Round,’
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO. 
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 
CARPETING, 
285 WASHINGTON STREET, 
(NEAR WINTER STREET,) 
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings. 
-ALSO—
AMERICAN CARPETING. 
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT 
THE LOWEST PRICES, 
For cash or approved credit. 
Sept 16 tf
New Edition of a Great Work. 
HELPER OUTDONE BY JUDGE STROUD 
IN THIS MASTERLY WORK .
'A SKETCH OF THE SLAVE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.' 
EVERY man should own and read this book. Rev. Dr. Way land says of it, in a letter to the author. ‘I wish there was a copy of it in every family in the United States. No work could be more timely, or better serve the purposes of humanity.' 
We want 500 Agents to sell this work during the present Presidential campaign. No more effective document can be circulated. Price, $1. Large discount to agents. 
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.,
PUBLISHERS, 
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON. 
May 11. 
THAYER & ELDRIDGE, 
PUBLISHERS 
AND
Wholesale Booksellers 
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Mch16 tf BOSTON, MASS .
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
A TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF THEODORE PARKER.
Gone before us, Oh, our brother, 
To the Spirit-Land!
Vainly look we for another 
In thy place to stand!’
Our noble ones are falling,
As all the Autumn leaves,
Gathered by Death the Reaper—
Like Autumn's garnered sheaves.
The purest and the bravest,
They pass from us away,
When most we need their words of cheer,
To aid us in life's way.
The hearts that never faltered 
n the darkest trial-hour,
That ever dared to combat Wrong,
Nor fawning knelt to Power;
That for Humanity opprest 
Had ever listening ear;
And when the lowliest asked for aid,
A Brother's voice could hear.
And, 'mid the nobly-gifted ones
That History's page enrols,
PARKER, thy name must foremost stand
Mong true heroic souls!
New England's rocky hills have nursed 
Full many a spirit brave;
But ne'er a nobler son than he,
Who rests by Arno's wave!
And, o'er that green Italian grave,
Will many a tear be shed;
And reverent hearts will homage pay
Unto the noble dead!
And though the bondman's weary feet
May never press that strand.
Or kneel beside the sacred mound,
In that fair, sunny land—
And though his glowing words of power
Their eyes may never trace,
Or gaze upon the pictured form
Of that pure, manly face—
Yet will their very souls be stirred
At memory of his name;
And blessings on his grave will rest,
Twined with the wreaths of Fame!
Oh! sure 'twill be a blessed thought,
When Death stands by our side,
To know like him we have been true,
Nor turned from Right aside.
We thank thee, Father! that he lived;
We sorrow that he died:
Oh, make us, like him, strong and brave
To meet Oppression's tide!
Barre, June, 1860. CARRIE.

From the New York Independent.
THE MIND ITS OWN PLACE.
Good and Evil.
BY GEORGE W. LIGHT.
‘Great peace have they that love thy law, and 
nothing shall offend them.'—PSALMS.
'The mind is its own place, and in itself 
Can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven.'
—MILTON.
'Ah! what a sign is it of evil life,
When death's approach is seen so terrible!'
—SHAKESPEARE.
Evil, anxious, waits the morrow
For its golden day!
Good improves the shining present,
Trusting no delay.
Evil fears the solemn curtain
Midnight o'er it flings!
Good enjoys a day celestial
While the night-bird sings.
Evil, in the stormy winter,
Pants for summer bloom:
Good, with summer in its bosom,
Smiles at winter's gloom.
Evil, startled by its thunder,
From the future flies:
Good, enchanted, through its vista
Sees the haleyon skies.
Evil, in the night of sorrow,
Only doubts and fears:
Good, unshaken, feels an angel
Wipe away its tears.
Evil buys of cheating pleasure
Pain without release:
Good, by inward conquest noble,
Wins immortal peace.
Evil meets, with eye-balls flashing,
Slander's venomed eye:
Good, with blazing coals of kindness,
Blisters every lie.
Evil, grasping guilty treasure,
Shames a golden crown:
Good, when Mammon tries its virtue,
Burning, looks him down.
Evil, tearless, looks at sorrow's
Winter-blasted spring:
Good, with robin songs of summer,
Makes her valleys ring.
Evil finds in reigning beauty
No celestial grace:
Good, the peerless queen of splendor,
Triumphs in her face.
Evil's youth is early crippled,
And its death-knell rung:
Good is like its blooming sister,
Truth, forever young.
Evil, with the mask of greatness,
Banters for a name:
Good, aslant its godlike action,
Finds the shadow, Fame.
Evil, when oppression thunders,
Right or wrong, gives in:
Good, in step with heavenly music,
Nothing fears but sin.
Evil sees in vast creation
No Paternal sign;
Good, though earthquakes heave the mountains,
Sees the Hand divine.
Evil turns its back on Mercy's
World-redeeming charms:
Good, for past offences sorrowing,
Rushes to her arms.
Evil sees in Death's low valley
Deepening shadows dread:
Good espies the Heavenly morning
Breaking overhead.
Evil meets, beyond the valley,
Shapes of darkness grim:
Good, with angel sisters soaring,
Chants a parting hymn.
Evil, frantic, upward gazing,
Sees a despot's throne:
Good, exulting, sees the Father,
Welcoming his own.
Boston, 1860.

A KINDLY WORD.
There's many a soul in sadness,
A kindly word might save 
From dark, despairing madness,
Or an untimely grave.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR. 
REVIEW OF A LETTER FROM REV. JAS.
B. TAYLOR, OF RICHMOND, VA.
In a communication inserted in the Watchman and Reflector of the 7th inst.,[l] from ‘an esteemed minister in the South,' whose name they say 'has become a sort of synonym for kindness of spirit and wisdom of counsel,' there are a few things to which, with your permission, I would call attention; of course, presuming that your columns are as freely and kindly thrown open to the Northern Christian Abolitionist as the above paper is to the large body of Southern Christians, whose representative stands forth in defence of Southern Christianity, clad in his double coat of mail, hurling defiance at the armies of the living God in the North, and throughout the world. There being no David in the Eastern churches that dares to venture a fling at him, allow me to bring a smooth stone from the midst of the inland seas and pine forests of the West, to see if I cannot find a soft place in his forehead, and scatter his false hopes and false trusts to the winds.
In his letter, he lays great stress on the facts of the case, regarding the vexed question of slavery. Read it over, and, as you proceed, mark his avowal: 'There is no "irrepressible conflict,"' says this 'synonym for kindness of spirit and wisdom of counsel.' There is no irrepressible conflict ' going on between free and slave labor in the South.' The 'thousands of German, Irish, English, Welsh and New England citizens,' of whom he speaks in the South, who are 'conducting mercantile, mechanical and manufacturing ' operations, 'never come into conflict with slave labor, or suffer any interference from it,' says this champion of the slave, and therefore how confoundedly stupid, ignorant and blind Gov. Seward, the Hon. Charles Sumner, and the excellent and noble hearted Wendell Phillips must be, that they cannot see those illuminated scenes stretching away through the bright shining South to the Gulf of Mexico and the Rio Grande—this earth's loveliest Paradise, where dwells this happy family! What a pity, to use the ' language of Choate, that they should have become so 'flabbergasted'! Oh! how fervently we ought to pray that God would open their eyes to the sight of this glorious vision of lions dwelling with lambs, and leopards with kids, and the little child Douglas, wrapped in the swaddling bands of Squatter Sovereignty, leading them into the green pastures of the slave plantation, and beside the Dismal Swamp, whose still waters flow from the great springs of blind obedience! 0 Lord, we beseech thee, do remove the scales from their eyes!
Observe, again, this Southern knight of the quill certifies that this awful, fearful, terrible conflict between free and slave labor is in the North ' made manifest amongst the colored race and the more favored classes'! And how remarkable, since he has not only got the scales from his eyes to see this in his travels North, but his heart open to feel it! O! listen to his tender expressions of compassionate regard for the poor slaves in the North! Why, our servants at the South, who are 'bartered, leased, mortgaged, bequeathed, invoiced, shipped as cargo, stored as goods, sold at auction, and staked at a gaming-table'; aye, 'marked like a hog, branded like a mule, yoked like an ox, hobbled like a horse, driven like an ass, sheared like a sheep, maimed like a cur, and beaten like a crew,' are in a happy, blissful, paradisiacal condition compared with the negro race of the North! Yes, and am greatly mistaken,' says this Southern Goliath, 'if the black man at the South is not physically, intellectually and religiously elevated many degrees above his brother at the North'! Truly, the condition of the North, in the midst of such a perpetual struggle, such an irrepressible conflict of the colored race with the more favored classes, is like an orb taken from the spheres, and plunged into the darkness of midnight, contrasted with our lovely, happy, sunny South! How lamentable that such 'fearful evils' should befall these poor things in the North, where their marriage ties are respected, their parental authority revered, their possession of the Bible, and their being taught to read it not interfered with—where they choose their own masters, make their own contracts, build their own sanctuaries, elect their own pastors, and, if necessary, like the ancient church, sell their own communion-plate to release their brethren from bondage, even though the price of their blood was applied by the Scribes and Pharisees and hypocrites amongst the slaveholding Christians of the South, to purchase sacred vessels for the use of their own communion-tables!
What a calamity that they should not know their 'truest friends,' who rob men of their title-deeds to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, subject their chattels personal to 'their selfish interest and more selfish lust—with one hand put a penny into the deep urn of their poverty, and take a shilling out'—and whose 'impiety, cruelty and brutality, are grandly developed in the higher type of Southern civilization, by making holes in their favored servants' ears, scars on the right side of their foreheads, putting in shot in the hind part of their legs, and ham-stringing them, that they may not be able to run away from such patriarchal rule! O, tell the miserable classes of the colored race in the North where these blessed patriarchs live in the South, who set such a value on the 'scab and cancer and bare bones of slavery'! Write it in your albums, inscribe it in the leaflet of your memories, teach it to your children at the fireside, flash it forth amongst your friends and acquaintances, and telegraph it to earth's remotest bounds! Yes, send it forth
By the streams and fountains,
By the hills and mountains,
By the wide-spreading plains,
By the finest domains,
By the groves and forests,
And the cliffs and turrets;
Under the sun's scorching heat,
The deep shady retreat,
The cool, refreshing shower,
The fine, bright, sunny hour,
The low ring of the storm,
And the sweet breath of morn.
Ye angels, dwell upon the sound!
Ye heavens, reflect it to the ground!
O, how the mountains must melt and the hills retire, the earth yawn and the ocean tremble on its channel, if no Cushing, or Benj. Hallett, or Wm. E. Dodge, or Frank Pierce, or Edward Everett, or James Gordon Bennett, or Stephen Arnold Douglas, etc. etc., with their satellites and parasites, should refuse to point them the way from the miserable North to the bright and beautiful landscapes of the South—which are suffused with such heavenly light as that which floats on the sky, and is reflected from piles of burning negroes, where the jarring discords of a Pryor, Barksdale, Boyce, Gartrell, Ashmore, Singleton, Martin, the white lady major domos and the mulatto mistresses, from the swell of the hallelujah chorus to the soft, sweet, angelic lullaby, die away in the Southern breeze, and such sweet, delicious harmonies succeed to fill our souls with rhapsodies divine and joys celestial—with the grand performances in the Southern orchestra of the above celebrities with their bludgeons, thumbscrews, pincers, cowhides cat-o'-nine-tails, bowie knives, revolvers and blood hounds, tripping it with such fantastic toe, making heaven to weep and hell to rejoice as they enact their hideous capers, while the lash plays and the blood sprits, while women are whipped and children are sold, while the marriage is polluted and annulled, while the parental tie is rudely torn, while honest gains are filched or robbed, while the soul itself is shut down in all the darkness of ignorance, and God himself is defied in the pretension that man can hold property in his fellow-man!
[1] See 'Refuge of Oppression,' 1st page.
<c03>
Clear the track! Let the negroes from the North come along! Pass them on to our sunny plantations in the South, where the truth of blind obedience and false doctrine springs up luxuriantly out of the ground, and where the skies cleave asunder to pour down righteousness in the way of retributive justice—where the incense-laden gales of miasma from the dismal swamps of slavery fan the slave-master as he hugs his patriarchal institution as the Carib of the Gulf hugged Cannibalism, and as Brigham Young now hugs Polygamy! Let them see the bludgeon bearers in this army of the race of Southern patriarchs with the flowers of lust, rapine, cruelty and avarice in full bloom along their pathway, the still waters of hatred and strife flowing through their lordly plantations, the trail of the great serpent slavery drawing its long, slow length along over every sunny bank, under every shady tree, by the side of every meandering stream, and coiling up its snaky folds, or darting forth its sting and breathing its hiss under the shadow of every patriarchal dome, filling the land with its unclean presence and unclean spirit, impregnating the atmosphere with its stench, and turning the blooming paradise of the South into an Aceldama! Rub-a-dub-dub! Drop music from your fingers, and in one grand chorus join your united Voices to make your hallelujahs resemble the voice of the many waters at the falls of Niagara, as you look at the fearful monster that binds so many hands, cords so many feet, blinds so many eyes, blasts so many intellects, blackens so many hearts, opens so wide the mouth of hell, and crowds it with such masses of its victims!
Again, consider well the sources of disquietude in this Southern brave, which discovers itself in the hot fires of his indignation against the unnatural, fratricidal war of the Abolitionists against the 'hunkeriem' and civilizing influences of slavery in the South! What is to be the issue, no mortal tongue can tell. How soon this land is to be deluged in blood, no one can foresee. O! how sad that the conservative presses of the North should maintain such long-continued silence, or be so faint in their condemnation of that 'infidel, traitorous murderer,' John Brown, who commenced this war in the South, because he, in response to a call from this god, prosecuted it in the spirit of true heroism, fortitude and faith; and, after speaking; the truth with his lips, and writing it with his pen, sealed it with his blood! Yes, ten thousand curses be on the head of this vile infidel, who, from his sixteenth to his fifty-ninth year, has been a true and, honored member of the church of Christ—that mean man who sat such a noble example of unwavering courage and patience in conflict, in prison under his wounds, and on the scaffold where he was hung, the ignominy of which, by his presence, was surrounded by a bright halo of glory, whilst that scaffold itself became a throne, to use his own language, 'greater than a king's,' and his suffering on it gave him a power to rule America mightier than that wielded by the President! Base and ignoble traitor, that should take up the sword for the colored man, as Lafayette and Washington did for the white man! O, listen to the language of this brave Roman, ye political demagogues, ye base hirelings, ye false shepherds, ye scribes, Pharisees and hypocrites, that scent carrion in every breeze, and make clean the outside, while within all is rottenness and dead men's bones!—'Had I interfered in the manner which I admit, that of running slaves out of bondage, had I so interfered in behalf of the rich, the powerful, the intelligent, the so-called great, or in behalf of any of their friends, either father, mother, brother, sister, wife or children, or any of that class, and suffered and sacrificed what I have in this interference, it would have been all right, and every man in this Court would have deemed it an act worthy of reward rather than punishment.' O, hiss, ye monsters, and shout, ye demons, and clap your hands, as the guilty felons who sat on his jury have, in their unrighteous verdict, and which the more guilty judge pronounced and confirmed from the bench!
'They may hang him on the gibbet, they may raise the victor's cry,
When they see him darkly swinging like a speck against the sky:
Ah! the dying of a hero, that the right may win its way,
Is but sowing seed for harvest in a warm and mellow May!
Now his story shall be whispered by the firelight's evening glow,
And in fields of rice and cotton, where the hot noon passes slow,
Till his name shall be a watchword from Missouri to the sea,
And his planting find its reaping in the birth-day of the free!’
But, dismissing John Brown for the present, let us lift up our eyes to the heavens, and bid the winds to howl and the storms to roar and sweep the earth with indignation in the presence of the long-continued silence of the Northern conservative presses, or their faint condemnation of Hinton Rowan Helper, who put his hand on the State plough whilst the congealed democratic asses turned up the fallow ground in men's hearts, in order that he might put in a double crop of the radical seed of Abolitionism. O, how notorious that this man should be allowed to escape your execrations, your curses loud and deep—the man who was so strangely pro-slavery in the South, and so vindictive as to find few sympathizers there, but now, alas! alas! whose schemes, if carried out, would drench our land in blood! Oh! that book— that book, which was so bulky as to break down a cog in the wheels of the National Government, and arrest its functions, and wedge it fast for a season— that book, which sixty members in Congress united in commending, for which their ears were to be slit, their feet put in the public stocks, their persons stretched on the inquisitorial rack till they had purged themselves of all contempt, and made the ground holy under their feet by doing penance to their Southern Father-Confessors—the book that urges not that false shepherds, whose skirts are full of the blood of the slave, shall come to Philadelphia, New York, or even to Boston, to ask alms, not for walking the wards of the hospital, or acting the wet-nurse in the midst of pestilential diseases, but to build pro-slavery, or, as the noble martyr John Brown would sey, heathen temples, where the false gods of a pro-slavery religion were to be put up. to which Northern dough-faces cling the closest, and before which they bow the lowest, with the slaves in the rear, learning the lessons of blind obedience to their masters under the guardian care of heathen shepherds; and, with the commendation, the gracious approval of Dr. Nehemiah Adams, Dr. Blagden, Dr. Anderson, and sundry 'squires: and princely merchants. No, indeed: it speaks out of those wolves in sheep's clothing, who venture out so far towards the North pole to see if Northern men, women and children are acquainted with the teachings of Paul, where he says, 'If there come to you any, and bring not this doctrine, (namely, that all men are born free and equal, that all men carry their title deeds in their countenances, to life, liberty, and, the pursuit of happiness—that we are to love our black neighbors as well as our white ones, as ourselves—that all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, ye are to do to them—and that the, same Lord is rich over all that call upon him,) if there come, to you any, and bring not the above doctrine, receive him not unto your houses, neither bid him God speed, for he that biddeth him God speed is a partaker of his evil deeds. O, ye empty-titled D. D's, and ye shallow-pated, absquatulating deacons—ye stupid things called 'squires!—aye, and what is more surprising than all, that ye illuminated magi in the editorial chair should stand sponsors in this enlightened city of Boston, under the shadow of its puritanical churches, whose spires point upwards towards the arched vault of the sky, and within sight of the Bay where the tea was thrown into the blue waters; yes, stand sponsors for the fatherhood of such an unnatural birth of crime! <c04>
But, to return from our digression; the above was not the crime for which Helper is to be stigmatized, his character befouled, his person ridden on a rail with the double honors of tar and feather! No! Vice versa! It is because he urges that Northern men shall go South as ministers, merchants and teachers, etc., for the purpose of freeing the slave, 'peaceably if they can, but forcibly if they must'! O, these Ward Beecher's holy rifles! Horrible fellow that Hinton Rowan Helper! Wonder that the earth don't spue him out!
And the Northern presses, at the bidding of Southern clerical autocrats, must not spare the venerable Dr. Wayland, who is said to possess a calibre of mind resembling an eighty-four pounder, and yet, should lay down squat under the slave oligarchy, when from the fires of his big gun he might almost have blown the black vessel of slavery out of the waters, and, as some one said the other day in the Buffalo Conference, have made her turn her keel upwards; and yet lays down flat, crawls with his belly on the ground, and licks the dust in servility, and eats it. When Richard Fuller touched him with his Ithuriel spear, drawing from him the most lachrymose tears, he blubbered and cried, 'I heard many things from men who claim to be the exclusive friends of the slave' in a missionary convention, held in Philadelphia, 'which things,' said he, 'pained me more than I can express. It seemed to me that the spirit which many of them manifested was very different from the spirit of Christ.' Still, in a crouching, obsequious position, he continues saying, ' I also cheerfully bear testimony to the general courtesy, the Christian urbanity, and the calmness under provocation which, in a remarkable degree, characterized the conduct of the members of the South'! And he might have added, more especially so the brother clerical auctioneer, who offered his dear slave, the negro-preacher, at the same convention referred to, before the assembled delegates, a member of his own church! The price of blood demanded by the pastor of this slave minister was $200; and the Missionary Board might send him to Africa! ‘O! what a chance,' as the parson-salesman said, for you who are so anxious for the slave, to try your liberality!
Reader, this notorious man Wayland's twitches in his sides, which so long pained him when writing to Fuller, are now gone! His lachrymose tears are dried up! And he, who 'a few years ago seemed mortified and distressed' as he turned over in his bed, and rubbed the sleep off his eyes, which were sore with grief at the '' conduct of the abolitionists, clamorous as they were for a separation from Southern Christians, is now lamenting that the North had not been more faithful'! Editors of the Northern conservative presses bid him turn his back, poor fellow! Lay on your flagellations! Visit him with your tremendous scourges! Either terrify him—as Dr. Fuller did, when Dr. Wayland sounded a retreat from the position he took upon this 'vexed question' against Dr. Fuller in 1844—or else ridicule him into silence by the contempt and folly of taking up the lance to go up against such tall Anakims as Fuller, in the South the boasted champion of slavery.
But, above all, and beyond all, you must bid your presses roll their thunders and flash their lightnings against that hot-headed Abolitionist, that fiery fanatic, called Spurgeon—the English clergyman, who, on the one hand, clasps the sainted martyr, called the 'infidel traitor and murderer,' John Brown, to his heart, and enshrines him in the innermost circle of the affections thereof—the illustrious, ever memorable, immortal John Brown, who lived and died in the faith of a Christian, as a member of a Congregational church, looking for pardon, acceptance and salvation through the infinite mercy, grace and love of Christ! Yes, this is the man whom he considers worthy of an enduring place in his esteem, although his dead lips be stuffed with blasphemous sentiments put into his mouth by this Simon Pure of the South—this 'synonym of kindliness of spirit and wisdom of counsel'—; who makes him say that 'Christ was a pretty good teacher—plenty of others like him—I don't believe in him as a Savior—I do not want any body else to bear my sins—I am not such an extra sinner,' etc. But, O heavens! be horrified! he can take that venerable, slaveholding Christian clergyman, with the other— the great Richard Fuller, who extends his benign influence over his slaves in the South, and casts the dew of his blessing around him at the dedication of new sanctuaries in Newark and West Philadelphia, etc., and is acknowledged a star of the first magnitude, a gem of the highest order, in our Northern churches— yes, Spurgeon can approach this man, says this Southern lord in God's heritage, with feelings of 'vindictiveness approaching to malignity,' exclaiming, 'But if Richard Fuller were to appear in his neighborhood, he would get a mark which he would carry to his grave, if it did not carry him there!' Wonder that the earth does not open her mouth, and swallow up Spurgeon for such sublime audacity! Pity that that cord from the South is not applied to his eloquent throat!
In this remarkable letter from the South, there is another thing I wish you to consider: it is their advantage in the South over their pious coadjutors, their dearly beloved brethren, the doughfaces of the North —the men who have turned one face to the North, and another to the South, as Dr. Wayland did in 1844. And, here, mark well the language of the writer in the chastisements which he inflicts on the men in the Northern churches who refused to keep step to the music of the Union between the Northern and Southern churches. The North, says he, was the first to break the compact—the first to commence the war religiously —the first to break up the glorious Union between Southern slaveholders and their Northern apologists! And how was this done? Why, the North insisted that the South should not occupy the same ground of equality! But what was the inequality? Why, the Board of the Triennial Convention,—an Institution well known in Boston,-employed a slaveholder as a missionary—a Mr. Bushyhead—who took up his residence (as John Mitchel wanted to do) in a fine dwelling amongst the Cherokees, surrounded by a fine plantation, which he stocked well with ' chattels personal.' This gave great offence in the North—not that Bushyhead was a slaveholder, but that he took his slaves with him to the Cherokee nation! How was this vexatious and embarrassing difficulty to be removed by the Board, so as to appease the North, and satisfy the South? An ingenious device was hit upon to get Bushyhead to give up his commission with the Board, which was not done officially, but by a process of legerdemain, or skillful secret manoeuvre, which, when accomplished, caused the managers of the Board to roar out in ecstacy, clapping their hands with exultant delight, quite frantic with joy at the success of their trick—'The breach is healed, the obstacle to co-operation has been removed.' And, like sucking-doves, they turned to the South, saying, 'As we have ever treated you, so we are willing to treat you now'! The South, not satisfied with their double-dealings and sham pretensions in the North withdrew—as the writer in the letter before us says, ' peaceably withdrew, to attend to their own work in their own way.' But what did the Northern Board do? In the circular, which they sent to the Alabama Convention in 1844, they put it on record that they had never called in question the Christian slaveholder's social equality, and also that they placed slaveholders and non-slaveholders on grounds of perfect moral equality! And what has occurred to the Baptist, says this great luminary of the South, 'is history with respect to other denominations '! Tell it not in Gath! Publish it not in the streets of Askelon! Such is their position now. Such is the position of the Methodists; and Bishop Morris says, 'So may it ever continue, world without end, Amen!'
A word or two more. Our Southern scribe lays great emphasis on their soft, sweet innocence, and
<c05>
their gentle, dove-like spirit, which he seems to suppose will act like oil to cheer their heads, or flattering unction to their souls, in the contemplation of the horrors this unnatural, fratricidal war, this irrepressible conflict, will bring on the country. Break up the slaveholding monopoly in the South—throw open its fertile regions to free labor—let countless multitudes of emigrants pour in—and how soon the landscape would whiten with greater beauty, and be suffused with greater odor—whilst commerce would overleap its boundaries, making every wharf a scene of unwonted activity, and crowding every warehouse with the treasures of the earth and sea! But we must hold on, as from the horrors of such a consummation our Southern divine will wash his hands in innocency, and hide his head in some deep cave, until the calamities thereof are passed away! But if, perchance, the blood-stains of the Christian slaveholder, which filled the soul of the 'infidel' John Brown with such pious horror, should be washed out, and the divine command should be embodied by the church in the South in behalf of the slave, 'All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them,’ why, then, this Southern magi would take to his heels for safety, and, as he run to escape the coming storm, would wring his hands, crying, 'This irrepressible conflict is one which the South have not sought! It has been forced upon them! The South did not desire it!’
Yours, for the slave,
J. R. BALME, Baptist Clergyman.
June 18th, 1860.

'REFORMERS' CONVENTION IN IOWA.
In February last, this Convention met at Eden, Clinton County, Iowa. It was adjourned to meet at DeWitt, in the same county, on the 15th, 16th, and 17th of June, 1860. The topics of Slavery, Property, Woman's Rights, Inspiration, &c., were freely discussed, and, as usual, stirred up the common amount of talk and opposition in a conservative, bigoted community. The February meeting was the first of the kind ever held west of Michigan. The June meeting has just passed, and both were eminently successful. Though threats were made that the latter should not be held at DeWitt, and though the Court-House was refused the Convention, and that by a 'petty despot' called a judge, (whose office, thank God, is soon to be abolished in our State,) yet the meeting has been held, and has made a most marked impression on the people in favor of the necessity and dignity of these general reformatory movements; for the array of talented speakers at DeWitt could not but command the respect of all opposition.
First, we had L. A. Hine, of Ohio, who, with earnestness and power, gave us his well-known views of Educational and Land Reform. Mr. H. is a practical reformer, in his way. He thinks our system of education a sham, and land monopoly at the bottom of all slavery. He has published a good deal on these topics, and lectured more, and very much at his own expense. He raises strawberries, and thus pays his own salary, while preaching the Reformatory Gospel. The world is bound to move when such men get hold of it.
Next came A. T. Foss, of New Hampshire, your well-known anti-slavery lecturer. His advent was as sudden upon us as the late tornado, and, we think, a trifle more useful. H addressed a crowded house, the first evening, on Slavery, with masterly effect. Mr. F. had a reputation as a powerful speaker in this community, in advance of his late visit, and sustained himself admirably. He did us great service by introducing that most important of Woman's Rights, the right to control her own person—especially on the maternity question. This boldness of Mr. F. opened a full and free discussion of the matter on all sides, and, at least, demonstrated that it could be discussed without offensive language; and, Heaven knows, there is need enough of a better knowledge of the rights of married parties. As an illustration—after one of our sessions, the business committee were quietly taking counsel, when one of the members (a lady) was approached by her husband, who fiercely demanded whether she was ready to go home; and then commenced shaking his fists in the face of the chairman of the committee, making divers threats; and then, with a mingled blow and push upon his wife's shoulder, drove her out. And all for what? She was practically friendly to the convention—he was not. She is said to be his equal, asserts her independence, and came again to the meeting. Aside from this little episode, no disturbance occurred of any account during the whole convention.
On Sunday, Mr. Foss gave his views of ‘Authority ' in religion. He satisfied some minds, for the first time in their life, that there is a higher word for the soul than that contained in any book. His remarks were very impressive, and stirred up the 'opposition' of the Methodist type in the person of a small clergyman, who was soon disposed of.
Mr. Allen, of Illinois, (formerly an orthodox clergyman,) previously spoke on plenary inspiration. Mr. A. is an admirer of Theodore Parker—is laboring as a religious teacher in Genesee, III.—discards the 'Rev.' —has quite a reputation West—is doing great service for reform, and was efficient in giving a high tone to our Convention. He spoke eloquently of the true merits of the Bible, and fearlessly exposed its mistakes, and the mistakes of its bigoted worshippers.
Mr. Allen and his friends are to hold a convention soon, to organize a general religious movement on progressive principles. No creed is to be adopted, but measures are to be initiated to render more effective the combined influence of (the now) scattered reformers. The DeWitt Convention has brought to light the existence of many a reformer, hitherto living long years without sympathy of kindred spirits. 
Though the last session was crowded upon by many 'of the baser sort,' indoors and out, with the evident intention to excite a row, the Convention adjourned quietly, and leaves a more powerful impression on the community than any meeting ever held in this section. It has spoken a word for the slave, for, woman, for a free soul and a free platform, that will never be forgotten. It has revealed the depth and wickedness of the studied and stultified intolerance of Western politics and religion, and assists in inaugurating a movement to break up that intolerance.
It is proposed to hold a similar convention, at least, annually, somewhere in the Northwest, to hasten on the 'good time coming,' in which the friends of human progress, East and West, are so generally and deeply interested. C. B. C.
At a recent sale of autograph letters in London, a letter of George Washington, the first President of the United States, written when a subaltern in the service of the Colonial Government, to the Governor of Virginia, sold for $77.
The National Monument Committee have recommended a granite monument, in the centre of Independence Square, Philadelphia, to commemorate the Declaration of Independence, the cost not to exceed $150,000, and the design of the structure to be characterized by its simplicity.
RESPECT TO A SLAVE.—The Selma (Ala.) Issue records the death of an old and faithful servant named King, who belonged to Dr. Kent, of that city. His funeral was attended by fifteen hundred or two thousand persons, many of them being the oldest and most respectable citizens of Selma.
Rotten rails and broken planks are the emblems of the two great sectional parties of the country.—Louisville Journal.
And cracked bells will soon be the emblems of the Journal's party.—Cincinnati Commercial.
The whole forming a political trinity eminently worthy of the office-seekers who are squabbling for power.—Anti-Slavery Bugle.
STATUE OF BENTON. The committee of the citizens of St. Louis on that subject have raised $10,000 for a marble statue of Thomas H. Benton, and awarded the work to Miss Harriet Hosmer.
<c06>
Is there any virtue in
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S
WORLD'S 
HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING, AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
TO THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:—‘My age is sixty, One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually falling, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A Allens's Restorer,' No. 1, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bad. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the hue appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly an advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.' Rev. M. THACHER.
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N. Y., Nov. 22, 1855
President J. L. EATON, LL. D., Union University, Murfreesboro', Tennessee.
MADAM—I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Restorer,' &c., and give it a trial. I commenced using it, but very irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY, WERE CHANGED TO BLACK. I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORE GRAY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'

Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK,
Editor 'Ladies Repository,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE Editor 'Christian Advocate,' Buffalo, N.Y.
Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,' &c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D. D., Cor. Sec. American and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City.
'Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects; and I take pleaure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.'
Rev. A. WEBSTER, Editor 'Christian Era,' Boston, Mass.
'Having used numerous specifies to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bald nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed. 'Guide, to Holiness,' Boston.
‘Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can testify to its good effects.'
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro', Mass.
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the 'crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N. Y.
‘My hair has greatly thickened upon my head, and put on a very lively, healthy appearance. The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP. AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE. We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'

GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England.
‘Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,—not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye, I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]

HAYTI.
Rev. Mrs. E. S. ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N. Y.
In consequence of her long residence in aforenamed island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allen's, she writes to the 'American Baptist.'-'I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other remedies for my hair, but never any thing that so materially and permanently benefitted me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen’
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. R. H. POLLOCK, Ed. 'Presbyterian Wilness,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we know it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity and being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum, I would be pleased to insert adversisement, &c.
Rev. J. A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greene county, N. Y. 
'Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c., for the use of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.'
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot. Dutch Church Esopus, Ulsten county, N. Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N. Y. 
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon. turned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev. M. C. KLING., Lewistown, Pennsylvania.
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.'
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N. H. 
'We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.'
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to sell articles on which they make more profit than on these; always INSIST on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced. One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 371/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, No.358 Broome Street, New York.' The Genuine has 'Mrs. S. A. Allen,' signed in Red Ink to outside wrappers, and in Black Ink to directions pasted on bottle-none other is genuine. Signing the name by others is forgary, and will be prosecuted by us as a crim its offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOOD DSEALER
OCT 14. lyeop
