THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMIND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 46. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1864. WHOLE NO.1762.
Selections.
<C01>
ADDRESS OF MAJOR GENERAL NATHANIEL P. BANKS,
ON THE CONDITION OF THE NEGRO POPULATION AS CONSECTED WITH THE REORGANIZATION OF GOVERNMENT IN REBEL, STATES.
Delivered before the Boston Young Men's Christian Association, in Tremont Temple, Oct. 31.
Mr. President, and Ladies and Gentlemen: My experience has led me to appreciate highly the successful labors of the Young Men's Christian Associations of this and of other parts of our country; and I come here especially to-night to make acknowledgments for those with whom I have been associated, my comrades in the field, for the great benefits that have been conferred by them upon us, upon the service, and upon the holy cause of our country. It was said by one of the greatest of the Marshals of France, that the reward of the soldier was in the performance of his duty; and except from outside influences and powers, little more than this comes to any man whose profession is exclusively in arms. Whatever he gains-of honor, of fortune, or of power-is usually from other and very different sources; but it is a high happiness, impossible fully to be measured, to know in the hour of trial and of peril, and perhaps of death, that his services are remembered at home. Much more, even, than that which is conferred, either in luxury or in any other form of service which is rendered to him-much more important and dear is the knowledge that the people for whom he labors, and for whom he assumes the position of peril, remember him, the cause in which he is engaged, and the services which he is to render.
The Young Men's Christian Association and Sanitary Commission, their varied, their energetic and their successful labors, mark the brightest pages of the history of our country, and have contributed materially to solace those who are engaged in the defence of our flag, and to the success of the cause of the nation. For myself, Mr. President, for those with whom I have been associated, I tender you my acknowledgments and their acknowledgments for that which you have done for us.
Much oppressed with labors and anxieties of varied character, it is impossible for me to present myself before an audience of this kind, with the expectation that in any possible degree I can answer the call which is made upon me, and I do not now come with a hope even that I shall instruct, gratify or amuse, but will state as briefly and as plainly as I can some considerations upon one, at least, of the important topics involved in the great struggle through which our country is passing, and which must be considered and settled before any permanent peace can be established.
One of the most active and influential of the diplomatic agents of this country abroad stated to me some years since, that Humboldt, who, always deeply interested in our affairs, followed our career to the end of his own, predicted the overthrow of the institutions of this country upon this ground, (and at such a time as I indicate,) that when our jurisdiction was extended further southward, as far perhaps as the Amazon, including multitudes of people who were without institutions of education or religion, it would be impossible for a Republican Government to extend its power over them, and maintain its authority and the purity of its principles at the some time. It may be there is much truth in the suggestion; and at the time, looking at our tendencies then, it seemed as if this consideration were immediately pregnant and important. But the principle embodied in this remark is always important. Government or the institutions of government cannot be improvised; they grow. They grow slowly -in a wise government surely-scarcely ever rapidly when they grow safely. It is as impossible for an army or a President to improvise a government republican in its character and permanent in its nature here, as it would be for an army to create a crocodile. It is an institution or a power of slow growth, and wherever it is permanent and safe, it is supported by institutions having no immediate reference to government itself or its power, but without which government or its power cannot long be maintained. Those principles to which Humboldt referred certainly are important institutions of education and religion, are indispensable to any government, but they admit of consideration more in detail. One of the elements involved in the two which I have named is that of industry. The industry of a nation must be the basis of its government, and characterize its nature and its principles as well as its permanency or duration. It is this thought that leads me, in the remarks that I propose to make to you. Before there can be any permanent settlement of the affairs of this country, there must be an arrangement of the industry of that portion now in insurrection upon some permanent, just and satisfactory basis. If the Union succeeds in maintaining its authority, that industry will be organized upon the principle of absolute and permanent freedom. (Applause.) If the Confederacy succeeds in its purposes, that interest will be organized as now upon the principle of slavery. It may perhaps be said that, before any permanent success even in arms can be obtained, some idea of the principle upon which the institutions of this country are to be moulded must be determined. For in all successful contests there is, if not an express, at least a conceded purpose which is to be obtained, and it is when that purpose is obtained, or when that purpose is conceded, that the cause is established, or that the surrender of the enemy or the opponent is made.
In the State of Louisiana, on the 1st of January, 1863, there were perhaps one hundred and fifty thousand blacks who had been, up to that time at least held in slavery. The slave population of Louisiana in 1860 was 350,000. I doubt very much if, at the period to which I refer, the number of negroes in that State would be more than 150,000 or 175,000. The proclamation of the President declared emancipation from slavery in most of the slave States expect the parishes of Louisiana, in which this portion of the population, or the greater part of this population to which I have referred, existed and it left that population, therefore, even under the proclamation of the 1st January, 1863, slaves de jure, if not de facto. But they were not slaves de facto. Every man, by the very condition of the country at that moment, was free from the control of his master, inasmuch as the law forbade the army or the navy, or any officer of the army or navy, to return any man to slavery, which very few were prepared to desired to do even. It, therefore, perfectly <illegible> that, whether or not, as the planters claimed the slaves at that time were slaves de jure, the negroes perfectly well understood, and every person connected with the government perfectly well understood, there was no power to reduce them to the condition of servitude. They clustered into the great centres of the army: they came from all the
<c02>
surrounding States, without employment, without clothing, without means of support of any character whatever, and concentrated in all cases near to the posts or garrisons of the army. Invariably and inseparably from this condition came great suffering, constant disease, decimation of numbers and death, which to an observer who looked upon the state of things for the first time was appalling. I had read in the history of West India Emancipation, and in the discussion of the institution of slavery in the European islands in this hemisphere, of the appalling and terrible mortality which had grown out of the institution of slavery-that it was said, for instance, that out of eight or nine millions of negroes that had been imported into European colonies up to 1774, in that year not more than one million and a half existed; and in the six years previous to the period I have named, with one hundred and five or ten thousand slaves imported and sixty thousand births, in these six years, such was the decimation by disease and death, that not more than forty thousand of them were, left in the year I have named-attributed to the cruelties and horrors of the institution, to the separation of negroes from their homes, to the melancholy and despair that seized upon them with such great power, and kindred causes, carrying them off at such a ratio that it was said that if it was continued for two or three centuries, it would depopulate nearly the entire globe. It seemed to me incredible and impossible to suppose such a result as this, as stated by the opponents of the institution of slavery in the discussion of this question, but when I saw the character of the multitudes that were coming into the garrisons and posts in that State at the time of which I speak, I could very well comprehend its appalling nature. These were to be supported by the government. They had no means of support of their own. They had to be protected by distribution rather than by concentration; and as the first step, both to relieve the government,-to protect the army from connection with such masses of people, to maintain the public health, to preserve the lives of the colored people themselves, it was determined to give them employment. That employment was established at the outset in the month of January, upon the basis of absolute and perfect freedom of the negro in all respects and all considerations, to make him as independent and to prepare him for as perfect an independence as that enjoyed by any other class of people on this continent. Those who were engaged in the cultivation of plantations, both in the home population or those who accompanied the army, or who had undertaken this business since the rebellion commenced, were told that by the payment to the negroes of due wages, providing them with suitable rations, with clothing, with medical attendance, taking Care of the whole of the population, leaving the laborer under the protection of the government itself in regard to his rights-that upon these conditions they might employ the negro population in that State. The negro understood or was instructed that he was at liberty to select his employer, and to go where he pleased, but that he was expected to labor for the support of himself and his family, and the sick, the infirm, the young of his race, somewhere, and if not upon the plantations, upon the government works. Both parties accepted the proposition readily-those who were engaged in the cultivation of the soil because they had no alternative-the negro because he had no other desire. He saw that he had his freedom, the choice of employment, the choice of work, rations for himself and family, clothing such as the Government should deem suitable for him, education for his children and wages that would from time to time be increased in such a manner that he could provide for himself and for them in the future. The principle upon which this was done was determined by the negroes themselves. Fifteen or twenty of the most intelligent, the best educated young colored men of Louisiana, who were themselves free, and knew well the character of the colored population, were sent out into different parishes. They were authorized to go where they pleased, to speak with whom they pleased. At their request they were permitted to carry arms, to defend themselves, and they visited the negro population in the different parishes in the early part of the year 1863, and they brought to the Government the terms of labor which the negroes desired. They were, first, that their families should not be separated; second, that they should not be flogged; third, that their children should be educated; and fourth, that they should not be compelled to labor where they did not like to, where they had hitherto been abused. All these privileges were granted to them. The planters, both the old population and the new, considered the subject for themselves, not in the same way, not by agents sent among them, but by public meetings. And in order to avoid what was a difficulty among them-that is, to avoid the necessity of any one man leading off in favor of a policy which recognized the freedom of the negro, and required the payment of wages and the performance of other conditions required by the government-they held a meeting at which it was declared, by a unanimous vote, that they would accept the proposition of the government, and thus avoided the responsibility on the part of any of them of being the first to accede to terms so contrary to their expectation.
The result of this system of labor proves conclusively in my mind-I am as sure of it as I am of any fact within my experience or my power of investigation-that the institution of slavery in the Southern States is totally unnecessary for the protection of any interest whatever (applause)-that there is no use for slavery of any color or kind of character; and so far as the interest of the negro himself is concerned, or the agriculturists, or all the people of the South, or of the Government itself, the return of servitude is not only incompatible with the public interest, but impossible under any circumstances whatever. (Loud applause.) This is substantially all that can be said of the plan of employment of the negroes in that State to which I refer. It is quite possible that, in this immediate and radical change from a condition of universal servitude to one of immediate and absolute freedom, there may have been many instances and occurrences unjustifiable; that many families, many individuals, many interests on the side of the laborer, and on the side of the employers, too, have suffered, which, in a general view of the subject, is unfortunate. It is almost impossible to find men in a country like ours, where opinion is free, and especially upon a subject where so much diversity of opinion exists, where so many interests conflict and clash with each other-it is almost impossible to find agents to carry out successfully and effectually any distinguishing idea of the character I have suggested. But I believe this to be true-that it has been as just in its operation to the employed and profitable to the employer as any system could be, under the circumstances, in a State or with a population like that; and whatever complaint may have been made or may be made with regard to individuals, or the sufferings by individuals, that you can parallel any of those wrongs or complaints by going into the workshops of England, or any of our cities in the Northern States. Take the complaints of the seamstresses, of people engaged upon the farms in our own Common wealth-take the complaints of
<c03>
laborers in the Northern States, whether it be the domestic or farm laborer, and you will find as much diversity of opinion and as much dissatisfaction as grows out of the changed condition of the negro population in the Southern States. I do not believe that there is required any change whatever in the state of labor that has been in operation in Louisiana two years-that any change is required to make a permanent settlement, so far as the interests of labor are concerned; on the basis of the Union of the States. I am assured by my own observation-I don't know that the result may be reached-that under the system of labor adopted, there cotton and sugar can be raised for a cent a pound each, under a good government; and with such an impetus given to the productive industry as is given by England or by France to many of the branches of productive industry in those countries-that both cotton and sugar can be raised in Louisiana and the Southern States for a cent a pound each, supposing our affairs to be settled, the system of values to be upon a solid and substantial basis; and this, too, with the perfect and absolute freedom of the laboring population, whether white or black, and granting to alt the privileges that are conferred upon the laboring population in this part of the country, or in any other part of the country. Coupled with this system of labor are other influences material to a proper consideration of the subject, and to the welfare of the country. There are in the parishes controlled by the government of the United States, about fifteen thousand negro children. From eight to ten thousand of these are already in day schools established there. There are sixty Sabbath schools established in these parishes, twenty night schools for adults; and every regiment of the fifteen, twenty or twenty-five regiments of colored troops has a teacher and organization of the nature of a school.
Thus, the whole of this population is in the process of education and of change by the natural course of events. The reports made by those connected with those institutions, of the progress both of young and old, are gratifying and surprising; and it leaves no possible doubt whatever that the negro population not only can perform all that is required of the laboring population, but that they can make such rapid improvement as to answer the expectations of the Government, and justify the extension of all the privileges of citizens to this class of people. There are some objections which have been urged to this system, among others that the negro has not been authorized by the Government of the United States or its officers to make a contract with his employer, and to fix the price of his labor-a very just objection, if it is compatible with the condition of things, but it is not. If you offer a laborer a stipulated sum per month-twenty five, fifty or a hundred dollars-you have a right to require of him at least an agreement to perform work for a stipulated time. That is an impossible thing in Louisiana. There is no negro or other man engaged in agricultural labor that can under any circumstance whatever stipulate with his employer for any price whatever, that he will perform labor for a month or for six months, much less for a year. In the first place, martial law is the predominant law of the State. It is subject to invasions of the enemy, it is subject to inroads of the waters overrunning and washing the plantations upon which they are employed. It is one of the favorite designs of the enemy at all times to open the levees of the Mississippi, and to wash out the plantations throughout its reach. The government itself has great need of these people. Whenever it has required the labor of these plantation hands, the young or old have been taken either for the repair of the levees to which I have referred, or the construction of public works; for employment in the Commissary or Quartermaster's department, or for any other duty either of civil employment or in arms, and there has never been a week or a month in Louisiana, while the negroes have been laboring under this system, when they were not liable to be called from such employment by the government, or driven from it by the enemy. Now the production of crops in that part of the country requires the steady, unremitting labor of a season which makes a year, and without that labor it is impossible for any employer to make any arrangements with his laborers. There is another consideration even more imperative than this, and that is, that the whole negro population is to be supported. From the terrible results of war, having been driven from their homes, a large portion of them are utterly unable to earn a living for themselves, and much less to support others. It is therefore incumbent upon employers that they shall support the whole of these people, and thus relieve the Government from this charge. They must support the infirm and sick; they must educate the young; and for this great burden of supporting the entire negro population of that part of this State, there must be a deduction from the wages of those able-bodied, and able to do a full day's work or a full year's work. Thus the Government, or some other power, must fix the price of wages in addition to the support of each individual laborer, in order that the surplus may be given to maintain the infirm, the sick, the old, the poor and the young. It cannot be done between the employer and employed, because neither of them is willing to sacrifice his own individual interests for these general purposes. The employers will not undertake to support three hundred or three hundred and fifty souls upon two or three plantations when they can get labor only from fifty or sixty or a hundred of them; and the laborer himself will not consent to work, if he stipulates his own price, in order that in addition to his own family and children, the children of his race may be supported. Thus it became an absolute necessity to fix, in addition to the requirements of individual support, wages which should ensure the support of those unable to labor, and to maintain the schools necessary for the education of the young.
There was another principle-involved which is more important to the negro than either of those that I have named. No other portion of the human race is more attached to its homes than the negro population. It is one of the best qualities that exists in the human heart. Without it there is no nation, without it there is no liberty; and to the inquiry whether the negro in himself is able to maintain his part, and take his position in a free country, it is enough to say that no portion of the human race has stronger attachments to home and to his family than the negro. It was impossible to regard this principle without a regulation to some extent imposed upon, the laboring population in order that the families might be united; and it was one of the very first considerations, the most important and the most satisfactory in its results, and the very first one demanded by the negroes themselves, that in the settlement of the terms and conditions of labor, their families were not to be separated. But if the employer or the planter were permitted to pay such wages as he should please to such persons as he chose to employ, a few men, perhaps one-fourth of the whole, would be employed, and the rest thrown upon the Government for support, or left without any support whatever. This, of course, in the initiation of the system, could not be admitted. Thus from these several considerations it was found
<c04>
to be indispensably necessary that there should be, upon the item of wages as in regard to rations and clothing and education, a stipulation by the Government to which all parties were required to submit. This concerned as much the consideration of rations and of clothing and of education and of medical care and attendance as it did of wages, and without these general arrangements in all these relations no system of labor could be well established. And yet, with even this disturbed condition of the public mind to which I have referred, this disturbed condition of employment and of labor consequent upon the presence of armies, and of constant and threatened invasion of different armies, the wages of laboring men in Louisiana have been as remunerative as those of Massachusetts or any other part of this country, so far as I am able to judge. The rations which were furnished to the plantation hands by the government, or according to general orders of the government, cost even at the rate of purchase by the government itself twenty-one cents a day, at the wholesale prices, with all the advantages that the government can command, and without considering at all the profits of traders or the cost of transportation. Including these items, the cost of the daily ration in Louisiana, according to the plantations orders, is from forty to fifty cents. Two suits of clothes a year are required, cost not less than $50, education for his children, without which the laborer refuses to work, medical attendance for the sick and support of those connected with him and his family, who are helpless-all these things are apportioned to him by the government, through the contributions of his employer. And in addition to this, every man and person employed are entitled to a portion of land and time to work it for their own benefit and in their own way, an acre to every able-bodied man, and generally Saturday is given to them for the cultivation of this land. I had a letter from an old planter, not a new planter, a few days before I arrived in Boston, in which he said that of some three hundred and twenty-five hands upon two plantations which he had cultivated, he had already paid from the produce of the land given to the negroes themselves two thousand dollars, and they had products for sale which would amount to fifteen hundred or two thousand dollars more.
There were many men upon, the plantation who had crops of throe hundred dollars' value, and the poorest and feeblest woman engaged in laboring upon the plantation earned from fifty to sixty and Seventy-five dollars a year. Of the 325 souls in the employ of this planter, between sixty and seventy were children who were in school. I doubt very much if you can find a laboring family in the State of Massachusetts, of ordinary character, that receives in a year rations for the whole of its members, clothing for the whole of its members, medical attendance for the whole of its members, whether sick or well, education for its children, protection in all the rights of the individual or of the family, from the government itself, and wages at from six to ten dollars for each person actually employed in labor. I doubt if you can find any laboring family in the State of Massachusetts that is better remunerated for the labor it performs than that. But in addition to this, they get their freedom. (Applause.)
There is not a Court in the State of Louisiana that does not recognize a negro, whether free or whether enslaved before the war, as a freeman entitled to all the rights and all the protection of a white man. He is entitled to sue and be sued; he can give his testimony in any of the courts; and any parent having a child, in the possession of anybody, may go into court and claim the possession of the child, whether the parents were enslaved or not, whether the child was in the possession of former owners or not, by showing as you show in the State of Massachusetts, that the parents are able to take care of that child, and are able to bring it up properly and carefully. Thus not only is the laborer compensated for what he does, but he is secured by the authority of the government itself in all rights, whether it be by appeal to the officers of the government, or by an appeal to the courts in the State itself. I do not see how it is possible to make a sober objection as to who shall fix the wages of the laboring population, where the first question is whether agricultural industry can be carried on or not, and in the second place to give to the laboring population itself all the rights which are enjoyed by freemen in any part of the American Union.
It is said that this system of labor is for the benefit of the planter, and not of the negro. What does the planter gain? By his very act he surrenders his property in his slaves. His property is in slaves, it is not in land. In the Southern States, the possession of land, without slaves, has been accounted of no value. It is only by enumerating the number of his hands that you can estimate the extent of land that a man possesses, because it is through cultivation alone that it has value. He surrenders all this. He pays his negroes wages, where formerly they worked without wages. He is subject to the direction of the government in everything appertaining to them. He has no right to say to one of them, except under their direction, or by permission of the government, do this, or do the other thing. He is subject entirely to the government, and the negro is entirely and absolutely independent of his will. He cannot flog him; he cannot sell him; he cannot separate the members of his family from each other; he cannot deny to his children the education to which they claim; he cannot refuse to them healthy and sufficient rations or comfortable clothing; he cannot refuse to them anything that the laborer is entitled to or receives elsewhere. He surrenders, therefore, absolutely and entirely, his right of property in the slaves, which he claimed as property, which the law recognized as property, and which was excepted from the operation of the Act of Emancipation by the President himself. What, on the other hand, does the negro gain? He gains his freedom in everything; he gains compensation for everything he does. If he works diligently and faithfully, and during extra hours, he is paid for it; and if he has children, they are educated. His rights are recognized in the courts. There is no power in the courts, there is no power in the State of Louisiana, whether of the State or of the United States, that does not look upon the negro as a freeman.
But then it may be said, in support of this assertion, that this arrangement is for the benefit of the planter, and not of the negro-that the planter derives a profit from this system. I have already said that this is the inevitable result of the change from slave labor to free labor. The products of the soil can not only be raised in greater quantities and of a better quality, but at infinitely less cost of labor. Instead of their being 40, 50, or 100,000 land owners and land cultivators in the Gulf States, under this system the land will be distributed, so that every man will be able to own and cultivate land for himself if he pleases, and land owners and land cultivators will be multiplied by thousands. It break up the system of a monopoly of land and labor entirely, and gives every individual a chance not only
<c05>
to occupy and cultivate, but to possess. (Applause.) The true theory of the system of labor which must supplant that of slavery, and which must precede the restoration of the States, and which must also precede the final and permanent success of our arms, is to put into the hands of the laboring population the possession as well as the occupation of land. (Great applause.) Instead of asking how much wages a man is to have a month or a year for his toil, the question should be in what manner and how soon can he become an owner of land himself; and when that is done, there can never again be a rebellion against the authority of the United States. (Applause.) Whenever that is done, or whenever a commencement is made so that we can see that the end is possible, we can assume from that moment that the rebellion is over, and that the government is in certain process of restoration. (Applause.)
Now, this is a feature of the labor system to which I have adverted. It is, that next to the payment of just and equitable wages in money to the negro population, the negro shall be at least introduced into a system of cultivating his own land, with a view to encourage him in the occupation and cultivation of that land permanently. (Applause.) It is, in other words, to give him a home, to make a basis for his family, which is the only certain and sure basis of national prosperity and national power.
Now, it is assumed by the press of England, which has led us in all our deliberations upon this question, and still influences powerfully, if it does not guide us, that this is only a change from a scheme of slavery to a system of serfdom and through a change in form, not a material improvement for the laborer, and not a material improvement as it regards the general interests of the country.
Just a single word upon that point will remove from any person's mind that idea. A serf is distinguished from a slave in the fact that be cannot be sold apart from the land upon which he was born, and upon which he lives. In all other respects he is a slave. A slave differs from a serf in the fact that he may be sold as a chattel, independent of the land upon which he was born, and on which he lives or labors. Nothing of this exists in the system to which I have adverted. There is no selling a man, with the land or without the land. It is impossible for the London Times to discriminate in a single instance between the condition of a free laborer in Massachusetts, born free, and the condition of a laborer in Louisiana, made free by the war or by the act of the Government, except so far as the one condition is more insecure and unstable, consequent upon the existence of the war, than the other. Let the war be transferred to Massachusetts, and the condition of the laboring man here will be just as insecure and uncertain as it is in Louisiana. There is, therefore, no serfdom in this system, and no color of serfdom. It is a transfer from the principle of absolute chattel slavery to the principle of absolute and perfect freedom. (Applause.)
It is said that in serfdom the serfs are entitled to certain privileges, which slaves do not enjoy. That is true, with a condition. A serf can enjoy certain privileges, if he can get them, and a slave can enjoy the same privileges, if his master will confer them upon him. It all depends upon the proprietor of the soil, and not at all upon the will of the serf or the slave. There is no such feature as this existing in the system to which I have referred.
A line of criticism is also indulged in upon this point which seems to me to be unworthy of an intelligent people. Agents of the government are sent into the Southern States to ascertain and report the condition of things. They go to a man who has been overthrown by the rebellion, and they say to him, "What do you think of this new system?" Well, he says, of course, that he don't like it, and he don't intend to submit to it. It is impossible for him to confess that he has been mistaken all his life-time. It is not according to human nature that be shall declare that the principles upon which his life has been based were all wrong, and that he is delighted with a change which puts the power upon the side of the employed instead of the employer. Take a man who goes from the Republican side over to the Democratic. Do you expect that he will confess that he has been mistaken all his life? Not at all. On the contrary, he tells you that, although he is in a new camp, fighting under a new flag, surrounded by new associates, all his ideas are exactly the same as they were before he left the Republican ranks. (Laughter.) You take a Democrat who has gone over to the support of the Administration, and he will tell you he is a Democrat still; that he has changed in nothing; that everybody else has changed, but he has not changed at all. (Renewed laughter.) A man is carried up to Worcester to the Lunatic Asylum, and he declares that everybody who is left outside is insane; he alone is the reasonable and sound man. (Merriment.) It is the same with the people of the South. They will never confess that their system was wrong, or that they have changed. It is expecting too much of human nature to expect this of them. On the contrary, it is not to be asked of them. The question for the government to ask, or for any intelligent, inquiring man to ask, of a Southern man, is, "Do you accept the new condition of things? Do you acquiesce in it? Are you employing your men in this way? Are they doing tolerably well?" These are the questions to ask, and upon all these questions every one of them will be compelled by the facts to give you a satisfactory answer; or if not, the fault is their own; there is no fault in the system. Enough of success has already been attained to satisfy the most skeptical mind that any result can be attained by agricultural industry, can be attained by this new system; and there is abundant testimony within the knowledge of wise and able men, who will report to you the facts that will astonish you in regard to this system of labor. As an instance, the gentleman to whose letter I have alluded says that the more his laborers earn for themselves, the better they work for him; that those laborers on two or three plantations were earning $4000 a year extra; and the men who earned $300 a year, and the women who earned $50 or $60, earned more and more for him, in the same proportion as they earned for themselves. The greater the interest they took in their families and in their schools, the more they earned for their employers; and they come, step by step, to anticipate, to ask, and to demand exactly the same privileges that the laborer of the North demands. For instance, the laboring man, the mechanic and the farmer of the North requires not only that he shall have a home, but that his wife and children shall remain at home. They attend to the domestic duties of the family; he labors and supports them. This is a new idea to the negro. He has had a faint conception of the meaning of wife and family, but it has never been realized to him. Realized now for the first time, he asks the corollary of the relation of wife and family. He demands of his employer that his wife shall not be gent to field labor; he wants her to stay at home,
<c06>
and take care of his children, and is willing to work extra hours in order to gain the means to support his family in this way. (Applause.) Where this feeling exists, not in an individual instance, but in a whole population, it is impossible that there can be any doubt as to the capacity of the negro to continue a system of free industry.
Then, again, I am asked oftentimes by my friends if it is possible that the negro will continue to work. Well, I suppose the negro loves work just about as much as any other portion of the human race. I have never seen anybody absolutely distressed on that account (laughter); and wherever I have found an individual who was determined to be incessantly employed, unless it was a matter of some special, grand and immediate importance, I have generally concluded that be was a little unsound in mind or diseased in body. It is not to be expected that either the white or the black race will go about killing themselves for the sake of finding something to do; but I imagine that the special indolence of the black race, which the Southern people say exists in the South, is to be accounted for in a perfectly natural way. The negro is an imitative being. He sees in the Southern States that the great people do nothing, and the greater they are, the less they do. (Laughter and applause.) That is his idea of perfect happiness and perfect grandeur- not to do anything at all! Well, it would be extraordinary if he did not, if he had his way, incline to that method of elevating himself. So long, therefore, as the leading people of the South live in idleness-the men doing nothing and the women doing nothing (they don't draw a bucket of water, they don't even dress themselves)-when the negro gets the opportunity, if it is only for five or ten minutes, it is not surprising that he assumes that exalted way of living-doing nothing! (Laughter.) But when a new class of men go down into those States, and undertake the cultivation of the land, the transaction of business and the organization of government under a new system-when Northern habits of industry are transferred to the Southern climate, and men are up at five o'clock in the morning, and are never ceasing in their labors-when they are seen to grow powerful and rich by the course they have taken, I am afraid the negro will imitate that example in the same way.
Now, from these views I say, without any hesitation, that there is nothing to be lamented in the condition of the negro in 1864, as compared with his condition on the first of January, 1863. Under whatever adverse circumstance he may be placed, he certainly is much better off at the present time, with the opportunity which he has for improvement and the satisfaction which he feels in his present condition, than he was then. The white people are a great deal more disturbed and distressed at the North about the condition of the negro than he himself. At the celebration of the passage of the Act of Emancipation, in June, I saw in the city of New Orleans 20,000 or 25,000 colored people, as well dressed, as well behaved, as orderly as any people that I ever saw in Boston, or New York, or any city of the States. (Applause.) I saw a city of 175,000 people absolutely surrendered to the celebration of the passage of the Act of Emancipation. They occupied the streets and the squares the whole day. From sunrise in the morning to sunset in the evening, they were possessed of the city, and in the whole of that day not one disorderly act was done, not one uncivil word spoken, not a white person, so far as I know, came into collision with them, and nothing was witnessed during the day but the most perfect order and sobriety. I heard one hundred persons say that that celebration could not have occurred under such circumstances in the city of Boston, the city of New York, or the city of Providence; and I believe it. Every day, every hour in the day, you hear negro children singing the anthems of the Union in the streets or in their school-rooms. Wherever they are, the air is vocal with the music, the precious music, of their young hearts. The colored people make no complaint of their condition or of their wages. If they complain of individual wrong, they find their remedy as certainly and as immediately as any laboring man will find it in Massachusetts. I may certainly be assumed to know what is the condition of the laboring man here; and I do not hesitate to state to you what is his condition and that of his family in Louisiana. He makes no complaint about wages. What he asks and what he demands is, that his children shall be educated, that his family shall be held sacred, and his wife and children relieved from the hardship of field labor as soon as possible. That is what he demands, and nothing more than that.
This is not a new idea that is embodied in this organization of labor in that State. It has been tried for three-quarters of a century. Toussaint L'Ouverture tried the experiment himself, for his own countrymen, in the West India Islands, and there is nothing different in his system from that which we have adopted, except that his was infinitely more severe than ours. He required that the laborers should labor upon the plantations where they belonged, and that was a wise regulation. He required that they should not leave it without the consent of a magistrate or of his employer. He placed in command of the laboring population Dessalines and a relative of his own, who were men of an extremely tyrannical character, and went among the workshops and the laboring people with their canes, scattering their blows, about upon whoever they chose. If a negro was charged with idleness, with insolence, with insubordination, and found guilty, it is said that be was buried alive in the presence of his companions; and if the name of the offending individual was not known, some one of the company was hung, by the order of L'Ouverture, as an example to the rest. At any rate, the system established there was infinitely more oppressive and severe than anything that exists in the State to which I have referred. England has tried the same system. She has not been able to succeed on her plantations in any other way than under this general method which I have suggested. And France, which has perhaps given more study to this subject than any other nation or State on the globe, whose ablest men have been employed in its consideration for sixty or seventy years, as late as 1848 adopted exactly the same principles, though not so liberal to the laborer as those which I have described as existing in Louisiana. After a discussion of the question by men who perhaps understand the subject of emancipation, theoretically and practically, better than any other men, the French Government declared and decreed that the laborers in the French West India Islands should be held to service under such general principles as I have described: that is, that the employer should furnish food and clothing; medical attendance and care for the living, and burial for the dead, as a condition of the employment of the laborer. The education of the children is provided for by the French Government; but instead of being furnished to the negroes free of charge, it is paid for, I believe, by a tax upon them or upon their labor.
(Concluded on fourth page.)
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that stale of things so far from its being true that the States when slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in, martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
MARYLAND A FREE STATE.
One of the fruits of the slaveholders' atrocious rebellion is the freedom of Maryland. Thirty years ago, Mr. Garrison was imprisoned in Baltimore for maintaining the great doctrine of human liberty. Three years ago, the President was to have been assassinated by the friends and patrons of slavery in Baltimore. In the streets of Baltimore a little later, soldiers of the Union, hastening to the defence of the Capital against its pro-slavery enemies, were shot down! And to-day, Maryland is a free State! Slavery, hitherto its dishonor and its curse, is forever abolished. See how the new Constitution, just adopted, speaks of human rights and the objects of civil government. Here are the preamble and two or three of its articles:
"We the people of the State of Maryland, grateful to Almighty God for our civil and religious liberty, and taking into our serious consideration the best means of establishing a good Constitution in this State for the sure foundation and more permanent security thereof, declare:
Article 1. That we hold it to be self-evident, that all men are created equally free, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights among which are life, liberty, the enjoyment of the proceeds of their own labor, and the pursuit of happiness.
Article 2. That hereafter, in this State, there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except in punishment of crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted: and all persons held to service or labor as slaves are hereby declared free.
Any person who shall, after this Constitution shall have gone into effect, detain in slavery any person emancipated by the provisions of this Constitution shall, on conviction, be fined not less than five hundred dollars, nor more than five thousand dollars, or be imprisoned not more than five years; and any o the judges of this State shall discharge, on habeas corpus, any person so detained in slavery."
Thank God, hereafter Maryland is to keep step to the music of universal freedom! Delaware must soon follow her example, and Missouri cannot, after her sad experiences of slave-rule, much longer delay her regeneration. Kentucky must follow. The manacles which the rebels designed to make stronger and rivet closer are being rapidly broken. And so the wrath of man praises God who counter-works the evil designs of the wicked.-N. Y. Christian Ambassador.

FREE MARYLAND.
There were great rejoicings on Saturday in Baltimore, on the occasion of the publication of Gov. Bradford's proclamation announcing the adoption o the new Free State Constitution. The city was gaily decorated with flags, on many of which could be read the words "Free Maryland." The event is to be celebrated to-day in Philadelphia by the ringing of bells, salutes and illuminations. The Governor's proclamation concludes as follows:-
"And whereas, the results of said elections have been duly certified to me by the proper judges o said several elections, and upon accurately counting and casting up the votes so returned to me for and against said constitution, including the soldiers' vote aforesaid, it doth appear that there were 30,174 be lots for the constitution, and 29,799 ballots against the constitution; and that there were 61 blank be lots reported as given against the constitution, but not counted, the persons offering them refusing to take the oath required by said constitution; and there being, therefore, of the aggregate vote so cast a majority in favor of the adoption of said constitution:
Now, therefore, I, Augustus W. Bradford, Governor of the State of Maryland , in pursuance of the authority so vested in me by said act of Assembly and constitution aforesaid, do by this my proclamation declare and make known, that the said constitution and form of government so framed and adopted by the Convention aforesaid has been adopted by a majority of the voters of the State, and that, in pursuance of the provision therein contained, the same will go into effect as the proper constitution and form of government of the State, superseding the one now existing, on the first day of November. Given under my hand and the great seal of the State of Maryland, at the city of Annapolis, on the 29th day of October, in the year of our Lord 1864.
A. W. BRADFORD."
By the Governor: W. B. HALL, Sec'y of State.

EMANCIPATION IN MARYLAND.
CELEBRATION AT THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE FOR THE RECRUITING OF UNITED STATES COLORED TROOPS.
The abolition of human slavery in the State of Maryland becoming a fixed fact yesterday, by the act of the Governor, seconding the efforts of the people of that section of the Union, the event was celebrated in Philadelphia yesterday in a variety o ways. The colored population had their own time in their respective localities in our city. Lombard and South streets, where many of the "proscribed race" live, were gay, with flags flying from all the windows of many dwellings. Salutes of thirty-five guns each were fired in different parts of Philadelphia. Six companies of the colored regiment at Camp Win. Penn made a parade, and their soldierly appearance was the subject of much admiration.
The event of the day took place last evening-or, rather, the festivity culminated in a grand demonstration at the headquarters of the Supervisory Committee for Colored Troops, on Chestnut street above Twelfth. The building, with its immense transparency when fully illuminated, gave the entire structure a magical appearance-gay, attractive, and eminently patriotic. In the midst of the glare of red fire, reflecting upon ten thousand upturned faces, the waving of flags and other ensigns o patriotism, the musical notes of the band, a meeting was improvised by Mr. Thomas Webster. An at dress was delivered by Mr. Thomas N. Coleman, though suffering from the effects of a blow that he received from a sneaking Copperhead assassin on Monday night, He was loudly cheered, and he thanked his God, as a Marylander, that the bright sun of liberty now illumines his native State.
Mr. Coleman was followed by Mr. Trimble, of Tennessee, Hon. Wm. D. Kelley, Captain N. H Edgerton, of Chester county, recently promoted by the indomitable General Butler for gallant conduct The Captain was wounded in a recent battle. He was followed by Wm. H. Maurice, who recited the poetry, "No Slave Beneath the Starry Flag." Major Dehring and other gentlemen made patriotic speeches, and the greatest enthusiasm prevailed.

THE TRANSPARENCY AND ILLUMINATION.
The transparency, taken as a whole, is the largest and one of the most imposing ever displayed to public view; it certainly is very appropriate to the age in which we live. It attracted the attention o thousands of people yesterday; and last evening, it being brilliantly illuminated for the first time, a dense mass of citizens congregated in front thereof. It may be said to be the production of the genius o Mr. Thomas Webster, a gentleman who has done the "State some service" in the supervision of the recruiting of the United States colored troops. The transparency consists of a number of pictures. graphically portrayed by the skill of members o the Artists' Sketch Club of Philadelphia. We commence our description of the scene at the top. On the centre is a cupola surmounted by a flagstaff about fifty feet long, from which the emblem of our nation is unfurled. In the gentle westerly breeze of last evening, it displayed its glorious stars and stripes to admiring thousands. In the cupola is a large bell, with the motto the same as on old Independence bell, that was rung when young America struck for freedom from British usurpation and tyranny: "Proclaim liberty throughout all the land", to all the inhabitants thereof."
Beneath the bell, and extending across the top of the transparency, is the following, in large letters, constructed of gas-jets:

GOD SAVE THE REPUBLIC!
This motto is flanked on the right and left with two lights, each representing the lamp of life.
Immediately beneath the motto is a large picture, 24 feet 7 in. by 8 feet, reaching across the entire front of the building. This represents the storming Port Hudson, a rebel stronghold taken by the black soldiers, and which success contributed greatly to the opening of the "Father of Waters," the Mississippi, by which rebeldom was split in two. The picture is very graphic and artistic. The motto, from a poem of Mr. George Boker, is on the top: "Never in field or tent scorn a black regiment".
Immediately beneath the storming scene of Port Hudson are three panels, each being two feet by eight feet two incites, containing choice maxims or
<c02>
mottoes of Washington, Jefferson and Patrick Henry. They read as follows:"
"There is not & man living who wishes more sincerely than I do to see G, plan adopted for the ABOLITION "OF SLAVERY."- Washington's Later to Robert Morris.
Of Slavery, Jefferson, the father of Democracy, says:
"The Almighty has no attribute which, can take sides with as in each a contest."
"It would rejoice my very soul that entry one of my fellow-beings was emancipated. I shall honor the Quakers for their noble efforts to ABOLISH SLAVERY."-Patrick Henry.
In the centre of the scene is a large arch, 13 feet wide and 52 feet high. The arch is very elaborately finished, being a representation of stone work, 13 in number, supported by Corinthian columns. Each stone represents a virtue, enumerated as follows: Religion. Liberty, Education, Charity, Fraternity, Frugality, Temperance, Truth, Courage, Justice, Love, Labor, Honesty. We may say that the Keystone of the Arch is labelled Justice. Upon the apex or crown of the arch is a representation of the coat of arms of the State of Maryland, over which is the word "Resurgens" which means arising after awakening. Just above the spring line of the arch is the following:
"We hold these troths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."-Declaration of Independence, July 4, 1776.
A well-painted eagle, folding in its talons the emblems of peace and war, has a picture within the scope of the arch. The scroll issuing from its beak contains the following: "Emancipation in Maryland accomplished in 1864." Beneath the eagle is the following: "Maryland settled by George Calvert, Baron of Baltimore-Ireland-a Catholic ranked among the most wise and benevolent law givers of all ages. The first in the history of the Christian world to seek for religious security ant peace by the practice of justice; to plan the as abolishment of popular institutions with the enjoyment of liberty of conscience; to advance the cause of civilization by recognizing the rightful equality of all Christian sects."
Now, A. D. 1864, by emancipating over 100,000 Christian slaves, by the free votes of the people, proves that at last she is entirely true to the noble teachings of her Immortal Founder, and that she realizes his grand ideas of Justice by adopting a Constitution which secures to all men the enjoyment of all their natural rights, without regard to creed color, or country.
Hail to glorious Maryland! "Our" Maryland, first to guarantee "free liberty of religion," first to unconditionally disenthral her slaves, first to typify a regenerated South. Hail! "Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable."
On each column, in scroll-work, we observe the names of the following illustrious men:
C. Carroll of Carrolten, Henry Winter Davis,
William Paca, H. L. Bond,
Sam. Chase, R. Stockett Matthews,
Gen. Wm. Smallwood, Archibald Sterling,
Col. J. Edgar Howard, E. M. Stanton,
Com. Josh. Barney, Gen. Robert C. Schenck,
Matt. Tilghman, Col. Wm. D. Birney,
Thomas Johnson, Col. S. M. Bowman,
William Pinkney, R. B. Forten, (colored,)
William Wirt, W. E. Straughn,
Ben. Bannaker, (colored,) A. J. Cresswell,
R. Goodloe Harper, H. H. Goldsborough,
Luther Martin, Gov. A. W. Bradford.
William Crane,
On one plinth are figures 1776, and on the other 1864. Both plinths contain, beneath the figures, the word "Faith."
The coat of arras of Maryland, that rests on the arch-crown, is flanked right and left by angels blowing the trump of fame. On either side of the grand arch are panels, four in number, each being ten feet six inches by five feet nine inches. The top panel to the left represents the wounded scout and contraband. The farmer is held in an upright position, being faint from exhaustion and, loss of blood, which may be seen trickling from his arm. The contraband is looking towards heaven. The ground scene represents a Southern canebrake. This painting is taken from Rodgers' statuette, and it suggests a volume of history at once.
The top picture on the right represents a conflict between a colored soldier and a secesh officer. The former has his bayonet at the breast of the rebel, while the other has his uplifted sword, and is about to deal a second blow, the first blow having already drawn blood from the soldier. The countenance of the rebel is a blending of savage ferocity, wildness of despair, and fear. The soldier has his left foot firmly upon the rebel flag marked C. S. A. This represents a scene which already forms an interesting page in the history of the rebellion, as recorded in Major General Butler's congratulatory order. The contest took place at New Market Heights near Richmond, Sept. 29, 1864.
On-the left lower corner represents a slave auction in the State of Maryland. A well-developed descendant of Ham is already on the block. He stands with his arms folded. Behind him is the auctioneer, a long, lean, lantern-jawed specimen o a "nigger-seller," before him a group of men of all sorts and sizes, apparently engaged in bidding against each other for the possession of the "chattel." At the foot of the auctioneer's desk are the wife and the children of the slave grouped together. The wife is downcast; the tear of anguish at the thought of separation is trickling down her cheek. The children are too young to appreciate the enormity of the affair. The following mottoes are on this picture. On the top:
"God fixed it certain that whatever day
Makes man a slave takes half his worth away."
-Pope.
At the bottom is the following motto:
"Thousands of men, women and children sold annual! under Maryland's old Constitution to the far South."
We now turn our attention to the picture on the right lower corner. Here we observe a schoolhouse in the distance, with its neat cupola and be summoning the rising generation of the "proscribed race" to school. The scene is laid in St. Mary's county, Md. A fine, fat-looking specimen of a colored woman points to the building dedicated to purposes of popular education. A little boy and girl are on the way to the place thus pointed out by the matron. This suggestive picture cannot help receiving popular favor of all intelligent classes who know the value of education. On the top of this picture is the well-known motto:
"Emancipation proclaimed January 1, 1863, by
ABRAHAM LINCOLN,
Practically enforced by glorious GRANT,
Indomitable SHERMAN,
Irresistible SHERIDAN, and
Conquering FARRAGUT.
Let us sustain them by our ballots, and make
Emancipation a Fact Filed Forever."
At the lower part of the panel or painting is the following inscription: "12,000 colored soldiers now at the front, fighting for the Union."
The lower panel, which forms, it may be said, the base of the entire picture, is 18 feet 6 inches in length by 6 feet wide. It contains on one end a good likeness of President Lincoln, and on the other an excellent representation of the next Vice President, Andrew Johnson of Tennessee. Between these portraits are the following words:
"Tis Education forms the common mind."
The space between the front of the house and the transparency is appropriated to the portraits of the following named men of progress, civil, military, and naval: Generals Grant, Sheridan, Sherman. Butler, Phelps; Admirals Farragut, Porter, Dupont; Captain Winslow, Hon. E. M. Stanton, Hon. Wm. D. Kelley, and Hon. John Hickman. The transparency was illuminated with 154 gas jets, the entire expense being raised by voluntary contributions. The artists engaged in thus transferring to canvass the design of Mr. Webster are Messrs. Geo. F. Bensell Joseph Beale, J. D. Wilson, E. B. Censell, D. R. Knight, and Wm. E. Smith.
In addition to the above, a fine painting of a colored soldier shot down, but still holding the flag up. Another soldier is about to take the emblem of nationality from him. This transparency was exhibited at the opposite side of the way. There were man flags also exhibited, containing the following mo toes, among others:-
"200,000 men of color are now fighting for their country in the army and navy."-Abraham Lincoln.
There are no negro traitors.
Maryland obeys the divine injunction: "To loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy hardens, and to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke."-Isaiah 58: 6.
"Sic Semper Tyrannis."
-Philadelphia Press.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVERMBER 11, 1864.
MAJOR GENERAL BANKS.
Almost from the first hour of his appointment to the Department of the Gulf up to the present time, Gen. Banks has been mercilessly criticized and condemned in certain quarters,-especially upon the Anti-Slavery platform,-as alike incompetent for the situation, disregardful of the rights and interests of the colored laboring population, and disposed to "toady" to wealthy and aristocratic secessionists wearing the mask of loyalty in that portion of Louisiana over which the authority of the federal Government extends. These charges have been repeated again and again, with rhetorical vehemence, until they have not only been accepted as unquestionably true by many on this side of the Atlantic, but by some of the best friends of our cause in England, (as in the case of Professor Newman, for instance,)-and great has been the odium attempted to be cast upon President Lincoln for not sending Gen. Banks "to Coventry." We confess that our own mind was somewhat prejudiced by this frequent iteration; but, while we thought that his system of freed labor was in some of its features unnecessarily stringent, and too exacting toward the laborers, we forbore all severity of censure, conscious that we could not so well judge of what was possible in the chaotic state of things in that section as those who were in authority on the soil; and trusting that, when all the facts should be known, Gen. Banks would be relieved of very much of the obloquy heaped upon him, if not triumphantly vindicated in all his acts. At the last New England Anti-Slavery Convention, we took occasion to speak forbearingly in his behalf, and mentioned certain measures instituted by him which we thought greatly redounded to his credit. For this we were reproached by some, who seem to think that the test of abolitionism is to deal in wholesale impeachment, ignore rebutting evidence, and persist in damaging accusation-a test which we have never subscribed to, though it may appear to a jaundiced vision to indicate superior jealousy for the cause of the oppressed, lest in some measure it should be compromised.
General Banks cannot have been ignorant of the condemnation so freely bestowed upon him in this section; but he has preserved a remarkable silence in regard to it, as one conscious that his policy was either greatly misconceived or grossly misrepresented, and which would in due time be vindicated by the result. Being on a visit to Massachusetts, he was recently invited to deliver an address in Tremont Temple, before the Boston Young Men's Christian Association. Complying with the invitation, he took for his subject "The Condition of the Negro Population as connected with the Reorganization of Government in Rebel States "; and the able and satisfactory manner in which he treated it may be seen by a careful perusal of the very lucid and singularly dispassionate address which occupies so large a portion of our present number. In it will be found no complaining of having been unjustly assailed-no personal retorts- no attempts at special pleading. Rising far above all such considerations, he proceeds to give a calm, philosophical, statesmanlike, almost impersonal view of what has been done, constructively and absolutely, under his administration, to deliver the oppressed from the yoke of bondage, give vitality and success to paralyzed industry, bring order out of chaos, reconcile employers and the employed, disseminate light and knowledge, establish and multiply schools for those hitherto forbidden to learn the alphabet and secure the adoption of a State Constitution whereby slavery is abolished in Louisiana, and the right of property in man denied-&c. &c. &c. And this he does without the slightest indication of personal inflation or egotistical self-complacency-but modestly, and with conscious rectitude of purpose in the discharge of high official duties.
Let us glance at some of the particulars. General Banks estimates the number of slaves in Louisiana exempted from emancipation by President Lincoln's Proclamation of January 1, 1863, at 150,000. Now not one of these wears a chain, or is amenable to any slave master. In regard to their industrial employment, which has been so often denounced as mere serfdom, he declares that "it was established upon the basis of absolute and perfect freedom of the negro in all respects and all considerations, to make him as independent and to prepare him for as perfect an independence as that enjoyed by any other class of people on this continent." They were at liberty to select their own employer, and go where they pleased; only they were expected to labor in support of themselves and families somewhere, if not upon the plantations, then upon the government works. "Both parties," he avers, "accepted the proposition readily-those who were engaged in the cultivation of the soil, because they had no alternative-the negro, because he had no other desire," having his freedom and that of his wife and children secured, and getting for them clothing and rations from the government, besides educational privileges, in addition to a stipulated pecuniary remuneration. Nothing was done without the concurrence of the negroes: they brought to the government their own terms of labor, which were complied with; the planters yielded; and the result is good will, mutual satisfaction, and growing prosperity. So successful has been the experiment that General Banks says he does not believe there is required any change whatever in the state of labor that has been in operation in Louisiana for two years past. In view of their peculiar situation, he believes that the wages of the laboring men in that State have been as remunerative as those of Massachusetts, or any other part of the country. Why certain exactions were made of the planters and the laborers alike, he shows in a satisfactory manner.
As for the charge of serfdom, nothing of the kind exists. There is not a court in the State that does not recognize a negro, whether free or whether enslaved before the war, as a freeman entitled to all the rights and all the protection of a white man;-entitled to sue and be sued, to give his testimony in any of the courts, and to receive equitable compensation for his labor. The planter surrenders his right of propery in his slaves. They are absolutely independent of his will, while he is subject entirely to the government. They make no complaint of their conditioner of their wages.
In regard to their education, the facts are equally cheering, and worthy of grateful recognition." General Banks states that there are in the parishes controlled by the government about fifteen thousand negro children. From eight to ten thousand of these are already in day schools. There are sixty Sabbath schools, and twenty night schools for adults; and every regiment of the twenty or twenty-five regiments of colored troops has a teacher and an organization of the nature of a school. Surprising progress is making by the scholars, whether old or young.
Take another fact, illustrative of the almost miraculous change which has taken in public sentiment in New Orleans-New Orleans, which was formerly the synonym of all that was brutal and infernal toward the colored race:-
"At the celebration of the passage of the Act of Emancipation in June," says General Banks, "I saw in the city of New Orleans 20,000 or 25,000 colored people, as well dressed, as well behaved, as orderly as any people that I ever saw in Boston, or New York, or any city of the States. I saw a city of 175,000 people absolutely surrendered to the celebration of the passage of the Act of Emancipation. They occupied the streets and the squares the whole day. From sunrise in the morning to sunset in the evening, they were possessed of the city, and in the whole of that day not one disorderly act was done, not one uncivil word spoken, not a
<c04>
white person, so far as, I; know, came into collision with them, and nothing was witnessed during the day but the most perfect order and sobriety. I heard one hundred persons say that that celebration could not have occurred under such circumstances in the city of Boston, the city of New York, or the city of Providence; and I believe it. Every day, every hour in the day, you hear negro children singing; the anthems of the Union in the streets or in their schoolrooms. Wherever they are, the air is vocal with the music, the precious music, of; their young hearts."
This, surely; speaks volumes as to the altered state of things in New. Orleans, under General Banks's administration. Yet how has his policy been denounced, and what base motives have been attributed to him! At the adoption of the new State Constitution of Louisiana, it has been alleged here that the body of the voters was made up of Banks's retainer and partizans, by soldiers who had no right to participate in the election, &c. To this the General replies-" I venture to say that there .have not been, of the 11,500 votes, 500 men voting who belonged to the army in any form whatever; and those men were citizens of the State, and had a right to vote there." Before the war, the ordinary vote was 15 or 16,000. The new Constitution provides for the education of the State, irrespective of race or color. It enrolls; in the militia all the able-bodied men of the State, without regard to caste, condition, race or color; and it authorizes the Legislature to confer the right of suffrage: upon he negro in consideration of intelligence, contribution of taxes, or service in arms-(this last provision being due to the direct personal influence of General Banks, according to the statement of Major Plumly in another column.) Are not these truly astonishing changes? And do they not reflect great credit upon the humane purpose, the just endeavor, and the administrative ability of General Banks?
Finally, he declares his willingness to stake-his life, that if three well-known abolitionists to whom he refers were to visit Louisiana for the purpose of investigating the condition of things there, the conclusion to which he has arrived would be the conclusion to which they would arrive. This is a strong declaration, and evinces deep sincerity and conscious success. And all these grand achievements wrought out of the most discordant, inflammable and conflictive elements! -But let his entire address be closely perused and candidly pondered. Hail, renovated Louisiana!

ABRAHAM LINCOLN RE-ELECTED BY AN OVERWHELMING MAJORITY!
NATIONAL AND STATE ELECTIONS.
No Presidential Election has ever occurred at all comparable in magnitude, solemnity and far-reaching consequences to the one which came off on Tuesday last. The hosts of freedom and the powers of despotism met in a death-grapple, and the latter have been sent howling to the pit from which they emanated, while the former are singing songs of praise and thanksgiving. The doom of Rebellion and Slavery is now irrevocably pronounced.
The vote in Boston stood for Lincoln, 12,936; for McClellan, 7870; Lincoln's plurality, 5066. For Governor-Andrew, 12,788; for Palmer, 7941. Governor Andrew is re-elected by an immense majority.
The greatest anxiety was felt in regard to the result in the Third and Fourth Districts; but to the general surprise and delight, the vote stood for Rice, 9708; for Sleeper, 5865. For Hooper, 10,403; for Abbott, 5488. These are signal triumphs. At an early hour in the evening, a procession of Mr. Rice's constituents was formed, and with lanterns and transparencies marched to his residence in Union Square, where, appearing on the balcony, he was congratulated by E. W. Kinsley, Esq. upon his re-election; to which Mr. Rice made a patriotic response.
The congregated thousands united in singing, with thrilling effect, the familiar lines of the fine old hymn,
"My native country, thee,
Sweet land of liberty,
Of thee I sing," &c.
The band then struck up "Old Hundred," and the vast concourse joined in singing the doxology- "Praise God from whom all blessings flow,"-which, was followed by the "John Brown Song," which was sung with immense enthusiasm.
From the Square, the procession marched to Faneuil Hall, which was crowded to overflowing with a joyous multitude, who greeted the returns, as the telegraph flashed them from every quarter of the States, with cheers and shouts such as have seldom been heard even; within those venerable walls, where the people are most wont to congregate. Eloquent and inspiring speeches were made by Hon. Charles Sumner, Hon. Edward Everett, Hon. A. H. Rice, Hon. Samuel Hooper, Dr. George B. Loring, and many others, the great crowd remaining together, with scarcely an appreciable diminution of its numbers, till midnight.
The grand result in Massachusetts, as far as ascertained, is as follows:-307 towns foot up for Lincoln, 119,087; McClellan, 40,273. Lincoln's majority, 70,814! 28 towns to be heard from.
The State Senate is entirely Union, and the; Democrats have thus far elected six members to the House Of Representatives, and these are from three wards of Boston in which the Irish element exerts a controlling power.
The electoral votes already certain for Mr. Lincoln can be set down as follows:-Maine 7, New Hampshire 5, Vermont 5, Massachusetts 12, Rhode Island 4, Connecticut 6, Pennsylvania 26, Delaware 3, Maryland 7, Ohio 21, Indiana 13, Illinois 16, Michigan 8, Wisconsin 8, Iowa 8, Minnesota 4, Nebraska 4, Kansas 3, West Virginia 5, Missouri 11, California 5, Oregon 3. Total 183. Only 117 votes are needed to constitute an electoral majority. Loyalty has made a clean sweep, and Copperheadism is buried beyond the hope of resurrection. McClellan is sure of one State-perfidious Kentucky, with her 11 votes. New Jersey and New York are still doubtful-though the Empire State has probably gone for Lincoln by a small majority.
There were 109,000 votes cast in New York city, of which McClellan has a majority of over 37,000.-It is said that Fernando Wood and James Brooks are defeated for Congress.
A special Washington despatch states that General McClellan has sent in his resignation to the Secretary of War. It is to his deep disgrace that he did not do this long ago. The nation has strongly put its seal of condemnation upon him. Let him shrink back into his original insignificance.
MARYLAND A FREE STATE. The importance of this glorious act to Maryland, and to the nation, can scarcely be estimated.
At a meeting of Marylanders in New York last week, to exchange congratulations upon the abolition of slavery in their State, Dr. Snodgrass gave an interesting statement, showing how the pro-slavery party had bound, hand and foot, the people of Maryland, under the old Constitution of the State. He said:
"When the question was asked, why the subject of emancipation in Maryland was not left to the legislature, we answered, because the old Constitution forbade that course, by declaring that under no circumstances should the legislature touch ' the relation between master and slave.' Once the legislature had the power to act on the question, and to do as they thought best, provided two-thirds of both branches thereof should concur, and the next legislature, assembling two years thereafter, should happen to confirm, their enactments by a like majority of two-thirds. But this privilege was snatched from the people's representatives by the inexorable slave interest, through the next Constitution-that is, the one just superseded-in which the clause, totally prohibiting legislation on the subject, was inserted as an insurmountable barrier, as it was hoped, to the progress of free principles. But, most unfortunately for the slave-holding interest, it was not far-seeing enough, after all. It permitted a provision to be inserted, which opened the way for the legislature to submit to the people the question of ordering a new Constitution, at stated periods-every ten years."
<c05>
LETTER FROM MAJOR PLUMLY.
NEW ORLEANS, (La.) Oct.20, 1864.
MY DEAR SIR -My letter which you printed has reached here, and has Called out the enclosed articles in the New Orleans Tribune, the alleged organ of the free colored Creoles. The Tribune cannot be fairly said to represent that large and influential class? of our people. The free colored Creoles are divided into castes, very sharply defined. Some of them were contributors to the rebel fund for the defence of the city against the Federal forces. Indeed, there are not more decided confederates to be found in the South than may be found among the free colored Creates of Louisiana. This rebel party is not large, but it is rich, aristocratic, exclusive, and bitterly hostile to the black, except as a slave. 
The publishers of the Tribune are not of that class; they are loyal. The principal in the paper is an educated physician, of skill and professional intelligence, but, as you will see by the articles, not familiar with the relations of men and of parties in the early Anti-Slavery of the North. This ignorance of party divisions is not confined to men of color: it is a striking feature of all society here. The Abolitionist was regarded as an "ogre," and they cared little about the varieties, while the species was so bad. I have been frequently amused, on being introduced as an Abolitionist, at the expression of surprise that I had retained any of the amenities of life. A lady, one of the most intelligent and elegant whom I have met in the South,-and such are not rare,-with whom I travelled several days, expressed to me her sense of horror when she learned that an Abolitionist was on board the boat,-the first of the genus she had ever seen!
"The Tribune is, therefore, excusable in respect of its mistakes on that score. But its attempt to extend my remark, that some "had not attained to the graces and the wisdom of freedom" to all the colored Creole people, is disingenuous. No one knows better than the Tribune how highly I estimate that class of our people. What I said of them, in my speeches in this city, a year and a half ago, I repeat here, and now, with increased emphasis.
Measured by the political disabilities and other wrongs to which they have been so long subjected, the free colored Creoles of New Orleans and of Louisiana, as a class, excel in loyalty, courage, wealth, education, intelligence, and character. In the days of peril in New Orleans, before the fall of Fort Hudson, when white men shrank from duty, the free colored Creoles sprang by regiments to the defence of a city and of a Government that disowned them.
It was largely in consideration of this class that the late Constitutional Convention of Louisiana, after abolishing slavery, and declaring that the Legislature shall pass no law recognizing property in man, inserted a clause, authorizing the Legislature to extend the right of suffrage to individuals or classes who may be qualified to vote by educational fitness, or by having fought for their country. Failing to exclude the word "white" from the Constitution, the friends of the colored man fell back upon that clause. It was defeated by a strong vote. Four weeks afterward, upon the return of Major General Banks, by his clear and forcible statement of the case to leading men in the Convention, it was reconsidered and passed, and with the Constitution has been ratified by the people. The Tribune implies a censure of me because I defend the "Orders" of Major General Banks. I confess, frankly, that I do not know of any "Order" of his, affecting the colored man, that was not founded in Wisdom, from the necessities of the case, and that has riot worked well
I enclose the Report of our colored schools. You will see how they flourish. It is a noble labor, and fills every faculty with satisfaction. The efficiency of; the schools is greatly promoted by the scholarship and labor of Lieut. E. M. Wheelock, chaplain of the 15th N. H., who was detailed to service on the Board in the beginning. Chaplain Wheelock was the pastor of the Unitarian Church at Dover, N. H. No one but an old Abolitionist can realize my sense of exultant gratitude as I walk round the free city of New Or leans, meeting constantly the grateful salute of the colored man, free and in arms, or hearing the voices of his children in church or school, or in a concert-a thousand strong-singing the national airs, or John Brown, or some liberty hymn of the period.
By order of Major General Banks, all the "signs" of the slave-pens or auctions were erased. The names of Hatch's, Foster's, Wilson's, Campbell's, have disappeared from their respective houses. Campbell's slave-pen is a rebel-prison. "Got in dar ye-self," a black woman said, as she saw the rebel prisoners tiling into the old pen. "Use' to put us dar! Got dar ye-self now. De Lord's comin'." A few of the old slave-traders remain, gliding about like ghosts, and wasting away daily in the uncongenial atmosphere of freedom.
The city of New Orleans, freed of all bondage and the signs thereof, is a city in which to dwell. Its locality and climate; the sweep of its crescent, on the great river; the scale of its projection; the imposing width of its streets and avenues; the parks and shell-roads and canals, with the lake beyond, opening upon the sea, from which there are over fifty water avenues to the town; the garden-district, dotted with cosy homes and costly dwellings; the luxuriant foliage; the wild mocking-birds; the varied flora; the fish and game; the natural generosity and intense life of the people; the quaint old " French quarter," with its narrow streets, low houses, tile roofs, latticed casements, beautiful, women and graceful men, or ancient dames with an amplitude of costume and great frills and ruffles; or old men, with small feet and thin legs, who wear scull-caps and dressing gowns, and smoke; all talking incessantly in their perplexing French, or in the soft and winning Spanish or Italian; the old court-house, in which the very stones are whitening from age and humidity; the "Jackson Square," over which the cathedral looks benignantly-crowded as the church is, at daylight on Sunday morning, with devotees, who, after Mass, issue from the solemn enclosure and the grand music to the adjacent French market, with its Sicilian venders of fish and onions; its coffee stands, with little cups of hot, black coffee, exhilarating as "hasheesh"; its diminutive donkey-carts, laden with hay, as primitive as in the days of Laban and Rachel; its handsome Creoles, lost in vast projecting sun-bonnets, with capes to the waist; each lady followed by a colored attendant with a basket, and wearing a picturesque turban gracefully folded and tied, as only a colored woman can tie a turban; the dotting uniforms of Federal officers, who have arisen thus early to see; the army of smokers; the rush and push and twist and pull and hawl and jabber of all nationalities, intent on buying and selling, and flirting and coquetting:-beyond, a monkey-show, with a famished boa-constrictor, a sickly looking tiger, a dilapidated monkey, and a baby with six toes; over the way, in a sequestered out-house, a cock-pit and a dog-pit-
"Where dogs delight to bark and bite "-
For this they mostly do-
near by, a huge machine, whirling constantly, to which is attached a squadron of hobby-horses, on winch soldiers, even cavalry men, with civilians, men, women and children, of all shades and conditions, whirl and whirl, for a dime apiece, and sing, and laugh, and have fun;-all these, together, make New Orleans like unto no other American city. He will not be a wise ruler who shall attempt to Puritanize it by military order or by sumptuary laws.
If, sometimes, I am tempted to sigh for my Northern hills-and for the constellations that changed not through all the years of vicissitude-and for the snow arid the ice-and for the red blood and the vigorous movement of my people-I turn quickly to this new field, and say, "Here will I stay;. for here is the Anti-Slavery labor to be finished."
B. RUSH PLUMLY.
WM LLOYD GARRISON.
We regret that we cannot find room for this very encouraging Report in oar present number.
<c06>
REDEEMED MARYLAND!
PHILADELPHIA 11th mo., 2nd, 1864.
WM, LLOYD GARRISON:
ESTEEMED FRIEND:-I spent a portion of the morning and afternoon of yesterday among the colored people in the lower part of our city, to rejoice with them over the abolition of slavery in Maryland. I can attest to their good, indeed devout behavior throughout the day. All their churches were opened, and well attended. One continued scene of thinks giving and glory to the Most High prevailed.
At Big Wesley Church, I was invited to their pulpit; and who could restrain the language of a sympathetic heart? I never met more earnest, attentive and grateful people. The remark of their speakers from Maryland and several of the Eastern States were in the highest degree patriotic and Christian; and I could not but sigh that these people are excluded from the ballot-box, when every vote would be for the salvation of the country while those <illegible> at its death are admitted. 
The whole celebration was in strange contrast with the frivolity and dissipation evinced on the celebration of our Independence day Surely, we can learn of the negro; and surely, he consecrates his cause by thus assembling at the place of worship, a and giving thanks for every gain, and patiently and prayerfully awaiting the glorious freedom of the future-which must come.
The illuminations and general rejoicing in the evening were all appropriate and orderly; and as I joined in song and cheer, it was with thank, to God that I was permitted to live to welcome this day, so different from that when I stood aghast-a little child, wondering at the burning of old Pennsylvania Hall
May the redemption of Maryland precede but a little while that of our whole country!
Encouraged and encouraging, thy friend,
ALFRED H. LOVE.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR-I cannot resist the impulse which bids me write you that MARYLAND IS FREE!
The dark cloud of oppression which has for so many years hung, like a pall, over this State, has at last been made to disappear before the sunlight of Freedom, which now shines refulgent upon this regenerated community.
The new Free Constitution went into effect on the 1st of November. The day was heralded into existence amid the firing of a salute of five hundred guns, accompanied by a ringing of church and signal bells The national flag was displayed from all the public buildings, the shipping, and many private dwellings At noon the chimes of Christ Church peeled forth several national air-the "Star Spangled Banner," "Home of the Tree," "Yankee Doodle," &c. All the colored churches were opened, and had services appropriate to the day.
This day will mark another and brighter epoch in the history of the State. Relieved now, as she is, of the incubus that so long retarded her progress, she will take her true position as a free Common wealth. For this great moral victory, too much praise cannot be accorded to R. Stockett Matthews, Judge Bond, Archibald Sterling, Henry Stockbridge, and others, who worked most ardently for the adoption of this prelude to better days. These are all gentlemen of high social position and moral stamina. Their political faith is as radical as yours, or your good friend Wendell Phillips.
Is it not a singular coincidence, that Chief Justice Taney should breathe his last on the very day that the Constitution was ratified by the voice of the people? And again, Mr. Editor, were you aware that nearly all of the distinguished colored men of this country are natives of this State? We name, in part, Frederick Douglass, Henry Highland Garnet, Samuel R. Ward, James W. C. Pennington, Benjamin Bannaker, William J. Watkins, Bishop Allen, and others; while she has given two Presidents to Liberia, in the person of Stephen Benson, and its present incumbent.
Frederick Douglass lectures in this city on the 17th inst. I am, yours, in haste,
WM. E. MATTHEWS.
Baltimore, Nov. 6, 1864.
LETTER FROM REV. S. A. STEINTHAL.
71 UPPER BROOK STREEET, 
MANCHESTER, (Eng.) Oct 15, 1864.
MY DEAR MR. GARRISON-For two years or more, I have been obliged to cease from all active work in consequence of bad health; I have been obliged to give up my dear Liverpool home, and the work in which I was here engaged. During the greater part of the time, I have traveled on the continent of Europe, and learning all that places famed in story could teach an invalid who could not devote much labor or study. At last I have come back again to dear old England, and a few days ago I received from a friend's hands two numbers of the Liberator, and at the same time was told that never was the expression of English opinion on the subject the struggle going on in the United States more welcome than it is now. I cannot speak with any authority as to general feeling; I have not had the means of judging as men like George Thompson, or Professor Goldwin Smith, or T. H. Barker have. I have been out of public life some time, but I can say something about the nearer circle of my own friends; and there I can myself say I know but very few Southern sympathizers. I know several who look doubtfully as to the complete conversion of the North to anti-slavery principle; who believe that much of the late action in favor of emancipation has been dictated more by a feeling of policy than of deep-seated belief in the essential rights of humanity. I have some such feelings in my own heart; but at the same time all these persons-and again I include myself-know so well that the only motive of the Southerners in attempting secession has been the determination to uphold and propagate slavery, at every hazard, even at the risk of national ruin; all of us are so convinced that the cry of independence on the part of the South simply means independence on everything that could limit slaveholding; that whether the North be honest or not in its claims for abolitionism, we must go against its aggressors, for they are in favor of the vilest oppression that ever cursed humanity. We earnestly long to see the South taught this great lesson, that the nineteenth century cannot bear the establishment of a government based upon a denial of all human rights to the producers of wealth; that its very political economy revolts against the scheme; and when men rise to higher thoughts than those of material comfort and outward properity, they only see more clearly, that the God of Right and Justice cannot approve of a rule founded upon the groans of his outraged children, and which one whole race must be sacrificed to support. And I may claim as an Abolitionist of the old school to rejoice, even though with sorrow, at the dawn of that emancipation for which I have prayed and spoken and written no small number of years. I think in one of your own papers many years ago, I declared my own belief that freedom could not come to the American slaves, except through a fierce and bloody struggle. I regret that my expectation was well-founded, but now as then I would declare my belief that freedom, even though it be bought by blood, is worth the cost
Sad is the ordeal through which your great country is passing; but the self-devotion you are manifesting the sacrifices you are making to clear away the dark stain of slavery, will not be without avail even to yourselves. Not seeking self-aggrandizement, not seeking any selfish object, your sacrifices become truly holy, and God will in the end bless your labors. Your nation, possessed of natural advantages such as are possessed by few, with freedom to grow in accordance with growing wants, and freed from the only burden which fettered your progress, will become indeed a "model Republic," and lover, of true freedom will
NOVEMBER 11. THE LIBERATOR. 183.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
look across the Atlantic with rejoicing spirits to wish you God speed in your path.
It is not possible to foresee the events by which universal freedom will be established on your shores; no am I rash enough to venture upon any prophecy as to the date of that long-looked for day; but even if it be delayed longer than we now think, I believe it will only be that the true feeling of duty to the oppressed may be strengthened in the hearts of your fellow-citizens. Your sufferings have made anti-slavery ideas advance: if you had succeeded in thirty days in crushing the rebellion, so many eyes would not have opened as can see now. Even in His mistunes chastisements, God is working out good. So it seems true that anti-slavery men must look upon success and temporary failures with deep and trustful faith: God's hand is with .you in both. To you, dear sir, and to your faithful fellow-workers, these must be days of mingled grief and thankfulness. If men had but listened to your words of warning, if they had but hearkened when your earnest appeals were addressed to their consciences, how much sorrow and suffering would have been spared to mankind! But in the midst of these days of agony your hearts most rejoice to think, that what human beings could do to avert the misery of civil war by destroying the better root whence the evil should arise, you have done, in season and out of season, for more than a quarter of a century. May God bless your still continued efforts for the oppressed and the down-trodden! My sympathy you have now as ever. Will you be the medium of my warmest good wishes to those dear friends who are working with you? To Mr. May of Syracuse, and his namesake in your own State; to Parker Pillsbury and George Thompson; to all to whom I have the honor of being known, I would send my kindest regards.
With sincerest respect and regard,
Yours faithfully,
s. ALFRED STEINTHAL.
P. S. I was glad to see in the Liberator a letter of W. P. Powell. I suppose it is my old friend of
Liverpool days.(Yes.)
MR. SELLA MARTIN AND MR. CONWAY.
28 NOTTING HILL SQUARE,
BAYSWATER, W. LONDON, Oct. 22,1864. 
To the Editor of the Liberator:
DEAR SIR-I deeply regret that Mr. Martin's persistent charge of misrepresentation against me forces me to recur to a dispute for which I have no heart. I can pass by the charge of "rudeness," because I would not sit quietly and allow a serious error concerning men, whose names were in every mind where "American Abolitionists" are spoken of, to pass unchallenged into circulation.
So far as in me lies, this matter shall rest with the publication of the subjoined correspondence. The gentleman to whom I referred this matter is of preeminent ability, a warm advocate of our cause, and, I have reason to believe, a personal friend of Mr. Martin. I have myself no personal acquaintance with him whatever.
Yours, truly, M. D, CONWAY.
CORRESPONDENCE.
28 NOTTING HILL SQUARE,
BAYWATER W., Oct. 13.
DEAR SIR-On the evening of May 7, 1863, you were present at a meeting for Union and Emancipation held at Islington. The meeting was presided over by the Rev. A. C. Thomas, and was addressed by yourself, Rev. Sella Martin, myself, and others. At that meeting, some things occurred which have occasioned some correspondence between Mr. Martin and myself. In a letter written to the Boston Commonwealth, of which I was Corresponding Editor, immediately after that meeting, I said: "Mr. Lincoln is the most popular man in England. The other night, Sella Martin called him a negro-hater, and the audience received it with disapprobation." Mr. Martin declares this a misrepresentation. It was not written with the slightest intent to do him any injury; but of the correctness of the statement, all who were present at the meeting must be able to judge. Mr. Martin was describing the general corruption of American politics through slavery, and said, "Even Mr. Lincoln, though he hates slavery, hates the negro." Here were marks of surprise and disapprobation. Mr. Martin continued: "He wishes the slaves free, but he wishes to get them out of the country-to South America, or somewhere else." Further on, when the sensation produced by these remarks had subsided, Mr. Martin spoke of the corruption of even the Abolitionists in America, through slavery. Even they, he alleged, would not treat a negro as an equal. Under this I winced, and said, sotto voce, "I doubt that." Whereupon Mr. Martin said: "A gentleman on the stage says he doubts that: he is not a colored man, and has not felt the shoe pinch as I have." "Does Mr. Martin," I inquired, "mean to say that W. L. Garrison and Wendell Phillips would not treat a negro as an equal? " To which he replied: "I do not exculpate anybody or inculpate anybody; but I know what I say to be true." 
On that evening I gave a prepared address on the relations between England and America. When I arose, (immediately after -Mr. Martin,) I said that I felt it my duty, before reading my paper, to reply to the point raised by Mr. Martin concerning the Abolitionists and Mr. Lincoln. I occupied some four or five minutes in these comments. Mr. Martin declares, much to my astonishment, that he said nothing of the kind about Mr. Lincoln; while I am distinctly conscious of having in that public meeting devoted several minutes to defending Mr. Lincoln, despite his silly proposal to the negroes to leave the country-no easy task did I find it, either. 
The rest of my report of the meeting Mr. Martin admits except that, instead of "I do not exculpate anybody," &c., he says he replied, "This is not the place for personalities." Being a reporter as well as a speaker at that meeting, I took down his words at the time, and am sure I have given them carefully, so far as I have given them at all. (He may have added this last phrase to that I have given.) 
Now, sir, you were at that meeting, and I am sure that you observed carefully what was said on the occasion. I therefore request you to tell me if in my report, as above, there is anything that does an injustice, according to your memory and impression. 
Regretting the necessity of obtruding this personal matter upon your attention,
I am, yours, very respectfully,
M. D. CONWAY.
EDMOND BEALES, Esq., Barrister, 3 Stone Building Lincoln's Inn.
BOULOGNE, 8 mer. 21st Oct., 1864.
DEAR SIR,-Your letter has been forwarded to me here. I have no distinct recollection, at this distance of time, of any particular expressions made use of by Mr. Sella Martin at the Islington meeting in May, 1863; but I well remember the general purport of his conservations as to the evil effects of slavery even upon these opposed to it in the Northern States, including the Abolitionists, inducing them to regard the colored men as an inferior race; and his statement that he himself had bitterly felt the effects of the prejudice against his race in the treatment which he had met with. At the same time, he considered that this feeling was passing away, and that the result of the present struggle would be to do away altogether with this unkindly prejudice in the North. I have occasionally referred to this portion of Mr. Sella Martin's speech as evidence that he was an impartial witness on the subject. I remember your interruption, when be referred to the indisposition of even the opponents to slavery in the Northern States, including the Abolitionists, to treat the negroes as equals; and I have same indistinct recollection of his making some remarks relative to Mr. Lincoln, which were not favorably received by the meeting, but I cannot precisely remember the words which were used, nor whether Mr. Martin afterwards used the exact words: "I do
<c02>
not exculpate anybody or inculpate anybody, but I know what I say to be true," in reference to Mr. Garrison and Mr. Phillips, when you interrupted him; but I certainly, to the best of my recollection, think he used those words, or as nearly as possible those words.
I am, dear sir, yours, faithfully,
EDM'D BEALES.

LETTER FROM MISS SARAH P. REMOND.
AUBREY HOUSE, NOTTING HILL, LONDON, October 22,1864.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-Please accept the accompanying donation of five dollars, as my "mite" for the Liberator. I should regret exceedingly to have it discontinued, and to know that that faithful and most uncompromising journal was no longer bearing its testimony against chattel slavery. The Liberator, is associated with my earliest recollections, and I have always looked there, and never failed to find words of hope and sympathy for ray most oppressed race. 
You probably know that I am residing with a dear friend, Mrs. P. A. Taylor, the honorary Secretary of the "Ladies' London Emancipation Society." Mrs. Taylor is the wife of P. A. Taylor, Esq., M. P., the member for "Leicester, whose voice, in and out of Parliament, has been heard in behalf of the American slave, and whose testimony is recorded against a Southern Confederacy based upon chattel slavery, and whose speeches you will recall.
We are now waiting with some anxiety and intense interest the result of the Presidential election. Abolitionists generally desire the re-election of Mr. Lincoln, as any influence which defeats the "Copperheads" must, to some extent, promote our cause. It is quite certain that the election of McClellan would be received by the confederates with enthusiasm, and also give fresh courage to their allies in Great Britain and France.
But I only intended to write you a line. 
I am sincerely and most gratefully yours,
SARAH P. REMOND.

LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XX.
NEW YORK, Nov. 3, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The grand event of the week-the ominous prelude to the drama of universal emancipation-is the effective establishment of the new Constitution of Maryland amid official and popular demonstrations of rejoicing.
In the Convention, the abolitionists were easily in the ascendant. Their opponents achieved only partial and momentary triumphs. At the polls, the enemies of reform well-nigh preponderated. They mustered their fullest numbers, waded through perjury to: the ballot-boxes, and there employed their former acts of fraud and brow-beating. The law which forbade the presence of an armed force within a certain distance of the voting-booths was strictly observed; and one can imagine the regime of the country districts, who is aware that even in Baltimore, the stronghold of the new Constitution, scenes just falling short of violence and riot were enacted, in the hope to intimidate the friends of liberty. So far from perceptible was that military interference which the Copperhead press have angrily denounced, and which Gov. Seymour warns us is not to be tolerated in this State on Tuesday next!
Very properly did the citizens and city authorities of Baltimore usher in the month with the roar of cannon, the display of banners, and the music of patriotism. Henceforth they may expect a free ballot without the preliminary of a free fight; for the law and the power of the State are now on the side of justice, and the barbarism which it was formerly profitable to serve with brutality has become bankrupt, and cannot keep its retainers. The era of border-ruffianism is past; the era of manhood begins, with none to molest or to make afraid. The redemption of Maryland ought to have been celebrated, and would have been, in a time of peace, by every free community in the Union, not only because of the moral advantages which each part of the country derives from the purification of any other, but also in consideration of the material gain, the added strength of the nation, and the further security from domestic disorder. There is not an honest interest in the land which is not safer to-day because Maryland has put away slavery; no plan, no enterprise, commercial, social, individual, which merits success and is contingent upon the future, that has not been helped to its fruition by the same great act. Especially do the States immediately adjoining deserve to be grateful for the new order of things-Delaware, Pennsylvania, and even Virginia herself. For the foul growth which has just been felled across their borders struck its roots deepest in the nearest soil. The Keystone State is worthier to hold the national arch together now than at any time since it claimed that proud position. Some say it will blush to think itself so insensible to the injurious effects of the vicinage of slavery, and to its own concern in the disenthrallment of its slave-ridden sister, as to leave to its colored citizens almost exclusively the recognition of its great, good fortune. But how could white Philadelphia, which is still in bondage to slavery, take pleasure in the emancipation of others from the same yoke? Are not colored people still excluded from the horse-ears of that city? and is it in deference to any other power than that for whose overthrow the bells of Baltimore rang out so merrily on Tuesday last? Oppression is smitten in the house of her friends, and is cherished by those who should be strangers to her.
The honorable practice of body-snatching has been revived by the Democratic party whom half-prophetically I likened in my last to the sarcophagus ghoul of the Arabian story. The identity of the rebels and the Copperheads is again rendered strikingly manifest: both plunder the grave in order to recruit their ranks. It is considered dastardly to strike an adversary who is incapable of resistance-infamous and shocking to desecrate a corpse; but what term shall we discover, or, failing to discover, invent, to characterize the attempted election frauds in the name of bur dead patriots?-their very devotion to their country made the instrument of their country's ruin. Such is the latest development of the machinations of the disloyal, by which they vainly hope that the hand on the dial may be turned back at the November polls. They will only testify afresh to the axiom, that moral revolutions never go backward. The doom of the Democracy; and the rebellion will be pronounced in a single phrase -the death-sentence of slavery.
And so, the nation approaches the four years crisis which it has often weathered, but never in such a sea as that on which it now tosses. Black are the heavens, and the air full of portentous mutterings-the waves a foam with rage, their thousand tongues lapping, the laboring craft with hungry fierceness-rocks visible on every side, and shoals and reefs in treacherous waiting unmarked on any chart. If the man at the wheel stands firm, the darkness may close around, the wares may gather for their deadliest topple, the breakers may roar, and the uncovered sands behold the lightning-no harm shall come to the lordly hull. But if the shock displace him, then wo to the vessel of State-"Nave, senza nocchierro in gran tempesta"- A ship in heavy stress without a pilot!
M. DU PAYS.
Rev. Alexander Clark, Editor of Clark's School Visitor, and associate pastor with Rev. Thos. A. Stockton, D. D., of the Church of the New Testament, Philadelphia, has accepted a unanimous call to become pastor of the Union Chapel Independent (late Methodist Episcopal) Churchy Cincinnati, Ohio, one of the most liberal and influential congregations in the West. Mr. Clark continues to edit the School Visitor, which will be published at Philadelphia, as heretofore. It is a very interesting and instructive periodical, and conducted in a liberal and progressive spirit. Its editor appears to be animated by the highest philanthropic and religious aspirations.
<c03>
ANDREW JOHNSON'S GREAT SPEECH TO THE COLORED PEOPLE.
HE PROCLAIMS FREEDOM TO ALL MEN IN TENNESSEE.
Special Correspondence of the Cincinnati Gazette.
NASHVILLE, Tenn., October 26, 1864,;
I have said the speech of Gov. Johnson, delivered to the colored population of Nashville ion Monday night, was one of the-most remarkable to which it was ever my fortune to listen. The time, the place, the circumstances, the audience, the man, all combined to make a powerful impression upon a spectator's mind.
The time was the fourth year of the rebellion-the eve of a great political contest which was to determine for all time whether, freedom or slavery in America should be overthrown.
The place was the proud city of the slaveholders, and immediately in front of the haughty Capitol of Tennessee.
The circumstances were such as exist only amid the throes and struggles of a mighty revolution. 
The audience were men and women who only three years ago were abject, miserable slaves, for whom there was apparently no future and no hope.
The man was he who in a few days was certain to be chosen to the second office within the gift of the American people.

ITS KEY NOTE.
And this man, whose views and those of the President, soon to be re-chosen, are known to be in exact accord, and who, from the position he holds, represents more than any other-man, save Lincoln, the power and majesty of the, Republic-this man, standing before that audience of trembling, crouching bondsmen-tore in pieces the last lingering excuse for outrage and wrong; threw from him the dishonored and dishonorable fragments; and planting himself squarely upon the principles of justice and eternal right, declared that, so far as he was concerned, there should henceforth be no compromise with slavery anywhere; but that the hour had come when worth and merit, without regard to birth and color, should be the standard by which to judge the value of a man.

THE CROWD.
Governor Johnson had already commenced speaking when I succeeded in forcing my way through the dense crowd of men and women who surrounded him, and stood within a few feet of him. I have said that he spoke from the steps leading up from the street (Cedar) to the State House yard. In front the street was filled up by a mass of human beings so closely compacted together that they seemed to compose one vast body, no part of which could move without moving the whole. The State House yard itself, and the great stone wall which separates it from the street, were also thronged. Over this vast crowd, the torches and transparencies, closely gathered together near the speaker, cast a ruddy glow; and as the light extended, the crowd could be seen stretching either way up and down the street.

THE PROCLAMATION.
I heard cheers and shouts long before I could distinguish the words of the speaker; but when at last I succeeded in getting close to the spot where he stood, a dead silence prevailed, unbroken save by the speaker's voice. I listened closely, and these, as far as my memory serves me, were the wonderful words:
COLORED MEN OF NASHVILLE: You have all heard of the President's Proclamation, by which he announced to the world that the slaves in a large portion of the seceded States were thenceforth and forever free. For certain reasons, which seemed wise to the President, the benefits of that Proclamation did not extend to you or to your native State. Many of you consequently were left in bondage. The taskmaster's scourge was not yet broken, and the fetters still galled your limbs. Gradually this iniquity has been passing away; but the hour has come when the last vestiges of it must be removed. Consequently, I, too, without reference to the President or any other person, have a proclamation to make, and, standing here upon the steps of the Capitol, with the past history of the State to witness, the present condition to guide, and its future to encourage me, I, Andrew Johnson, do hereby proclaim freedom, full, broad and unconditional, to every man. in Tennessee!"
It was one of those moments when the speaker seems inspired, and when his audience, catching the inspiration, rises to his level and becomes one with him. Strangely as some of the words of this immortal utterance sounded to those uncultivated ears, I feel convinced that not one of them was misunderstood. With breathless attention those sons of bondage hung upon each syllable; each individual seemed carved in stone until the last word of the grand climax was reached; and then the scene which followed beggars all description. One simultaneous roar of approval and delight burst from three thousand throats. Flags, banners, torches and transparencies were waved wildly over the throng, or flung aloft in the extract of joy. Drums, fifes and trumpets added to the uproar, and the mighty tumult of this great mass of human beings rejoicing for their race woke up the slumbering echoes of the Capitol, vibrated throughout the length and breadth of the city, rolled over the sluggish waters of the Cumberland, and rang out far into the night beyond.

ANDREW JOHNSON'S AGRARIANISM.
I am not attempting to repeat the Governor's speech. I had neither note-book nor pencil when I listened to him; and if I had both of them, I could not have used them in the midst of that closely wedged crowd. I wish only to describe a few of the points in his speech, which made the deepest impression on my mind.
Who has not heard of the great estate of Mack Cockrill, being situated near the city of Nashville-an estate whose acres; are numbered; by the; thousand, whose slaves were once counted by the score? Mack Cockrill, being a great slave owner, was of course a leading rebel, and in the very wantonness of wealth wrung from the sweat, and toil, and stolen wages of others, gave fabulous sums at the outset of the war to aid Jeff. Davis in overturning the Government.
Who has not heard of the princely estates of Gen. W. D. Harding, who, by means of his property alone, outweighed in influence any other man in Tennessee, no matter what was that other's worth or wisdom or ability? Harding, too, early espoused the cause of treason, and made it his boast that he had contributed, and directly induced others to contribute, millions of dollars in aid of that unholy cause.
These estates suggested to Gov. Johnson one of the most forcible points of his speech:
"I am no agrarian," said he. "I wish to see secured to every man, rich or poor, the fruits of his honest industry, effort or toil. I want each man to feel that what he has gained by his own skill or talent or exertion is rightfully his, and his alone. But if, through an iniquitous system, a vast amount of wealth has been accumulated in the hands, of one man, or a few men, then that result is wrong; and the sooner we can right it, the better for all concerned. It is wrong that Mack Cockrill and G. W. Harding, by means of forced and unpaid labor, should have monopolized so large a shave of the lands and wealth of Tennessee; and I say if their immense-plantations were divided up and parceled out amongst a number of free, industrious and honest farmers, it would give more good citizens to the Commonwealth, increase the wages of our mechanics, enrich the markets of our city, enliven all the arteries of trade, improve society, and add to the glory of the State."
And thus the Governor discussed the profoundest problems of politics and social life in the presence of the despised blacks of Nashville; in their hearing denounced the bloated monopoly of their masters; and used the overgrown estates of Harding and Cockrill to illustrate his doctrines, in the presence of Harding and Cockrill's slaves.

THE NASHVILLE ARISTOCRACY EXPOSED.
That portion of the Governor's speech in which he described and denounced the aristocracy of Nashville, I cannot hope to render properly, but there was one point which I roust not overlook. 
"The representatives of this corrupt, (and if you will permit me almost to swear a little) this damnable aristocracy taunt us with our desire: to see justice done, and charge us with favoring negro equality. Of all living men they should be the last to mouth that phrase; and when uttered in their hearing, it should cause their cheeks to tinge and burn with shame. Negro equality indeed! Why, pass, any day, along the sidewalk of High street where these aristocrats more particularly dwell-these aristocrats, whose sons are now in the bands, of guerrillas and cut-throats who prowl and rob and murder around our city-pass by their dwellings, I say, and you will see as many mulatto as negro children, they bearing an unmistakable resemblance to their aristocratic owners. 
"Colored men of Tennessee! This too shall cease! Your wives and daughters shall no longer be dragged into a concubinage, compared to which polygamy is a virtue, to satisfy the brutal lusts of slaveholders and overseers! Henceforth the sanctity of God's holy law of marriage shall be respected in your persons, and tire great State of Tennessee shall no more give her sanction to your degradation and your shame."
"Thank God! thank God!" came from the lips of a thousand women, who in their own persons had experienced the hellish iniquity of the man-seller's code. "Thank God!'' fervently echoed the fathers, husbands, brothers of those women. 
"And if the law protects you in the possession of your wives and children, if the law shields those whom you hold dear from the unlawful grasp of lust, will you endeavor to be true to yourselves, and shun, as it were death itself, the path of lewdness, crime and vice?" 
"We will! we will!" cried the assembled thousands; and joining in a sublime and tearful enthusiasm, another mighty shout went up to heaven.
<c04>
THE MOSES OF THE COLORED MEN.
"Looking at this vast crowd of colored people," continued the Governor, "reflecting through what a storm of persecution and obloquy they are compelled to pass, I am almost induced to wish that, as in the days of old, a Moses might arise who should lead them safely to their promised land of freedom and happiness."
"You are our Moses," shouted several voices, and the exclamation was caught up and cheered until the Capitol rung again.
"God," continued the speaker, "no doubt has prepared somewhere an instrument for the great work he designs to perform in behalf of this outraged people; and in due time your leader will come forth; your Moses will be revealed "to you."
"We want no Moses but you!" again shouted the Crowd. 
"Well, then," replied the speaker, "humble, and unworthy as I am, if no other better shall be found, I will indeed be your Moses, and lead you through the Red Sea of war and bondage to a fairer future of liberty and peace. I speak now as one who feels the world his country, and all who love equal rights his friends. I speak, too, as a citizen of Tennessee. I am here on my own soil; and here I mean to stay, and fight this great battle of truth and justice to a triumphant end. "Rebellion and slavery shall, by God's good help, no longer pollute our State. Loyal men, whether white or black, shall alone control her destinies; and when this strife in which we are all engaged is past, I trust, I know, we shall have a better state of things; and shall all rejoice that honest labor reaps the fruit of its own industry, and that every man has a fair chance in the race of life." 
It is impossible to describe the enthusiasm which followed these words. Joy beamed in every countenance. Tears and laughter followed, each other in quick succession. The great throng moved and swayed back and forth in the intensity of emotion; and shout after shout rent the air.
A man might have exchanged an ordinary immortality to have made such a speech to such an audience, and been much the gainer.
It was a speech significant of one of the loftiest positions to which mankind, struggling upward toward universal freedom, has as yet attained. 
The great Tribune descended from the steps of the capitol. As if by magic, the; dense throng parted to let him through. And all that night long his name was mingled with the curses and execrations of the traitor and oppressor, and with the blessings of the oppressed and poor. Y. S.

GEORGE THOMPSON AT THE CAPITAL OF VERMONT.
The celebrated English Anti-Slavery Agitator, George Thompson, visited Montpelier last Thursday, in response to the invitation of the General Assembly to address them. The Representatives' Hall was thrown open to him Thursday evening, and a brilliant audience crowded the Chamber, occupying every inch of available room, to receive and welcome the distinguished apostle of the gospel of freedom. The Hall never presented a finer picture, resplendent with a multitude of jets of burning gas, and brilliant with he thousand rich and gay colors .which adorned the fairer portion of the audience. The men who had known, admired, almost loved George Thompson thirty years ago, when his voice was first heard in this country denouncing with his wonderful eloquence he infamous institution of slavery, were among the audience, come to hear and see him face to face whom they had hitherto held in such great admiration. Younger men, who had later joined the anti slavery movement, were not a whit behind the pioneers in the cause in their desire to hear him who had been the champion of anti-slavery when it required a bold man to speak in its behalf, even in England. And hundreds of those who, four years ago, would hardly have eared even by their presence to welcome this agitator-who is even now, by such good conservative people as are a long way behind the age and the march of events, stigmatized as a fanatic-were there to hear this orator of world-wide celebrity. And on the outskirts of the crowd, and where they thought they might he safe from the arrows of his terrible sarcasm, lingered a few of the pro-slavery Democrats of our time, whose admiration of his genius had drawn them within the charmed circle of those who listened to the noble oratory of George Thompson. 
At seven o'clock Mr. Thompson, accompanied by Lt. Governor Dillingham, President of the Senate, and Hon. A. B. Gardner, Speaker of the House, entered the Chamber. Lt. Gov. Dillingham introduced Mr. Thompson. For two hours the distinguished gentleman held the crowded auditory entranced by the magic of his clear reasoning, his admirable arrangement of facts, and his magnificent rhetoric. We shall make no attempt to give even an abstract of the speech. It was reported by an accomplished shorthand writer, and, after being revised "by Mr. Thompson, will be published in pamphlet form, and we hope then to be able to give our readers the larger part, if not the whole of it, in the Freeman. The dense assemblage in the Hall were delighted and captivated by the grand eloquence and the perfect elocution of the speaker, and the speech will have a large sale. 
Mr. Thompson was, we understand, well pleased. with his reception here. It was his first visit to Vermont, but he expressed the confident opinion that it would not be his last; and we are sure every one who heard him will be rejoiced to have another opportunity to welcome to Vermont this English friend of America, this warm-hearted champion of the rights of man. -Montpelier Freeman.

OVATION TO GEORGE THOMPSON.
1835 vs 1864.
The largest audience ever gathered within the walls of any building in this city assembled last evening at Eagle Hall, to do honor to George Thompson, and to manifest by their presence and interest the marked change which has taken place in the popular sentiment of America on the question of human rights, and in favor of Justice and Liberty". At an early hour all the seats were taken, and all the available standing room occupied. At half-past 7 o'clock, Mr. Thompson, accompanied by Mayor Gale, B. E. Prescott and Colonel Wm. E. Chandler, was escorted from the Eagle Hotel to the Hall by a company of the Reserve Corps and the Brigade Band. Mr. Prescott, in a brief and complimentary; manner, introduced Mr. Thompson to the audience, who greeted him heartily.
Mr. Thompson said: Nine and twenty years ago, I paid my first visit to Concord. What I was then that I am now. If I was the enemy of your country then, I am so to-day; if I was the friend of America then, I am equally so to-night. It may be asked, why should an Englishman, at this "crisis, speak to an American audience? It is because I have been the defender and eulogizer of your institutions; in England; I have always been an admirer of your democratic form of government; and for four years past have devoted my time, energy and means to counter act the aims and designs of the enemies of your country in England,
If I was an American citizen, I should support Abraham Lincoln and Andy Johnson, as he representatives of true American democracy-not that misnomer, labeled Chicago democracy.
Mr. Thompson then enumerated various weighty reasons for preferring Mr. Lincoln to Gen. McClellan Mr. Thompson proceeded at length to show that slavery had been the only element to disturb the peace of the country, and traced its progress from the early formation of the government down to the time it culminated in rebellion against the government. How it controlled the political, religious, moral, social, commercial and literary institutions of the country, closing this part of his address with a new and impressive application of the scriptural passage, "Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's, and unto God the things which are God's."
He then proceeded to say that there were two nations in England--an aristocracy and the common people. If you succeed, aristocracy falls in England. It cannot be for you, in the very nature of things. My heart is with the people. Their sympathy is for you. Of this they have given indisputable evidence of the cotton manufacturing districts and throughout the kingdom. The people of England have always carried the day against the aristocracy; and in illustration of this assertion, he cited the efforts for civil liberty, Catholic emancipation, extension of suffrage, emancipation of India and China from the control of a monopoly, and the corn laws.
Mr. Thompson gave some account of the means and measures which the people of England had taken to the wart the designs of secession emissaries abroad, particularly in the organization of union and emancipation societies.
After tracing the rise and progress of political anti-slavery in this country from 1840 to the present time, evincing a surprising familiarity with our history, he closed his eloquent and instructive address by urging the people to consummate their work with a constitutional amendment forever abolishing and prohibiting slavery. 
At the close of the address of two hours and a half, Mr. Thompson was greeted with prolonged cheers.
Owing to a misunderstanding, General Hinks was not present; but shortly after 10 o'clock an extra train arrived from Manchester, bringing Vice President Hamlin, who was escorted to the Hall by the Reserve Corps and Band. He made a characteristic speech of nearly an hour, of which our limits will not permit us to give an abstract to-day. Suffice it to say that it was patriotic and telling, and elicited hearty responses from the audience that, patiently waited until the close of the meeting. At the conclusion of the speech, cheer upon cheer was given for Mr. Hamlin, Mr. Thompson, as the representative-of English democracy, our boys in blue, and Lincoln and Johnson. -Concord (N.H.) Monitor.
<c05>
RETALIATION IN THE ARMY OF THE POTOMAC.-Correspondence between Les and Grant.-The following is a synopsis of correspondence which lately passed between General Lee and Grant, on the subject
of retaliation:
"General Lee opened the correspondence on October 16, in a letter in which he says that he learns that the rebel Secretary of War has information from Gen. Butler, that the latter had placed Confederate officers and soldiers at work on Dutch Gap, in retaliation for Federal colored soldiers who had been placed in the Richmond fortifications by the Confederate authorities.
Lee then goes on to say that his Government has pursued the following policy: All negroes in the military or naval service of the United States taken prisoners by the Confederate forces, and who are not identified as the property of citizens of the Confederacy, are treated as prisoners of war, and are held as proper subjects of exchange; but negroes who owe service, or labor to citizens of the Confederacy, and are found in the Federal army, occupy, he says, a different position. The rights to the service or labor of the negro slaves in the Confederate States are the same, he adds, as when those States were members of the Union. The Constitutional relations and obligations of the Confederacy to this kind of property are the same as those so long maintained by the Federal Government.
Gen. Lee then reviews the history of our country relative to the abduction of negroes, at length, and concludes by saying that fifty colored soldiers, captured from Gen. Butler, were recognized as belonging to residents of the Confederacy, and these men were ordered to work on the Richmond fortifications until their owners should claim them; but they have been withdrawn. He says, further, that if any negroes are included among those placed on the fortifications who were not identified by their owners, he is not aware of it. These colored men, he declares, are not exposed to our fire. Gen. Lee then concludes as follows: In view of the statement that I have made, I now inquire whether the course pursued toward our prisoners-that of placing them to work in Dutch Gap-has your sanction, and whether it will be maintained?
Gen. Grant's reply is as follows:
HEADQUARTERS ARMIES OF THE UNITED STATES, October 28,1864.
To Gen. R. E. Lee, C. S. A., Commanding Army of Northern Virginia:
General: Understanding from your letter of the 16th that the colored prisoners who were employed in the trenches near Fort Gilmer have been withdrawn, I have directed the withdrawal of the Confederate prisoners employed in the Dutch Gap Canal. I shall always regret the necessity of retaliation for wrongs done our soldiers, but regard it my duty to protect all persons received into the army of the United States, regardless of color or nationality. When acknowledged soldiers of the Government are captured, they must be treated as prisoners of war, or such treatments they receive will be inflicted upon an equal number of prisoners held by us. 
I have nothing to do with the discussion of the slavery question, and therefore decline answering arguments adduced to show the right to return to former owners such negroes as are captured from our; army.
In answer to the question at the conclusion of your letter, I have to state that all prisoners of war falling into my hands shall receive the kindest treatment possible consistent with securing them, unless I have good authority for believing any number of our men are being treated otherwise. Then, painful as it may become, I shall inflict like treatment upon an equal number of Confederate prisoners. Hoping it may never become necessary to order retaliation upon any man held as a prisoner of war, I have the honor to be very respectfully, Your obedient servant,
U. S. GRANT, Lieutenant General.

THE GREAT CONSPIRACY IN THE NORTH. WEST.
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., Nov. 4. Horace Heffron, Deputy Grand Commander of the "Sons of Liberty" in Indiana, who is on trial here for participation in the treasonable conspiracy, to-day turned State's evidence, and made startling revelations of the schemes of the order. He said nobody but democrats were admitted or would be if applied. He confirmed the previous evidence of military organization in the order, and the appointment of a Major General to command. Dr. Bowles, one of the accused, is Commander-in-Chief.
Dr. James P. Wilson, recently arrested, is the Adjutant General on his staff. He said a committee of 13 was appointed to prepare the-insurrection, and the insurrection was intended to release the rebel prisoners in the North West, arm them from the Government Arsenals, Overturn the State Government, kill
Governor Morton, or hold him as a hostage for captured insurrectionists, and then form the North, West into a separate confederacy.
He said that he was told by Adyta. Gen. Wilson that $500,000 had been sent by the rebel agents in Canada into the North West to purchase arms for the order, and that $200,000 had been left in Indiana in the hands of Dodd and John C. Walker, State agent. Heffron further swore that the committee of thirteen had appointed ten men to kill Governor Morton; and that a few days since the Governor received a letter, signed by one of the men, declaring that the writer and associates had sworn to kill him (Morton), and would do it. If Morton was killed, Dr. Anthon, Secretary of State, and member of the order, was to take his place, as provided by law.

THE LECTURE ON THE FUTURE OF THE COLORED RACE IN AMERICA. 
Bemis Hall was crowded on Monday night by such an audience as is rarely seen within its walls, to listen to a lecture upon the above subject by Henry W. Johnson, our talented colored-fellow-townsman. The lecture- was able, and full of interest as an attempted solution, by one of their own number, of the great social question becoming every day more important and more embarrassing, "What is to become of the colored population?" As we hope to see the lecture in print, we defer any attempt at a summary or at criticism, and substitute for any laudatory remarks of our own the following resolutions, which were prepared by a committee of members of the bar, consisting of his Honor Judge James C. Smith, E. G. Lapham, H. O. Cheesbro, and M. C. Wells, Esqrs., and submitted to the audience at the close of the lecture:-
Whereas our fellow-townsman, Henry W. Johnson, after many years of residence among us-having during that period gained the respect and confidence of all who have known him, and having, by unremitting toil and unceasing conflict with the thousand obstacles with which poverty and race have clogged his progress, fitted himself to adorn a learned and laborious profession-is about to take his departure from among us, to cast his lot among his own people oil the distant shores of Liberia, and has this evening justified his course toward his race in so doing by a masterly effort of logic and eloquence; therefore,
Resolved, That we tender him our thanks for his able and interesting address on "The Future of the Colored Race in America," and commend its teachings to the colored people of our country.
Resolved, That in his projected departure for the native home of his race, he carries with him our warmest wishes for his entire success and prosperity, and for the future welfare of his adopted country.
Resolved, That in full faith we commend Henry W. Johnson to the community in which he is about to cast his lot as worthy their fullest and truest confidence as a well-read lawyer, an accomplished orator, and an honest man.
On motion of H. O. Cheesbro, Esq., seconded in a few remarks by E. G. Lapham, Esq., the resolutions were unanimously adopted.-Seneca Falls, (N. Y.) paper.
"OUR YOUNG FOLKS" is the title of a new Magazine for boys and girls, which Ticknor & Fields are about to issue. The idea is a good one, and theirs is just the house to carry it out. Among the contributors who have been secured for the early numbers, and who will continue to write regularly, are Captain Mayne Reid, who leads off with a new story of adventure; J. T. Trowbridge, who will write in every issue; Mrs. H. B. Stowe; Gail Hamilton; Dio Lewis; Lucy Larcom; "Carleton;" John G. Whittier; the author of "Dream Children;" the author of "Faith Gartney's Girlhood;" the author of the "Lamplighter;" Miss Alcott; "Edmund Kirke;" Aunt Fanny; the author of "Ten Acres Enough;" and Mrs. L. M. Child. The department of Natural History will be ably represented by Mr. and Mrs. Agassiz, who will supply for every number during the year a paper with illustrations."
The. remains of the late Rev. STARR KING were removed from the vault at Lone Mountain Cemetery, and deposited in the new vault prepared for them in the enclosure of the church on Geary-street. Mrs. KING, Rev. Dr. BELLOWS, Rev. Dr. STEBBINS and a number of the personal friends of the deceased were present. The ceremonies were of the most impressive character. Mr. Stebbins delivered an address and Dr. Bellows a prayer, after which the coffin was placed in the base of the monument. The monument is of Columbia marble, of the most tasteful finish, and was cut out of solid block, which in its rough state weighed twenty tons.-Alta California.
It is said that upwards of nine hundred women are going out from England to India to be employed on various telegraphic lines of communication.
<c06>
CHURCH OF THIS NEW TESTAMENT, (In dependent,) comer of Eleventh and Wood streets, Philadelphia. T. K. STOCKTON, Senior Pastor. ALEXANDER CLARK, Junior Pastor. Residence 1212 North Thirteenth street.
Preaching every Sabbath at 10 1-2 A. M., and 5 1-2, P. M.
Social Meeting every Sabbath, at 7 1-3, P. M.
Brief Lecture and Singing Class, Wednesday, at 7 1-2, P. M.
Sabbath School at 9, A. M., and 2, P. M,
Teachers' Prayer Meeting, Saturday, at 9 1-2, P. M.
Soldiers and Strangers especially invited. Seats free.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References--Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.

A NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
THE FRIEND OF PROGRESS.
NO. 1, for November, contains Bar. O. B. Frothingham's Discourse before the Alumni at Cambridge, entitled, "THE NEW RELIGION OF NATURE," with a variety of other contributions.
$2 per year. Single numbers, 20 cents. To be had of the News dealers.
C. M. PLUMB & CO, Publishers,
Oct. 28. 274 Canal St, New York.

A SCHOOL MAGAZINE FREE!
CLARK'S SUNDAY SCHOOL VISITOR-Vol. IX.-1865.
SEVENTY-FIVE CENTS A YEAR.
Readings, Dialogues, Speeches, Music, Poems, Mathematics, Grammar, Enigmas, Rebuses, &c.
THE Publisher of this popular DAY SCHOOL MONTHLY, in order to reach all parts of the country, will send the VISITOR ONE YEAR FREE to ONE PERSON, (who will act as agent,) AT ANY POST OFFICE in the United States.
Address, with five cents, for particulars, 
J. W. DAUGADAY, PUBLISHER,
1308 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Exchanges copying the above, and sending a marked copy, will receive the VISITOR for one year.
Nov. 11.
THE HUMAN FACE DIVINE." A New System of Physiognomy-Eyes, Ears, Nose, Lips, Mouth, Head, Hair, Hands, Feet, Skin, with all' SIGNS OF CHARACTER,' and How to Head Than, given in
THE PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL AND LIFE- ILLUSTRATED for 1865. S. R, WELLS, EDITOR. Portraits of Remarkable Men, in every calling, illustrating different Phases of Human Character, the sane and the insane, the virtuous and the vicious-PHYSIOGNOMY, ETHNOLOGY, PHRENOLOGY, PSYCHOLOGY, etc., in each number. New Volume, 41st, for 1865. Monthly. Only $2 a year. "Now is the time to subscribe." Sample numbers by first post, 20 cents. Please address MESSRS. FOWLER & WELLS, 389 Broadway, New York.
Nov. 11. . 4w
SENATOR WILSON'S BOOK,
SHOWING what the present Administration hat accomed for freedom. Being a

History of the Anti-Slavery Measures of the 37th and 38th Congresses.
CONTESTS.
Slaves used for Insurrectionary purposes made Free.
Fugitive Slaves not to be returned by Persons in the Army.
The Abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia.
President's Proposition to Aid States in the Abolishment of Slavery.
Prohibition of Slavery in the Territories.
Certain Slaves to be made Free.
Hayti and Liberia.
Education of Colored Youth in the District of Columbia.
The African Slave-Trade.
Additional Act to Abolish Slavery in the District of Columbia.
Colored Soldiers:
Aid to the States to Emancipate their Slaves.
Amendment of the Constitution.
Confinement of Colored Persons in the Washington Jail.
Negro Testimony.
The Coastwise Slave-Trade.
Color no Disqualification for Carrying the Mails.
No Exclusion from the Cars on Account of Color. 12 No.-EXTRA CLOTH-$2.

ALSO NOW READY:
THE YOUNG CRUSOE: OR, ADVENTURES or A SHIPWRECKED BOY. By Dr. Harley. 12mo., with six full page and a profusion of smaller illustrations, in ANDREW'S best style. $1.50. Boys will find this one of the most entertaining and attractive books produced for their delight this year.

JUST PUBLISHED:
PHILOSOPHY AS ABSOLUTE SCIENCE. By E. L. & A. L. Frothingham. 1 vol. 8vo. elegant. $3.50.
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
245 Washington Street, BOSTON. Oct. 21. 2w
E. M. BANNISTER,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
ROOM 85, STUDIO BUILDING,
TREMONT STREET, BOSTON.
FOR SALE OF DIX PLACE,
A VERY pleasant and convenient House, having a large yard stocked with grapes, trees and foliage. The rear opens immediately upon Burroughs place, which secures abundant light, sunshine and pure air. The house is quiet, being removed some 200 feet from Washington street. To a person wanting a retired yet central and healthful residence, this estate offers a rare chance. Apply to R. E. APTHORP, 21 City Exchange, Devonshire street, lower floor. Oct. 7.
"FREE LOVE,"
OR a Philosophical Demonstration of the non-exclusive nature of Connubial Love. To which is added, a Review of and Reply to the exclusive phase in the writings of the Fowlers, Adin Ballou, H. C. Wright, and A. J. Davis, on the Love and Marriage question. Price, (post-paid,) 50 cents, or to the poor, in paper, 35 cents. Sold by the Author-AUSTIN KENT, East Stockholm, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. Sept. 30.

A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
OTTAWA, La Salle Co., Illinois.
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants. References:
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston. A. L. PAIN, Esq., Suffolk Bank, do. FARWELL, FIELD & Co., Chicago, Illinois. STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D. C. Sept 12. tf
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 4, seven cents. Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 now ready, 22 cents.
Address ANDREW J. GRAHAM,.
491 Broadway, New York. June 24. tDeo. I.
The Friend of Progress.
ANEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE, loyal and responsible to all true educational, philanthropic and religions movements. The Publishers invite the co-operation of all who love their fellow-men. $2 per year. Single numbers 20 cents. No. 1 now ready.
C. M. PLUMB 4 CO., Publishers, Oct. 31. 274 Canal street, New York.
IMPROVEMENT IN Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to 
No. 31 WINTER STREET, where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is son there are none to excel her in producing s new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one. else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all eases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They axe and packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNUSTER. No.31 Winter Street, Boston.
184 THE LIBERATOR. NOVEMBER 11.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
TO A PLANE-TREE,
In the Court-yard, before my chamber window.
BY ALMIRA SEYMOUR.
Dark thy beginnings were, beautiful Tree,
In the stinted soil of this narrow place;
The 'poisoning walls of thy destiny
Hiding thy mother Nature's face,
And no sister sapling or nestling vine
To mingle its gentle leaf-whispers with thine.
Beyond these walls and the hurrying street,
Thy kindred, of many proud families,
In social ranks and gay groups meet,
Twining their arms in friendliest ties;
And their cheerfully blended voices come
To mock the silence of thy lone home.
But no repining contracted thy form,
No morbid musing consumed thy force;
Upward, still upward, through sun or storm
Patiently striving has been thy course-
Erect, majestic, and gracefully fair
As thou hardest been nurtured with kindliest care.
And, lo! far above you established Church,
Above e'en a Nation's Justice halls,
And homes where fortune and fashion perch,
The sun's first glance on thy regal head falls;
And the lingering smile of each finished day
Round thy heaven-kissed forehead loves to play.
Thou speakest a lesson, beautiful Tree,
A lofty lesson of life to my soul;
Patience and Truth conquer destiny-
Bringing darkness and dearth under their control;
And the very clogs that were meant to confine,
Become stepping-stones up to heights divine.
10 Temple-Place, Boston, Oct. 19, 1864.

For the Liberator.
THE SLAVE'S SONG.
Behold! the sweet day is dawning;
Arising, see Freedom's bright sun!
Breaking, we hail the glad morning-
The work of the slave lord is done!
Fetters and chains are all falling-
Tyrants are trembling with fear;
Fair Freedom to me is calling-
The day of deliverance is here.
Our toils and troubles are ending;
No more shall we labor in pain;
Justice and Freedom are sending
Their sweet voices over the plain.
No more shall we live in sadness,
Or water the soil with our tears;
Sowing and reaping in gladness,
We will happily pass the years. D. M. H.
ELECTION SONG. 
[Written 1660. From the Luttrell Collection.]
Great God of nations and their right!
By whose high auspice Britain stands
So long, though first was built on sands,
And oft had sunk but for Thy might:
In her own mainland storms and seas,
Be present to her now as then;
And let not proud and factious men
Oppose Thy will with what they please
Our free full senates to be made-
Oh, put it to the public voice!
So make a legal, worthy choice,
Excluding such as would invade
The Commonwealth: let whom we name
Have wisdom, foresight, fortitude;
Be more with faith than face endued;
And study conscience above fame:
Such as not seek to get the start
In State by faction, power, or bribes.
Ambitions bands, but more the tribes
By virtue, modesty, desert:
Such as to justice will adhere,
Whatever great one it offend;
And from the embraced track not bend
For envy, hatred, gifts, or fear:
That by their deeds will make it known
Whose dignity they do sustain;
And Life, State, Glory-all they gain-
Count it as Britains', not their own.
Such the old Bruit, Deii were,
The Soipii, Cnrtii who did give
Themselves for Rome, and would not live
Its men, good only for a year.
Such were the great Camilli, too,
The Fabii, Scipii, that still thought
No work at price enough was bought,
That for their country they could do.
And to her honor so did knit,
As all their acts were understood-
The sinews of the public good-
And they themselves as souls with it.
These men were truly magistrates;
These neither practised force nor forms;
Nor did they leave the helm in storms:
And such they are make happy States!

"I WILL NEVER RETRACT."
BY EARL MARBLE.
"They may defeat us; but, if we fall, we will fall with our principles. I will never retract my Proclamation of Emancipation."-PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
"I will never retract!" though' the light through the gloom
From the battle-field fainter and fainter comes stealing;
Though the rifle's shrill whistle and cannon's dull boom
Are succeeded by only the dread crack of doom,
And the world in its frenzy and madness is reeling.
Though the black hosts of ill may my scepter lay low
For the treacherous one there are faithful eleven;
And I ne'er will add aught to his full page of woe,
To the poor praying slave giving back a cold "No!"
For ye always shall reap whatsoever ye sow,
Is the mandate that comes from the throne of high heaven.
"I will never retract!" He himself is a host,
In his manhood the cohorts of evil defying:
Then stand by him, ye freemen, and give as a toast,
"The proud land of our fathers, of freemen the boast,
And the undaunted hero with faith e'er undying."
Stand by him, ye slaves, having free papers sealed
With the best, noblest blood of the suffering nation;
Stand by him, ye heroes of crimson-dyed field,
Who stood up erect as the dread cannon peeled,
And never e'en blanched till in anguish ye kneeled,
And prayed 'gainst Chicago's proposed separation.
"I will never retract!" 'Tis a maxim as proud
As ever was uttered by dust-embalmed hero.
"I will never retract!" Go and cry it aloud,
Till the traitors in sackcloth and ashes have bowed,
Who cluster in fear around Richmond's great Nero!
"Uncle Abe," (the title is hallowed and dear,)
We ask you, in view of these words, to remember,
Though the eye be a-dim with the bitterest tear,
And the heart reaches forth o'er a yet open bier,
That the hand with & ballot will thank you, as ne'er
Was a man thanked before, on the eighth of November!

OUR COUNTRY'S REDEMPTION.
Our country was shattered and falling,
No strength had it whereon to lean;
But now dawns its day of redemption,
The time of its triumph draws nigh.
No longer a nation of bondmen
Lift mancled hands to the sky;
But God in his glory appeareth,
And, cleaving the channel of red,
These dark hosts, by him marshal's over,
The fair land of promise shall tread.
And the eyes of the nations in darkness
Shall still turn upon us for light,
As, scaling the pure heights of freedom,
We grow in our grandeur and might.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE WAR PLANE.
PRINCETON, Oct. 17,1864.
MR. GARRISON-I reverence the Liberator so much, for its brave and ever-memorable advocacy of impartial freedom when slaveholding was popular and dominant, that anything in its columns looking to the support or encouragement of tyrannical measures disturbs me as would the inconstancy of an oracle. It was surely unintentional, but is not your " leader' of last week open to that charge? The "war plane on which the President stands" evidently deprives him of moral authority, rather than confers additional rights not held by civil magistrates or private citizens in time of peace. Because robbers upon the seas "stand on the plane" of piracy, do they the less override civil and international law, and become enemies of the race? Because Jefferson Davis "stands on the plane" of slavery, has he therefore the right to found a government with that cruel system as its cornerstone? Doubtless the President acts within the scope of human government, but that does not authorize him to set aside Divine Law, or put the Union outside the jurisdiction of the Court of Heaven. It is not apparent that, if Mr. Lincoln has an "acknowledged standard of duty and sworn obligations" to do wrong, that that makes wrong-doing right, or gives him a monopoly of fashionable iniquity. I am aware that war involves every usurpation; it is the latest edition of the "sum of all villanies," and "repeals all the commandments"; but is that a reason why Non-Resistants, under a rampant ascendency of brute force inspired by ferocious human passions, should hasten to absolve magistrates from moral obligations, and volunteer arguments to suppress the time-honored guarantees of freedom?
To the plea, that these questionable means may be invoked to secure the desirable end of abolishing slavery, I need only reply, in the language of the Declaration of 1833 at Philadelphia, that while the fathers of'76 "poured out human blood like water, in order to be free, our principles forbid the doing of evil that good -may come, and lead us to reject, and to entreat the oppressed to reject, the use of all carnal weapons for deliverance from bondage." As your venerated friend and coadjutor, ADIN BALLOU, argued, that Declaration evidently binds the Anti-Slavery Society, fighters not less than non-combatants, against the advocacy or the tolerance of the sword as an agent of emancipation; for all know war to be an "evil." One step towards sin does not authorize a second, but the repentance and abandonment of the first. Because war involves despotic and wicked measures, because it is sinful and unchristian, therefore it is impolitic and unnecessary; and it,-and what comes of it,-must be denounced as the crime and blunder it is.
But the other and more direct inference drawn from the "war plane" premise is still more questionable. You affirm that, "judging the President by the war plane on which he stands, he should have imprisoned many more Northern traitors, (hung Vallandigham, Liberator, July 31, 1864,) and suppressed many more treasonable newspapers." In your "WRITINGS AND SPEECHES," reprinted from the Liberator, you say, (pp. 239-248)-
"Free speech and free inquiry are not only the best weapons, but none others may be innocently used against wrong ... A forcible suppression of error is no aid to the cause of truth; and to allow only just such views and sentiments to be spoken and circulated as we think are correct is to combine bigotry and cowardice in equal proportion . . True, a man may be presumptuous, perverse, and his principles wrong. But this is certain; he who is for forcibly stopping the mouth of his opponent, or burning any man at the stake, or thrusting him into prison, or exacting a pecuniary fine against him, or treating him scornfully on account of his peculiar views on any subject, whether relating to God or man, to time or eternity, is either under the diminion of a spirit of ruffianism or cowardice, or animated by that fierce intolerance which characterized Saul of Tarsus in his zeal to exterminate the heresy of Christianity."
When, incarnating these solemn truths in a noble example, you often went up to the State House to protest against the gallows, the death-penalty, and all the thousand cruelties and retaliations which society inflicts upon its victims, convicted of crime "on due process of law," you were understood. But now, to not a few of your most devoted friends, aside from the wholesale murders of the war you favor the continuance of, your published sentiments seem quite irreconcilable with "imprisoning many more Northern traitors, and suppressing many more treasonable newspapers," in contempt and defiance of "due process of law" even.
Early in the war, arbitrary measures-though, fortunately, not to the extent of hanging political opponents for the expression of opinion-were tried and abandoned; the Tribune, the Evening Post, and Mr. Lincoln himself, to his lasting honor be it said, pronouncing them "inexpedient." Will the Liberator, which pronounces such measures to be abstractly wrong, encourage them, at this late day, as practically right? If these apprehensions are ill-founded, you will greatly oblige me by pointing out the error; for it is not pleasant to differ from a revered friend and benefactor, to whom I owe so much. It is my duty, however, to state, that such impressions are widely and increasingly entertained by Abolitionists as I meet them on the lecture circuit; by men and women who have stood by the Liberator through all the dark hours of the past, and will do everything consistent with truth to uphold it until every slave is free. But these unswerving friends of freedom and peace are pained and gravely alarmed that a paper, which they have laid next their Bibles, should have no protest against the great wrongs incident to the attempted settlement of the slave question by the sword. E. H. H.
REMARKS. It looks to us as if our correspondent is somewhat eager and anxious for controversy-or, at least, is in a most hypercritical state of mind-to thus seek to raise an issue with us on the question of non-resistance per se, merely because, repelling the false and malicious accusation of seditious Copperheads, that President Lincoln has acted in a tyrannical and unconstitutional manner in the matter of arrests, we asserted that, "judging the President by the war plane on which be stands "-as if he were to be judged by any other rule, in replying to the Copperhead accusation aforesaid!-"he should have imprisoned many more Northern traitors and suppressed many more treasonable newspapers." That is our conviction still, despite the uncalled-for homily of "E. H. H." on non-resistance, and notwithstanding the quotation which he has made from our Writings. How the expression of that conviction militates against any of the principles we have advocated, it is not given us to perceive. Had the Apostle Paul not a right to measure "on their own plane," those Jews who, in his day, rejected the gospel, when he said-" Ye that are under the law, do ye not hear the law?"-though the law gendered to bondage? If "E. H. H." does, we do not know of any non-resistant, who, "under a rampant ascendency of brute force inspired by ferocious human passions," are disposed to "hasten to absolve magistrates from moral obligations, and volunteer arguments to suppress the time-honored guarantees of freedom." But we know of an exceptional non-resistant who is so unwise or so unfortunate in his treatment of the awful straggle through which the nation is passing, as to give aid and comfort to those traitorous dissemblers " who cry peace, peace, when there is no peace."
As to those Abolitionists, who, it is alleged, "are pained and gravely alarmed "'at the course of the Liberator respecting the war, they are mythical to us; but, wherever or whoever they may be, they will expect us to be as faithful to our highest convictions of duty as we desire them to be to theirs. If they are unable to tolerate such dessent, their remedy, is in discontinuing their subscriptions.-[Ed. Lib.
<c03>
THOUGHTS SUGGESTED BY MR.PHILLIPS'S SPEECH.
"It is not by our black slaves in the South, but by our white slaves in the North, that we govern you." Thus on the floor of the Senate, near forty years ago, John Randolph taunted these Free States, and scoffed at their representatives. It was no empty boast, but a momentous truth, by Which we might have profited to avert the bloody arbitrament by which divine justice has awarded to our lengthened complicity with the meanest and most high-handed villany which can be perpetrated by man against man, or by sets of men against civil society. For two-thirds of a century, commencing with the slave-driving and slavery-driven factions of 1800, no conceivable sub subservience to the ambition, rapacity, luxury, pride and vanity of the slavemongering oligarchy has been refused by the self-abased, scourged and trampled North.
Unequal taxation, whereby four-fifths of the burden were cast upon free to the almost total exemption of slave labor, was uniformly claimed, intrigued for and bribed for by the masters of slaves, and allowed by the unfaithful representatives and infatuated people of the North.
Vast tracts of slave territory were purchased successively at this preponderating cost, and otherwise to the injury of the North; and all with the unblushing and almost incredible avowal of "strict constructionists," and the "State rights" and Democratic school, that such acquisitions were violations of the Constitution!
On the other hand, immense territories in the extreme Northeast and Northwest, long appropriated by Free States, and occupied by freemen, or from their situation and character unconvertible to the uses of slavery and the aggrandizement of the Slave Power, were surrendered to a formidable slave-emancipating neighbor, to propitiate his acquiescence in the extension of the domains of the Republic, and of slavery in the South.
Unjust and unprovoked war was made in an unconstitutional manner and upon false pretences against Mexico, to confirm the acquisitions of slavery-extending filibusters, to enlarge immeasurably their piratical robberies, and to aggravate and stamp upon the entire nation the deep guilt and infamy of their crimes.
The protection of American "sailors' rights" to life, liberty, property, and the pursuit of happiness under the national flag, within our national jurisdiction and our own ports, was surrendered in deference to slave laws, admitted by their authors, and decided by slaveholding judges, to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United States. These flagrant wrongs were connived at by the national authorities, constituted in great part and wholly Controlled as usual by slavemongers, who were then fresh from a perilous foreign war, professedly and solely waged to protect those rights not half so much outraged by Great Britain as now by themselves.
Under this criminal neglect of Congress and the national Executive, envoys, sent by the aggrieved to the offending States to test the validity of their laws in their own courts, were violently expelled by threats of personal injury, and pursued by mobs acting at the instigation and under the lead of officers of those States. All which was virtually sanctioned by the formal and repeated refusal of Congress to take any action upon the subject, and disgracefully acquiesced in by the insulted and injured States, and by the people.
Hundreds and thousands of visitors or sojourners in the slave States, peaceably pursuing their lawful business, were robbed of their property, imprisoned, cruelly lashed, lynched and murdered with ingenious and protracted cruelties; and these horrid enormities, committed upon American citizens, guilty of no offence even under the Draconic slave codes, and specially protected by the Federal Constitution, in whatever State they might choose to travel or abide, were submitted to without opposition or remonstrance by the Nation, the Free States, and political parties of every description.
The Slave Power, regulating with its Northern underlings and allies the subject of taxation, dispensing the treasure, controlling appointments and removals, both civil and military, commanding the army and navy, and arrogating to itself two-thirds of all the offices, though possessing but one third of the white population, bestowed the minor and local ones which remained upon Northern men, selfish and unscrupulous, of course, because selected and pledged to do the bidding of their master, and blindly obey their behests. Often they were as incompetent as they were corrupt. Many hundred sinecures were created that the incumbents might traverse States and districts, deceive the well-meaning but not well-informed, and seduce by bribes and promises of office the young and unwary, the ambitious and mercenary. Honors and emoluments accorded to the profligate, the incapable and disreputable, are proscriptions of the wise, virtuous and honorable; and wherever such abuses have prevailed under the tyrants of the old world, they have been deemed the badges of a subjugated people, and most jealously guarded against. The history and traditions of these Free States, and of every considerable town and village, teem with instances of proscription equalling in injustice, tyranny and disregard of the public interests, those decreed by usurping dictators and trimmers in ancient Borne. This system continued, except with slight interruptions under John Quincy Adams, Gen. Harrison and General Taylor, during this century up to the accession of Lincoln. It makes offices cease to seek good men, and causes bad men in multitudes to seek office. It reverses the moral government of God, rewarding vice and punishing virtue, and has tended to a wider and more rapid demoralization of our country than that which marked the decline and fall of the Roman State. It would work the destruction of any State and the corruption of any people, and ought to.
The same Northern underlings, whose history I have briefly touched, are now striving as earnestly to win for the rebels by ballots, as the rebels to win for them by bullets; and both to the same end, that men who are guilty of the highest crime known to human laws, men who have perpetrated during four years of rebellion atrocities innumerable, continued and diabolical, such as savages never invented, and fiends of the lowest pit alone can conceive, may escape with impunity, and go without day. The ferocious villains, the double edged traitors, parricides and wholesale murderers, who treat even the dead as though they wanted to murder them over again, avow that their only ray of hope rests on the defeat of Lincoln; that they can cooperate as effectually with their Northern confederates by victories on the field, as they used formerly to do by votes at the hustings. They mean that they can contribute to the common cause of tyranny, injustice and slavery by the slaughter and disgrace of the patriotic, self-consecrated and noble defenders of their country, of liberty and the rights and dignity of free labor, as their " white slaves" can by purchasing and depositing votes, importing the restoration of rebels to places of honor, emolument, and supreme power, the reenslavement of two hundred thousand enfranchised heroes, and millions of others blessed with the boon of liberty by the President's lawful act, and the eternal dishonor and most cruel betrayal of all our beloved heroes living, and of the memory of those glorious martyrs, their comrades dead!
By such means, and at such cost, the Copperheads or "white slaves" calculate to return to their masters, and gorge themselves anew at the flesh-pots of Egypt. They accuse our sagacious, honest and inflexible statesman at the head of the Government, and our military leaders, unsurpassed in skill and valor by those of any country or age, and our brave and unequalled army, of having made a grand failure during four years of more and more successful fighting than the world ever saw in an equal period before; and they accuse him and them of "dividing our friends and uniting our enemies," and so on.
And our beloved and honored friend Wendell Phillips,
<c04>
while declaring, in effect, that Mr. Lincoln's reelection offers the only chance for the salvation of liberty and our country, for justice to the negro and safety or peace to us all, echoes those accusations of the infamous Chicago platform and the venomous Copperheads, D. L. C.

TESTIMONY OF COLORED WITNESSES IN VIRGINIA.
In the Liberator of Oct. 14th, an abstract was given of some very interesting and remarkable proceedings in the County Court of the County of Alexandria, Va., in regard to the admission of the testimony of colored persons there. This question arose in the case of Graff vs. Howard, in consequence of the presentation, as a witness for the plaintiff, of Israel Dorsey, a colored citizen of the State of Massachusetts. Objection being made by the defendant's counsel, and sustained by the Court, on account of the African descent of the witness, a bill of exceptions was tendered by the plaintiff's attorney, and signed and sealed, by the full court, consisting of five Justices, and the case was continued to the next term of the Court. Moreover, Israel Dorsey, the rejected witness, has filed his bill of complaint in his own name, in the U. S. District Court, District of Virginia, against the Alexandria County Court, praying that the latter may be required to receive his testimony.
After two hearings in the case last mentioned, in which the claim of the 'complainant, Israel Dorsey, was defended by able and eminent counsel, an opinion was given by Judge Underwood, which is reported at length in the Alexandria, (Va.,} State Journal, and which is, in substance, as follows:-
The denial of the right of giving testimony in the Courts of the country is an injustice only less than slavery itself; that right being not only essential to personal dignity and safety, but the very bulwark of all other individual, domestic and social rights.
The clause of the U. S. Constitution on which the petitioner relies is the following:- " The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States."
The Court cited, in maintenance of the complainant's rights, the comments of Alexander Hamilton upon this clause-an opinion, apparently conclusive, of Mr. Justice Washington upon the same clause-and the able opinion of Attorney General Bates, utterly demolishing the unfortunate obiter dicta in the Dred Scott case.
The Court also cited the time-honored opinion of Lord Mansfield in the great Somerset case, in the Court of King's Bench, in regard to the claim of slave by a Virginia planter, and declared its conviction that the law of Virginia excluding colored testimony is utterly null and void, because repugnant to the glorious "Declaration of Eights" of that State which, following the decision of Lord Mansfield, was adopted in June, 1776, as part of its Constitution. That declaration, never repealed, has been repeatedly reaffirmed and continued as the basis of every State Constitution of Virginia, up to, and including, that of 1864.
In the light of the guaranties of this declaration the Court declared, an enactment excluding the testimony of any man unconvicted of an infamous crime could not have been tolerated by a civilized and Christian people, but for the debasing and demoralizing influence of slavery.
The opinion giver, by Judge Underwood closed with these words, namely:-
"Had Congress clearly conferred upon this Court the necessary power, the relief prayed for by the petitioner would be cheerfully and speedily granted. But the method of proceeding in order to secure the benefit of a right fully guarantied by the Constitution has been left in great doubt and obscurity from some cause, probably from an influence which in the future will neither be felt nor feared. With a view, there for of obtaining the aid of Congress at the approaching session, and with the hope also that the Legislature of this State, soon to assemble, may do itself and our old Commonwealth the honor of wiping the wicked enactment, excluding the testimony of colored men in any of our courts, from our code of laws, burying it in the same grave with its barbarous twin brother Slavery, thus obviating the necessity of further action by this Court-the case is put over for final action, am if desired, for further argument, to the next term."
It thus appears that Judge Underwood (who will be remembered as one of those who, in 1856-7, was driven by threats of violence from his home in Virginia, in consequence of his opposition to the slave system,) has thoroughly done his duty in the present case also. If his anticipations shall prove well founded as to the action of Congress, and of the Legislature of Virginia, at their approaching sessions, it may be hoped that a sufficient precedent may soon be founded to turn the decision of such cases, henceforth, in the right direction, and thus speedily to put an end to the very thought of abridging the legal rights of a man on account of the color of his skin.-c. K. W.

PATRIOTIO EXPRESSION OF SENTIMENT.
CAMP 55TH MASS. VOL. INFANTRY, } Folly Island, S. C., October 14th, 1864. } To the Editor of the Liberator:
Please publish the following resolutions, which were adopted by acclamation:-
Whereas, the just claims of the 65th regiment Mass. Vols., on the pay question, having been admitted on the basis of equality; and whereas, we, the non-commissioned officers and privates of the regiment, anxious to take advantage of this and every opportunity of giving expression to our loyalty to the cause and country, especially when we behold that country in the midst of its perils rising to the dignity of giving freedom and knowledge to an unfortunate race, and bestowing upon it the rights of citizenship; therefore, Resolved, That we stand now, as ever, ready to d our duty, whenever and wherever our country require it, in the work of crushing this wicked rebellion, am preserving the national unity.
Resolved, That we are determined to make it out first duty, as soldiers, by promptitude, obedience am soldierly bearing, to prove ourselves worthy of the re sponsible position assigned us by Providence in this the grandest struggle of the world's history between Freedom and Slavery; and our first duty as men, by every means possible, to contradict the slanders o preemies, and prove to be true our fitness for liberty and citizenship in the new order of things now arising in this our native land.
Resolved, That while it deeply grieved us to find many who should have understood and appreciate our motives, in connection with the pay question, failing to give us support and sympathy-sometimes even going so far as to condemn, thereby unconsciously giving aid and comfort to the enemy-nevertheless, we have no hard feelings against such; being convinced that, ere long, if not already, they will see the error of their way, and discern the wisdom of our acts, as surely as that they are to enjoy the benefits of our successes.
Resolved, That even as the founders of our republic resisted the British tax on tea, on the ground of principle, so did we claim equal pay with other volunteers, because we believed our military and civil equality in issue; independent of the fact that such pay was actually promised, and not because we regulated our patriotism and love of race by any given sum of money.
Resolved, That we do most sincerely thank those of our friends at home, who have stood by ns throughout our trials and deprivations, and whose sympathy and practical kindness went far towards softening the rigors of our condition; especially are our thanks due to William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Governor Andrew, and Senators Sumner and Wilson- those heroic champions of liberty-for their untiring and successful efforts in our behalf.
G. P. JONSON, Chairman.
JOHN T. SHORTER, Sec'y.
<c05>
ADDRESS OF MAJOR GENERAL BANKS.
(Concluded from first page.)
Now, I think it is unreasonable to expect-even if we had no other grounds of procedure-that a system which has been thus discussed and practically experimented upon in England and France for the better part of half a century, should be discarded altogether, until somebody can suggest a system here that is more perfect, and more certain to insure to the benefit of the laborers. 
The effect of this organization of industry upon other nations is not unworthy of consideration. There are, I believe, if you include the slaves held in the United States-and the question is not yet determined absolutely whether they are to be free permanently or to be returned to slavery-including them, there are about seven millions of human beings held in bondage by Christian nations. Brazil has two millions; the Dutch Colonies have something like 100'000; some other colonies have several thousand; and those existing or who existed in the United States, to the number of four millions, make up the sum total of seven millions. The moment system of labor is adopted which proves to be perfectly successful in its operation that moment all fear of the return of the negroes to the condition of servitude may be dismissed forever, whatever be the result of the contest in which we are "engaged; for you may be certain that even if the rebels were to return to Louisiana, themselves in power, they could never enforce the law of servitude or of slavery upon the negro population of that State. (Applause.) What then is to be the influence of this experiment upon other States? Within five years, or within ten years at the outside, and I believe within five years of the settlement of our difficulties and the substitution for slavery of a system of successful free labor, slavery will be abolished in the Island of Cuba and in the Empire of Brazil. (Loud applause.) We will then see the entire world without the institution of slavery, and the laboring population of every State and of every nation placed in the condition in which we place that of the Southern States. This is the inevitable effect of such a successful example. If there is to be risk of failure, where the immediate and ultimate consequences are so important, that risk ought to be scanned with great care, and we ought to take warning from the experience of other States. In 1794 France abolished slavery in the French Colonies in this hemisphere. In 1802, owing to the disturbances which existed there during the Consulate of Napoleon, slavery was reestablished, and remained until 1848. Now, the failure of the principle of freedom in the French Colonies is a matter of importance to us as a people. It cannot be charged, I think, to the principle of emancipation in any form whatever. It was owing to the fact that there was not sufficient discrimination in the early legislation by the French Republic upon this subject. They gave to the blacks entire liberty too indiscriminately, without any of those restraints and regulations which every government is bound to afford to an infant people or astruggling race, just breaking its bonds and Sifting itself into freedom. We at least ought to be careful to avoid the error into which the French Government or Republic was led, which caused the failure of their experiment, and with that failure came the restoration of the institution of slavery, or something akin to it.
The organization of the system of labor is but one of the changes silently working in the State of Louisiana. The schools have been adapted to the principles of emancipation, and to the support of the Union. Every day, at every session, almost at every hour, the anthems of liberty are sung by the pupils, and the flag is displayed. Whenever a visitor enters, he adverts instantly and inevitably to the great contest in which we are engaged, and the names of the heroes of the sea and of the land are welcomed with applause by all the pupils. Private schools upon any other basis than this to which have adverted are considered irregular and prohibited. Thus the children of the entire State carry into the families, it may be, of secessionists, or disunions or rebels, the spirit of liberty which they gain in the schools where they pass their days. In the churches it is the same. Every Church, except the Catholic, recognizes the Government, and the Catholic Church departs in no respect whatever from the course which it peruses in this part of the country, or any other part of the country. It reads the Proclamation of the President for Fast and Thanksgiving; and in the Churches of the other denominations the Government is recognized precisely as it is here. The anthems of liberty are sung there, also, constantly. A Fast or a Thanksgiving appointed by the President in recognition of disasters, or in rejoicing over the great good fortune of the armies of the Union, is as generally and as honestly observed in New Orleans as it is in Boston and that of the choice of the people themselves (Applause.) The theatres recognize the same power, and exert the same influence. They are constantly throwing out upon the public the same principles in support of the Union, and their audiences receive nightly, with great applause, the names of the heroes of the army and the navy.
The militia of the State is organized upon the same basis. Every able-bodied man in the State is enrolled for military service in the armies of the United States, and may be called upon whenever the exigencies of the country require it. The society of the State is also organized upon the same basis. When I went to New Orleans, I seldom saw a woman or a child. The city was desolation. There was no opportunity for visiting by a friend of the government or an officer or soldier of the army unless he went into the circles of those at least in sympathy with the rebels, and he was required invariably to doff his uniform; and very frequently that requisition was complied with. That has all been changed.
The loyal ladies of the State have re-established a power of their own; and when -the history of Louisiana in connection with the war shall have been thoroughly discussed and understood, it will be found that the loyal ladies of Louisiana have contributed as much, at least, to the restoration of the government as the secession ladies did to its overthrow. (Hearty applause.) I have heard it announced every day in the public sales rooms of New Orleans, have seen it published in every print in the city, that the currency of the United States would not be taken in exchange for goods sold, and that only the currency of the city would be taken. That has been changed by the same silent process, and now the currency of the United States is at par-is at a premium; and every man knows that the currency which a year and a half ago was put above the credit of the United States, is nearly or comparatively worthless. This has been accomplished simply by an examination into the condition of these institutions, and a report to the public of the facts. Trade is upon the same basis. No man engages in trade who does not declare his fealty to the government, and who does not give evidence of his fealty by his acts. The courts of the State and of the United States are organized upon the same principle. No man goes in as a suitor, no man goes in as a practitioner, no man goes in as a juror, who does not first acknowledge his allegiance to the government of the United States.
Business corporations are gradually being molded into the same form and to the same purpose. The basis of the elective franchise is of the same character.
Here, then is every" institution, every element of power that can exist in the State put boldly and absolutely on the side of the Government. What is the consequence of these things? That the people of the State are ready to accept the Government of the United States; as ready, as willing, as joyous in the acceptance of it; as are the people of Massachusetts, or as they would be if it had been overthrown here. They have made a constitution adapted in all its provisions to the condition of things that I have described, and ratified it by a large majority of the people. I will not say that it was by a large majority, without giving you the figures upon which my statement is based, so that you may see whether it be the act of the people, or the act of the army or of the President. 
In the parishes that the Government occupies, the ordinary vote, for the last ten or twelve years, has been 15 or. 16,000. On the question of the organization of the Free State Government, the people of those same parishes gave 11,500 votes; and that without the support of the army and without the support of the administration of the country. I venture to say that there have not been, of these 11,500, in any, election, 500 men voting who belonged to the army, in any form whatever, and those men were citizens of the State of Louisiana, in accordance with the laws and constitution of that State, and had a right to vote there, and would
<c06>
have had a right to vote anywhere under the same circumstances. I believe that in these elections there have not been five hundred men, certainly not a thousand, who have participated, who were not citizens of the State of Louisiana before the war.
It is no snap judgment that the people have taken. They were bold enough and honest enough to assume, in the election of delegates and in the organization of the Convention, that every district in the State was represented, and required a majority of all the delegates, assuming that every district was represented to perform any act or pass any vote; and the constitution which has been ratified by the people was adopted, and bears the signatures of a majority of all the delegates that would be entitled to a seat in the Convention, if every election district in the State of Louisiana were represented. What is that constitution? it is not enough to say that the constitution, by the act of the people, emancipates the slaves instantaneously, without condition, without allusion to the subject of compensation. It also declares that the Legislature shall pass no law recognizing property in man. It provides for the education of all the children of the State, irrespective of race or color. It enrolls in the militia all the able-bodied men of the State without regard to caste, or condition, or race, or color; and it declares that the Legislature, in consideration of intelligence, contribution of taxes, or service in arms, may confer upon any man of color or negro the right of suffrage; and under such circumstances the authority given to the Legislature is in the nature of a command. How could it be possible for the entire people of a State like Louisiana, one of the foremost of the insurrectionary States, to establish a constitution like this, except it were that all the elements of power that constitute the basis of a State had already been organized in harmony with this grand principle of a free State? It could not be done. It would be as impossible for the President to organize by proclamation or by instruction anything like this, or for the army to do it, as to accomplish any other impossibility. It is, as I said in the commencement of my remarks, the result of the slow but radical change in all the institution and influences and elements of power that underlie the government; and whether or not the United States shall receive the work of the people of Louisiana, it will make no difference to them. It will stand permanently, because it is planted upon principle, and is the act and will of the people. (Applause.) It must at no distant day be recognized as their work, and be welcomed on its return to the Union as one of the Free States. It is by the actuation of States in this manner that the Constitution of the United States is to be amended so that hereafter no State will be allowed to maintain the institution of slavery. Without the acquisition of these States, it is conceded that, at present, at least, it cannot be done; that is indispensable. The restoration of Louisiana upon the basis I have described will be the signal for the other States to follow in the statehouse, (applause,) because they will see the prosperity and power of the people secured by the same are which restores the Government of the United States. And in this section of the continent, there is not only hope for success in arms, but for the principles of liberty embodied in the restoration of the States. Louisiana occupies the mouth of the Mississippi Valley. Whatever productive wealth it has must go through this entrecote to the commerce of the outer world; whatever the world sends to the Mississippi Valley must pass through its port. It is destined to control, in a very great degree, the influence and power of the Valley of the Mississippi-a valley with a soil as fertile as any that lies under the face of heaven-that is capable of producing every product of the western or Eastern Continent-that demands only cultivation to yield a wealth such as the world has never before witnessed. It will support a thousand million of men, and it will be the seat of the political and the military power of this continent. How important, then, that the key State of this valley, Honked by California on the right and by New England on the left, -assuming a position of freedom and clamoring for readmission to the Union upon the basis of absolute freedom, of loyalty to the Constitution and devotion to the interests of the Government-how important it is that it shall be recognized! The first step made in this direction seals the success of our contest. We know then for what we fight. The armies of the Union will fight with redoubled energy, and every day in the ranks of the enemy the question is debated whether surrender is not compatible with honor under the circumstances. The counsel from rebel families in the State of Louisiana every day to their representatives in the rebel army is," Throw down your arms, and come to your homes. (Applause.) We are happy, our children are in the schools, our young men are gradually engaging in business, there seems a chance for the old prosperity and peace to return, and instead of wasting and destroying your live in fruitless efforts to overthrow the government sustained by the people and by God, we draw you to come home to your parents and your friends. This is what they say to their friends. They don't say it to us. As I have said before, if we speak to them with regard to their career, they do as other people do, and defend the consistency of their course; but one glance at the condition of Louisiana by a sensible man will satisfy any person, under the circumstances, of the general truth of What I have said. And though I know nothing of the opinions of the gentlemen whom I am about to name, I am assured, recognizing them as just men, that an examination by them of the condition of things there, and of the changes that have institutions place in the system of labor in all those institutions that underlie the State, and make it permanent and safe-that an examination of these changes would satisfy them, and that their report would satisfy you, that the constitution the which has been adopt is a free constitution, the voluntary act of the people, and that they are entitled to resume their old place in the Union of States. If Mr. Garrison, or Mr. Gerrit Smith, or the distinguished gentleman who sits here upon my left, (George Thompson of England,) known to tooth worlds, the old and the new, as the advocate of emancipation, the philosopher, the student, the orator, who has devoted a long and valuable life to the elucidation of correct principles in this matter-I say, if either as all these gentlemen were to visit Louisiana for the purpose of investigating the condition of things, I would stake my life that the conclusion to which I have arrived, and which I have stated, would be the conclusion to which I they would arrive. I have no earthly interest in this matter, not, the slightest in the world, why I should come to you and misrepresent anything. I have only discharged a duty in representing the condition of things as I have seen them, and as I know them.
The best service the citizens of Boston could do to the country would be to depute an honest and intelligent man to visit those distant parts of the Union where these great principles are being established, and where these new question are being considered, and ascertain what is the truth and what is the actual condition of things there, and whether or not they deserve the support of the people.
The lecture occupied an hour and a half in delivering, and was often applauded.

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H.B. Stanwood & Co's, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co's, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
in the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, less stopped. Gas Fixtures, done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro' Hotel. Orders may be left as Messrs. Hall & Stowell's Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct.30-ly
Proclamation of Freedom
FINE Photographs, 18 by 13 inches, of Paine's <illegible>-Ink Drawing of the Emancipation proclamation handsomely illustrated. The original was donated to it. Brooklyn Sanitary Fair, and by a subscription of $500 presented to the President of the United States. A single copy sent by mail on receipt of $3.00. A liberal discount allowed to dealers or canvassers. It is a beautiful and artistic work.
Canvassers wanted for every section of the country.
Copy-right secured. Apply to ROWLAND JOHNSON,
54 Beaver st., New York, 119 Market st., Phils.
