
    THE LIBERATOR
    —IS PUBLISHED—
    EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
    -AT—
    221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
    ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT
    TERMS—Three dollars  and fifty cents in advance.
    Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is                  made in advance.
    All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed )POST PAID), to the General Agent.
    Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions  Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
    The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR..
    The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR. 
    WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
    Our Country is the world, our Countrymen are all mankind.
    J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
    VOL.  XXXV.NO.5.  BOSTON, FRIDAY, .FEBRUARY 3, 1865. WHOLE NO.1774.
    <c01>
    Selections.
    SPEECH OF HON. MORROW B. LOWRY,
    OF ERIE,
Delivered in the Senate of Pennsylvania, January
    19,1865.
    COLORED PEOPLE IN PASSENGER CARS.
    Mr. LOWERY, on leave given, read in place a bill entitled An act relative to the exclusion of colored people from the cars of passenger railroad companies of this Commonwealth.
    Referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
    Mr. LOWRY moved to discharge the Committee on the Judiciary from the consideration of said bill, and that the Senate proceed to the consideration of the same.
    The motion was agreed to, when the bill was read as follows:
     SECTION 1 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives, etc., That it shall not be lawful for any passenger railway company within this Commonwealth to make or enforce any rule, regulation or practice excluding any race of people from its passenger cars on account of their color.
    Mr. LOWRY said:
    The object of Government is to execute impartial justice between man and man.  It is ordained to protect the weak against the strong, to exalt right and  over might and to assure the rights of  each and all, however lowly or however exalted, against all attempts to violate them.  That is no government worthy, Worthy of the name, which leaves its poor and defenceless subjects to be preyed upon by the wealthier and stronger classes, and refuses them protection and redress.  That is not worthy of the name of law which is not based on a reverential regard for human rights.  In fact, all true law emanates from the bosom of God. Who is no respecter of persons.  Hemar laws are of no validity, except so far as they coincide with and reflect the divine law.  The sole business of government is to discover this one great law of the universe, and provide for its application to the varied necessities of mankind.
    It is because this country has disregarded that law, practically denied the doctrine of human equality as enunciated in its Declaration of Independence, and suffered the strong to oppress and crush the weak that the scourge of intestine war is uplifted against us. Unless all history is lie all revelation a myth, and the law of cause and effect a mere delusion this war is God’s judgment upon the land for its sin of oppression. The case is not to be argued.  Slavery is the cause of the war, and it alone made rebellion possible. Its removal alone will make peace possible. He is the best friend of the Union who goes farthest and fullest for the destruction of the Union’s greatest enemy.  We can no longer ignore truth.  Upon its treatment of the black man rests the fate of the Republic.  Some one has wisely said that he who fastens one end of a chain upon the limb of his fellow-man will find the other end of the same chain fastened to his own peck.  And the Quaker poet strikingly versifies the same great truth in these immortal lines:
    “For laws of changeless justice bind
    Oppressor with oppressed,
    And, close as sin and suffering joined,
    We march to fate abreast.”
    Happily, the nation sees its city of refuge.  Through seas of blood and tears, the Ship of State will make the port of Universal Freedom.
    But it is not enough that we make the black man nominally free.  It is not enough that we cease to make him a slave—we must make him, also, truly a freeman.  We must make him, also truly a freeman.  We are bound to protect him in the rights which inhere in a freeman.  Putting away slavery, let us also put away slavish things.  We are bound to reform those usages and correct those abuses which exist as incidents of slavery, and which have formed a part of the machinery of the infernal system.  We may not be able to pull down the whole fabric of wrong and outrage at once, but one by one we can remove the disabilities under which the black race now live and suffer.  One of the many disabilities under which the colored people in our midst are suffering is their wholesale exclusion from the passenger railways in the large cities.  And it is to provide for the removal of this disability and for the correction of this outrage, as practised in the city of Philadelphia, or wherever else it may be practised within the limits of this Commonwealth, that I offered the resolution which gave from to the bill now under contemplation.  Colored people, as a race, are now for bidden to enter any of the street cars of Philadelphia, and if they enter they are peremptorily expelled. expelted. The regulation makes no exceptions.  The full-blooded negro and the octoroon are alike put out.  The poor and the wealthy, the respectable and the vagrant, the healthy and the infirm, the decrepit, the healthy and the infirm, the decrepit old man and the helpless young child are alike turned away from these public conveyances, if, perchance, they happen to be possessed of ”a skin not colored like our own.”  The wife of a colored soldier who has been wounded in the service of his country, and who may be lying, agonized and helpless, in one of the military hospitals of West Philadelphia, cannot be allowed to enter one of these street cars as she goes to visit her husband, and to minister to his necessities.  This bill is born of my own observation.  I have seen it made impossible for the friends and families of sick and wounded soldiers to go to them on errands of mercy and missions of love I have seen a soldier with but one leg—the other having been given to his country—rudely prohibited from entering the cars, and forced to plod his weary way through storm and darkness as best be  might! Outrages of this nature are liable to be of daily occurrence.  What a spectacle for the civilized world to contemplate! A soldier of the republic, having done heroic battle and risked his life that his country may live, returning to his home in Philadelphia, scarred and perhaps permanently disabled is denied the privileges extended to the very lowest and most repulsive vagabond of the city—denied by men for whose sake and safety he has periled all, even life itself! Can we rationally hope to have the curse of war lifted  from our land so long as we tolerate such wrongs upon the race, to avenge whose wrongs
    “God has let upon us the dogs of war”?
    Now, I do not deny the right of a railroad corporation to exclude an individual from its cars for sufficient cause The mere accident of color is not sufficient cause.  If a man is bestial in his habits or intoxicated, or afflicted with any deadly contagion, or otherwise unfitted for contact or association with the travelling public, he may be properly forbidden to enter a railway car.  And I shall not argue the right to prohibit an individual even where no apparent cause exists for such prohibition. But I deny the right of any such corporation to discriminate for or against any race or nationality as such. And this is precisely what the railways of Philadelphia are doing in flagrant violation of the divine law and 
<c02>
in defiance of every principle of justice. They institute a false standard of rights, founded in mere prejudice, purely arbitrary, and wickedly despotic.  It is as ridiculous as it is brutal.  What should we say of a corporation that should discriminate against every man whose head might be illuminated with red hair, or against all people below a given stature? Yet such discrimination would be no more absurd than the one which aims to regulate a franchise according to the particular hue of the skin or the curl of the hair. Charters are admitted to be capable of covering a multitude of sins, but they cannot with impunity practise the sum of all villainies longer.  It may be said that this is purely a matter for each corporation to decide and regulate.  It is held that having vouchsafed to them their corporate franchises, our control over them has ceased—they have grown out of our power and jurisdiction. I deny this. I have yet to learn that the creature can be greater than the creator. We cannot confer what we cannot prohibit.  If a railway company has the legal right to exclude any one race of people from its cars, it may exclude any other race and all races.  It may, indeed, by the mere exercise of arbitrary will, defeat the very object of its existence.  If it may, as a common carrier, institute arbitrary distinctions between different classes of the same community, I know not how or where you can fix a limit to its despotic power.  If it may make the color of the skin its test, it may, with equal right and propriety, base its discrimination on the color of the hair or of the eyes.  If the public mind had not been poisoned on the subject, through half a century of slaveholding practice, either of the last named distinctions would be seen to be as ridiculous and absurd as the other.  It has been a part of the fell and subtile work of the slave power in this country to instill through the North a diabolical prejudice against the black man. This Northern prejudice has been the slave-driver’s strong hold of power. It alone has kept slavery alive to the present hour.  In proportion as they succeeded in diffusing and strengthening a hatred of the negro in the North, have they been enabled to enslave him in the South. To overcome this prejudice now is to overcome slavery—to rid ourselves of the one is to ensure the simultaneous destruction of the other.
    I stand for the absolute equality of all men before the law.  This is God’s eternal law—this is divine ethics.” “God hath made of one blood all nations of men.”  The Government that acknowledges the existence and jurisdiction of God, must also acknowledge His law of human equality. Happily our Government, at its outset, admitted this eternal truth; for it is written,”, “All men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” Fidelity to this principle is national life, prosperity and safety—desertion of it is national weakness, decline and death.  The government or the corporation that defies it does so at its peril, for it defies God. Every man if born with inherent rights—they are his by virtue of his manhood. They are not contingent on race, condition or color. We have been false as a people to this fundamental principle; and if we would not invite further chastisement from the Almighty’s hand, we must return to it, and adhere to it.  Thank God, we are returning; And may He have mercy upon the man who raises his voice or his hand to prevent our return! Absolute equality before the law, then, is the goal towards which we tend.  Each man must be willing to concede to every other man the rights which he demands for himself. You may call this” “abolitionism.” for it is such- “only this and nothing more.” You may call it” “fanaticism,” but it is wisdom, religion, patriotism, statesmanship.  
    But to return to the particular phase of this question now before the Senate. I ask you, sir, who are they that oppose the admission of colored people into the street cars? What class is it that fears defilement by contact with a black man? It will be found that it is not the refined, the educated, or the truly polite.  It is not the solid citizen or the lady of virtue and respectability that objects to riding with colored people. There are two classes of objectors. The first is made up of political hucksters, hangers-on and harlequins, who want votes, and who think they can best obtain them by catering to what they suppose to be a popular prejudice.  The other class embraces the low, the vile, the unlettered and the unwashed.  Your blathering, bestial vagabonds, reeking with filth, whose raiment is odorous of tobacco, and whose breath is a perpetual offering of incense to Bacchus, he it is that fears contamination by contact with the” “negro.”  The painted and polluted prostitute is exceedingly afraid of” “negro equality.” The swaggering, bullying loafer, already far down in the scale of true respectability, is concerned for his reputation if he rides a square in a horse-car where colored people are admitted! But men of brains and men of character have no such fears. Since this resolution has been pending in the Senate, a large and respectable meeting of the citizens of Philadelphia has been held to protest against the outrage upon the people of color.  Men and women of wealth, character and standing attended the meeting.  The elite of Philadelphia were there. This demonstrates on what side of this question the better classes of community are arrayed It demonstrates that the railway companies are allowing themselves to be governed in this matter by the vicious rather than the virtuous—by the low and illiterate rather than by the sober, the industrious and the learned—by the party of misrule and disorder instead of law and order.  They are basely bowing down at the feet of superstition, and doing abject homage at the shrine of ignorance.
    I cannot close without paying my tribute to the colored people of this country.  Their conduct, since the breaking out of this war, has been such as to extort praise and gratitude from every right-minded man—from every lover of the country and the country’s cause.  With what noble patience, calmness and forbearance they waited upon the logic of events—the advent of sense and feeling to the American people! They lifted no hand to mar the programme or interrupt the policy of the war, but, silent in their suffering, and mute in their suspense, they contemplated the spectacle of war, and patiently awaited the coming of the Lord. Instinctively loyal to the Government, they remained true and faithful to the old flag through all the earlier stages of the conflict when the Government, by its cold and cruel treatment of them, invited them to take up arms against it, and link their destinies with the rebellion. At length, when stern necessity compelled us to ask them to come to our aid, and help save the country, with what eager alacrity and heroic zeal they flew to the rescue! Bravely, and with unfaltering tread, they marched into the jaws of death, into the mouth of war.  The world has never witnessed superior heroism.  They have plucked victory from defeat, and crushed the minions of rebellion at Fort Wagner, Olustee and Petersburg.  Freely have they presented their bodies a living sacrifice upon the altar of their country.  Where the peril has been greatest, there have they been found.  When the very ground upon which we now stand was menaced by the foe, and our State authorities besought al
<c03>
most in vain, two hundred and fifty brave black men appeared on these grounds, and offered their services in that evil hour.. The loyalty of the blacks is earnest and universal.  They are the only loyal class, as a class, in the whole land.  And yet, this is the class that, of all others, we continue to ostracise, to discriminate against, and to deny the courtesies of life and the rights of humanity. Returning to their homes after fighting our battles, we drive them from our street cars, as though they were ministers of death rather than of life! Behold the spectacle of a people calling upon the black man to help save their government, and then basely denying them civil and social rights under the government which they have helped to save!
    Robert Small, who gallantly captured a vessel of war from the hands of the enemy, and presented it to the American navy as a token of his patriotic regard for the government, is refused accommodation upon the railways of Philadelphia.  The regulation, being wholesale, crushes all alike. Euclid, the profoundest mathematician of ancient or modern times, were he alive and desirous of witnessing the attractions of the city of Brotherly Love, would not be allowed to make his observations from the windows of the street cars. Banneker, the greatest of American astronomers, would be turned rudely away. Alexander Dumas, one of the most gifted of the French writers of romance, now meditating a tour in this country, must be careful not to presume too much upon his own fame and our Christian system, when he sets foot in the Quaker City. Frederick Douglass, one of the most brilliant of American orators, living or dead, cannot travel from his hotel to Concert Hall when he goes to address the elite of Philadelphia.
    Since the introduction of this question, I have been made the subject of a gross attack in regard to it, in the editorial columns of a paper of this city.  The editor of that paper need entertain no fears of ever being placed upon an equality with the negro. He does not seem likely to rise to that dread level. While he is to be pitied, the negro is to be congratulated. Between that editor and myself, the widest possible difference exist. He is the friend of caste and aristocracy—I am the friend of fraternity and pure democracy. He swears by the Dred Scott decision—I by the Golden Rule. He would demand the expulsion of the gallant Robert Small from the street car—I would rise, and relinquish my seat in favor of him who performed so daring a deed in my country’s cause. He would re-enslave the negro after the danger is past and the war over—I would reward him with freedom and justice.  He believes in Davis and the devil— I believe in Lincoln and liberty.  I leave him with his conscience and his God!
     Mr. Speaker, since I offered a previous resolution upon the subject, I have been the subject of attack from a newspaper editor in this State.  From him, however, I have nothing to fear. It will be long before he will occupy the elevated position of a Robert Small. I have no Issue to make with that person; he is true to his instincts, and I am true to mine. He would not let a man like Robert Small ride in a railroad car, but would rise to give his seat to the murderer of Robert Small; I would not do that. Such a man, sir, cannot rejoice when our country claims a victory over its foes; but I can. But I suppose he is carrying out the mission to accomplish which he was sent on earth; and I am trying to carry out my mission.

    SENATOR SUMNER.
    The recent political canvass has afforded me the opportunity of hearing many of our foremost men upon the platform.  I propose to give you a little sketch of a few of them, as space may occur in this and my next letter. First, Hon. Charles Sumner. Senator from Massachusetts, comes to mind. I have lately heard this distinguished statesman deliver a great oration on public affairs. His personal appearance is not exactly what I had supposed. He is not strikingly graceful in form and gesture, or elegant in speech; yet he is not inelegant in either. The grace of his periods and the dignity of his attitudes and gestures are lost sight of in the impression he gives of force and earnestness.  Mr. Sumner is about six feet in stature, moderately stout, has a massive head, and on the whole a dignity and manliness of form, feature and manner which are quite prepossessing. He comes upon the platform and advances to speak with the unelaborate and yet not neglectful air of a man who has a message, and is eager to deliver it.  His voice is heavy and round, but does not find a full, smooth utterance, and is not so effective as it might well be made. Mr. Sumner owes little of his power to elocution. With such an opulent voice as our lamented Starr King had, Mr. Sumner would obtain a vast increase of power. By the way, I have not yet heard a voice equal in force or melody to Mr. King’s. Even Wendell Phillips, Henry Ward Beecher and Dr. Chapin seem to me inferior to Mr. King in vocal majesty.
     As to the matter of Mr. Sumner’s addresses, every one knows what its characteristics are.  If I were asked to characterize it in one word, I would call it” “colossal.”  He is a statesman of broad and comprehensive views, but in his comprehensiveness of scope he does not ignore the stubborn facts of history and experience, which give so much trouble to theorizers.  The intellectual structure he builds, while true in type to his grand theoretical views of policy and progress, is yet with remarkable patience reared upon foundations of solid fact, and formed, from base to cope, of the slowly aggregated materials of historical and experienced verities. To propound magnificent theories is mere bubble-blowing or cloud-building; but to erect a practical policy that shall stand proportioned to the needs of a great nation, ample, sheltering and strong—this is the work of a profound scholar and a prudent statesman.
    Sumner is eagle-eyed to detect fallacies, and he applies logical rules with inexorable severity to an opponent’s argument. His intellectual vision is microscopic. He analyses every fact and principle and proposition with marvellous persistency and acuteness.  I once heard him unravel the meaning of the term slaveholder, and by his showing it clearly contained within it almost every possible crime. Occasionally he rises from a toilsome and triumphant course of reasoning to a transient pathos, and then is quite royal in his sway. After showing, by compact argument, the drift of the peace-at-any-price doctrines, I once heard him ask, with thrilling effect,”, “Is this nation, then, so enamored of funerals that it is willing to stipulate for a long carnival of death?”
    Sumner seems to put all his manhood into his words, and even his most close and severe processes of argument are not uninteresting to a popular audience.  When he has at length gained the serene summit of his mountain of argument, his earnest appeals are thrilling and grand.

    MISS ANNA DICKINSON.
    I heard this young oratress, for the first time, just before election.  Her theme was” “Chicago Platform and the Last Ditch.” Now, I must acknowledge that I am not, in theory, predisposed to favor female
<c04>
oratory. We cannot afford to let the finer edge of .the female character be dulled by the collisions of public life; and yet when a lady can speak as Miss Dickinson does, why, it seems to me her gift is proof of her mission.
    As to the personal appearance of the gifted lady upon the platform, I very much wish, for the sake of your lady-readers, I were skilled in the dialect of the milliner and the dry-goods merchant. Not being posted in the abstrusities of female apparel, I cannot say what Miss D.” “had on.” This I can say, however. Her dress was neat and elegant; she wears short hair—school girl fashion. She is not fully beautiful, but has an intelligent, thoughtful face. She is calm and peaceful in manner, and altogether feminine in utterance and action, although her thought has masculine vigor.  She walks up and down the platform considerably while speaking. Her gestures are not very frequent, and are always appropriate.  She has a decidedly feminine way of putting her foot down by way of emphasis.  Her voice is clear and musical, and it fills the large hall of the Cooper Institute quite pleasantly.  Her addresses are usually about an hour and a half in length, and she carries the audience with her triumphantly to the close.
    Miss D. is a good reasoner, not impatient of logical restraint, but still apparently delighted to leap from the slow approximations of reasoning to the swifter flights, and perhaps truer results, of a keen, womanly intuition. She detects absurdity or duplicity very quickly, and in exposing either, uses relentless sarcasm. I have never heard the Chicago platform treated more severely than Miss Dickinson treated it in her recent lecture.  Its proprietors, and the Major General, its candidate, all were shown forth clearly and grotesquely, and even pitifully, by the magic lantern of feminine irony. I think this irony is all the more potent for being so purely feminine. The blows of a heavy, flashing sword may be parried, but the little, polished pen-knife blade is more subtle, and quite as deadly.
    In pathetic passages Miss Dickinson is brilliant and queenly.  She evidently has a heart in thorough sympathy with all the advanced ideas of the day. Her strong feelings throw a radiance over words and sentences, and so completely magnetize her language that few can resist its spell.  I have seen no grander tributes to the power of oratorical excellence than those manifested by the immense audience which heard Miss Dickinson’s last address on public affairs in this city. Hats, handkerchiefs and voices bore frequent testimony to the intense sympathy of the audience with the speaker and her cause. —N.Y. corr. American Flag, San Francisco.
    A GLANCE BACKWARD.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 15,1865.
    To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
    While the telegraph must now be used to chronicle what is transpiring, and to predict what may take place, I may be permitted to take up my pen occasionally to recall past events, interesting on account of their connection with present transactions.  For example—we came very near being able to welcome here, yesterday, the Hon. Henry S. Foote, a fugitive member of the Confederate Congress, who did his best to escape from Richmond by one of the underground routes originally established by negro slaves.  Turning his back upon his native State, and upon the Confederacy which has slavery as its corner-stone, he sought refuge among a free people, and would doubtless have soon enrolled himself among the most radical emancipationists. Reformed drunkards used to make the most zealous Washtonians, and these ex-slaveholders become the most ultra abolitionists. Tres bien! but let us look back on Gov. Foote’s record, just, to see how the world moves.
    Not seventeen years ago—it was on a pleasant April day in 1848—there was a pyrotechnic display of indignation in the old Senate Chamber by the Southern chivalry and their Northern allies. John P. Hale, who then stood alone in the Senate as the champion of freedom, had introduced an act to prevent riots.  The office of a newspaper which had dared to advocate freedom in this District had been mobbed, and the Senator from New Hampshire had the audacity to introduce this bill, providing for the punishment of rioters. The bill, as was shown in the debate, was actually copied from the statutes of Maryland.
    Mr. Calhoun first attacked the bill, which, said he, should not be introduced” “to repress the just indignation of our people from wreaking their vengeance upon the atrocious perpetrators of these crimes, or those who contribute to them, without a denunciation of the cause that excited that indignation.”  He hoped that he would not be” “almost the exclusive defender of this great institution of the South, upon which not only its prosperity but its very existence depends.” “Delay” the arch-agitator went on to declare,” , “is dangerous on this question.  The crisis has come, and we must meet it, and meet it directly; and, I will add, we have ample means to meet it.”
    Senator Westcott of Florida next defended the mob, confessing that he was present; and then Senator Jefferson Davis of Mississippi took the floor, commencing his remarks by saying, in his impressive manner:”: “The Senator from South Carolina has remarked that he expected that younger members of this body would notice the motion of the Senator from New Hampshire to introduce a bill, the purpose of which is the protection of incendiaries and kidnappers. I have only to say that it is from no want of accordance in feeling with that honorable Senator, but from deference to him who has so long and so nobly stood foremost in defence of the institutions of the South, that I remained silent It was rather that I wished to follow him than that I did not feel the indignation which he has so well expressed.”
    The present leader of the rebellion went on to denounce all who dared to discuss the slavery question:-
    “Why is it,” he asked,”, “that in the Senate, once looked to as the conservative branch of the Government—once looked to as so dignified that it stood above the power of faction—that we find the subject of this contest so insulting to the South—so irritating always when it is agitated—introduced on such anoccasion? Is this debatable ground? No! It is ground upon which the people of this Union may shed blood, and that is the final result.  If it be pressed any further, and if this Senate is to be made the theatre of that contest, let it come—the sooner the better.”
    Then rose the colleague of Davis, Mr. Foote, who was looking forward to the gubernatorial chair of Mississippi, which he afterward occupied.  He made one of his spread-eagle harangues, denouncing abolitionists in general, and closing with the following personal remarks to Mr. Hale.” “If,” said Mr. Foote,”, “the Senator from New Hampshire really wishes glory, and to be regarded as the great liberator of the blacks; if he wishes to be particularly distinguished in this cause of emancipation, as it i
     <c05>
    called, let him, instead of remaining here in the Senate of the United States, or, instead of secreting himself in some dark corner of New Hampshire, where he may possibly escape the just indignation of good men throughout this Republic—let him visit the good State of Mississippi, in which I have the honor to reside, and no doubt he will be received with such hosannas and shouts of joy as have rarely marked the reception of any individual in this day and generation. I invite him there, and will tell him beforehand, in all honesty, that he could not go ten miles into the interior, before he would grace one of the tallest trees of the forest, with a rope around his neck, with the approbation of every virtuous and patriotic citizen; and that, if necessary, 1 should myself assist in the operation.”
    Mr. Hale denied all personal cognizance of kidnappers, and said in his good-natured way: “He invites me to visit the State of Mississippi, and kindly informs me that he would be one of those who would act the assassin, and put an end to my career. He would aid in bringing me to public execution—no, death by a mob.  Well, in return for this hospitable invitation, I can only express the desire that he would penetrate into some of the dark corners of New Hampshire, and if he do, I am much mistaken if he would not find that the people in that benighted region would be very happy to listen to his arguments, and engage in an intellectual conflict with him, in which the truth might be elicited.”
    That Mr. Hale should be hung was evidently the opinion of the ultra Southern Senators, who looked at him with indignant hatred, and many present expected that he would be personally assailed. But the sturdy New Hampshire Senator kept up the contest manfully, even when Hannegan came to the relief of his Southern Democratic allies, and Douglas endeavored to occupy a neutral ground, the latter saying: “It is the speeches of Southern men, representing slave States, going to an extreme, breathing a fanaticism as wild and as reckless as that of the Senator from New Hampshire, which creates abolitionism in the North. The extremes meet. It is no other than Southern Senators acting in concert, and yet without design, that produces abolition.”
    This again excited the wrath of Calhoun, who cracked his whip over the Little Giant, declaring —“I must object to his course, and say that it is at least as offensive as that of the Senator from New Hampshire.” Those slave-drivers tolerated no one who undertook to preserve a neutrality, and they required a man to become a truckling vassal, or they denounced him as their enemy.
    But Hale merited hanging! Liter in the debate, Foote again so declared himself. “I can use no other language,” said he, “I cannot but repeat my conviction, that any man who dares to utter such sentiments as those of the Senator from New Hampshire, and attempts to act them out anywhere in the sunny South, will meet death upon the scaffold, and deserves it.”
    Jefferson Davis also repealed his conviction, and indorsed the declarations of Foote. “His ground,” said the present President of the Confederate States, “was that which the peace and security of the South have justified, and which will, of necessity, be their position in future.  When Dr. Johnson heard that a man, whose life had been a course of villany, had commited suicide by hanging himself, he replied, ‘It was right that a life which bad been uniformly oblique should be terminated by a perpendicular.’”

     CELEBRATION AT BEAUFORT.
    BEAUFORT, S. C, Jan. 6th, 1865.
    MR. EDITOR: —Time passes, and the year of 1864 is no more, and the new year of 1865 is upon us.  It was ushered in here with great joy as the anniversary of a great event; and on Monday all the people, old and young, came together upon the green in front of the “Library Building,” to congratulate each other in speech, song and martial music; to shout and clap their hands in honor of the return of the day which set them free. The school children were marshalled in procession, preceded by the colored band, and a carriage decked with evergreen and the national flag, drawn by six white horses, in which were thirteen misses, waving miniature flags, one also with the cap of Liberty, representing the Goddess of Freedom, and others representing the different States in which the slaves were freed by the Proclamation.  Four hundred children followed, marching two by two in good order, much to the admiration of all.  The procession moved though the principal streets of the town to the place of meeting, the children all the while keeping their places in fine order.  The carriage stopped just front of the speakers’ stand, and the children filed in and around the stand.  Their behavior was excellent throughout, fully equal to any gathering of white children which I have ever witnessed.  Gen. Saxton presided, and called upon Rev. Mr. Harris to open the exercises by invoking a blessing, which was followed by a song from the Goddess of Liberty with her attendants. The General then made a brief, appropriate speech and read a poem written for the occasion by Mr. Judd. He was followed by your humble servant.  Good speeches were also made by Mr. Tomlinson, Mr. Hume, and the colored Chaplain of the 102d Michigan Regiment. The remarks of all the speakers were well received, and were interspersed with songs by the children and music by the band. It was a joyous, happy occasion, in which all took a deep interest and manifested much delight.
    There was one feature connected with it that showed what wonderful changes even three years of freedom had wrought with this people.  It so happened that on the same morning, 150 colored refugees arrived here from Sherman’s army.  They were invited to join with us, which they did with apparent delight.  But the contrast was great, not only as you viewed their ragged, dirty appearance, as compared with the neat and tidy dress of the thousands around them, but in their manners. With the poor refugees it was downcast, dejected and sorrowful; with the others it was more manly and hopeful, as though they felt the inspiration of freedom coursing through their veins. I believe they did.
    You remember the song sung by the three white slaves last summer, which begins, “In 1861, hurra! hurra!” and closes with,, “Hail to freedom’s flag!” We .”
taught the children that which was entirely new to them, and they sung it with thrilling effect.  I so arranged my remarks as to have it come in at the close as a part of my speech, as it were. Then when the cheers subsided, I added “Mr. President, —one word more.  We read in classical history that on a certain occasion, the mothers were required to present their jewels, for a special purpose, and one noble woman came forward with her children, and said, ‘These are my jewels!’ So do I, on this joyous, happy day, as the Superintenent of the Schools of this town, and of many others in the Department, being the representative of fifty teachers, present to you these children in the jewels of our
<c06>
present rejoicing. Sir, you may not see in them just now all that refinement. taste and polished manners, which you have witnessed at your northern home; but, sir, let me say to you, and to this large assembly, that the diamond is there. It only needs to have its rough edges hewn away, and to be polished, that it may be seen and read of all men. Their hearts glow warmly with affection and love; their minds give evidence of intellectual strength and power, which, when more fully developed, will unquestionably prove them to be worthy of the freedom bestowed, and capable of holding such a position as to be respected as honorable and worthy citizens of our common country.  I have no doubts or misgivings relative to this.  My heart, sir, it is this work, and I have witnessed enough already to be convinced that the diamond is to be found under the dark skin as well as the white.  Time alone most show which will prove the more brilliant.  May we all labor in love as the children of one common Parent.”  Three cheers were given with a will.
Eighteen thousand troops have arrived here from Savannah. Where are they going? They reply, “We don’t know.”  I guess Charleston. They look tough and hardy, and are in the best of spirits, ready to go to C. when “Uncle Billy says so.”
    Yours, respectfully,
    GEO. NEWCOMB.
    —Corr. of Dedham Gazette.

    PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
    Perhaps in the absence of that statesmanlike presence of mind and fertility of resources for which no one would give Mr. Lincoln any considerable credit, the greatest quality he has shown, and that by which he has most distinguished himself from his more eminent colleagues, is a certain naturalism of mind, closely connected, perhaps, but not identical with his high integrity, which has enabled him to look at the position of the Government, and the movements of the popular feeling as if he stood outside both, and were studying their situation and the influences which affect them almost as a student of natural history would study the instincts of an animal, and judge of its chances in a deadly struggle with another of different nature.  Compare his few and well-marked speeches and acts with the false and feverish anticipations of Mr. Seward, or the energetic proselytism of any of the parties which strove to push him on or pull him back.  He has not exactly guided the people or the Government, but he discovered accurately the time when the people were ripe for a fresh stride forwards, has declared the hour come, and never receded with that deceptive backward movement of the wave which is really only the preparation for another advance.  Mr. Lincoln has never gone out of his way to anticipate or hope.  He has simply announced, from time to time, the maturity of a new stage of opinion, the conditions under which alone the war could be successfully prosecuted, but without misleading the public by dangling out political baits.  He has kept silent when other politicians administered injurious stimulants to public opinion.  In moments of triumph he has not been elated, and in moments of disaster he has not given any symptom of depression.  He has never swerved for a moment, even under the excitement of the first great responsibility, from the principles he had accepted before his election, and has been apparently the most unimpassioned of critics as to the new steps necessary to prevent the surrender of any of those principles.  And we believe this strict naturalism in the treatment of the popular forces has suited far better the mass of Northern Americans than one of Mr. Carlyle’s” “Kings or Canning men.” who might have tried to mould too fast the slow fibre of American constitutionalism.—London Spectator.

     ELOQUENT EXTRACTS.
    We met a school boy the other day, who was inquiring for a “piece” for his exercise in declamation.  Possibly this paragraph may meet the eyes of other boys in a like case.  If so, we cannot do better than recommend the following passages spoken in April last to a mass meeting at Knoxville in Tennessee, by Andrew Johnson, now Vice President elect of the United States.  Though a poor boy in his childhood, and without the advantage of schools, his utterances here quoted are equal to anything in the thrilling passages of Patrick Henry:
    “My countrymen! my heart yearns toward you; I am one of  you. I have climbed yonder mountains which you have climbed, mountains rock-ribbed and glowing in sunshine, in whose gorges and caverns your sons, hunted like wild beasts, have fallen to rise no more.  I do not speak of these things to draw your tears.  It is not the time for tears, but for blows.  I speak of them that I may fire your hearts with holy indignation, and nerve your arms for unconquerable fight.  And I speak of them because the mountains seem to talk to me. My house is among the mountains, and, though it is not far away, I cannot go to it.  It is the place where I met and loved and married her who is the mother of my children.  Do I not love the mountains then? And if liberty is to expire, if freedom is to be destroyed, if my country, in all its length and breadth, is to tremble beneath the oppressor’s tread; let the flag, the last flag be planted on you rocky heights, and upon it let there be this inscription:
    “Here is the end of all that is dear to the heart and sacred to the memory of man!”
    Since this matter is in hand, another extract is offered for a like purpose. It is the concluding part of Gov. Andrew’s remarks in his recent inaugural address, on the duty of the State to encourage education through the agricultural college:
    “When the commonwealth touches such a subject, she ought to feel herself to be like the priestess advancing to touch the sacred symbols, and on holy ground.  She should remember her own dignity, the immortality always possible to sates, the error of which she is the promoter hereafter, if she commits herself to error now, and the boundless scope of her good influence, the millions of men on whom her influence may be made to tell through all the amplitudes of space and time.  When I contemplate such a subject, the reason is content to yield to the imagination.  I remember the photograph, the magnetic telegraph, the discovery of vaccination, the painless operations of surgery—the triumphs, the miracles of genius.  I seem to see, for the earth herself and her cultivators, the coming time when husbandry, attended by all the ministries of science and art, shall illumine and rejuvenate her .countenance, and re-create our life below.”
    In the city of Memphis, Tenn., there are eight colored schools, taught by nineteen teachers, of whom some are white, and some are colored.  These teachers have under their instruction nine hundred scholars, both young and old.  The majority of them, but a short time ago, laid by their chains. 
    “Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
    “I lay this down as the law of nations.  I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.....  From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....  It is a war power.  I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. . When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.ADAMS.
     
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
FREEDOM OF S0LDIERS' FAMILIES 
SPEECH OF CHARLES SUMNER
In the U. S. Senate, Jan. 5, 1865.
MR. PRESIDENT: There was a call only a few days ago for three hundred thousand more troops. The country needs them, and it is the duty of Congress to help supply them. To this end there must be no difficulty, impediment or embarrassment in the way. All these must be removed. But this is not all. There must be encouragement of every kind; and such is the character of the present proposition. 
There can be no delay. The country cannot wait the slow action of a Constitutional Amendment, as has been proposed by the Senator from Wisconsin (Mr. Doolittle.) Congress must act to the extent of its power, and any abdication of its power on this question will be injurious to the public interests. 
All must confess the humanity of the proposition to enfranchise the families of colored persons who have borne arms for their country. All must confess the hardships of continuing them in slavery.
But the question is asked by many, and even by the Senator from Wisconsin, what power has Congress to set the families free?
Mr. Doolittle-I did not ask that question. 
Mr. Sumner-I understood-
Mr. Doolittle-The Senator is entirely mistaken. He putting a question himself, and then answering it. I have not put it at all.
Mr. Sumner-The question has been put again and again, and the whole purport of the speech of the Senator from Wisconsin was in that sense. He argued that we were about to have a Constitutional Amendment which was to supersede everything; that therefore this proposition was unnecessary, if not injurious. 1 so understood the argument of the Senator, and that it pointed directly to the question of the power of Congress on this occasion, because I know the patriotism of that Senator too well to suppose that, if in his opinion the power of Congress on this occasion was beyond question, he would hesitate. I do not therefore do the Senator any injustice. I say, then, the question is asked, what power has Congress to set the families free? This is the single point on which I shall express an opinion. 
My answer is, that Congress has precisely the same right to enfranchise the families that it has to enfranchise the colored soldier. The two powers are coincident, and from the same source. 
It has been already assumed that Congress may enfranchise the colored soldier. This has been done by solemn statute, without any reference to the conduct of his pretended owner. If we were asked the reason for such enfranchisement, it must be found, first, in its practical necessity, that we may secure the best services of the slaves; and secondly, in its intrinsic justice and humanity. In brief, government cannot be so improvident and so foolish as to attempt to obtain the services of the slave at the hazard of life, without securing to him the boon of freedom. Now, if government were so bereft of common sense as to forego this temptation to enlistment and efficient service, could it be guilty of the unutterable meanness of using the slave in the national defence, and then returning him to bondage? Therefore the slave who fights is enfranchised.
But every argument, every consideration, which pleads for the enfranchisement of the slave pleads for the enfranchisement of the family. There is the same practical necessity for doing it, and the same unutterable shabbiness in not doing it.
There is no principle of law better established than the rule that any acknowledged right carries with it all incidents essential to its exercise. I do not employ technical language: but I give the idea, which is founded in reason and the nature of things. It would be vain to confer a right, or a power, if the means for its enjoyment were denied. From this simple statement the conclusion is irresistible. 
In conferring upon Congress the power to create an Army, the Constitution conferred therewith all, the powers essential to the exercise of the principal power. If Congress can authorize the enlistment of slaves, as it unquestionably can, it may at the same time authorize their enfranchisement, and by the tame reason it may authorize the enfranchisement of their families; and all this from the necessity of the case, and to prevent an intolerable meanness.
An English patriot, nearly two centuries ago, exclaimed in memorable words that he. would give his life to serve his country, but he would not do a mean thing to tare it. If there be any value in this declaration, it may well be invoked when it is deliberately argued that the National government can create an army, and in this service can enfranchise the slave which it enlists, but that it is impotent to enfranchise his family. I know not how we can use his right arm, and ask him to shed his blood in our defence, and then hand over his wife and child to bondage. The case is too clear for argument. The human heart rejects the insufferable pretension.
But it is said that the slave has no family. Such is the argument of slavery. For all that he has, as well as all that he is, even wife and child, belong to another. Surely this unrighteous pretension will not be made the apology for a denial of rights. If the family of the slave be not designated by law, or by the forms of legal marriage, then it must be ascertained by the next best evidence possible; that is, by cohabitation and mutual recognition at man and wife. And any uncertainty in this evidence must be regarded as a natural incident to slavery. As men cannot take advantage of their own wrong, to slave-masters, on this occasion, cannot take advantage of slavery. Any other rule would practically unite with slavery in denying to the slave wife and child.
There is a well-known French maxim, that "it is only the first step which costs"-ce n'est que le premier pas qui coute-and on this occasion, permit me to say, it is only the first stage of the argument which merits attention. Concede that the soldier may be enfranchised, and it follows that by the same constitutional power his family may be admitted to an equal liberty. Any other conclusion would be as illogical as inhuman; discreditable alike to the head and the heart. There is no argument, whether of reason or of humanity, for the enfranchisement of the soldier which does not plead equally for that of his, family. Nay, more; I know not how we can expect a blessing on our arms while we fail to perform this duty.
I cannot close what I have to say without adding that, in my opinion, Congress at this moment is complete master of the whole question of slavery every where in the United States, even without any Constitutional Amendment. It can sweep it all out of existence, precisely as it can remove any other obstruction to the national defence, and all this by virtue of a power as indisputable as the power to raise armies or to suspend the habeas corpus. Future generations will read with amazement that a great people, when national life was assailed, hesitated to exercise a power to simple and beneficent; that this Congress higgled for months on the question whether the wife and children of the colored soldier should be admitted to freedom.
IMPORTANT LESSON. Hon. E. P. Weston, in his eulogy on Edward Everett, in the Massachsetts House of Representatives, uttered this important truth:
And this lesson I read most clearly, from the closing pages of that life which is opened to us with new significance to-day; that whatever of scholarly attainments a man may reach, whatever of intellectual stores he may gather, whatever graces of rhetoric he may have cultivated, he attains the highest power to away the great popular heart, and move it to generous purposes, only as his own heart is inspired with the best impulses of humanity and the highest patriotic devotion.
Admiral Porter's report upon recent events near Wilmington contains the noticeable feature that several Armstrong guns having the mark of the broad arrow (The King's Own) upon them, fell into our hands with Fort Cat well and other works. The British government is supposed to have secured the exclusive use of these guns, and the Admiral thinks; this circumstance requires an explanation. An enormous quantity of stores and provisions, and clothing for sixty thousand troops, all English, was also abandoned by the enemy. Another circumstance mentioned it the finding of a despatch from Lee, informing the commanders of the works that unless they could he held, he should be compelled to evacuate Richmond.
GEN. BUTLER Brooks, of New York, having made some calumnious remarks in Congress against Gen. Butler, was brought to by a sharp letter frets the General, which the cowardly Copperhead construed at denoting a duel. He brought it into the House on Monday, where a considerable discussion ensued, in which Gen. Butler had decidedly the best of it The matter came up on Tuesday again, and the General was ably-defended by Mr. Boutwell of Massachusetts. Gen Butler had a cordial farewell interview with President Lincoln on the 24th inst
<c02>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1865.
I REPEAT THE DECLARATION MADE A YEAR AGO, THAT WHILE I REMAIN IN MY POSITION, I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO RETRACT OF MODIFY THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, NOR SHALL I RETURN TO SLAVER ANY PERSON WHO IS FREE BY THE TERMS OF THAT PROCLAMATION, OR BY ANY OF THE ACTS OR CONGRESS. IF THE PEOPLE SHOULD, BY WHATEVER MODE OR MEANS, MAKE IT AN EXECUTIVE DUTY TO REENSLAVE SUCH PERSONS, ANOTHER, AND NOT I, MUST BE THE INSTRUMENT TO PERFORM IT.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
LAUS DEO!-HALLELUJAH!
It is with devout thanksgiving to god, and emotions of joy which no language can express, that we announce to our readers the passage through the U.S. House of Representatives, on Tuesday last, of the proposed amendment of the Constitution, in concurrence with the Senate, and by the requisite two thirds vote, abolishing and prohibiting slavery in every part of the republic! It is the greatest and most important event in the history of congressional legislation. It is better than all the military and naval victories of the war. Adopted as unquestionably it will be by the requisite number of States, imagination may toil in vain to depict the future career of this country as pertaining to peace, unity, prosperity, and grandeur. Henceforth, in deed and in truth, America is to be "the land of the FREE"-"where breathes no castled lord nor cabined slave."
"Perley," the Washington correspondent of the Boston journal, gives the following sketch of the scene in the House of Representatives:-
"The event of the day has been the final reference of the proposed Emancipation clause to the State Legislatures. The galleries of the hall of the House were literally packed with ladies and gentlemen, and on the floor were Senators, Judges, officers of the army and navy, and distinguished citizens from almost every State. The Democrats endeavored at one time to filibuster, and urged a postponement of the vote until to morrow; but General Ashley, who has engineered the resolution, was inflexible, and at last the voting was commenced just before four o'clock. There was almost breathless suspense until James E. English of Connecticut voted "aye," when there was a cheer, and the applause was repeated after the affirmative vote of John Ganson of New York, who was a member of the Chicago Convention. At last the result was declared-One hundred and nineteen Ayes to fifty-six Nays, when for at least five minutes the hail rang with applause. Handkerchiefs were waved, congratulations were interchanged, and every loyal man and woman present appeared delighted.''
Gov. Andrew has issued an order that whenever the telegraph shall announce that the President has signed the resolution for an amendment of the Constitution abolishing slavery, a salute of one hundred guns shall be fired on the common. He also recommends that the church bells throughout the State be rung at the same hour.
THE ANNUAL MEETING.
We devote a large portion of our inside form to a condensed report of the proceedings of the two days' meetings of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society at the Melodeon, in this city, last week. For reasons entirely satisfactory to us, we neither participated in the proceedings nor attended any of the meetings on the second day. Where the platform is free to all comers, it is not surprising that some persons take advantage of it to display their folly and give vent to their personal spleen, under the specious guise of being deeply concerned lest the rights of the colored people should be compromised! The discussions, as a whole, were earnest, able and eloquent. The speech of Mr. Phillips on Thursday evening, and of George Thompson on Friday evening, (neither of which we heard,) it is universally conceded were of a very high order. They will be printed in full hereafter, as well as some other speeches. As the resolutions submitted by Mr. Phillips were adopted by putting them to the assembly, and not confining the vote to members of the Society, the Society is not strictly committed to them; especially is this true of the last resolution, introduced by Mr. Foster at the last moment, and adopted by a confused and dissolving audience. In regard to the duty and importance of claiming equal rights and privileges for the colored population, there was, of course, no difference of opinion among the abolitionists.
PERSISTENT INJUSTICE. The Commonwealth, a short time since, announced to its readers, with an air of affected surprise and sorrow, that the Liberator had repudiated its motto, "No Union with Slaveholders." We showed the charge to be a false one, and expected the Commonwealth would candidly acknowledge it had done us an injustice. Instead of this, it repeated its untruthful assertion by representing that we had put the old motto "back again"-the inference being that we had done so in consequence of our exposure! Again denying the charge, expressing our astonishment at such dishonest conduct, and calling for fair treatment, we looked to see what the Commonwealth of Saturday would have to say on the subject; and we found, not any correction, but only the following dissembling and calumnious paragraph:-
"The Liberator is mistaken. We have no unfriendliness, and indulge in no rivalry towards it. We sometimes fear we do not adequately appreciate the services of its editor in past years, which become, all the more conspicuous from his present position and advocacy. In this crisis of the nation, we think constancy to hit old teachings would be of transcendant value to our rulers; with the adoption of a policy, as it seems he to us, of excuse and palliation fur their short-comings, he is risking the value of a life-long instruction. The Commonwealth comments freely-we believe not unjustly. While doing so, we disclaim all personal hostility; and we refuse to accept it when we find our selves in the 'Refuge of Oppression' of the liberator, and that our criticisms, not our encomiums, are remembered."
To the imputations and insinuations in this extract concerning our fidelity to the cause of the oppressed, we deem it quite unnecessary to make any reply. A testimony like the following, given by that "Israelite indeed in whom there is no guile," the widely beloved Rev. Nathaniel Hall of Dorchester, outweighs an avalanche of such censure:-
DORCHESTER, Jan. 27, 1865.
MY DEAR MR. GARRISON-I send you, as Editor of the Liberator, and as a most honored friend, the enclosed $10; with heart-felt thinks for what you have done for me personally, and for that blessed Cause to which you have so nobly devoted your life. Much as I admired your course before, it has won from me new and increased admiration during the last eventful years of trial and of glory. May God bless and cheer you in all your trials, as I know he will
With sincerest regard,
NATH. HALL.
"TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN." There are some persons whose peculiar idiosyncrasy, love of dispuation and lack of breadth are such that we never allow ourselves to be drawn into a controversy with them. Our readers will understand, therefore, why we invariably take no notice of any impeachment of our motives or acts, or of any allegations made against us on an anti-slavery platform or in our columns, by STEPHEN S. FOSTER. We have for years given him carte blanche to say whatever be pleases against us-deeming it as absurd and useless to attempt to hold him to any point, or to make any appeal to reason and fact on any controverted matter, as it would be to encounter a wind mill or grasp a will-o'-th'-wisp.
John Steel of Philadelphia lately died from the effects of a kick of a horse. He is said to have been the wealthiest man in Pennsylvania, and his receipts (from the oil business) were $3000 a day.
<c03>
MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The thirty-second annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society was held at the Melodeon, in Boston, on Thursday, Jan. 26, 1865.
The President of the Society, EDMUND QUINCY, called the meeting to order at quarter past 10 o'clock.
The usual Committees were nominated and appointed, as follows:-
Committee on Business.-W. L. Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Henry C. Wright, Maria W. Chapman, Parker Pillsbury, Andrew T. Foss, Abby Kelley Foster, Stephen S. Foster, Wm. Wells Brown, Mrs. Caroline H. Dall.
Committee on Nominations.-Elbridge Sprague, Abington; James N. Buffum, Lynn; W W. Dutcher, Milford; A. M. Chase, Canton; Elias Richards, Weymouth; Richard Plumer, Newburyport; Josiah. Hayward, Salem; Moses Wright, Georgetown; Joseph A. Howland, Worcester.
Committee on Finance.-Ebenezer D. Draper, Hopedale; Lewis Ford, Boston; Samuel Dyer, Abington. 
The President stated that the last two Committees were not full, and might be added to hereafter.
Samuel May, Jr. and Charles K. Whipple were chosen Assistant Secretaries.
The Treasurer's Report, duly audited, was presented to the Society, and read by the President. It showed the expenditures of the Society, during the year past, to be exactly equal to its receipts.
Report accepted, to be published with the proceedings of the meeting.
The Committee on Business not having had time to confer together, Wendell Phillips read for information of the Society a series of resolutions; and proceeded to address the Society in support of them.
The speech was heard with the closest attention by the audience, and received warm applauses at the close. [A fuller report will appear hereafter.]
Three children, lately slaves in New Orleans, present in the meeting, came forward by request of the meeting, on the proposition of Mr. May, and sang a song-"I was born a little slave." Mr. May stated that these children, set free by the arms of the United States, had been gathered with thousands of others into schools under the administration of Gen. Banks, in Louisiana.
GEORGE THOMPSON then addressed the Society in an eloquent and impressive manner. 
[This speech also will be fully reported hereafter.] 
It having been known that FREDERICK DOUGLASS was present in the audience, by Mr. Thompson's reference to the fact, very many in the meeting next called loudly for Mr. Douglass, some also for Mr. Remond. The latter gentleman declined speaking at present, preferring to give way for Mr. Douglass, who then came forward and addressed the Society. [This eloquent and interesting speech will be written out for publication.]
Adjourned to half-past 2 o'clock, P. M.
THURSDAY AFTERNOON.
Met according to adjournment; the President in the chair.
The first speaker introduced was JOHN PARKER, recently in the rebel service. He had been an American slave, and had but recently, only three years ago, made his escape. He is of unmixed African blood. He gave forcible expression to his hearty detestation of slavery, and of those amphibious creatures, Northern men with Southern principles. The negro, he thought, was in an unfortunate position, disliked and oppressed by both parties. His race wanted justice and liberty, and they would be thankful to any one, Northern or Southern, who would grant them these. He gave some details of his personal and family history, and replied to some of the current apologies for slavery. He rejoiced in the reformation of Gen. Butler from partisan democracy to practical abolitionism. He made impressive reference to the injustice yet practised against the colored people in the city of Philadelphia, and rejoiced in the patient and unrevengeful disposition of that race, in spite of the gross cruelties which they had suffered. He had been compelled to assist in building the fortifications of Richmond, but he thought the greatest strength of the rebellion lay in the divisions of opinion among Northern men in regard to slavery.
The ex-slave children, under the charge of Rev. DEXTER S. KING, then came upon the platform, and after a brief sketch of their history from him, they sung the song, "Slavery's chain is bound to break;" after which, "Charley" spoke a little speech which had been written for him, in relation to his past history, and in eulogy of Gen. Banks, and the elder girl recited some verses.
Mr. GARRISON made a partial report in behalf of the Business Committee. They had agreed to report Mr. Phillips's resolutions, though without endorsing them. Each person must judge for himself in regard to the sentiments expressed in them.
Mr. PHILLIPS then proceeded to re-read the resolutions, as follows:-
1. Resolved, That we acknowledge with devout gratitude the marvellous triumphs of the anti slavery principle throughout the United States-the redemption of Missouri and Maryland from the curse and sin of the infamous system-and the bright hope that Kentucky and Tennessee will soon follow their honorable example.
2. Resolved, That while these successes give us unfeigned delight, and strengthen and encourage us, and while the victorious march of the national armies enables us to execute justice between man and man, and teaches us meanwhile at every step its imminent necessity, we still recognize that the end is not yet, that real and complete success is not achieved, and that the slave's cause needs yet our most devoted efforts, and our incessant vigilance.
3. Resolved. That if, as we are assured, the present so-called reconstruction of Louisiana is endorsed by the President, and its admission urged by him in Congress, either as an allowable exception or as a model for the other rebel States, we feel bound to protest against acknowledging such reconstruction, or its admission to the rights of a State.
4. Resolved, That as we have always claimed for the negro equal civil privileges with the white man, and demanded for the slave entire, immediate and unconditional liberty, we repudiate the so-called freedom of Louisiana; seeing in it only one of the needless abortive and oft-exploded attempts to prepare the negro for freedom, and deeming its real endorsement of apprenticeship and gradualism to exert a disastrous influence in other States and on the future of the negro.
5. Resolved, That waiving our objection to it as American citizens, which may not be fully discussed on a strictly anti-slavery platform, we consider that reconstruction a practical denial of the first principles of the anti-slavery agitation, that a negro is entitled at once and of course to all the privileges that belong to a white man in the same circumstances; that any system of apprenticeship or gradual abolition it at once impossible, unjust, and the seed of difficulty only. And we hold such form of reconstruction as putting to hazard all the fruits of national victory, and postponing indefinitely justice to the negro.
6. Whereas, a nation's duty is measured by its power; and whereas, considering the nature of our government and the relations of the national and State governments, no individual is safe unless he holds in his own hands the means of protecting his own rights; and whereas, in claiming for the negro emancipation and freedom, we mean an effectual emancipation and a real freedom; and whereas, considering the nature of our Government, and the interlocking of State and Federal authority, no emancipation can be effectual and no freedom real, unless the negro has the ballot and the States are prohibited from enacting laws making any distinction among their citizens on account of race or color; therefore, Resolved, That, in our opinion, the United States Constitution needs two amendments: one prohibiting slavery everywhere throughout the Union, and another forbidding the States to enact laws which make any
<c04>
distinction among their citizens on account of race or color.
Mr. GARRISON made some comments upon Mr. Phillips's use of the word "reconstruction," and proceeded to read some further resolutions, as follows:-
7. Resolved, That if, as reconstructed, Louisiana ought not to be admitted to the Union because she excludes her colored population from the polls, then Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and all the Western States ought not to be in the Union for the same reason; and while they are guilty of this proscription, it is not for them to demand of Louisiana a broader scope of republican liberality than they are willing to take in their own case.
Whereas, ever since the organization of the national government till now, every State in the Union has claimed and exercised the right to determine on what conditions any of its inhabitants shall wield the ballot, -the General Government taking no cognizance of the special inclusion or exclusion pertaining to its electoral law; and whereas, it is not to be presumed that any State will consent to have this established prerogative wrested from it, and a wholly different rule forcibly prescribed, either on the plea of military occupancy or by act of Congress, without an amendment of the National Constitution; and whereas, by the conflicting laws or constitutions of the several States in the matter of voting, colored citizens who are electors in one State are disfranchised in another, and thus this usage is attended with invidious and oppressive features, and ought not longer to prevail among a people claiming to be one in nationality of spirit, purpose and destiny; and whereas, with a wise regard to the future peace and welfare of the republic, and especially the allegiance of the Southern section of it, no one class should be left to ostracise another, under the plea of State sovereignty; therefore,
8. Resolved, That Congress should lose no time in submitting to the people an amendment of the Constitution, making the electoral law uniform in all the States, without regard to complexional distinctions.
ELBRIDGE SPRAGUE, of Abington, then made a report from the Committee on Nominations, recommending the following persons as officers of the Society for the coming year:-
PRESIDENT.
EDMUND QUINCY, of Dedham.
VICE PRESIDENTS.
Bourne Spooner, of Plymouth; William Ashby, of Newburyport; Adin Ballou, of Hopedale; Jefferson Church, of Springfield; Josiah Henshaw, of West Brookfield; Henry I. Bowditch, of Boston; James N. Buffum, of Lynn; Ellis Allen, of Medfield; John Bailey, of Lynn; David P. Harmon, of Haverhill; Thomas T. Stone, of Bolton; Ezekiel Thacher, of Barnstable; Charles Lenox Remond, of Salem; John Clement, of Townsend; Atkinson Stanwood, of Newburyport; Joshua T. Everett, of Princeton; Benjamin Snow, Jr., of Fitchburg; George Miles, of Westminster; Timothy Davis, of Framingham; Zebina H. Small, of Harwich; William Pope, Jr., of Dorchester; Elbridge Sprague, of Abington; Elias Richards, of Weymouth.
Corresponding Secretary-Samuel May, Jr., of Leicester.
Recording Secretary-Robert F. Wallcut, of Boston.
Treasurer-Ebenezer I. Draper, of Hopedale.
Auditor-William I. Bowditch, of Brookline.
Counsellors-William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Maria W. Chapman, Charles K. Whipple, Anne W. Weston, John T. Sargent, Charles E. Hodges, Sarah J. Nowell.
On motion that the report be accepted and adopted, the President was proceeding to take the vote, when
Mrs. ABBY KELLEY FOSTER moved that Mrs. Maria W. Chapman and Miss Anna W. Weston be excused from service on the Board of Managers of this Society, on the ground that they believe the work of the Society already done.
SAMUEL MAY, JR. said he thought it would be quite time to excuse those ladies from the Board of Managers, when they asked to be excused. They had made no such request, and they were regular attendants at the meetings of the Board; and for one, he hoped the Society would not put itself in the singular position of adopting Mrs. Foster's motion.
In a few remarks, Mrs. Foster withdrew her motion.
Mrs. DALL wished to say, for one, that the services of such old, long-tried, and faithful friends as Mrs. Chapman and Miss Weston should be claimed, and eagerly claimed, by this Society.
The question was called for, and the Society unanimously accepted the report of the Nominating Committee, thereby electing its officers for the year.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr. moved that the Finance Committee be instructed to proceed to take up collections both for immediate expenses and in behalf of the work of the Society yet before it. He replied to Mrs. Foster's allusion to the small amount received and expended by the Society the past year. We were not so vain as to think that anti-slavery work was done, now, by the anti-slavery society only. Thank God, the nation had been largely converted to the truth of the leading ideas and principles of this Society. Nevertheless, a work still remains to the old anti slavery societies. While there was a slave remaining on our soil, or a compromise remaining with the slaveholder, the Anti-Slavery Society must not die; and its friends must not allow it to die.
The motion of Mr. May was adopted.
On account of the necessary absence of Mr. Dyer, Mr. Elbridge Sprague was added to the Finance Committee.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER said that if the Board of Managers would present work, appoint agents, and call for funds, he had no doubt funds sufficient would be forthcoming.
JAMES N. BUFFUM made some comments on the remarks of Mr. and Mrs. Foster, and depicted in an earnest manner the wonderful change that had taken place in the sentiment of the nation, favorable to the total extirpation of slavery.
Mr. GARRISON said that the Board of Managers of this body have shown their faith and their faithfulness by their works, and need no better certificate than their reelection for so many yeas by the Society. They required neither instruction nor information as to the work to be done in the future. What they wanted was the means to do with, and they would not be lacking in effort. He rejoiced to believe, however, and all the signs of the times indicated, that the labors of this Society were rapidly coming to a close. The Jubilee is near.
Mr. GARRISON read the following resolution as expressive of his feeling:-
9. Resolved, That in case the proposed anti-slavery amendment of the Constitution of the United States shall be adopted by Congress and the people at any time during the present year, the Board of Managers be instructed to summon a special meeting of this Society to celebrate the auspicious event, and to terminate its existence as an Anti-Slavery organization.
He proceeded to support it, and to vindicate the course he had pursued for several years past, as an abolitionist, and as an anti-slavery editor. He contended there was no difference, between himself and other members of the Society, in regard to any principle or any right appertaining to the colored man.
He found himself less and less inclined to make speeches against slavery, inasmuch as the people have pronounced slavery accursed, and demand its extirpation. Statesmen and politicians and Generals are crying out against it, and he would not charge them with insincerity. He held such charges, aspersions or insinuations to be not only unkind but impolitic. The work is great, and time is needed to complete it His anxiety was to hold the people, at this hour, mainly to the one point of the total abolition of slavery. That is the all in all for the redemption of the colored man, and the basis of all political rights. His rule for judg-
<c05>
ing of public men was to give a fair consideration to the circumstances of each. He referred to the case of John Quincy Adams as showing an honorable appreciation, by abolitionists, of the efforts of friends of freedom with views diverse from theirs. As to Gen. Banks, what is needed is not an endorsement of all that he has done, but a recognition that, amidst very great difficulties, he has accomplished some very commendable things for freedom and free institutions.
In regard to the ballot, Mr. Garrison said it was a conventional right of society, having its limitations, and had ever been so regarded; and, important as it was, it was not to be confounded with the natural right of a man to his personal ownership and liberty. For, otherwise, one human being was as much entitled to vote as another, without condition, and irrespective of sex or complexion. He was surprised to hear Frederick Douglass make the unqualified declaration, that emancipation without the ballot was a mockery. Surely, Mr. Douglass did not think so when he burst his fetters, and fled from Maryland to the free soil of Massachusetts, where he found safety, protection, freedom of thought and speech, and was enabled every where to advocate the claims of his brethren in bonds, whom he had left behind. Surely, he then deemed such freedom an unspeakable gift-something that called for heartfelt thanksgiving-though unaccompanied by the ballot; freedom from the lash of the driver, from mental and moral degradation, from cruel outrage and wrong. And he should not now forget the thrilling feelings with which he regarded his successful exodus out of the house of bondage, nor allow himself to be hurried into extravagance of statement in his commendable zeal to obtain equal political rights.
What, then, of the elective franchise? From the foundation of our government, this question has been left to the several States. The Constitution of the United States recognizes no authority on the part of Congress or the National Executive to interfere with it. Hence the diversity of action among the States-the great majority proscriptively excluding colored citizens from the polls. Now, if we are going into that matter, let us have a measure. which will reach, not Louisiana only, but that large number of Northern States which exceed her in political injustice to the colored man. And if the right to the ballot is to be put into the category of natural rights, then let us be consistent, and demand it for the black woman as well as for the black man-for all women as well as for all men.
Mr. Garrison asked what was the authority for Mr. Phillips's statement, that Gen. Sherman caused a multitude of colored followers to be brutally driven back, and subjected to be massacred by the enemy. [Mr. Phillips-"I know it to be true."] Mr. Phillips says he knows it to be true. I do not; and I have never seen the evidence of it. On the contrary, I have seen various statements, by different writers on the ground, all setting forth the humanity and kindness of Gen. Sherman to the colored population of Georgia. As to the alleged murderous barbarity of Gen. Jefferson C. Davis, on a certain occasion, that remains to be authenticated; and until it is, by official investigation, severe condemnation should be withheld.
Mr. Garrison expressed his entire confidence in the integrity of President Lincoln, and believed that he would fulfil all his solemn pledges and engagements pertaining to the millions he had emancipated by his proclamation.
CHARLES L. REMOND inquired whether Mr. Garrison wished the Government to institute careful inquiry as to the treatment of colored men by the army and the Generals.
Mr. Garrison said he desired and expected the Government to protect them from outrage, as far as practicable.
Mr. Foster asked if Mr. Lincoln's pledge of retaliation for the Fort Pillow massacre had been redeemed.
Mr. Garrison replied that the difficulty in that case was not in regard to the disposition of Mr. Lincoln, but to the impossibility of the Government descending to such fiendish cruelty, and the perplexity of determining precisely what retaliatory measures to adopt. Just as in the case of our famished soldiers in the Libby and Andersonville prisons. Who in the audience would attribute inhumanity to Abraham Lincoln?
S. S. FOSTER stated that this meeting had been called for a single day only. Some members of the Hovey Committee (so called) thought an additional day desirable, and had engaged the hall for another day. He would therefore move that, when we adjourn to-night, it be to meet again to-morrow in this hall.
Mr. GARRISON objected to the motion, inasmuch as, in accordance with the course of the two past years, and after full consideration of the subject, the Board of Managers had voted to hold a meeting of but one day; and that vote was a unanimous one, in a full meeting, upon the motion of Mr. Phillips.
Mr. PHILLIPS said that Mr. Garrison was right in his statement that the Managers had unanimously voted in favor of one day; but, on further reflection, he had himself concluded that the various subjects of importance required a second day's discussion. He proceeded to set forth the importance of some of these subjects, especially the point of the admission of Louisiana.
Mr. Garrison spoke further in support of his view of the matter, and was followed by Mrs. Foster, who desired another day's meeting.
The question being taken, it was voted to continue the meetings through the following day and evening.
The meeting was then adjourned to 7 1-2 o'clock.
EVENING. Met according to adjournment, Mr. Quincy, the President, in the Chair.
ANDREW T. FOSS, of New Hampshire, took the floor in defence of the Government and legislation of the country against various attacks made. upon them here to-day. He had been charged with "electioneering," 'he said. He proceeded to relate the circumstances of his speaking last autumn in behalf of the reelection of President Lincoln, which he supposed was the true reason of the outcry against him. He had been applied to by a member of the National Republican Committee to speak for them. His reply was that he was an abolitionist-an immediate emancipationist, without any delay or compromise. "That is what we want," was the reply. If I go into this campaign, was Mr. Foss's answer, I must go entirely free to say just what I have said as an agent of the Anti Slavery Society. This was cheerfully agreed to. Now, said Mr. Foss, why should any one object to such "electioneering" as that? If the speaking of the utmost Anti-Slavery truth helps the Republican cause, should it not be helped? Indeed, added Mr. Foss, in this matter I have only done what Stephen S. Foster himself did two years earlier, when in New Hampshire he accepted the request of the Republicans to aid them in their State election, and went from town to town, giving addresses which obtained very many votes for the Republican party.
A. BRONSON ALCOTT, of Concord, asked leave to express his latest thought on some of the subjects which had agitated the meeting. He wished first to say who, he thought, were to-day the "great teachers" of ourselves and of our country. He first referred to him who, 35 years ago, ventured to think and to say that slavery ought to be, could be, and must be abolished. "He is one of your teachers. But if he should fail to go forward as before, he will cease to be your teacher, and you will select some other." He then referred, by distinct allusion, to Wendell Phillips as the future leader and deliverer of the nation. Then he referred to George Thompson by name, and thought he, also, though a great teacher and leader, was "something behind the times." he spoke of R. W. Emerson as the first of Americans, in thought, in philosophy, in independence of all other countries and races and minds. He playfully said be didn't know but Boston would get jealous of Concord, and took his seat amidst laughter.
<c06>
S.S. FOSTER. "I have never been in closer relation with the Republican party than I am to day. I have never had so close an interest in that party as I have to-day, for it never was so worthy of such interest as now." He explained how he came to lecture in New Hampshire as Mr. Foss had said. He had never asked any one vote for the Republican party, but decided preference was to be given to that party
Rev. Mr. MORSE OF Haverhill, and Rev. Mr. WHITE of Boston, briefly addressed the Society in behalf of its taking the most radical ground possible at this critical period.
Mr. GARRISON replied to the remarks of Mr. Alcott, disclaiming for himself all idea and desire of "leadership"-a small and unworthy ambition, in itself. He spoke with earnest feeling in favor of sustaining and encouraging every anti-slavery purpose and measure of the people and their Government, and urging them forward to the work remaining to be done, instead of continually censuring and throwing suspicion and distrust upon them.
HENRY C WRIGHT maintained, that when chattel slavery is abolished, the distinctive work of the Anti-Slavery Society is finished. The work thenceforth assumes a new shape, not of "anti-slavery," but for the securing of all the rights which belong to the freeman.
WENDELL PHILLIPS addressed the Society, in a speech of half an hour, which may be reported in full.
Adjourned to 10,A.M. of Friday.
FRIDAY.
Re-assembled at the Melodeon, according to adjournment. The President called the meeting to order at 10 1-2 o' clock, and the resolution before the Society were read again by Mr. May.
W.PHILLIPS wished to state that the 8th resolution, relating to the amendment of the Constitution, and the 7th relating to complexional distinctions, were written by Mr. Garrison.
He thought, in regard to these, that our special claim for acting in Louisiana is that at present there are no laws there; the old Louisiana code is extinct; the United States have made no new laws; the only law now in that State is the will of Gen. Banks. As to Connecticut, and the other old States, we are not talking of what they do or do not, but of what the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society should demand. The Federal Government in their hands, and expediency.
R. P. HALLOWELL wished to state a further objection to the resolutions in question, namely, that they made remonstrance against the old pro-slavery States doing a certain right act, because their former conduct has been inconsistent with it.
This Society has always been laboring for two things; the emancipation of the slaves, and their elevation. At the best view of present affairs, their work is only half done.
WILLIAM B. EARLE said he did not like Connecticut consistency; it has always been on wrong side. He proceeded to speak of the aristocratic element in some of the early settlements of this country, and the fearful results which have come from the perpetuation of such distinction among us. We ought not to rest until every State has a Bill of Rights as perfect as that of Massachusetts, or more perfect if that be possible.
He particularly disliked the 7th of this series of Resolutions, and thought it calculated to do great harm. Every one of the laws discriminating against black men, in every State, is unconstitutional. Massachusetts has too long allowed the oppression of her colored citizens when they have chanced to come under the action of such States.
W. PHILLIPS. read an extract from the Standard just arrived, on Gen. Sherman's plan of reconstruction pointing out the opinion of that paper, which, he said, would not be suspected of being too radical on the dangerous character of that plan. He also read a portion of the letter of Judge Durant of New Orleans in the same paper, exposing the evil character of Gen. Banks's rule, and showing that liberty has not yet been gained by the ex-slaves. A recent decision in a New Orleans court would go to show that men of color are not under the protection of the law in Louisiana. A proved murderer there was acquitted by the jury, in Judge D's opinion, only because his victim was a colored boy, and the witnesses to the deed of murder were all colored men.
C. L. REMOND thought that our resolutions of censure of this sort of freedom are too general in their terms; and that they ought not only to be out spoken but so direct and specific as to be felt and regarded by the culprits. He had been painted by the disposition of Mr. Garrison to apologize for functionaries like President Lincoln and General Banks. He thought that our function was freely to criticise whatever obstructed the enfranchisement and elevation of the colored people. Their rights are identical with those of the white race. Justice to each is for the benefit of all. He for his part would speak out, thought he had to speak against a dozen Wm. Lloyd Garrisons. 
Jos. A. HOWLAND, of Worcester, spoke of the disposition to oppression still shown in Maryland, according to the statements made yesterday. He could see no such difference between Maryland and Missouri on one side, and Louisiana on the other, as to justify us in censuring the latter, while, according to the resolutions reported by Mr. Phillips, we should rejoice over the former. He thought the resolutions of Mr. Phillips self-contradictory in that particular.
S. S. FOSTER combatted this view, and explained what, to his mind, was a distinction between the two cases.
Mrs. A. K. FOSTER inquired whether the United States were not bound, constitutionally, to recognize every man as free and equal, under the law, with his fellow-men, in making any reconstruction in a rebel State.
S. S. FOSTER proceeded to read a resolution such as, he thought, Mr. Remond's remarks called for, and then made extended remarks upon the present position of this Society:-
Resolved, That we regard the attempt to dignify the present condition of the colored people of Louisiana with the name of the freedom as no less a transparent sham than a despicable fraud, disgraceful alike to the government which invented it, and the nation which tolerates it; and as American citizens, as well as Abolitionists, we earnestly protest against this shameful prostitution of Federal power to the destruction of the rights and liberty of the loyal masses of a sister State whose chains had been broken, and their rights to national protection secured by the secession madness of their rebel masters.
Mr. Foster having, in his speech, charged Mr. Garrison (who was not present) with being ready "to make a compromise with the devil," and let down the claims of Anti-Slavery, George Thompson arose, read Mr. Foster's words which he had taken down and called upon Mr. Foster to prove the charge or to retract it. Mr. Thompson said the charge was groundless. calumnious, and malicious. Mr. Foster at first said he used the language figuratively; but Mr. Thompson still holding him to his words, either to prove or to take them back, he asked why he [Mr. Foster] was held to a stricter rule on this platform than others were. He proceeded to refer to a remark that Mr. Thompson had made at the last New England Anti-Slavery Convention in regard to himself and his friend Parker Pillsbury, at a time when, by a vote of the Convention limiting speeches, he could not reply.
Mr. Thompson declared that he had no recollection of ever having used the alleged words, [viz. that the names of Messrs. Foster and Pillsbury would rot, when the name of Abraham Lincoln would shine like a star in the firmament.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Rev. J. T. SARGENT being called on by Mr. Foster, testified that he heard the very words named. Mr. Thompson said, “If I did use those words, then with all the contriteness of which my nature is capable, I express my regret for having done so, and I retract them entirely.”
Mr. FOSTER allowed that this was magnanimous, but being called upon to imitate this magnanimity, and prove or retract the charge he had made against Mr. Garrison, he was understood to say that, if Mr. Garrison would answer him certain questions, he would then prove his charge, or would retract it.
HENRY C. WRIGHT read again the resolution offered by Mr. Garrison, and said that Mr. Garrison had yesterday repeatedly declared he would consent to no compromise, and to no legislation based upon complexional differences;—as indeed his own resolution showed.
W. PHILLIPS said that as he had argued yesterday, the cases were wholly unlike. Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Illinois, &c., are not now in question. Louisiana has now no Constitution; what is called so is only N. P. Banks’s private memorandum book. He [Gen. Banks] has said to the members of Congress, “State what change you wish in the Constitution of Louisiana, and it shall be made in ten days.” In this state of things, it is only in the power of the Federal Government to determine whether Louisiana shall return to the Union with a just and equal Constitution or not.
As to the charge made against Gen. Sherman, in regard to the massacre of the blacks which followed his army, Mr. Phillips had no alteration of that charge to make, except to transfer it to higher shoulders. For himself, he knew no Jefferson C. Davis, or any inferior officer in such a case. He held Gen. Sherman himself responsible for the act, and still more President Lincoln and Secretary Stanton.
Mr. Phillips asked of Mr. Wright-“Do you say No or yes to the present demand of Louisiana for admission to the Union?”
MR. WRIGHT. I will answer the question; that is what I have risen to do. We are in a fearful civil war. The Administration is trying to bring it to an honorable close. While we are in this war, the Government trying to abolish chattel slavery, Louisiana and Tennessee are knocking for admission into the Union. Shall they be admitted on the same ground on which Connecticut and other old States already stand in the Union, or on new and peculiar terms? This is the question. Mr. Wright, therefore, would say “yes” to the request of Louisiana for present admission, coming as she did with a Constitution abolishing and forever prohibiting slavery, which he thought was all we had a Constitutional right to require. He further pointed out that the most of the States have the word “white” in their Constitutions, and this odious distinction the loyal States should obliterate before they could honestly demand the same of the returning rebel States.
MR. PHILLIPS was much obliged to Mr. Wright for bringing the one vital point so clearly before the Society. He asks, why should Congress admit Pennsylvania, and refuse Louisiana? The answer is, it does not admit Pennsylvania. There is no question concerning the admission of Pennsylvania. She is in the Union already, The question is, what shall we do in the case of a State which is not now in the Union, but which seeks to enter it? If Pennsylvania were out, and should now ask to return, we ought to say forever, if necessary, “No, you cannot come in while you make unjust distinctions on the ground of color.”
MR. EARLE explained, referring to the admission of Missouri by way of illustration.
MR. WRIGHT asked if this Society has ever petitioned Congress to do what we think it has no power to do? And further, if Congress has power now to refuse the request of the State of Louisiana?
Mr. Phillips replied to the first question No, and to the second Yes; and proceeded to argue that Congress had entirely within its power the terms of admission of a State returning form rebellion. That which the Louisiana Constitution describes as liberty is a sham and a mockery. The persons to be held accountable for the infractions of Negro rights is not Banks in Louisiana, not Sherman in Georgia, but Abraham Lincoln, their official head.
Adjourned to 2 1-2 o’clock.
AFTERNOON. Met as adjourned, the President in the chair.
HENRY C. WRIGHT continued the morning discussion. He said the present Congress had admitted Nevada into the Union with the word “white” in its Constitution. Now, can this Congress prescribe a rule of action and admission for Louisiana, different from that which it had laid down for Nevada? He thought it could not; but that there must first be an amendment of the Constitution.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr. said it was best not to paint blacker than it is, even the Louisiana Constitution, and Gen. Banks’s temporary system of labor. He showed wherein it had been, as he thought, misrepresented. We could easily enough see its defects, more easily perhaps than to have avoided them. It had been evident to very uncompromising anti-slavery men, on the ground, that Gen. Banks had had an exceeding difficult work to perform; that he had diligently sought to ascertain and to carry out the freedman’s own wishes for himself, his wife and his children; and that he had largely aided in forming a Constitution which abolished and prohibited slavery in Louisiana forever. This was not a work to be lightly spoken of by abolitionists. Though it failed in the material point of giving to the freedman all those civil rights which are essential in a republic to individual rights and general safety, yet it did open the way to all these; and he, for one, would like the resolutions better, if they recognized these facts. He fully agreed in the necessity of giving to the freedmen of the South every right of citizens, though even the possession of the ballot will not, for a long time, be more than a partial protection. The freed people of the Southern States are the sincerest friends which the North and the Union have there as a class, the only friends. They have proved their manhood and earned their citizenship; and not only are they entitled to it, but they will have it, as certainly as that the Union will be restored. The eternal Providence has liked us all to the necessity of doing full justice to the colored man. None see this plainer than the really loyal white people of the South. That the resolutions might be condensed and amended, he moved their reference back to the Business Committee.
JOHN H. STEPHENSON, of Boston, said there was another very important light in which to look at this subject of full justice to the freedman,—the commercial light. It makes a vast difference to Massachusetts, commercially, whether these men are treated as free men or only as apprentices. Formerly, there was manufactured here every year a large amount of miserable cloths, known as negro-cloths. Do you know, said he, that not a single manufacturer in Massachusetts to-day makes this negro-cloth? (Applause.) The freed slaves will not have it. So of their shoes. The manufacturers can no longer sell their old red brogans. They have to blacken them all, in order to sell them. The slaves will wear no badge of their old bondage. (Applause.) Mr. Stephenson urged that all personalities should be dropped, and that we look only at the principles involved.
Dr. T. P. KNOX attacked the Louisiana system, and said that anybody who defended it was a coward and a traitor! He said that President Lincoln’s Proclamation of Emancipation was a sham and a fraud! He detailed several alleged cases of oppression on the Port Royal islands of South Carolina, and declared that the freed people, so called, were really slaves there, bought and sold with the plantations, and compelled to work for fifteen cents a day, under the threat that, if they did not, they should be put into the army! Gen. Saxton, he said, is only head overseer of slaves there!
<c02>
Mr. DENSMORE, of Pennsylvania, opposed the last motion,—to refer the resolutions back to the Committee. He hoped the Society would adopt them as they are.
PARKER PILLSBURY spoke on the general aspects of the cause, the particular steps of its progress, and the law of that progress. He said that every statement here made by Dr. Knox, in regard to South Carolina, could be corroborated by witnesses whom none would impeach.
Mr. MAY. May I ask if you say that, in regard to Dr. Knox’s statement, General Saxton is only a head-overseer of slaves in that department?
Mr. PILLSBURY. Perhaps not exactly that.
Dr. KNOX reiterated the statement, applying other offensive epithets to General Saxton. [Cries of “shame,” from many in the audience.]
Mr. PILLSBURY read some copious extracts from a paper in his hand, commenting as be proceeded. He added, these are extracts from Mr. Garrison’s correspondence with Professor Newman. And said he, if it is claimed that the Abolitionists are still united in sentiment; “at least one illustrious exception must be made.”
In I860, the Democratic party met at Charleston, S. C.; thither went Benjamin F. Butler and many others of the North, and the great storm and wind of their debates and discussions swept over the land; but the Lord was not in the wind. Then came a great earthquake at Chicago, which cast up to the surface Abraham Lincoln; but the Lord was not in the earthquake. And then came the fire upon Fort Sumter, followed by the fires of war all over the land; but the Lord was not in the fire. “And after the fire, (turning and pointing to Wendell Phillips,) a still, small voice.”
He referred to the man-worship, as he thought, which had been lavished by abolitionists upon Abraham Lincoln.
Mr. PHILLIPS moved that Mr. May’s motion be laid on the table. Carried.
H. C. WRIGHT moved that the Business Committee be instructed to prepare a Petition to Congress, asking for an Amendment to the Constitution prohibiting all distinctions among citizens of the several States on account of race or color. He offered a resolution to that effect.
S. S. FOSTER and W. B. EARLE earnestly opposed the adoption of the resolution.
EDWIN THOMASON advocated it.
FREDERICK DOUGLASS also opposed its adoption, on the ground that it would cause delay, and perhaps disaster, to the cause of just reconstruction.
Adjourned to 7½ P. M.
EVENING. Met according to adjournment, the President in the chair.
Mrs. FRANCES ELLEN HARPER, formerly Miss WATKINS, of Baltimore, very earnestly and eloquently pleaded the cause of the people of her race and complexion, and prayed that no disabilities should be admitted on account of their color. They had dearly earned their rights, and ought to have them all.
HENRY C. WRIGHT offered the following substitute for a resolution before the meeting:—
Resolved, That the Executive Committee of this Society be instructed at once to propose, and forward to Congress, a memorial asking that it forthwith adopt a rule, that neither Louisiana nor any other State [Louisiana being afterwards accepted as an amendment by Mr. Wright] shall ever be admitted into the Union, except on the basis of equality as to the right of suffrage, without regard to color.
Mr. Wright, in support of the resolution, and in reference to the admission of Louisiana, said, in substance—The question before the meeting is not, has the negro equal rights with the white man to suffrage, to labor, and education. No abolitionist doubts it. Nor is the military scheme, or the motive’s and character of Gen. Banks before us. But this—Louisiana knocks at the door of the Union for admission with Constitution. What are the facts respecting that Constitution, in regard to negro slavery? They are substantially these, as I am at present informed:— (1.) Negro slavery is immediately, unconditionally, and forever abolished. (2.) The abolition of all laws relating to negro slavery. (3.) The Legislature forever prohibited from passing any laws recognizing men as property. (4.) The Legislature required to, make any laws that may be necessary to make the abolition of negro slavery a practical reality. (5.) No complexional distinction in regard to labor and education. (6.) The negro stands on an equality with the white man before the courts as a witness, a juror, a suitor: also in regard to deliberation and communication, whether through the press, the pulpit, or the platform. (7.) Equality as to governmental protection to the negro in his domestic, social, commercial and ecclesiastical relations. (8.) The Legislature of Louisiana is empowered to extend suffrage to such negro citizens of the United States, residing in the State “as by military service, by taxation to support the government, or by intellectual fitness may be deemed entitled thereto.” (See Article 15 of the Constitution of Louisiana.) By this article, every negro in Louisiana who pays taxes, or who has been in military service in any capacity, or who is sufficiently enlightened to exercise suffrage intelligently, may become a voter. In this the State of Louisiana, now asking for admission, is far ahead of most of the loyal States in regard to negro suffrage.
It must be kept in mind that the settled policy of the Government from its foundation has been, that the power to decide who shall vote rests solely with each State. Over the qualifications for suffrage Congress has no control. True, Congress may refuse to admit Louisiana because of the word “white” in her Constitution as the basis of suffrage; but, in doing so, it would violate the rule under which, but a few weeks ago, it admitted Nevada, and under which every State that has come into the Union since it was formed has been admitted, with the single exception of Vermont. Has Congress a right to intermeddle with suffrage in Louisiana, when it has, by its action, disclaimed all right to control it in any other State?
It may be said that the President and his officials have already interfered with suffrage in Louisiana, and assumed to decide who may and may not vote. When the war power dominates, civil constitutions and laws lie prostrate; but the decisions of war prevail only while the military rules. Louisiana comes now with an organic law for a permanent civil government. Has Congress the right, would it not be Partial for it to demand of that State, a basis of suffrage differing from all others that have been admitted? The exercise of this power had better be left with the States.
A. B. ALCOTT offered some thoughts upon color. He said Frederick Douglass was the leader of the colored people of this country, and would before long be their Representative in the National Senate.
Rev. Mr. WHITE discussed somewhat Gen. Banks’s scheme of freedom and “organized labor” in Louisiana.
GEORGE THOMPSON came forward at request of many in the house to address the Society. He wished, he said, to support the motion offered this evening as a substitute for that proposed this afternoon. His address was very eloquent, and made evidently a profound impression. It will probably be reported in full, but no report can give the force and fire of his spoken words.
WENDELL PHILLIPS spoke at some length, and with unusual warmth of manner, upon the one great necessity—to keep Louisiana, with its present system, out of the Union. He severely assailed Mr. Wright’s resolution, and declared he would “allow no red herring to be drawn across his path.” He represented forcibly the imminent and immense danger to the country, if Louisiana was suffered to come in with her present Banks-Constitution. It would be a precedent, and similar terms could not be refused to Georgia,
<c03>
Alabama, South Carolina, and other rebel States, when they chose to return. We should have slavery back again, in spirit if not in form, with power to work infinite mischief, and with no chance of offering it any effectual resistance again for another twenty years at least. He would hare nothing come between him and an emphatic NO! to Louisiana.
Mrs. A. K. FOSTER proposed that the resolutions reported by Mr. Phillips be passed by acclamation.
S. MAY, JR., preferring the usual method of voting, moved that the entire audience, who had listened so closely to the interesting debate of the evening, should be requested to vote on them.
W. B. EARLS spoke some moments in language of warning.
Mr. PHILLIPS, by request, read again the resolutions referred to by Mrs. Foster, and they were put to vote, and adopted by an emphatic and unanimous Aye, followed by cheering. The remaining resolutions offered by Mr. Garrison and Mr. Wright were, on the motion of S. S. Foster, laid on the table.
S. S. FOSTER came forward, and offered the following resolution, prefacing it by the remark that, if objection to it was made, it would not be pressed:—
Resolved, That this Society hereby recommends the Executive Committee to renew all its former operations as far as possible against the still existing cruel and proscriptive spirit of the American government and people, which seems willing if not determined to use the colored man as a soldier, and then to withhold from him an equal voice In those political institutions which he is compelled to defend with his money and his life; and to make a special call upon the anti-slavery public for funds wherewith to carry forward such operations.
Objection was made in several quarters. C. L. REMOND urged it should not be withdrawn, and it was not withdrawn.
The vote being taken, the audience being on their feet, and many having already left the hall, it was declared adopted.
The amount received by the Finance Committee was—Cash, $305,81. Pledges, $375; a smaller sum than at any annual meeting before for a long term of years, and obviously quite insufficient to meet any considerable operations of the Society.
At 101-2 o’clock, P. M., adjourned, sine die.
EDMUND QUINCY, President.
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE, SAMUEL MAY, JR., Assist Secretaries.
424 WALNUT STREET,
PHILADELPHIA, JAN. 25, 1865
MY DEAR MR. THOMPSON—This will probably find you at the meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society. On many accounts I could wish to be with you. Doubtless it will be an occasion of much interest. I shall await with some impatience a report of your proceedings.
Differ we shall and must, on many points; that is a necessity of different temperament, make and circumstances. It has always been so, and no one that is wise would have it otherwise. Each must be true to himself, and loyal to his own convictions. Therein lies our strength.
But on essential points we are all agreed. In principle we are one; in fundamental doctrine one. We may dissent on the application of a principle or doctrine; but not otherwise. In times past we have differed without diverging; let it be so in time to come.
The Election is over; and so are the antagonisms which it engendered. So mote it be! Our business is not with the future. Having—so to speak—stood “still” for a while, beholding “the salvation of God,” let us now hearken to the voice, which says, “Speak unto my people that they go forward.” For though great and mighty things have been done in the land, and great and mighty changes have taken place in the people thereof—whereat we have wondered, and whereof we rejoice—there remains, nevertheless, much to be done. The abolition of slavery does not put a period to the labors of the abolitionist. What may be the limitations in this respect of an Anti-Slavery Society, I do not assume to say; on this point there is room for an honest difference of opinion. But in regard to the duty of individuals, there is no ground for a question. “Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect,” said Paul; and so says each one of us. The shackles, though broken, have left cruel wounds on the limbs of the black man; these call for oil and wine. The half-converted jailor has turned the prisoner out of his cell, and left him shivering at the door. He would liberate him without giving him his freedom. He would send him into the world without giving him a character to open to him the avenues of industry and respectability. He would turn him out with his prison-badge upon him—a badge of disgrace, subjecting him to the treatment and disabilities of a felon.
These things must not be. To these things no abolitionist will consent, and against them he will protest with all the power that is in him. The black man was imprisoned for no crime; he shall be acquitted and enlarged without dishonor. The black man is a man, entitled to all the rights and immunities of a man. The word white in our laws is a vulgar and wicked discrimination, an outgrowth of slavery, and to be treated with no more respect than its hated parent.
It is not for abolitionists, as such, to say who shall vote; but it is for them to say, that whatever shall be adopted as the criterion of fitness for the exercise of the elective franchise, the color of the skin shall not be that criterion.
So says Wendell Phillips; so says Wm. Lloyd Garrison; and so say we all.
Ever yours, J. M. McKIM.
ATLANTIC MONTHLY. The February number of the Atlantic Monthly has been issued by the publishers, Ticknor & Fields, Boston, Mass. The following are the contents of the present number:—Our First Great Painter and his Works; Dr. Johns, I.; Roger Brooke Taney; The Mantle of St John De Matha; Needle and Garden, II.; Notes of a Pianist, I.; Garnaut Hall; The Pleiades of Connecticut; Ice and Esquimaux, III.; The Old House; Memories of Authors; Cole ridge; The Chimney Corner, II.; A Fortnight with the Sanitary; Art; Harriet Hosmer’s Zenobia; Reviews and Literary Notices. John G. Whittier, T. W. Higginson, Harriet Beecher Stowe, T. B. Aldrich, L. M. Gottschalk, Fitz Hugh Ludlow, S. C. Hail, Epes Sargent. Donald A. Mitchell, D. A. Wasson, Alice Carey and F. Seldon are writers for, this number.
GEN. BUTLER AT HOME. Maj.-Gen. Butler arrived at Lowell on Friday noon, and in the evening addressed his fellow-citizens at Huntington Hall. There was a great and enthusiastic gathering of the people present, probably not less than 4,000. Mayor Peabody briefly welcomed the General home, and then introduced him to the audience, whose demonstrations were of the most nattering character. Gen. Butler said he should speak to them of what had happened to the country, and what had occurred in the department, to take command of which he had left them a year ago last November. His speech occupied an hour and a quarter in the delivery, and was an able and straight-forward vindication of his administrative and military career from the charges brought against him. It was warmly applauded, and at the close three rousing cheers were given for General Butler.
“ENOCH ARDEN.” Messrs. TICK NOR & FIELDS have published, in a neat form, a cheap edition of Tennyson’s famous and delightful Poem, “Enoch Arden,” the price of which is only twenty-five cents. It is a good idea thus to bring within the reach of the million this beautiful production of the greatest of living poets Miss Anna E. Dickinson, the celebrated female orator, will lecture at the Music Hall on Monday evening next. Of course there will be a crowd to hear her.
<c04>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XXVI.
NEW YORK, Jan. 26, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The ashes of Wickliffe, dispersed to every shore by wind and wave, were typical of the spread of Christianity to all quarters of the globe. So the fragments of Lovejoy’s press, thrown into the Mississippi at Alton, may be deemed to have prefigured the triumphant career of the principles for which the blood of the martyr was demanded. Floating on the turbid besom of the great river, they might have grazed on their way to the Gulf the confines of Missouri, Illinois, Kentucky and Tennessee, in each of which States there is now no restriction upon thought or expression in favor of the largest liberty to all the children of God. Wherever men are free to write, to speak, and to print, the rod of slavery is broken, even if the reign of liberty is not established. The evil system is like an unstable compound which a spark or a jostle hopelessly disintegrates: what chance could it hare in the “clash of jarring claims” beneath which the continent still trembles, and in the heat of whose friction every falsehood is consumed?
Missouri was the parent of the murderers of Lovejoy, as later of the border-ruffians who devastated Kansas. She bore fruit in each case after her kind, for she was planted so thoroughly in the interest of slavery—so conformed in root and fiber and limb to the abomination—that to-day no fabric would be left if the pro-slavery element were eliminated. Therefore the Constitutional Convention has not undertaken to amend but to reconstruct, and began, both logically and in obedience to the highest justice, by substituting a new core of freedom for the scaffold of the renovated State. Henceforth the pulsations from the geographical heart of the Union carry blessing only and quickening to the adjacent and remotest members. The communities which cluster about her are thrilled to emulation by her ordinance of freedom, and we can well believe that if the present Congress is to pass the anti-slavery amendment, some votes will have been won or confirmed for the measure by the law-makers who sit in St. Louis.
Day before yesterday the Senate of Illinois abolished, so far as in them lay, the Black Code of inhumanity which has endured for nearly half a century upon the statute-books of the State. The concurrence of the House is considered certain. Thus nobly is the new year entered upon by sloughing off the dead skin of a rotting barbarism—perhaps with moral aid from across the river!
In the Kentucky legislature an argument has been made, and listened to, for universal emancipation by Congressional action. It was well said that “the Union is the immutable basis of the Government; the Constitution its mutable policy, to be changed as necessity or expediency required.” The interest of the State was demonstrated to be involved in the pending amendment, and slavery was distinctly denounced as the most serious braw back to her proper development.
The Union Convention, which assembled at Nashville on the 9th, besides nominating Parson Brownlow for Governor, framed several decrees for the ratification of the people on Washington’s Birthday. Among these were: “The abolition of slavery, instantly and forever throughout the State, without compensation to the slaveholders, and “a prohibition of any future payment to or provision for the said slaveholders by any legislature.” As the number of delegates was large, and nearly every county was represented, the popular decision is hardly doubtful. The most remarkable discussion took place on the question of negro suffrage—here, as everywhere else, engaging the attention and testing the sincerity of republican professors and converts. A member from Middle Tennessee desired to exclude by law from the rights of citizenship all persons of Indian and African descent, to the third generation. This was opposed even by Horace Maynard, who said that, after visiting the battle-field about the city, he could not see much difference in color. Mr. Jas. R. Hood, of Chattanooga, making powerful use of the same consideration, said:
“I declare myself opposed to disloyal white men voting; and when gentlemen propose to vote disloyal whites, I propose to bring up the loyal black man to offset that vote. Let the loyal colored man counterbalance the disloyal white vote, just as the black brigades counterbalanced the rebel brigades in front of Nashville, on the 15th and 16th of December, 1864.
Gentlemen tell us that the negro has not brains enough to vote right. Do not forget that he has brains enough to fight right. But you give him his liberty in return for fighting. Where did you get his liberty to give him? It never was yours to give. You robbed him of it when it was his by natural right, and then make a virtue of giving it back. You have only restored stolen property. Preachers have prostituted the pulpit by raving about and declaring slavery a divine institution. They have been the apostles of hell, and I thank God that this can be said in the capital of Tennessee. Friends have told me I would ruin myself by taking this position. I accepted it. I was told the same thing three years ago, when I opposed the rebellion. Time works wonders. Some say, ‘Wait—all will come right after a while.’ But it is better to plant one’s self on a right principle, and defend it at the beginning. If the position will be right ten years hence, it is right now, and he is a coward who believes so, and will not defend it
I don’t propose to vote for all the negroes. I speak only of negro soldiers, and perhaps I would not have allowed that before the battle of Nashville. But when I saw two black brigades, of Wood’s Division, charge the rebel intrenchment, and strew the ground so thickly with their bodies that one might walk upon them; when I saw white soldiers bearing off wounded colored soldiers from the field, I thought that he who could fight so well would be a safe custodian of the ballot-box.”
It is not surprising if, after such a speech, the Convention refused to foreclose access to the ballot in the manner proposed. Gov. Johnson’s remarks were in heartiest sympathy with the proceedings. In exulting over the burial of slavery, he expressed, as he is oftener wont to do than any man in the Stave States, the feelings of the white population who have been kept in almost servile degradation by the lords of the land. Hear this:
“The blow has been struck, and slavery lies prostrate. An insolent, insincere, ignorant, unfeeling, hypocritical, nefarious, diabolical slave aristocracy has been tumbled to the ground. They who never learned that
“Worth makes the man, and want of it the fellow;” who lived on the real or imaginary honors of a buried ancestry, have at least learned that an ignorant and corrupt aristocracy must go down. While you think that you have emancipated black men, I tell you that you have emancipated more white than black men from the insolent domination of the slaveholder. Yes, the time was not long ago when you dared not speak your sentiments. Even in East Tennessee, where there were only few slaves, and we always spoke more freely, no you not remember the power which the slaveholder exercised? How many of our people were compelled to live on barren ridges and cultivate the stony spots, while a few slaveholders owned thousands of broad acres in the fertile valleys, which they tilled with their bondsmen? Even you felt their power, and knew the contempt they felt for you.
Because, many years ago, I dared to speak of these things, I was denounced as an agrarian and demagogue, who appealed to the prejudices of the people. Thank God, I have lived to see the day when the people of my State have declared themselves free. I must now urge you to redouble your efforts to carry out your work when you go hence. If you consummate it with the same resolution, the foul blot of human slavery will be removed from the escutcheon of the State.”
Does any one suppose that the outraged class from which sprang our next Vice President, and the freed, enlightened, war-disciplined blacks, will consent a reestablishment of the old order of things, and “Union as it was”? As slavery ebbs, the tide of freedom every where nears its flood. While the West is all astir with its waves, shall the Eastern and Middle States retain with the dykes of prejudice the backwater of the diminishing sea of death? Will not Connecticut make New England a unit, by removing all disabilities from complexion? Can the Empire State afford to burden the suffrage of the colored man, and indulge the foreign voter to the utmost? Let it not be forgotten that the word “white” was grafted upon most of the Free State Constitutions at a period when the virtue of the Revolution had been displaced by the corruption of the Slave Power, then at
<c05>
its height, and contemplating the forcible subjugation of the Republic. If it was disgraceful then to be diverted from the ways of equity, it is not less so now to abstain from returning to them.
Any man who yielded to the conspirators of the South when he might have resisted them, must be regarded as an agent in producing his rebellion. On that ground, Mr. Everett was no small party to his country’s misfortune. He was guilty of public acts which were a reproach to the religion of which he was accounted minister, irreconcilable with his office as representative or administrator of a popular form of government, and damaging to his reputation for humanity and moral consistency. “Lauadator” of Webster not less than of Washington, he yet deserves a statue far more than the former, and will outlive him. For the Marsh field farmer sank like the blood-shot orb of day amid the haze of political disappointment and disgrace—remorseful, haply, for having bartered an honorable name and the parity of his country for a mess of pottage, which failed him, (since he needs a long spoon who sups with the devil;) while Everett disappears like the sun in mid-heaven, which has transcended the mists of the early morning, and is eclipsed in its consummate splendor.
M. DU PAYS.
PHILADELPHIA, 1st mo. 21, 1865
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
ESTEEMED FRIEND—Notwithstanding the elements, last evening, were anything but favorable to “lecture going,” our friend GEORGE THOMPSON, at the Spring Garden Institute, proclaimed in tones unchanged and earnestness unabated the mighty truths underlying the rights of humanity, and the salvation of our republic.
His subject was “Then, Now, and Hence,” and was treated in the most comprehensive manner. It was faultless! An aged man, a co-laborer with Benjamin Lundy, came to the platform after the oration, and poured forth his congratulations. Every one was delighted. And when he urged the necessity of coupling the total abolition of slavery with the entire abnegation of all complexional distinctions, the applause rang out to the echo, that the time had come.
To-morrow evening he will speak in Music Hall, of your city. May his health and strength hold out as surely and efficiently as we know his mind and soul will, for the great good cause of the hour!
Thy sincere friend,
A. H. LOVE.

RETALIATION.
While the Senate was considering the resolutions directing retaliation for rebel barbarities on our prisoners, Mr. Sumner of Massachusetts on Tuesday offered the following as substitutes:—
Resolved, That retaliation is harsh, always, even in the simplest cases, and is permitted only when, in the first place, it may reasonably be expected to effect its object, and when, in the second place, it is consistent with the usages of civilized society; and that, in the absence of these considerations, it is useless and barbarous, having no other end than vengeance, which is forbidden alike to nations and to men.
Resolved, That the treatment of our officers and soldiers in rebel prisons is cruel and heart-rending beyond all precedent, that it is shocking to morals, that it is an offence against human nature itself, that it adds new guilt to the great crime of rebellion, and constitutes an example from which history will turn with sorrow and disgust.
Resolved, That any attempted imitation of rebel barbarism in the treatment of prisoners would be plainly impracticable on account of its inconsistency with the prevailing sentiment of humanity among us; that it would be injurious at home, for it could not affect the cruel authors of this revolting conduct which we seek to overcome; that it would be immoral, because proceeding from vengeance alone; that it could have no other result than to degrade the national character and national name, and bring down upon our country the reprobation of history; and that, being thus impracticable, useless, immoral and degrading, it must be rejected as a measure of retaliation precisely as the barbarism of roasting and eating prisoners is always rejected by civilized nations.
Resolved, That the United States, filled with grief and the deepest sympathy for her cherished citizens, who, as officers and soldiers, have become victims of heaven-defying outrages, hereby declare their solemn determination to put an end to this great iniquity by putting an end to the rebellion, of which it is a natural fruit; that to secure this righteous and humane consummation, they pledge anew the best energies and all the resources of the whole people; and they call upon all to bear witness, that in this necessary war with barbarism they renounce all vengeance and every evil example, and plant themselves firmly on the sacred landmarks of Christian civilization, under the protection of that God who is present with every prisoner, and enables heroic souls to suffer for their country.
After some discussion on these resolutions, Mr. Wilson of Massachusetts offered an amendment to Mr. Sumner’s proposition, striking out all after the enacting clause, and inserting after the preamble declaring that our prisoners have been inhumanly treated, &c., a resolution instructing the President to appoint commissioners to confer with the rebel authorities, with a view to devise some practical plan for the relief or better treatment of our prisoners in their hands.
After some further debate, the whole matter was postponed for further discussion.

GEN. SHERMAN VINDICATED.
Referring to the attempt made, in certain quarters, to cover Gen. Sherman with opprobrium for certain alleged acts of cruelty to the colored people of Georgia, the New York Evening Post says:—
“We have this reason to believe such reports untrue, that our correspondent with Sherman’s army, who takes the greatest interest in the condition and treatment of the blacks, and who has excellent opportunities for observation and information, has, in all his letters, private as well as published, spoken to the fair and kind treatment accorded to them on the whole march. He has written repeatedly of the kind and humane deposition of General Sherman towards the blacks; and he mentions no act of cruelty.
Such conduct as is ascribed to Gen. Davis ought not to be imputed to any one without the clearest proofs. We do not know anything of Gen. Davis except that he has served bravely and skillfully, ever since the opening of the war; to say, off hand, and without any offer of proof, that a brave and faithful soldier who has worked his way from a lieutenancy to the command of the army corps, deliberately caused the butchery of three hundred women and children, and did so out of mere cruel spite, is scarcely fair to him. If the charge is true, hanging would be too good for him— but is it true?
“A Tribune despatch is as follows:—
WASHINGTON, Thursday, Jan. 19, 1865.
“One of the results of Secretary Stan ton’s visit to Savannah is to solve a doubt as to the soundness of Gen. Sherman on the negro question. This soldier’s views and policy are those of the government. His treatment of the negroes of Savannah has inspired them with confidence, and they rely on him wholly. He has borne in his heart a great scheme for the benefit of their race in Georgia, and it is understood here that the country will be electrified in a few days by as order from him partitioning among them the Sea Island property of fugitive rebel planters, and establishing them in their new freeholds, and laying the foundation of a new social condition in the South, whose superstructure but few politicians in the country are now permitted clearly to see.”
Mr. J. E. P. Doyle, correspondent of the New York Herald at Savannah, testifies as follows:—
“I learn that the Washington correspondent of a New York paper publishes a letter from the army, condemning Gen. Jeff. C. Davis for his action in driving the contrabands from his column. What motive the writer had in view I know not, but I presume it is to prejudice the government against the General, and to defeat his confirmation.
It was my privilege to know all the facts in the case being present when the order for turning the contrabands out of the column was given; and while I do not wish to appear as the apologist of Gen. Davis, I take pleasure in bearing witness to the fact that, along the whole march, Gen. Davis exhibited a deep interest in the condition of the poor contrabands; permitted, or at least did not object to the riding of women and children in army wagons, and only turned them out of his column when be found that the safety of his column, which was far in the rear of the other columns, harassed by Wheeler, and threatened with momentary assault from Bragg, depended upon rapid movements. The negroes were turned out to prevent the obstruction of the movement of the column, and not an account of any objection on his part to the unfortunate people obtaining their freedom from the tyranny of rebel masters.”
IN the U. S. Senate, on Friday last, on motion of Senator Wilson, the following resolution was adopted:—
Resolved. That the Committee on the Conduct of the War be instructed to inquire into a report on the
<c06>
action of Brevet Major General Jeff. C. Davis in preventing Negroes who had joined the army in its march through Georgia from crossing a creek known so Ebenezer’s Creek, near Savannah, by burning the bridge after his troops had crossed, on the night of the 8th of December last, many of those negroes having been killed by the rebel cavalry, or drowned in attempting to cross the river on rafts.
GEN. WILSON. We are pleased to state that the Massachusetts Senate made choice, on Friday last, of Hon. Henry Wilson for U. S. Senator, for six years from the fourth of March next. The election is received with great gratification in all parts of the State-in the districts whose senators voted for Gov. Andrew, as well as in those whose senators cast then votes for Mr. Wilson. No man in civil life has done more or labored harder for his country since the war broke out than has Mr. Wilson; and we have not seen a single republican in Nantucket who is not delighted that he is reelected, or who would not have voted directly for him had the opportunity been presented.—Nantucket Inquirer.
Brig. Gen. R. Saxton has been assigned to duty as inspector of settlements and plantations for the Department of the South. His duties consist in looking after the interest and well being of the freedmen now in and emigrants to that department. He has over thirty thousand negroes already in his department, fifteen thousand of whom have arrived since the capture of Savannah and Pocotaligo.
We find in Ayer’s American Almanac, (now ready for delivery gratis, by all Druggists.) the remarkable statement that the temperature of the earth has not diminished more than 1-906 part of one degree Fahrenheit for 2000 years. To our inquiry how he could make such an assertion, Dr. Ayer writes as the following answer: “Hipparchus gives the exact record of an eclipse in his time. This enables us to measure with extreme accuracy the earth’s diurnal revolutions since to any eclipse now. Diminution of its heat would by concentration shorten its axis, and consecones quently its time of revolution on its axis. The data show that this change has been only such as I state it, mathematically and indisputably true.”—New York Journal.

THIRD EDITION.
THE TRIBUNE ALMANAC FOR 1865.
The third edition of this popular Annual now ready .
In addition to the usual CALENDAR AND ASTRONOMICAL CALCULATIONS, it contains:
United States Government, Ministers, &c.
Senators, and Representatives of XXXVIII the Congress.
XXXIX the Congress, so far as chosen.
Laws passed at the last Session of Congress.
Public Resolutions and Proclamations.
Party Platforms of 1864, (Baltimore and Chisago.)
The Rebel Government, Congressmen, &c.
Slaveholders’ Rebellion, or Chronicle of War Events .
Native States of the American-born People,
Election Return, for President, Governors, Congressmen, &c., in 1864, compared with the Presidential Vote in 1860.
State Capitals, Governors, Salaries, Time Legislatures meet, Time of State Elections .
Territorial Capitals and Governors.
Popular vote by States in 1834, 1860, and 1864.
Vote of 1860 elaborately analyzed and compared, by Population, Free and Slave, with percentage, &c.
PRICE 20 CENTS. SEVEN COPIES FOR ONE DOLLAR.
Orders (enclosing cash) should be addressed:
THE TRIBUNE,
Jan. 27. New York.

A NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE.
THE FRIEND OF PROGRESS.
NUMBER THREE, FOR JANUARY.
CONTENTS.
Timid Tom and Old Gurdy. By Rev. EDWARD C. TOWNR.
With Dedication to Rev. H. W. Beecher.
Out and In, (Poetry.) By BELLE BUSH.
Progress in Literature. By Mrs. ELIZA W. FARNHAM.
Interest on Money and Rents.
Basic Grey, (Poetry.) By GEORGE S. BURLEIGH.
Sanctification by the Truth. By Rev. O B. FROTHINGHAM.
The Kinder-Garten. (No. 2.) By Mrs. LOUISE POLLOCK.
The Moral Police Fraternity.
Carmis, (Poetry.) By ALICE CARY.
The Conflict of Creeds.
Minor Topics. Our Library.
Single copies, 20 cents. $2 per year.
To be procured of all news-dealers.
The three numbers sent, postpaid, for 50 cents .
Address C M. PLUMB & CO.,
274 Canal St., New York.
DIED—Off Wilmington, (N. C.) on board ship Mackinaw, Dec. 19, OLIVER BROWN OLIVER, eldest son of Frederick Olney, of Canterbury, Conn.

A FARM OF 1500 ACRES 
FOR SALE.
THE St. Mary’s Lake Farm, 3 1-2 miles North from the city of Battle Creek, Calhoun county, Michigan, is offered for sale. The proprietor wishing to retire, offers this Farm for sale on reasonable terms as to price and time of payments. The Farm consists of 1500 acres of as rich agricultural land as can be found in the Northern States; 1000 acres of which are improved in the best manner. There are on this farm thirty-seven miles of rail and board fence, mostly new. St. Mary’s Lake is one of the most beautiful sheets of clear crystal water in the country, and one of the finest fishing lakes in the Stats. This lake is in the centre of the farm, and is a mile and a quarter lone by one third of a mile wide. The surroundings of this lake are unsurpassed for beauty of scenery. There are some eight or ten beautiful sites for residences on either tide of the lake. No low marshy grounds connected with the shore of the lake. There are about 400 acres of timber, and 100 acres of the best marsh meadow land on, the west side of the farm. The buildings are, the large Farm House, 88 by 56 feet, elevated 50 feet above the lake, commanding a view of a great portion of the farm and of the lake; also, a large frame Boarding. House, and seven frame Tenements; two large Barns, 153 by 70 feet each, with stabling below for 130 head of cattle; also, four other Barns, 50 by 40 feet; also, a Steam Circular Saw Mill, 80 by 60 feet—said to be one of the best mills in the State; an Orchard of 800 apple and 1200 of the choicest peach trees, all in fine bearing order; 350 standard pear trees, a large number of plums, cherries, quinces, and a great quantity of grapes and small fruits, too numerous to mention. Perhaps there is not a 1400 acre farm in the Union better adapted to cattle and sheep-raising than is this farm, every field of which has never-failing water. The land is moderately rolling, and no outlay need ever be made for manures. There is one of the most extensive Brick-yards on this farm in the interior of the State. A more beautiful residence cannot be found than is on this farm. A gentleman having sons to settle around him could arrange to make six or eight beautiful farms, each having a large front on the lake, with a beautiful sandy beach. Battle Creek City is one of the best markets in the State, and is 120 miles west and 162 miles east from Chicago on the Great Michigan Central Railroad. No situation is or can be more healthy. All the water on the farm is clear as crystal, soft and excellent. This farm affords a rare chance to one wishing to go into stock and sheep raising; it is now seeded down to clover and timothy. The farm, with all the stock, sheep, farm utensils and 250 tons of clover and timothy hay, is offered at the greatest bargain.
Letters of inquiry, addressed to me at Battle Creek, will receive prompt replies. I refer to Henry C. Wright, Charles C. Burleigh and Parker Pillsbury, who have visited the St. Mary’s Lake Farm.
HENRY WILLIS.
Battle Creek, Nov. 18, 1864.

Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, 
FOR THE RAPID CURE OF
Coughs, Colds, Influenza, Hoarseness, Croup, Bronchitis, Incipient, Consumption, and for the relief of Consumptive Patients in advanced stages of the disease. 
So wide is the field of its usefulness, and so numerous are the cases of its cures, that almost every section of the country abounds in persons publicly known, who have been restored from alarming and even desperate discuses of the lungs by its use. When ones tried, its superiority over every other expectorant is too apparent to escape observation, and where its virtues are known, the public no longer hesitate what antidote to employ for the distressing and dangerous affections of the pulmonary organs that are incident to our climate. While many inferior remedies thrust upon the community have failed and been discarded, this has gained friends by every trial, conferred benefits on the affected they can never forget, and produced cures too numerous and too remarkable to be forgotten.
We can only assure the public, that its quality is carefully kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may he relied on to do for their relief all that it has ever done.
Great numbers of clergymen, physicians, statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent, their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of our remedies, but space here will not permit the insertion of them. The agents below named furnish gratis the AMERICAN ALMANAC. In which they are gives; with also full descriptions of the complaints they cure.
Those who require as alterative medicine to purify the blood will find AYER’S COMP. EXT SARSAPARILLA the remedy to use. Try it once, and you will know its value.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO. Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists. 
Jan. 6. 2m.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
THE NEW YEAR’S GREETING.
BY CORA WILBURN.
I come with blessings freighted, though ye may,
Blinded by sense and selfish passion’s sway,
Turn from Truth’s blessed and benignant ray.
I am the year of Freedom and Release;
The harbinger of the Eternal Peace;
The Comforter, who bids your murmurings cease!
I am the year of Freedom and Release;
I am the year of Grace and Jubilee;
Prophetic souls have faith and trust in me;
I am God’s envoy to humanity!
I bring the palm, the olive, and the rose;
At my behest the heavenly gates unclose,
And wearied souls attain the true repose.
Troops of bright angels earthward wing their flight,
In the supreme and beautiful delight,
Wherewith Immortal Love attests its might!
They hover round you; speak to you in tones
Whose music thrills above the battle-groans;
Whose compensative charm for all atones
That you have lost: earth-loss is heavenly gain;
The exchange of Freedom’s rapture for the chain
That galled and numbed the spirit in its pain!
The cross and crown-soul-emblems-both are mine;
I bear the mandates of the Will Divine;
Millennial glories o’er my pathway shine.
I bring Emancipation, wisdom’s joy—
Justice, devoid of creed and earth alloy—
Beauty and Use that blend in Heaven’s employ.
I twine the bridal chaplet of the skies,
For the loved summoned ones of Paradise;
The meek and lowly win my regal prize.
In the aparted by-ways of this life,
‘Mid battle flames and elemental strife,
I find the dowered souls with glory rife.
They know me; they have waited for me long!
They welcome me with triumph bursts of song,
And hail me victor of the vanquished wrong.
I am ordained of Father-Mother-God!
I wield the sceptre, and the chastening rod;
I consecrate the crimson-reeking sod!
And build the shrines of reverend worship where
The martyr-spirit bendeth low in prayer,
Confessing to God’s loving mother care.
Many will see me only through their tears,
A year of turmoil and of anxious fears;
Not as an envoy from the upper spheres.
And yet, belov’d! I come to all that lives,
With the full hand and longing heart that gives,
The soul that for the blinded past forgives.
I am commissioned by the God of Love,
And by the ministering hosts above,
‘Twixt earth and heaven to be the carrier-dove.
Admit me, though outside the thunders roll,
And I will lead you to fruition’s goal,
To the communion bliss of soul with soul!
Lasalle, I11., 1865.—Banner of Light.

THE MANTLE OF ST. JOHN DE MATHA.
A Legend of “The Red, White, and Blue,” A. D.
1154-1864.
BY J. G. WHITTIER
A strong and mighty Angel,
Calm, terrible and bright,
The cross in blended red and blue
Upon his mantle white!
Two captives by him kneeling,
Each on his broken chain,
Sang praise to God who raiseth
The dead to life again!
Dropping his cross-wrought mantle,
“Wear this,” the Angel said;
“Take thou, O Freedom’s priest, its sign,—
The white, the blue, the red.”
Then rose up John de Matha
In the strength the Lord Christ gave,
And begged, through all the land of France,
The ransom of the slave.
The gates of tower and castle
Before him open flew,
The drawbridge at his coming fell,
The door bolt backward drew;
For all men owned his errand,
And paid his righteous tax;
And the hearts of lord and peasant
Were in his hands as wax.
At last, out-bound from Tunis,
His bark her anchor weighed,
Freighted with seven score Christian souls,
Whose ransom he had paid.
But, torn by Paynim hatred,
Her sails in tatters hung;
And on the wild waves, rudderless,
A shattered hulk she swung.
“God save us!” cried the captain,
“For nought can man avail;
Oh, woe betide the ship that lacks
Her rudder and her sail!
“Behind us are the Moormen;
At sea we sink or strand:
There‘s death upon the water,
There‘s death upon the land!”
Then up spake John de Matha:
“God’s errands never fail!
Take thou the mantle which I wear,
And make of it a sail.”
They raised the cross-wrought mantle,
The blue, the white, the red;
And straight before the wind off shore
The ship of Freedom sped.
“God help us!” cried the seamen,
“For vain is mortal skill:
The good ship on a stormy sea
Is drifting at its will.”
Then up spake John de Matha:
“My mariners, never fear!
The Lord whose breath has filled her sail
May well our vessel steer!”
So on through storm and darkness
They drove for weary hours;
And lo! the third gray morning shone, 
On Ostia’s friendly towers.
And on the walls the watchers 
The ship of mercy knew—
They knew far off its holy cross,
The red, the white, the blue.
And the bells in all the steeples
Rang out in glad accord,
To welcome home to Christian soil
The ransomed of the Lord.
So runs the ancient legend 
By hard and painter told;
And, lo! the cycle rounds again,
The new is as the old!
With rudders foully broken,
And sails by traitors torn,
Our Country on a midnight sea
Is waiting for the morn.
Before her, nameless terror;
Behind, the pirate foe;
The clouds are black above her,
The sea is white below.
The hope of all who suffer,
The dread of all who wrong;
She drifts in darkness and in storm,
How long, O Lord! how long?
But courage, O my mariners!
Ye shall not suffer wreck
While up to God the freedman’s prayers
Are rising from your deck.
<c02>
Is not your sail the banner
Which God hath blest anew,
The mantle that De Matha wore,
The red, the white, the blue?
Its hues are all of heaven, —
The red of sunset’s dye,
The whiteness of the moonlit cloud,
The blue of morning’s sky.
Wait cheerily, then, O mariners,
For daylight and for land;
The breath of God is in your sail,
Your rudder is His hand.
Sail on, sail on, deep freighted
With blessings and with hopes;
The saints of old, with shadowy hands,
Are pulling at your ropes.
Behind ye holy martyrs
Uplift the palm and crown;
Before ye unborn ages send
Their benedictions down.
Take heart from John de Matha!—
God’s errands never fail!
Sweep on through storm and darkness,
The thunder and the hail!
Sail on! the morning cometh,
The port ye yet shall win;
And all the bells of God shall ring
The good ship bravely in!
—Atlantic Monthly for February.

The Liberator.
DR. HOLLAND’S LECTURE.
EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:
I send you herewith the opinion of our best Daily on Dr. Holland’s recent lecture here. That he does not satisfy his audiences, but, on the contrary, disappoints them, will be no matter of surprise to you, because you know very well, and the readers of the Liberator know that the editor of the Springfield Republican has persistently treated the friends of emancipation with whom he differs, with contempt and ridicule, as also friends of other reforms. And the connection is plain: if a man is not large-minded enough to deal fairly with those advocating the principles of true Republicanism (with which he professes to be identified), because they differ with him as to measures, or because they are interested in other questions in which he is not, he is not likely to have the temper, the breadth, the impulse of a growing man of the nineteenth century. And we want liberal-minded men for teachers in our lyceums. He may have written some good things; but there is an opinion among those who have heard him lecture, that he will never add to them, nor improve upon them, while he cherishes his present spirit. The subject of the lecture to which I refer was Cost and Compensation; and I remarked on returning, that we had better have remained at home, and read Emerson’s essay on that subject.
With the Express, I agree that there was nothing new and very little suggestive in the lecture, but I do not agree that he tried “to bring his thoughts down to the comprehension of his hearers.” I believe he gave the best he was capable of.
The most entertaining lecture, perhaps, he ever delivered here was on “Fashion,” and all will allow, I think, it did not require much thought in the way it was treated, though some good things were said.
I differ again with the Express when it says, “He has been and will be popular.” Probably a few who agree with his narrow religious views and his opinions of the subordinate position of Woman, expressed in his public writings, are his admirers; others may like a poem or two; but his audiences are greatly made up of those who have “course tickets” to our literary societies, or else partly of those ignorant of the cant which shows itself in his books, and of the unfair and contemptuous spirit with which he treats large classes of men differing from himself. And not only classes, but individuals—for instance, the low fling at Dr. Harriot K. Hunt, copied into the last Liberator.
The day is coming, if he continues an editor, when he will have to acknowledge, like the New York World, that the whole tide of public sentiment is opposed to him. The late editorial on slavery and advice to the Democratic party, from the World, is not before me; but as much as the World yields with regard to emancipation and the enfranchisement of the slave, so much will the editor of the Springfield Republican yield, per force, on the question of Woman’s freedom and her enfranchisement, notwithstanding all the opposition it has made and will make, both unphilosophical and bitter. Like the World, it will have to say, “It is settled,” it is no longer problematical, it is no longer a subject either for argument or ridicule; and the Republican will bow with what grace it may to the laws of nature and an enlightened public opinion.
I want to say a word of Edward Everett and of General Butler. I associate them for two reasons; first, because “D. Y.,” of the A. S. Standard, so long made them a text in his letters, and because, from pro-slavery conservatism, they both came up to the help of the Government in its anti-slavery policy, proving themselves philosophers as well as patriots, men of sagacity some may say; but I think the most humane philosophy had something to do with a sagacty which discerned at first the highway of Freedom which this nation must tread with her millions of slaves to redemption and salvation. Of Everett we may say, his last days were his best days. How much more satisfactory in every respect than the reverse! By serving his country in every need, he gathered up the admiration, good-will and love of his fellow-men, and the hearty approval of his own conscience.
Although Fort Fisher has fallen, I am sorry that even some of the Republican papers are in such haste to condemn Gen. Butler. There were other and able Generals of his opinion; and not only so, we have not sufficient data yet, it seems to me, from which to form an intelligent verdict.
Yours, C. A. F. S.
Rochester, Jan. 16, 1865.
The following is the article on Dr. Holland alluded to above: —
COST AND COMPENSATION.
Dr. Holland’s lectures are, we believe, generally less popular than his essays, and his lecture last evening was not among the most successful of his efforts. It was too didactic in its style, (as most of his lectures are, giving them the semblance of carefully prepared essays read before an audience,) and there was little in the gestures or manner of delivery to relieve the effort. There was a fine vein of thought running through the address; but it was elaborated much more than was necessary for popular comprehension. The lecture was merely the golden thoughts of Ralph Waldo Emerson’s essay on “Compensation,” beaten out into the thinnest gold leaf, and thus “prepared” for public use.
Perhaps if Dr. Holland would convert Emerson’s golden bullion into some less ponderous and more available form, it would be as high a service as he could perform; but in his effort last evening, he turned the bullion not into legal currency, but into gold leaf, fit for nothing but flimsy ornaments, or to amuse minds with a taste for philosophical speculation; but unable or unwilling to give the hard and laborious thought which is required to attain any important result. Although the ideas of the lecture were not new, there was a subtle philosophy running through them which doubtless imposed upon some a high regard for its profundity of thought; but we doubt very much whether the speaker was himself deceived. He knew that his gold was beaten out very thin, and gave it to his hearers in that shape, either because he thought it would be best appreciated in that shape, or else felt a great scarcity of the material. The title of “Gold Foil,” which Dr. Holland has chosen for one of his books, might be well applied to all his writings and lectures. This habit of diluting his thoughts for popular use is one which Dr. Holland has fallen into, perhaps from his attempts at writing “for the young”; but it is a very bad habit, and one that he should aim to correct, if he would retain his reputation among thinking men and women. The writers and lecturers who are the most shallow are not necessarily the most popular; and E. H. Chapin or George William Curtis will “draw” and satisfy the largest as well
<c03>
as the best audiences without attempting to reduce their thoughts to the finest point, turning them in all directions, and illustrating them in every position, ad nauseam, for the sake of bringing them down to the comprehension of their hearers. This was the great objection of most of the audience to Dr. Holland’s lecture; and it was generally conceded that with months and months of preparation, such as Dr. Holland does or should give to his lecture, he ought to be able to offer something newer and fresher than his thoughts last evening.
Nevertheless, Dr. Holland has been and will continue to be popular, and a certain class will probably give him credit for profundity and wisdom; but those who are his best friends must concede that he generally failed in satisfying the expectations of his audience last evening.

ADDRESS OF THE STATE TEMPERANCE ALLIANCE,
ON A STATE POLICE FOR THE CITY OF BOSTON.
To THE PEOPLE OF MASSACHUSETTS:
The State Temperance Alliance begs leave to address the citizens of Massachusetts in relation to the appointment of a State Police for the city of Boston.
NUMBER AND WORK OF THE POLICE.
The Boston Police numbers from 330 to 350 men. An important part of their work is to execute city ordinances. The greater part, however, is the execution of State laws. Last year they made 346 arrests for violations of city ordinances, and 28,554* for violations of State laws. In Boston, the police make nine-tenths of all the arrests under the criminal laws of the State. It is safe to say that the execution of city ordinances alone would not require one-third of the present force.
THE C1TY CAN CLAIM NO RIGHT TO APPOINT AND CONTROL THE POLICE.
If two thirds of the work of the police is the execution of State laws, the State surely has the best right to appoint and control them. If the city were in no respect subordinate, its claim to the control of the police could only be in proportion to its share of the work they perform. But the right of the State comes from a different source. It comes from her character as the sovereign power. It is an invaluable feature of our policy that places most of the powers of government in the hands of tows and cities. But all these powers are given by statute laws. Towns and cities have no name, no existence, no rights, and no powers, except what the State has given them. They are its agents, and the State decides what powers it will give them, and what powers it will reserve to itself. It is always a mere question of expediency. There are many local powers that the State decides not to give. She does not give Boston the power of deciding that she will, or will not support common schools; or of deciding that children of Irish or African parents shall, or shall not have a right to attend them; or of deciding what local courts, what justices, or what police judges she will have. The State is the sovereign power, and has the same right to appoint the officers that arrest criminals in Boston, that she has to appoint the officers that convict and sentence them. The only question is, whether it is expedient to exercise this right. Does the public interest demand that the State shall appoint and control the Metropolitan Police? We shall try to answer this question.
THE CITY’S CONTROL OF THE POLICE UNSAFE.
It is never safe for any State to entrust the execution of its laws to a great city. The larger the city, the greater the danger. There are frequent and grave issues between great cities and the laws of the State. In such cases the laws can never prevail, unless the State controls the police that executes them. To execute the laws in a great city, three things are indispensable. There must be a police to arrest offenders, a jury to convict, and a court to sentence them. The State may provide a faithful judge, but he can do nothing unless the police arrest the criminals and furnish the evidence.
A populous city, therefore, that controls the police, can decide, and will decide what part of the laws shall be executed, and what part shall be nullified; what mobs shall be permitted, and what suppressed; what classes of criminals shall be punished, and what shall go free. No great city ever did, or ever will act otherwise. Boston is as loyal as any; and yet, if she dislikes a law, she nullifies it as effectually as if her right to do so were conferred by special statute. To show this fact, we present a single example, drawn from her police reports.
THE BOSTON POLICE REPORT OF LAST YEAR.
This Report shows that two-thirds of the arrests were for drunkenness. Out of 28,890 arrests, 19,115 were for getting drunk. Those who got drunk were arrested according to the letter of the law. Close to these 19,115 drunkards were 1,951 men who sold them the liquor on which they got drunk. These were not arrested at all. Here are two classes of offenders, standing side by side, participating in the same offence, and both equally guilty in the eyes of the law. Boston directs its police to arrest one class, and to let the other go free. Under the present system, those who control the police cannot arrest liquor dealers without losing their votes. For this reason, they dislike the law, and refuse to execute it. This is but one example, but the principal is universal. Men will not execute a law against themselves, or against friends that are powerful enough to give them office.
THE POLICE NOT CENSURABLE.
This result is not the fault of the Police. If any officer or member of the Boston Police should undertake to execute the law without orders, it would insure his dismissal. Those who control the Police, and they alone, are responsible. They control the execution of the criminal laws. They have power to overrule and nullify such laws as are executed by the Police, and they have strong inducements to exercise this power. As a result, some laws are executed faithfully, some partially, and some not at all. This nullification of a portion of the laws is our special charge against the city’s control of the Police.
THE CITY’S ANSWER TO THIS CHARGE.
So far as it regards the liquor traffic, the city says it cannot execute the law. If that is her deliberate judgment, if Boston thinks she cannot do the work, it is a sufficient reason for taking it out of her hands. What sensible man would intrust a difficult piece of work to an agent who told him he could not do it? Who would expect his plans to be carried out by men who thought they were absurd and impracticable? Individuals would not employ such agents. Why then should the State? Yet this is precisely what the State is now doing.
OPPOSITION OF BOSTON TO THE PROHIBITORT LAW.
Boston has always opposed this law. There has been one mayor, but never a majority of the city government, in favor of the law. When it was first enacted, Boston made a direct effort to protect the liquor traffic against it. After its enactment, but before it took effect, Boston gave a license to every dealer that was doing any considerable business. She has constantly placed liquor dealers upon her juries. The State calls such dealers criminals. The city calls them “persons of good moral character.”
Besides thus shielding the traffic from the law, she has always sustained it by her direct patronage. There has been no year since the law was placed on the statute book, in which Boston has not purchased liquors that were sold in defiance of law, to be drank by members of the city government, and paid for out of the city treasury. Such actions speak louder than words. Instead of showing any wish to suppress the traffic, they show efforts to uphold and sustain it
There are many who suppose that Boston has made an attempt to execute the law, and failed on account of some difficulties that she could not overcome. What obstacles has Boston ever asked to have removed? Has she ever asked for any modification of the laws in relation to jurors, or in relation to prosecuting officers, or in relation to courts, or in relation to
Some were arrested more than once. Counting no one more than once, the Chief of Police estimates the number at a little above twenty-five thousand persons.
<c04>
anything else that would aid her in executing the law? On the contrary, she has constantly opposed every effort in that direction.
WHY CITY GOVERNMENTS OPPOSE THE LAW.
Members of city governments have a motive for opposing the law, which they would not have as private citizens. The keepers of drinking-houses have great political power. They control a great number of votes. Mayors and aldermen have a strong inducement to court their favor, and avoid their enmity. To execute the law against them is to lose their votes. So they oppose the law, instead of executing it. The customers of these houses, on the contrary, have no political power. They never had a candidate, and never will have one, and of course they have no political influence.
It is therefore politically safe to arrest the customers, but dangerous to arrest the keepers. It did not, probably, cost the mayor and aldermen a single vote to arrest 19,115 of the customers, during the last year. If they had made one-tenth part as many arrests of the keepers, it would have cost them all the votes the traffic could control. This is the reason that city governments are so much opposed to the law. This is the reason they order the police to arrest the customers, and let the keepers go free.
WHAT ARE THE OBSTACLES TO THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE LAW?
A committee of the last legislature was appointed to consider this question, and we can in no way answer it so well as by making the following extract from their Report:
“The obstacles to the enforcement of this law do not arise from any inherent difficulties in the provisions of the law itself, or in its interpretation and judicial application. Foes as well as friends now admit that the present statutes, including what is popularly called the Liquor Law and the Nuisance Act, are skilfully and carefully framed, and the forms and proceedings thereunder are now well settled. No similar laws were ever in so good working order as these now are.
The Report of the Attorney General shows that, in 1861, the whole number of cases argued before the Supreme Court, arising under these laws, was forty-two; out of these, only nine were decided against the Commonwealth, this including, of course, as well misrulings in the Court below in regard to evidence, as defects of form. In 1862, out of nine,—the whole number so argued,—seven were decided in favor of the Commonwealth, one was continued undecided, and only one decided for the defendant. In 1863, out of thirty-one cases, twenty-four were decided for the Commonwealth, one against, and the rest undecided at the date of the report.
Nor is the result of questions of fact less favorable than the result of questions of law. The abstract of returns for the past year shows that out of one hundred and forty-nine trials in the Superior Court, one hundred and twenty-three verdicts of guilty were obtained. These facts abundantly demonstrate that there is no difficulty in procuring evidence, or convictions by juries, in the State at large.”
After showing the position taken by the City of Boston, the Committee conclude that the execution of the law is prevented by these two obstacles, viz.:—
First, the protection afforded to the traffic by the City of Boston.
Second, placing cases against liquor-dealers on file without sentence; in other words, letting them go free when convicted.
In relation to the extent to which convicted offenders are permitted to go free, the Committee present this proof, viz.:—
“There were on file in the Superior Courts, September 30, 1863, five hundred and fifty-one cases under this law, of which one hundred and fifty one were placed on file during the year then ending. During the same time, but thirty-one were sentenced to the fine and imprisonment provided by law. In point of fact, it is believed that the important offenders have almost universally escaped punishment.”
No corruption was ever more flagrant, or more clearly proved.
Their exposure of the mode in which Boston protects the liquor traffic is equally definite and conclusive.
The legislative committee proposed these two remedies, viz.:—
First, the establishment of a State Police for Boston and the adjoining cities.
Second, the passage of “An Act for the better enforcement of the laws.”
Both of these legal provisions seem to us to be plain, simple, effective, and indispensable. To one of them objections have been made by the Governor, especially in relation to the exclusion of rum-selling jurors, but his objections are evidently far more applicable to existing Statutes than they are to the “Act for the better enforcement of the laws.”
We make no comment upon the proposed “Act,” nor give any detail of its provisions, believing there can be neither any permanent difference of opinion in regard to its necessity, nor any doubt in regard to its enactment.
But to decide upon the question of establishing a State Police for Boston and the adjoining cities requires some further exposition of the evils of the present system, and more especially of the corruption that comes from the political power of the liquor-traffic in that locality.
POLITICAL STRENGTH OF THE LIQUOR TRAFFIC OF BOSTON.
The number of places where liquor is sold, as reported by the police, is nineteen hundred and fifty-one. Each of these controls the votes of some relatives and some customers. When the liquor-dealers are in danger, all other classes of criminals vote with them. These classes united hold the balance of power. They are strong enough to decide municipal elections. Municipal candidates and municipal officers act under the hope of gaining, or the fear of losing these votes. It is this that arrays municipal officers against the law.
BOSTON ENTITLED TO A CHARITABLE JUDGMENT.
The municipal officers of Boston ought not to be harshly judged. When we ask them to execute this law, we ask them to make a greater sacrifice than most men are willing to make. We ask them to turn themselves out of office. We can hardly expect men to cut off their own political aspirations, and throw the power and patronage of a great city into the hands of their political opponents. We must remember, too, the divided state of public opinion that surrounds them. In the popular mind there is a great deal of respectability in power. There were very good citizens who could see no immorality or irreligion in slavery, so long as it could elect presidents, nor can they see any want of respectability in the liquor traffic while it elects mayors and aldermen.
To men chosen under such influences, an impartial execution of the law is exceedingly difficult. Boston municipal officers are no worse than those of other cities. Candidates there are just like candidates everywhere else; they want to be elected. They stand on one side, wanting votes. On the other side stand nineteen hundred and fifty-one men, who want to sell rum. There is no bargain between them, but the result is just the same. It is all perfectly understood. Each side gives the other what it wants, and gets what it wants itself. One side gets elected, and the other gets a chance to sell rum. If the candidates had made a written contract, pledging themselves, incase of their election, not to execute the laws against these nineteen hundred and fifty-one men, the result would be just what we see in the streets of Boston today,—an open, undisturbed liquor traffic.
GAMING HOUSES AND BROTHELS.
Next to the drinking house’s stand the gaming-houses and brothels. They are, to a great extent, the fruit and product of the liquor traffic. As a business, they cannot be carried on without its aid. Their customers must first graduate at the dram-shops. The laws are not sufficiently executed against these houses. The arrests bear no proper proportion to their number, and the extent of their business. Boston does not yet fully tolerate them, as it does its drinking houses, but its tendency is strongly in that direction. Slowly, but surely, the police are tending toward the same rule of arresting only the lowest and the most noisy, and such as live in cheap houses and keep inferior
<c05>
stock. This tendency is inevitable. If the laws are not executed against drinking -houses, they will not be executed against the kindred houses that depend on them for existence.
There can be no doubt that the practical license given to the liquor traffic by the mayor and aldermen of Boston does more than anything else to produce, sustain and protect the gaming-houses and brothels of the city. Nothing can more deeply imperil the public welfare, or more imperatively demand that the control of the Police should be placed in other hands.
THE MOST IMPORTANT DUTY OF THE POLICE.
The necessity of watching and protecting a city against different classes of offenders is in proportion to the mischief they do. The most important duty of the Police, therefore, is to arrest and punish such violators of law as are most injurious. What other classes of offenders are as pernicious to the city and State as the keepers of drinking-houses, gaming houses and houses of prostitution? Do not these nurseries of crime and poverty spread through the community the special dangers that every man fears for his children? Is it not they that cause three-fourths of the human wrecks that are thrown every year into the hands of the police and overseers of the poor? If the men who minister to these vices are more injurious to the community than any other classes of offenders, then their arrest, punishment and suppression is the first and most important duty of the Police. The city’s control of the Police results in the neglect of this duty. It fails to secure its most important object, and should therefore cease.
WHAT THE POLICE NOW DO.
It is their chief business to collect the daily crop of offenders furnished by the drinking-houses. As fast as the customers of these houses reach a point where they cannot take care of themselves, or where they disturb others, the Police step in and arrest them. Their chief function is that of public scavengers, employed to collect the refuse human stock which these houses daily disgorge upon the community. Instead of harming the drinking houses, the Police give them an essential aid, by taking care of their victims as fast as they, are sufficiently plucked and gorged. They attend the calls of the keepers of these houses for this very purpose. This disgraceful position of the Police results from their control by the city.
DIFFICULTY OF THE WORK.
We ask for a State Police with no low estimate of the difficulty of its work. But if the work is difficult, it is the more necessary that it should be intrusted only to the most prudent, efficient and impartial men. The men to whom the State intrusts the execution of its laws at the most vital point ought, like her judges, to be as free, impartial and independent as the lot of humanity will admit. It is a dreadful mistake for the State to place the execution of its laws in the hands of men, who, if they do their duty at all, must do it at the expense of their official position.
WHAT THE CITY’S CONTROL OF THE POLICE COSTS.
It does not cost all the evils of intemperance and licentiousness. It does cost all that are produced by the open traffic, and all that are produced by houses that grow out of the open traffic. It costs all the evils that result either from a partial or total nullification of the laws. It costs, therefore, a large part of the poverty and crime produced by drinking-houses, gaming-houses and brothels. It cost the homes that would otherwise shelter and save thousands of females from a life of prostitution. It costs the education of many thousands of our children. Mr. Philbrick, Superintendent of the Boston Public Schools, says:—
“Among the causes of truancy, that which so far transcends all others as to be properly considered the cause of causes is the immoderate use of intoxicating drinks. This is the unanimous testimony of the truant officers, The liquor shops and the schools are in all respects antagonistic to each other.”
The city’s control of the Police costs a large part of the intemperance for which 19,115 arrests were made in Boston during the last year. It cost the poverty of more than twenty thousand, (including their families,) relieved last year by the overseers of the poor, and of many thousands more, who were relieved by private charity, and by charitable institutions. The money that should have bought food, and fuel, and clothing, was spent for drink, and they were compelled to apply to the city and to other charities for a pittance to sustain life. These are among the items of cost that get into the official records of a single city. Directly or indirectly, the cost of the city’s control of the police reaches every citizen of the State. We therefore invite every citizen who desires to correct the abuses that produce this cost, to join with us in asking the State to remove them.
WHY NOT HAVE A STATE POLICE FOR OTHER CITIES AS WELL AS BOSTON?
Boston furnishes the capital, and is the seat of the wholesale traffic,—the reservoir from which the rest of the State is supplied. Not only directly, but by her example and influence, Boston has done, and is doing, much more than all other parts of the State to sustain the traffic. Execute the laws there, and there is reason to believe that it will insure their execution in other parts of the Commonwealth. If that hope is disappointed, if the same sources of corruption continue to prevent the execution of the law in other cities, let an adequate remedy be applied.
THE POLICY OF THE STATE.
The most important interest of any State is the character of its people. That character is largely formed by agencies over which the State has control. The most powerful of these agencies are the public schools and the liquor traffic. No one doubts that the schools do much to make good citizens, and no one doubts that the dram-shops do much to make bad ones. This is the judgment of the State, and for this reason it sustains the one, and prohibits the other. The State has always looked upon the agencies that secure the character and intelligence of its people as the most important objects of legislation. Any agency that makes good citizens, confers the greatest of all possible benefits, and any agency that makes bad citizens, inflicts the greatest of all possible evils upon the State. For this reason, the most important legislation of Massachusetts is that which establishes her common schools,—the leading agency for the manufacture of good citizens. With that single exception, the most important legislation of the State is that which prohibits the liquor traffic,—the leading agency for the manufacture of bad citizens.
THE WORK DONE BY THE DRINKING HOUSES OF BOSTON.
In other parts of the State, no doubt, the schools do more good than the drinking-houses do harm. Is it so in Boston? Is there not, on the contrary, much reason to fear that the reverse is true? Two or three hundred families in Boston get a living by teaching, and two or three thousand by selling rum. Three or four hundred thousand dollars are spent for education, and two or three millions are spent for drink. Boston sends 25,000 pupils to its public schools, and its dram-shops send every year 30,000 of their pupils into the hands of the police and overseers of the poor. Official reports indicate that the drinking-houses of Boston reduce one-sixth of its population to a position of dependence upon public charity or public correction. Where is the proof of an equally extensive work done by her schools?
THE RIGHT OF THE STATE TO APPOINT AND CONTROL THE POLICE OF BOSTON.
As the sovereign power, it has a legal right. Its equitable right arises from the interest and welfare of its citizens. The first duty of a State is to maintain the supremacy of its laws. If that supremacy is limited, or endangered, by the city’s control of the Police, it is the duty of the State to place that control in other hands. The State has a right to say that Boston shall not keep open schools of intemperance and licentiousness.
The victims of those schools are to be found in every town and city of the State, and every citizen of
<c06>
the State has therefore a right to demand their suppression.
Official criminal returns show that in ten years there was forty-two per cent, of the population of Suffolk county arrested for crime, while there was less than one per cent. arrested in Barnstable and Hampden. During ten years, the whole number of prisoners confined in the State was 126,343, and of these there were 71,576 from Suffolk county. With less than one-sixth of the population, more than half of the prisoners were furnished by Boston.
It is not, therefore, disrespectful to Boston to say, that she, as well as all other large cities, has a disproportionate share of the criminal and dangerous classes. It is not disrespectful to say, that it is the duty of the State to make just such modification of her municipal powers as are demanded by the character and density of her population. Boston is our factor, our banker, our express, railroad, and insurance office, our workshop, our counting room, our social, political moral and religious centre,—bone of our bone, and flesh of our flesh. It is, therefore, absurd to suppose there can be in any part of the State a disposition to do any act disrespectful to her character, or injurious to her interests.
WHAT MUST BE DONE?
The State must, at its vital point, assume the execution of its own laws. It must establish a State Police for Boston and the adjoining cities. If it means to suppress its drinking houses and brothels, it must take the same course with its agents that practical men take with theirs. In ordinary business, agents always know that their services will not be wanted any longer than they do their work. The agents of the State must stand in the same position. Upon this point depends the question of success or failure. If such Police Commissioners as may be appointed know that their discharge will promptly follow a neglect to execute the law against the nurseries of intemperance and licentiousness, they, in their turn, will hold every officer and member of the Police to the same tenure of office. Let the State take this position, and no one of these nuisances will any longer continue to have an open and undisturbed existence. Police Commissioners will then be as much afraid of neglecting as mayors and aldermen now are of executing the law.
WILL NOT THE INFLUENCE OF THE LIQUOR TRAFFIC CORRUPT THE STATE’S CONTROL OF THE POLICE AS IT NOW DOES THAT OF THE CITY?
That the State’s control of the Police is subject to this danger is a fact that merits the most earnest thought of the legislature and the people. The practical difficulties connected with the execution of the law against all open offenders can be certainly over come. The danger, however, will not end with the establishment of a State Police, and the passage of an “Act for the better enforcement of the laws.” The same means will be used to control the State, that are now used to control the city. Here, and here alone, rests a doubt of success. Depend on it, the traffic and its allies will not yield without a contest at the polls. In view of this contest, we have confidence in the ultimate decision of the people.
WHAT MEASURE OF SUCCESS CAN BE REASONABLE EXPECTED.
It is the open, not the covert offences, that are within the certain reach of the law. We do not say that the Police can put an end to intemperance and licentiousness. What they can do is to subject those who minister to these vices to the secrecy, concealment, and odium, that attach to other classes of criminals. The Police can shut up the open liquor traffic, and the half-open houses of prostitution. Especial attention to this subject leads us to the conviction, that these vices, if thus compelled to hide from the public eye, could not reach beyond one-fifth or one-tenth of their present extent.
It is not fit that a State that spends two millions of dollars every year to sustain schools that lead to virtue and good citizenship,—it is not fit that such a State should permit its policy to be defeated and its laws set at defiance by two or three thousand metropolitan schools of vice, whose product of crime requires the yearly arrest of twenty thousand citizens in a single city,—whose product of poverty makes a still larger number of the people of that city dependent on public charity,—and whose influence does more than everything else to plant and sustain similar schools of infamy throughout the Commonwealth.
OFFICE OF THE BOSTON PROVIDENT ASSOCIATION, 284 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON, February 18th, 1864.
DEAR SIR, —With regard to the question you ask, as to the number of families that have been aided by the Boston Provident Association, I would answer that for the past 11 years we have aided 34,126 families, containing 126,932 persons.
The proportion of poverty caused by the free use of intoxicating drink I should judge to be fully eight-tenths.
Yours, truly,
A. G. GOODWIN, Gen’l Agent.
To H. D. CUSHING, FSQ.
The average of the above is a little more than three and seven-tenths persons to each family.
OVERSEERS OF THE POOR, 21. BROMFIELD ST., BOSTON, Feb. 26, 1864.
H. D. CUSHING, ESQ.,
DEAR SIR, —Your note of inquiry respecting the families “relieved or supported by the city of Boston, for the last seven years,” &c., is received. You ask for an “abstract of the number of persons, including their families” &c.
In answering your inquiries, I must state that our Board have made no returns which would enable me to state positively as to the number of persons who may have been benefited by our charities.
Some of the recipients have been single individuals; but I should judge that a very large portion of them represented families.
The applicants are generally widowed or deserted mothers, who ask aid for themselves and children, varying in number from one or two, to twelve or more; and averaging, in my judgment, about four persons to each name.
I find, by the “Abstracts of the Returns relating to the POOR,” &c., made by the “Secretary of the Commonwealth,” that the number of persons relieved by the OVERSEERS of the Poor, of the city of Boston, for the seven years last past, ending December 31st, 1863, is as follows, viz.
In the year 1857, -9,362
In the year: 1858, -8,447
In the year 1859, -9,087
In the year 1860, -9,131
In the year 1861, -10,829
In the year 1862, -12,190
In the year 1863, -11,564
In seven years, -70,917
Estimating that four persons, on an average, have received the benefit of the aid rendered to each recorded name, will make the whole number thus benefited amount to 283,668 in seven years, or 40,524 yearly.
Most respectfully your ob’dt serv’t,
JOHN W. WARREN, Chairman,
Overseers of Poor of Boston.

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co’s, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of 
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
in the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro’ Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell’s Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30—1y

WANTED,
A MAN and wife to take charge of a small farm; one who is willing to work with his own hands, and likes to take care of stock, and makes no use of intoxicating drinks, tobacco, or profane language.
Such an one may have a good situation by corresponding with THOMAS HASKELL.
West Gloucester, Mass., Jan. 4. 3w
