THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6. ROBERT F. WALLCUT, general agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for the liberator.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, via:-Francis Jackson, Edmund QUINCY, EDMUND Jackson, and Wendell Phillips.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind 
J. B. YERRINTON SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 43. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1861 WHOLE NO. 1609.

Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE POSITION OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IN REFERENCE TO SLAVERY.
ABOLITION NOT THE OBJECT OF THE WAR.
The federal administration is misapprehended and misrepresented by the extreme anti-slavery party at the North just as much as it is by the extreme pro-slavery fire-eaters at the South. Both one and the other persist in representing that the object of the government in putting forth its strength to suppress the rebellion is to suppress, at the same time, the institution of slavery. At the South the general dissemination of this idea has converted a large portion of the population into rebels: at the North it has a pernicious effect in weakening the arm of the government, and thereby procrastinating the close of the war.
It certainly is not the fault of Congress, of the President, or of the various members of the administration, that this false and injurious idea has got abroad in either section. The declarations of the government that it has no will, intention or power to interfere with the institution of slavery in the States wherein it exists, are numerous, explicit and conclusive. In another part of to-day's paper we group together some of the most important of these official statements. The, first in point of time, as well as in point of conclusiveness, is the resolution passed by the House of Representatives on the 11th of February, 1861, solemnly protesting that neither Congress, nor the people nor governments of the non slaveholding States, have a constitutional right to legislate upon, or interfere with, slavery in any slave-holding State of the Union. This comprehensive resolve was adopted by a Republican House of Representatives, the vote by yeas and nays resulting in yeas 161, nays none. If the Chicago platform contained anything at variance with the principle here enunciated, that platform was, by this solemn legislative act, swept away and consigned to oblivion. Then we have the fact that Congress, at its close last winter, by a two-thirds vote in both houses, pro-posed an amendment to the Constitution guaranteeing the integrity of slavery in the States where it now exists.
So much for Congress. Now for the executive. What is the President's position on the subject of slavery in the States? It is that of a full recognition of the sovereign power of the States themselves over it, and of a corresponding disavowal of any right in either the federal government or Congress to interfere with it. We find him pausing and hesitating, and evincing much reluctance, to sign even that very proper law. Passed at the last session, confiscating rebel property, lest it might clash with those rights which he regarded as sacred and inalienable. We find him also disapproving and annulling that part of General Fremont's proclamation which declared the slaves of rebel masters emancipated; and we find him on all occasions making the most candid and explicit avowals of his determination to observe all constitutional guarantees, to enforce the laws with an impartial hand, and to respect the rights of every State and section. No man can doubt the honesty and sincerity of Mr. Lincoln in this, as in all his other positions. Then we have Attorney-General Baez’s letter in reference to the same question, recognizing the validity of all the laws of the State of Missouri, including those affecting slaves. The sentiments and views of the Secretary of War in regard to the slavery question arc no less loyal, no less constitutional, and no less clearly expressed, than are those of the President. His letter to General Butler in regard to the treatment of fugitive slaves at Fortress Munroe puts at rest all doubts respecting his fidelity to the national compact, He declares it to be the desire of the President that all existing rights in all the States shall be fully respected and maintained, and he issues his command forbidding in the most imperative manner any interference by the troops with the servants of peaceful citizens, or their preventing the voluntary return of a fugitive to his master. An order of the day of Gen. Mansfield in reference to the same point forbids the harboring of fugitive slaves in the quarters and camps of the troops serving in the Department of Washington, and forbids their being allowed to accompany troops on the march. Finally, we have the speech made by the Secretary of the Interior at a public meeting, held in Providence, R. I., on the 16th of August, in which he lays down the views and policy of the administration in reference to the war, declaring that” there could not be found in South Carolina a man more anxious religiously and scrupulously to observe all the features of the Constitution relating to slavery, than Abraham Lincoln." The administration, he said, made no war upon Southern institutions. They recognized the right of South Carolina and Georgia to hold slaves if they desired to do so; and they held that it was not the province of the government of the United States to enter into a crusade against the institution of slavery.
In the face of these positive, repeated, unquestioned, explicit declarations of Congress and the executive officers of the government, is it not the very extreme of mendacity to assert that the object of the war is the extinction of slavery? The abolition demagogues of the North and the rebel demagogues of the South know equally well that there is not a shadow of foundation for the assertion, although they persist in making it. The design of the one set is to destroy the institution which makes the prosperity of the Southern States; that of the other to destroy the government which makes the prosperity of the entire republic. Their criminal madness has brought the American people into an internecine war which disgraces the civilization of the age. But let not the delusion be perpetuated. The administration is not, never has been, and does not intend to be, in favor of directing the national arms against the institution of slavery, but simply and solely of preserving the existence of the nation. The Fremont’s, the Summers, the Raymond’s and the Greeley’s, who would fain drive the administration into this ruinous policy, have not the sympathies of the people of the free States, and cannot swerve the President from his fixed and unalterable purpose. The people of the South should know that fact. ”Once knowing it, and realizing its truth, the delusion would fade from before their eyes, the base traitors who led them into this wicked rebellion would lose their power, and with it their heads, and the whole people of the United States would once more join in constituting a republic one and indivisible. But if rebellion be persisted in to the bitter end, the inevitable result will be that which Northern Abolitionists pray for- the emancipation of the African race, at all costs and sacrifices. What good man, North or South desires to see such an event accomplished?
The only way to prevent it lies in the people of the South resuming the exercise of their reason, and recognizing facts as they are, not as demagogues represent them to be. They will then return to their allegiance, and receive the protection of the general government in all their rights. Otherwise
<c02>
They must either submit to see their cherished institution ruthlessly swept away, which will be the ease if the ultra Abolitionists obtain the preponderance, or else modified into a sort of Mexican peonage, which would suit the views of the more moderate antislavery people. But their only safety lies in returning to their allegiance, and rendering loyal obedience to the Constitution and laws of the United States.-.New York Herald.
THE IRISH WORSE OFF THAN THE SLAVES!
"Of course, the Negro slaves of America are far happier than the poor Irish: these black creatures are well clad, well fed, well lodged, well cared for in a domestic and medical point of view. They don't know what is a poor-house for their kindred; they are never transported; they are never shot down by Negro-Orangemen; nor are they ever doomed to be chained in gangs in foreign islands, living on bread and water, while constructing quays and harbors, till they sink with labor, torture and despair into the works where they lie buried in an ignominious death. Of what advantage is it for the persecuted poor Irish to be entitled to a principle of liberty, if they cannot enjoy it? The wealthy may and can derive benefit from this legal freedom; but the mere poor are certainly excluded from its provisions. Have not the landlords, beyond all contradiction, the power of expulsion over their poor tenants; and is not this expulsion the very definition of” the power of life and death" over the poor dependants'? Who will therefore deny that the poor Irish cattier at this moment in Ireland, with his life and death fairly in the hands and at the mercy of the cruel landlord, is in a worse condition and is really a more degraded slave, than the Negroes of North America?"-Letter of Rev. Dr. Cahill.
Selections.
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
Extract from the pamphlet just published, entitled,” THE REJECTED STONE: OR, INSURRECTION VS. RESURRECTION IN AMERICA. By a Native of Virginia." The following passage is part of a letter to the President of the United States:-
SIR,- The only test of our good faith in the present conflict is, that the world shall at once see inscribed on our banner, IMMEDIATE AND UNCONDITIONAL EMANCIPATION.
1. It is legal. Your Excellency is sworn to execute the laws; therefore you cannot even consider a measure that is volatile of the Constitution and laws. The Constitution and laws, in providing for possible war, do, in case of war, at once deliver up the government to the laws of war; so that, to follow the letter of the Constitution in times of war, when military law and advantage demanded the contrary, would be violating the Constitution. There are times when the Constitution can only be obeyed by its temporary suspension at the command of the universal and necessary code which, in common with the organic law of all nations, it recognizes. The suspension of the Habeas Corpus, and the discussion which followed it, have made it perfectly clear to the people, that, in each case where it was suspended, it would have been unconstitutional to follow the ordinary provision of the Constitution. It needs no discussion to prove that the same laws which take from a traitor the ordinary form and process of law may deprive an institution that proves traitorous and deadly to the country of its ordinary guaranties. It thus becomes simply a question of whether slavery stands in this attitude towards the country.
2. It is just. The South would destroy the Union in the interest of slavery. The nation must destroy slavery in the interest of the Union.
In the interest of slavery, the territorial integrity of the country has been destroyed, and some arms, forts, and money seized. Is that all? If so, perhaps the account between this nation and slavery might be settled by the repentance of slavery, and a return of the stolen articles.
But it is less than a centime of the account which this nation holds against slavery. Years of usurpation and corruption,-of insults and abuses heaped upon Freedom in whatever form it tried to maintain its slight foothold on the continent,-years now summed up and culminant in a frantic civil war, involving the daily expenditure of millions, the perversion of the means and powers of the people, the suspension and lasting injury of trade, the reinstating of piracy on the high seas,-more than all, the death of vast numbers of the youth of America, and the grief of tens of thousands of hitherto happy homes;-all these are in the account that this nation has now to settle with slavery. Can they be repaid by the conquest of what forces the South can bring into the field? Will it be enough if slavery should at length agree to ground its arms until it is stronger? Can it be settled by a truce of one or two or ten years? Is the balance, struck, if we have the old Union, with the old causes at work in it, to bring forth like results in the future?
Justice can be satisfied in that alone which satisfies Wisdom,-THE UTTER DESTRUCTION OF SLAVERY. In no other way can we act up to the lessons which slavery has taught us of its own blasting nature; in no other way can we as a nation obtain that blessing for which we have already paid the full price in treasure and blood,-the riddance from the accursed evil under which we have groaned ever since we became a nation.
This is justice to ourselves; I have not mentioned that higher justice which is due to four millions of human beings, cruelly deprived of” the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," which our nation, in the pure aspirations of its youth, meant to secure for all. You are bound to stand by legal formulas. Yet I cannot forget what I once heard you say, with luminous words, that seemed to shine out like responses to the everlasting stars that then and there gleamed above you:” Every man that comes into the world has a mouth to be fed, and a back to be clothed; by a notable coincidence, each has also two hands. Now I take it that those hands were meant to feed that mouth, and clothe that back; and any institution that deprives them of that right, and the rights deducible from it, strikes at the very roots of natural justice, which is also political wisdom."
I pray you, Mr. President, to remember that, when the laws of war permit you to restore millions to those natural rights, every day that they remain thereafter deprived of them will be traceable to your own door!
3. It is merciful. Not only merciful to the slave that he should have this cruel and galling yoke that binds him to the plane of the brute removed; not only merciful to as, that the heart-burnings and animosities which have rent our land should be laid by the eradication of their cause; not only merciful to posterity, that this fearful and irrepressible source of trouble and guilt should not be bequeathed them;-
<c03>
But more than to these or to all others, a decree of emancipation would be MERCIFUL TO THE SOUTH!
Up from broad and beautiful plains, worn out and desolate; from untrained marshes and swamps, whose very wealth has turned to malaria; from the locked treasures of gold and iron in Virginia and the Carolinas; from the eighty-five thousand white adults in Virginia who cannot read or write, and the even more fearful proportions of ignorance in more Southern States; from the young men trained to licentiousness and idleness, whose remnant of strength is to-day given to the monster which has ruined them; from the tearful, anxious eyes of mothers, wives, sisters, whose souls know the agony of seeing the son, brother, and husband the easy prey of the temptations that cannot be escaped,-O, from all these, Sir, would come a response to your decree for Liberty:” Merciful, most merciful!"
There is a weak love that yields and indulges; there is a great and divine love that spares not to smite when to smite is best,-ever giving what is wanted, more than what is wished. An old legend relates that in the court of King Arthur was a poor dwarf named Carl, He was much pitied by the king and his court, and there were stern orders that none should harm the poor dwarf. It was also supposed that Carl's mind was defective, for him every day went about the court with a sword, beseeching each knight to cut off his head with it. The knights of course would refuse to slay the dwarf, who, they supposed, wished thus to be relieved of life. At length, on a day, the dwarf stood before Sir Gawain, and, with a voice full of earnest appeal, and with tears in his eyes, said,” Gawain, canst thou not love me enough to smite off my head with this sword?” Sir Gawain was so moved by this, that, in an instant, he seized the sword and cut off the poor dwarf's head!
Poor dwarf no longer! The evil spell which had bound him in his misshapen form, until one of Arthur's knights should cut off his head, was now broken, and in noble and knightly form and guise Sir Carleton stood where poor Carl was before.
Ah, is a great, a godlike mercy which can smite its object!
And there are dwarfs upon earth, from age to age, that only thus can have the evil spell broken, and rise to their full stature. Sometimes these dwarfs are States.
4. There is no real obstacle or danger in the way of it. I know there are seeming lions in the path; but several pilgrim nations have gone that way, and found the lions chained each side, and impotent. We have been told that dreadful scenes and vindictive actions follow emancipation: that the Negroes will not labor but as slaves, and thus become idlers on a nation's hands. The facts bear otherwise.
There is yet to be shown the State that emancipated its slaves, which did not at once rise above the stature into which it was before dwarfed.
It has yet to be shown that Right has ever wronged any.
If, under the formidable circumstances which now surround our nation, we should fear the expenses or the labors attending such a step, mark how Haiti stands ready to bear a hand to the holy work. The Queen of the Antilles sits there with her unaltered wealth about her, her spices and fruits gilding every wave around her shores, awaiting the ten millions of gatherers to whom she can yet give a hospitable home. One word from you, Sir, and she is a recognized sister Republic. Another word, and whilst African troops march on to see that your decree is executed, the aged, the women and children, which we can scarcely sustain, are borne away to the happy clime where no fevers nor lashes await them.
5. It is the only path to a real success. We justly count as a great natural fortress against secession that mountain range stretching from Pennsylvania almost to the Gulf,-whose brave and hardy inhabitants have justified Melton’s designation of freedom as” a mountain nymph";-why should we overlook the millions of the oppressed stretching into every branch and twig of Southern society, who, by the laws of God, are our natural allies, unless, by our inhumanity, we drive them to the side of the enemy? Is it best to have 700,000 fighting men of the South our enemies, when we can make them our friends? We have certain knowledge that we have been represented to that class as their bitterest foes; they have been told that our plan was to slay a proportion of them and banish the rest. This falsehood has been systematically and carefully circulated throughout the cabins and plantations, and justified by the most religious Southerners as a necessity of defense. We have done nothing to disabuse the slave's mind in this particular. Consequently, although here and there a knowing Negro has been able to do this for us, the mass has been deceived, and is working most devotedly against us.
At this rate, we shall be defeated, and, as I think, deservedly.
But this war must, as now conducted, prove more and more a disheartening one to our people and our soldiers.
As at Manassas our men conquered one battery only to find two more opening upon that, we all have a misgiving that a victory over the South would eat to the most painful complications. We must hold on to our victory after we have got it, for it will have a perpetual tendency to elude us. It was, you remember, a difficult problem to decide whether the wolf, or the man who, having caught him, had to hold him fast, was made captive by the exploit. If the cause of the hatred of the South to the North and the Nation, and to free government, were removed, their rage against these would still remain in the breast of the present Southern generation; but for a generation we could hold them quiet the hatred might even be transmitted to the next generation: that too might be held. But in this age, as we see in the case of France and England, feuds must gradually be worn away before advancing commercial and other interests; and, with the root of Disunion plucked up, the third generation at the South, and perhaps the next, would thank us for the painful surgery with which we saved them, and we should be bound together by all natural ties,-ties which slavery alone holds in abeyance now. If this Fair prospect were ahead, our people would forget in its glory the pains and deprivations of the present, and go forward animated by that faith which is the substance of things hoped for.
Moreover, the many disheartening circumstances that press upon us now would be removed. To the soldier applause is sweet. But we have heard no plaudits from the world looking on,-none from England, or France, or Germany, or Italy. They cried Brava! To America when our ballots bore you, Sir, to the Capitol; they are silent now that our bayonets would defend your right there. We hear from over the seas only cold calculations of the probable issue. The civilized world stands ready with an equal welcome to either party that succeeds. These cold buckets which are cast upon a conflict so sacred to us, we have invited, by placing the issue on the lowest plane of which it was susceptible. Your own last Message did not even suggest the word slavery.
But this could not be, if, is the face of the world, we rose to the standard of right and civilization
<c04>
Which those very nations have uplifted, and up to which even Russia has come before us. We ourselves have from the first held- bold now-the power to decide the posture of every foreign nation toward this rebellion. Apart from slavery, England can only see in the Southern movement the presentation to our own lips of the chalice we once offered hers. In this she is right. We are wrong and presumptuous in any complaint. But the civilized world is anti-slavery; and if in this war we did but touch the hem of Liberty's vesture, we should be thrilled with an inspiration and sympathy which would soon make us every whit whole. We should conic in contact with that electric belt which binds the hearts of freemen round the world, and up from every nation and clime would swell the visas and braves and hurrahs which would make our every soldier thrice a soldier, and cheer us on to a victory which every eye would see already written in the book of Fate.
6. It is thus alone that your Excellency can be faithful to your parole of honor to the United States. You have nobly discerned that your oath of office required you to preserve the Union and the Constitution at any cost. You can hardly fail to remember that the American people, in electing you over candidates representing all varieties of opinion, declared that certain principles should prevail in the government of this country,-principles to which you had pledged your allegiance. When afterward the alternatives of this painful conflict or the abandonment of the principles on which you were elected were again and again presented to the American people, they again and again refused any and every compromise of those principles, whatever the result might be. You cannot be true to them if you compromise them, or fail to defend them. Slavery would now wrest morn than half of this country from its allegiance to those principles. Either the Principle which placed you in office, or the Institution which is in deadly grip with it, must fall to the ground.
Remember, Sir, that the people did not place you in office to preserve the Union merely; that they had under Fillmore and Buchanan and Pierce, and they might have retained it by electing Breckinridge instead of yourself. But not doing so, they declared that the Union should be administered in the interest of Freedom, even more than in the interest of peace and conciliation. To that end your honor stands plighted. If any peace shall come in which that end is lost, the country is defeated, whatever victory its military arm may have achieved.
Can you, Sir, preserve the United States with slavery therein? Will slavery ever be united with the principles you represent? Is not the effort to make it so akin to the effort at any chemise impossibility, as the union of fire and water, of oil and alcohol?
It is not by presenting to the country its old hulls riveted with steel or welded with fire together that you can fulfill your trust. It is not by returning us a Union in which it will be virtually impossible ever to elect another Republican President, for fear of another insurrection. That would be to restore us a country bound hand and foot. If Freedom can alone be free by the destruction of slavery, you cannot in honor flinch from signing the death-warrant of that system.
In the ancient Promethean games, each racer bore in his hand a lighted torch. The one who first reached the goal, with his torch still lighted, won the prize. If he came in foremost, but with torch extinguished, the later comer who came in with lighted torch was declared victor.
No victory in this war can be a victory to America, which does not bring in, bright and burning, the torch of Liberty,-ay, of African Liberty, as far as the people by their last election declared that they could and would control and limit it,-which the nation gave you lighted to bear in their van. And if slavery has resolved to stake its life on the wresting of rights which the people have irrevocably denied it, either that life or the verdict of the nation must be sacrificed. Which shall it be? The people decided the question when they accepted a war with the South rather than a denial of their principles, and to it, unless their rulers debauch them, they will stand. We claim of you that you shall fulfill Frederick the Greta’s definition of a prince as” the first of subjects," and prove it by being the last to yield the standard which they have lifted, and of which you are the symbol.
By proclaiming Freedom to all, white or black, who will rally to the defense of our imperiled banner, you are told that you will make enemies to yourself and the cause of the nation. You may, Sir, make of secret enemies open ones; the serpent that now creeps in the grass may think it safe to come into the path; but that will be a benefit. It would be not the least good of recognizing a direct issue. with slavery, that it would be a better detective than Vedic of the secret traitors,-who, whilst sentimentalizing about the Union, really hold it as secondary and subservient to slavery, and only refrain from mutiny on the Ship of State because they hope to make it a slaver before the voyage is over.
But, Sir, when the half-hearted go, the wholehearted arrive. The Albany and Columbus cliques are a cheap price to pay for the Garibaldi’s with their twenty thousands.
There is, honored Sir, a class of men in this country but little known,-men who have been kept out of the politics and parties by which the forces of a country are usually gauged, because of an enthusiasm for Liberty and a hatred of Slavery, as intense and devoted as the enthusiasm for Slavery and hatred of Freedom which the South is showing. They are men who have sacrificed the fair prospects of life, the wealth and power which usually absorb men, for a truer devotion to the cause of the weak and degraded, even against the nation when it was. Wrong. They are men who hold their lives at the beck and call of Justice. They stand to-day hand on hilt, and await the one word at which their swords flash out.
That word is EMANCIPATION.
These are not men that require to be waked up, nor do they need a long drill; they have long been wide awake, and they were born drilled. Only let that countersign which Nature wrote on their hearts when they came into the world be uttered, and you shall see again the Scourges of God, the Avengers, the Men of Destiny,-men born to conquer slavery, as is the eagle to destroy the serpent that coils about its nest,-sweeping downward from every plain and hill, riding on every wind, until Humanity is avenged, the Tyrant and his host overthrown, and Peace bends once more her blue vault over a happy land, unlocked by a cloud of wrong, glorious with the sunburst of impartial Freedom.
But, Sir, besides this resource, upon which yon have not drawn, even if you know of its existence,-a resource upon which only the Liberty which includes the slave can draw,-I believe you would find that the people are generally prepared for this measure.
The very appearances of division and disloyalty in the North, which may intimidate our leaders, may well be considered indications of a growing and bolder feeling among the masses. The appearance of activity amongst the compromisers is indicia-
<c05>
tion of an increasing exasperation amongst the people against this rebellion, and a deepening conviction that a blow at the cause of it is necessary. The uprising of one sentiment, is always attended by the excitation of its antagonist.
War is a swift and infallible educator. The old mansion yet stands at Perth Amboy where, in the midst of the American Revolution, the British Howe, having called for a conference with the Americans, met John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Rutledge, and proposed to them a grant from England of relief from the taxes under which they had groaned, and a full amnesty, if they would lay down their arms. How. They would have leapt at the offer a little before! At Concord, at Lexington, every American musket would have fallen to the ground before such a proposition.
Bunker Hill came: we were defeated there.
But there stands the monument of which every American is justly most proud, though it stands on the field where we were defeated,--for there the gate of compromise with the oppressor closed forever.
When our fathers began their revolution, it was against, an unjust tax; its removal would have closed the matter at once. After a few mouths of war, its removal and many other privileges are offered; but the war has unsealed a higher aim. Our fathers replied to the compromise proposition: No, THIS WAR ENDS ONLY WITH THE EXTIRE INDEPENDENCE OF AMERICA.
I think, Sir, that, even at this stage of our second revolution against an internal tyrant, the concession of an amnesty to slavery on condition of its grounding arms would be with difficulty obtained from the people, and that the indignation which a few weeks ago would have been allayed by the return of forts and call for a convention on the part of the South, rises each day, and cannot now be restrained from the natural climax that will sweep the source of all our evils and discords out of our land forever.
Thus, and thus alone, can we have an enduring peace; short of this, it is difficult to see even in a victory anything but an armistice which shall be the armistice of a generation of cowards, evading a task because it is hard, by adjourning one thrice as hard to their children.
Sir, is not often in this world that to one man is given the magnificent opportunity which the madness of a great wrong has placed within your reach.
For the first time there stands a man in the Earth empowered to break four millions of fetters from the hands, minds, and hearts of immortal beings.
What prophetic tongue can tell the plaudits that reach far into the procession of the ages, or of the free glad voices which shall deliver from generation to generation the name and the story of the lowly youth,-the honest laborer,-the President who uplifted a race from the dungeon of slavery, and cleared a nation's path straight to its sublime destiny!
But ah! See what a precipice stretches downward from this sunlit summit! Far happier the rude boy with his axe, unnamed, than one on who Earth's millions of eyes shall turn only to remember that he could have saved mankind, but faltered and failed.
Woe to him to whom four millions of slaves shall point their shackled hands and say,” There is just the one man whom, out of Earth's millions, God elected as he who should have power to remove our yokes, to raise us from beasts of burden to men, unsealing for us the fountains of affection, hope, aspiration, which the Father has provided as living water for his weary children. He swooned on the great moment.
Blot out his name, then,-record one lost soul more, One task more declined, one more footpath untried, One more triumph for devils, and sorrow for angels, One wrong more to man, one more insult to God.'“
Woe to him whom Posterity, reaping its bitter harvest of agitation and affliction from the dire root of all our evils, shall remember only to curse as the one who, alone of all men in the history of this nation, stood on the moment and the spot where it was legal and practicable to pluck up the roots of the infernal tree, but who failed to put forth his hand!
Mr. President! History stands with the blank scroll before her, her pen she holds ready, the next word you must dictate. Shall it be Slavery or Freedom?

THE SLAVEHOLDING REBELLION-ATTITUDE OF ENGLAND.
The war is but beginning and all the antecedents of the Northern race justify the belief that their first efforts would be the least successful. They have encountered one single disaster, and have set about repairing it with the patient vigor of men who can afford to make sure their next advance at any expenditure of labor and money. With the dignified humility that is not above learning from defeat and danger, they have thoroughly fortified their own capital before making another attempt upon the enemy's. They have made of Washington an arsenal and a depot, as well as a fortress. They have collected there an immense store of guns, with so many horses as to suggest to our special correspondent that General McClellan means to win the campaign with field artillery. If the new commander has not under his orders a much larger army than his predecessor, he has brought it into infinitely better condition. He has certainly checked the approaches of Beauregard to the lines before Alexandria, and could probably inflict upon assailants a severe repulse. If he is not master of the south bank of the Potomac from Harper's Ferry to Fort Munroe, he has collected a marine force sufficient to render the passage of the river almost impossible. The physique and morale of the new levies are such as to satisfy even the experienced eye of Mr. Russell. The maritime superiority of the Federalists is also now becoming practically manifest. The hardy seamen of the New England sea-board are entering for service on board the gunboats built with marvelous celerity is the dock-yards of Maine and Massachusetts. A naval expedition of four thousand men and one hundred guns has left Old Point, probably for the coast of North Carolina. On the south-west, the banks of the Mississippi are likely to witness the advance of an overland expedition against New Orleans. General Fremont is said to have been charged with the conduct of this bold enterprise, and to have no scruples with regard to the acceptance of Negro auxiliaries. The very latest news, telegraphed to the steamer at Father Point, indicates the resolution of the Government to act upon that famous decision of Congress to which the President so reluctantly assented; Martial law is proclaimed in Missouri, and freedom promised to the slaves of insurrectionists. Thus the weakest place in Mr. Lincoln's policy has been converted into a strong late due punt. The world will be assured of the tendency of the war, whatever doubt may still rest upon its origin. The defense of the Union will be publicly identified with the liberation of the Negro.
But it does not follow from these premises that the English public may safely dismiss from, their minds all apprehension as to the attitude of our Government towards that of the United States. Gen. McClellan may have dissipated the illusion of an easy victory over the North. The Missouri pro-
<c06>
Acclamation may bring the Federal cause nearer than ever to the sympathies of the British people. Yet are our rulers by no means to be trusted. The language of their organs-the organs of the ruling classes of this country-is that of a spirit malevolently hostile to the North. They magnify every difficulty in the way of a reunion, exaggerate every excess of popular feeling, dwell upon and distort every disagreeable necessity of the crisis. In vain do we look through their columns for a spark of just or generous feeling toward men-and those our near kinsmen-who have been overtaken by a tremendous emergency, and are exerting themselves with courage and fortitude to bear up against it. The South, on the contrary, is treated with the tender consideration of friends and relations whose faults and errors are those of noble blood, and whose cause, though not stainless, is honorably sustained. The following exquisite sentence was published yesterday by an aristocratic and ministerial cotemporary: ”If the secession government were free from the taint of slavery, a great obstacle in the way of its recognition by foreign Powers, and especially by this country, would be removed." Was there ever such virtue in an” if?” That which is delicately called a. "taint" all the world outside Bulgaria knows to be the body and soul, the flesh, blood and spirit of the secession movement. Its leaders have avowed, with a blasphemous perversion of sacred imagery, that slavery is the corner-stone of the Confederacy- the corner-stone which the builders of the Union would fain have rejected, and did at least endeavor to conceal. Slavery has been the one solitary but all-pervading element of unsoundness and danger in the composition of American society. It has baffled all endeavors to confine it within a territorial boundary. It has pushed its arrogant pretensions to the very limits of the Union and beyond-claimed to pursue its, fugitives even to beneath the folds of the British flag, and to imprint its devilish foot upon the soil of Mexico and Cuba, as well as of Kansas and California. It had become the irreconcilable foe of civil and religious freedom, and indeed of civilized society. The men who are now howling and whining about the tyranny of the Federal Government and the brutality of Federal mobs, are the same men who countenanced and even instigated the suppression of every Abolitionist newspaper, the lynching of Abolitionist advocates, the violation of correspondence suspected of Abolitionist sentiment, and the prohibition of Bibles and tracts within the pale of negro settlements. The English sympathizers with these apologists of barbarism now taunt us, through the columns of fashionable journals, with the” practical result of American Democracy"<illegible> of King Bombay. The extravagance of the absurdity indicates a proportionate depth of malignity. None but those who profoundly hate the liberty that is for the moment obscured could thus madly revile the men who have drawn swords in defense of the veiled idol. And we may be sure that they who thus bespatter the image they profess to reverence would, if they dared, make close alliance with its sac religious assailants.-London Morning Star.

HON. GEORGE M. DALLAS ON THE WAR.
At the celebration of the adoption of the Federal Constitution in Philadelphia, on Tuesday last, the Hon. Geo. M. Dallas, the orator of the day, said:-
1. In the first place, then, fellow-citizens, frankly be it said, there cannot be found in the sacred instrument on which my comments have been made, one word giving warrant by any process for its own extinction. It was not born to die. No functionary, no State, no Congress, no combination of communities or individuals, is authorized to mutilate the Union or kill the Constitution. That is a crime which, like parricide in Solon's day, is treated as inconceivable. We hear of Conventions, Consultations, Conferences and Compromises; they are the vague and fluttering devices of anxious philanthropy; but, unless the fifth article had been strictly pursued, which we all know now to be impossible, these expedients are utterly inapplicable and fruitless. For remember, this provision-not, in fact, designed to destroy, but to strengthen-enunciates the necessity, before the slightest alteration can be attempted, that, first, two-thirds of both Houses of Congress shall unite in proposing it; or, second, that the Legislatures of two-thirds of the several States shall apply for a General Convention, and, third, that whatever change may be contemplated, whether by two-thirds of both Congressional Chambers, or by two-thirds of the State Legislatures, must wholly fail, unless it be subsequently ratified by the Legislatures or Conventions of three-fourths of the States. The mere recital shows the futility, if not impracticability, into which the tempestuous course of events has paralyzed this article.” No! Fellow citizens, you have not the power to abandon your Constitution.
2. But if you had the power, what then? Need I say that, without being recreant to all your antecedents, its exercise is precluded by the boasted, attitude and armor of those who demand it? The towering front of armed and contumelious rebellion is not the presence in which concession is possible. Give up the Constitution, rupture the Union, burn the archives of your glorious history, and open. Wide the flood-gates of disaster upon the country, if such can be your choice, but never do it in subservient meekness to envenomed opprobrium, or while listening to the roar of our enemy's cannon. The stigma of an act so groveling, dastardly and degenerate as that-so utterly un-American-would cover us for ages as with a poisoned pall! Fellow citizens, there are formidable batteries frowning at Manassas; behind them gleam undiscriminating hatred and scorn, sharpening every sword and speeding every bullet; we would cease to be men if we crouched to either.
In this war, then, there are really no alternative or loyal Constitutionalists. In the explicit language of the unanimously adopted resolution of Mr. Crittenden, it was forced upon the Government of the United States. Retrospective narrative, therefore, would be alike tedious and useless. It is on our hands. We see it, hear it, and feel it. Our fathers, brothers and sons are falling in hecatombs, sacrificed to its fury. Every breeze comes laden with its changing incidents, its alarms, its hopes, its gloom, its taunts, its cheers, its covert slaying, and its open struggles. The gates of Janis are expanded wide. No room new left for diplomacy of any sort; none for soothing words of remonstrance. Fight we must; fight o outrace, those whom we have heretofore fostered and taught how to fight, drive them from the infatuated and patricidal purpose of destroying their own country, and cause only when that country, its Union and Constitution, are inaccessible to outrage."
"Parley" closes one of his letters from Washington to the Boston Journal with this sentence:-" A few doses of Fremont's proclamations would prove mortal, and scatter the rebels to their homes and peculiar institutions.” So think the people generally.
The United States Constitution is”a covenant with death, and an agreement whit hell."
" What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in. the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated is the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the under. Standing of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
BARBAROUS TREATMENT OF FEDERAL 
PRISONERS.
Capt. Henry Allen, who was in command of the Government schooner William C. At water, when she was captured by a rebel craft called the Spray, on the 10th of May last, off Cedar Keys, Florida, arrived in New York yesterday, having, together with his son, been a prisoner in the cockpit of his own vessel, at Apalachicola, for a period of four months. From Capt. Allenï¿½s statement, which we find in the New York Herald, it appears that the rebels who came under his immediate observation are the most cowardly and barbarous set of scoundrels in the world.ï¿½ The following is the statement of the Captain:-
"The schooner William C. Atwater, of which I was the captain, belonged to New Haven, and was in the service of the Government at the time of her capture by the rebel steamer Spray. The crew of my schooner numbered eight men. We arrived off Cedar Keys, Florida, on the 10th of May, on which day we were captured by the Spray, which had on board thirty-one men armed to the teeth with bowie-knives, revolvers, muskets with bayonets, &c. The captors took us to Apalachicola, where we arrived on the 13th of May, when myself and crew were placed in confinement in the cockpit of the Atwater, and a strong guard set over us. The rebels treated us in a shocking manner. Sometimes they would come aboard at twelve o'clock at night, pull me out of my bed, and offer all sorts of indignities to me.
On one of these occasions, several of them came frantically in, in a beastly state of intoxication, where I was sleeping, dragged me up on deck, brandished knives, bayonets and other weapons over my head, and threatened me with instant death. One of them struck me in the cheek with a bayonet, wounding me slightly, while others, carrying ropes in their hands, shouted out, ï¿½Hang the Yankee son of a b-h, he must never see the North again.' They did not, however, carry their threats into execution, and after they had amused themselves at my expense for some time longer, I was again placed in confinement.
We were, often left three and four days without a morsel of food of any kind, and the only means of subsistence we had was by catching catfish and cooking them by stealth; for the rebels would not allow us to go into the galley or to light a fire. Sometimes there would be from twenty-five to thirty rebels on board keeping guard. During the four months that we were prisoners, I never saw a sober man among them. When I arrived at Apalachicola, on the 13th of May, the rebels got news that the Crusader was coming from Key West to attack them, upon which they immediately provided themselves with a quantity of spirits of turpentine, and four or five boxes of shavings, in order, they said, to burn me and my vessel up if the anticipated attack should take place.
Finally, I was taken to Richmond and placed in the lower prison, situated on the corner of Main and Twelfth streets. They said as I was an "alien" enemy, they would place me there for safe keeping. I was imprisoned here on the lower floor, among a parcel of dilapidated machinery and filth of every kind. I begged of Capt, Gibbs, who was placed in command of the place, not to keep me in such a filthy hole, and besought him to allow me the privilege of seeing Gen. Winder. This last request was conceded to me, and I told the General of the manner in which I had been treated. His reply was,
"Do you want to be treated better than all the others? You have the crew of the Savannah in New York in irons, and we are going to treat you in the same way." The General also remarked that he was sorry he had not a worse place to put me in. However, through the influence of the Secretary of War, I was not again shut up in the prison, having been placed in a private house, where I was confined all the time. Finally, I was taken before the Attorney General at Richmond, and he released me, for the simple reason that (as I had destroyed my charter party privately, before the rebels could get hold of it} there were no just grounds for detaining me. At the time the Atwater was captured, she was in ballast, and proceeding to Tortugas for lumber. Thankful to Providence for having got off so easily, I at once commenced my journey to New York. All along the route, the rebels made me come out on the platform of the cars, whenever a stoppage was made, to exhibit myself to excited and depraved-looking mobs, who hooted me and threatened my life. I only got three meals during my journey from Apalachicola to Richmond. They would not even sell myself and three of my crew, whom I had along with me, anything, as they said they wanted to starve us to death, and they did not want us to ever see the North again.
I arrived in New York October 7th, and must say that I have never spent four such miserable months in my life as those in which I was subjected to the ï¿½tender mercies' of the rebels."
SECESSION BARBARITIES.
Two or three weeks ago, a couple of men from an Illinois regiment in Missouri started out to pass a few hours in a scouting and hunting expedition. As they did not return, a squad of soldiers was sent out the next day in search of them. Alter going a few miles, the soldiers met a person, who informed them that, at a place which he named, he had seen two men, like those they described, fired on by a dozen secessionists who were prowling through that region. They went to the place and found one, and only one, of their lost comrades. His legs and arms had been cut off and laid across each other upon his body; his head, severed from the trunk, was set upright upon his chest, and the figures 19, the number of his regiment, were marked with his own. blood upon his arms.
Over the mutilated body of the victim, the soldiers knelt, and swore an awful oath to take no prisoners. The secessionists are giving to this war a most .appalling character. As a contemporary justly remarks, the transforming power of the terrible evil which has broken out like some deadly pestilence among the people of the United States, converting individuals supposed to be civilized into barbarians, seems to have no likeness in history; the cruelties it has suddenly engendered can find no parallel except in that Sepoy rebellion which made the Christian world shudder as its details became known. In Western Virginia, it has taken to midnight burnings of dwellings occupied, in the absence of the heads of the families, only by helpless women and children, the escapes related in two cases being the narrowest it is possible to imagine, whilst every outrage known to the criminal calendar seems to run riot in Kentucky and Missouri. The destruction of railroads and bridges, where the lives of the innocent are not involved in the catastrophe, have really come to be the milder phases of the fearful visitation; and a man might as well be one of a party cast ashore on the Cannibal Islands of the Pacific as be exposed to the tender mercies of the disunionists in too many portions of our but lately law-abiding and happy land.
The truth is, it is coming to that in the history of this terrible heresy, that no terms can be made with it by a civilized people. It has created, especially on the frontiers, a condition of things never conceived of by those who contemplated its course in the outset. There it has taken by the hand the veriest outlaws of the age; and organizing bands of savagesï¿½-red men, who in too many cases have disgraced themselves by the association-it is prowling through the land on its destructive mission, and carrying terror and devastation to thousands of happy homes. When men are disposed to welcome pestilence, let them welcome it; but so long as they would put afar off the worst evils that bring death to their doors, let them make no terms with this evil visitant.
Louisville (Ky.) Journal.

MUSTN'T BE TOUCHED.
A recent telegraphic dispatch announces the fact that some of the Federal prisoners have been transferred from Richmond to New Orleans, and, upon their arrival in the latter city, were conducted to prison under the escort of a negro company. Of course, the intent of this was an insult to the defenceless men whom the fortunes of war had thrown into the worse than Philistine hands of the "Chivalry." We dare say that this negro company, many if not all the members of which had probably been impressed into the service, contained a greater number of really worthy men than almost any even of the "crack" companies of lighter-complexioned rebels in Louisiana or elsewhere. It is more than probable that Mr. Slidell and Mr. Benjamin, and the Messrs. Wallopem generally, who lead off in this rebellion, claim the ownership of a good many negroes, who, when judged by the proper standard, are much better men, and would make much better citizens, than are their ambitious, restless and tyrannical masters.
<c02>
Though all this may be true, yet judging of the intent of the treatment of our captive soldiers in this case, by the low and degrading estimate put upon the negro by the Southern mind, it is evident that a mean and malicious insult was intended. And it was insult added to injury; for "our brave boys" had been shamefully maltreated in the Confederate Capital, and had now been brought to the once "Crescent," now waning city, to undergo new and torturing privations and hardships, and even, perchance, as threatened, to toil with slaves in rearing works of rebel defence. It, therefore, seemed good to the "Chivalry "who boast of their "high sense of honor," to add insult to injury already perpetrated, and yet to be perpetrated, upon defenceless prisoners of war. It seemed good to the Southern slave-drivers to give these "Yankees "a practical illustration of the doctrine of "negro equality"ï¿½for do not Yankees believe in the "insane" assertion of the "old "and "obsolete" document known as the Declaration of Independence, that "all men are created free and equal"? Of course, therefore, let them march to prison with "niggers." It seemed good to the Southern "gentlemen" to show these Yankees in what estimation they hold Northern "mud-sills," "greasy mechanics," and "dirty farmers," who earn their bread by the sweat of their own brows, or gain competence and wealth by their own and the requited labor of their fellow-men. Therefore, out upon these low-lived fellows, who never even "aspired "to own a "nigger." Let "niggers" do escort duty for such. And so the Yankee soldiers went to prison, through the streets of New Orleans, with their negro guard, amid the taunts and jeers of infuriate slave-drivers.
This incident serves to illustrate the wicked purpose of the Rebellion, which has been shamelessly avowed by its leaders to be the rearing of a hideous fabric of Despotism, with slavery for its "chief corner-stone," upon the ruins of the noble house of Liberty which our fathers built. The Rebel leaders boldly declare that in every well-regulated society, or government, there, must be a dominant and a subject class "gentlemen" and "mudsills" masters and slaves. The universal spread of slavery over the American continent, and the ultimate extinction of Fret Labor, is the purpose of the present gigantic Slaveholders' Rebellion, upon which the whole civilized world now looks with anxious gaze. Let it succeed, and no color of skin will afford immunity against the fell and sure result of its successï¿½the enslavement of the masses, white and black, in the North as well as in the South. With the devotees of slavery who have inaugurated and are prosecuting the unholy war against the Government, white men who labor with their own hands are no better than black men. We cannot help thinking that our brave Yankee boys did more fully realize the cause and purpose of the unholy Rebellion as they marched to prison, the other day, with their "peculiar" escort, through the streets of New Orleans, than do those men at home in the free North, who cry aloud," Slavery mustn't be touched." We have no idea that there is such a "peculiar" and very singular tenderness for the "peculiar and pestilent institution," among those soldiers in their New Orleans prison, as is witnessed among so many Northern people now-a-days. We have no idea that there is one of those prisoners of war, whether Democrat or Republican, who holds that slavery, in its deadly contest with the Government," mustn't be touched." Independent (N. H.) Democrat.
EMANCIPATION.
We must deal with slavery as with other wrong institutions, and put a stop to its ruinous effects by, terminating its existence.
If the present is a favorable time, as we believe it to be, to abolish slavery in the border States, it is also a suitable one for the Federal government to step forward with its offers of assistance to those States. They may not take the initiative, but if such an offer were made, we believe they would respond, and we might see legislative action taken without delay for emancipation.
As to the claim of remuneration to the slaveholder in payment for his slaves, we. believe that in strict justice it has no foundation whatever. He is deprived of nothing whatever to which he has a just title. He loses his power over the person of the slave, the power of flogging and selling him, of interesting with his right to marriage to education, and of compulsory labor without just reward. But he does not lose the slave's services. He obtains them as the services of a free man, in the same way as those do in Massachusetts who desire the labor of others, by offering a suitable reward. This is the only relation which ought to subsist between men in regard to labor, that of the free demand and offer of services. No other is just, no other secures the welfare of the people.
But although we do not believe in the claim of the slave-master to remuneration, the masters themselves do not view it in that light, and would probably demand a premium as a condition of their consent to emancipation, and we should not object to this, provided that could be secured. It would be an immense gain, both to the border States themselves and to the whole country, to get rid of slavery, and we should begrudge no reasonable sum to accomplish this object; and we believe the people of the free States would cheerfully pay a proportion of the requisite amount. Taking the number of slaves 400,000, their value, at $400 each, (and this is probably too high an estimate, in the present condition of slavery,) would amount to $160,000,000. This is a large sum, it is true, but small compared with our wealth and resources, not the half of what we are annually expending for purposes of war. It would in the end prove a gain instead of a sacrifice.
We should be glad to see Mr. Sumner introduce a proposition into Congress the coming winter to carry out the views we have suggested. It would be a great, and a statesmanlike act, and one worthy of his hearty sympathies with justice and freedom.--New Bedford Republican Standard.
BIRDS OF A FEATHER.
The Boston Journal has joined hands with the Post, Courier and Herald, in their crusade against Charles Sumner, on account of his Worcester speech, and indeed seems to labor to go further than they in efforts to create a prejudice against the Senator. It even charges him with being opposed to the Administration on account of emancipation sentiments. This is putting it on rather too strong. Did the Journal read nothing in Mr. Sumner's speech urging the most vigorous prosecution of the war, to the complete and utter crushing out of the rebellion? And is it to oppose the Administration to suggest certain means which, in the speaker's opinion, would tend more effectually and speedily to effect that object? Is every man in the country to go to Washington and ascertain from the President and his Cabinet what measures and policy it would be agreeable to their high-might nesses to have proposed and discussed? Is America so far gone that we must have the Napoleonic system introduced here, of allowing nothing to be said on political affairs but what is agreeable to his imperial majesty? We hope not. The Administration is placed in power to carry out the public will, and not to control it or suppress its expression. Self-abnegation goes altogether too far when it renounces the right of free discussion of measures of public policy. The subject of emancipation is being pondered and discussed to a wider extent every day. Its consideration is confined to no sect and no party, and those cowardly politicians who are so alarmed lest bold, manly, and Christian sentiments shall find vent in a crisis like the present, are only preparing their own political graves.
The animus of this tirade against Sumner is sufficiently apparent from the place of its origin. It is confined almost entirely to Boston, the stronghold in this State of the hunker class of politicians, of those who have always favored compromise with slavery, and submission to all its demands, and who have followed Mr. Sumner with the most virulent hate throughout his whole career. It is decidedly rich to see the Journal in harmony with the Courier, a paper which opposed the Administration till it was in danger of having its office torn down, and then in a spasmodic article called on the Captain to "save the ship" by suspending the habeas corpus, occupy and hold every seceding State with an armed- force, and which but the other day proclaimed the necessity of a reaction in politics, that is, the overthrow of the Administration and carrying on the Government on the plan of those two traitors. John Bell and John C. Breckinridge. This is strange bed fellowship. But both papers act on one principle. They are faithful to the hand that feeds them, and obey implicitly the orders of the ruling hunkerdom of Boston, which, thank Heaven, is not the State of Massachusetts.ï¿½New Bedford Standard.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCT. 25, 1861.
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that the military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, slavery among the rest. Under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject subject, not only the President of the United States, but the commander of the army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves."
"From the instant that your slaveholding States become the theatre of war, civil, Servile or foreign, from that instant the war powers of Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery in every way in which it can be interfered with, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of the State burdened with slavery to a foreign power."
JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
"The following Memorial to the next Congress has been prepared for universal circulation, with the belief that it will readily be adopted by all but those who are in favor of eternizing the accursed system of slaveryï¿½who, while pretending to be on the side of the Government, are secretly in hearty sympathy with the Southern traitorsï¿½-and who would prefer to see the Federal forces every where defeated, the blood and substance of the people expended to no purpose, and the rule of the Southern Confederacy victorious over the whole country, rather than have the oppressed set free under law, even though a satisfactory adjustment is proposed in the case of the so-called loyal slaveholders. Let the most active measures be at once taken to procure the signatures of men and women, voters and non-voters, to this Memorial, in every city, town and village. A MILLION such can be easily obtained by energetic and concerted actionï¿½-but no time is to be lost. In a note just received from Gerrit Smith, he says" I am glad to receive this morning from Boston, three copies of a Petition of excellent form,. I immediately put my name to one, and will, without delay, have them all in circulation. Let the enclosed draft be accepted as my share of the expense in scattering copies of the Petition over the country."
Printed copies of the Petition, for gratuitous circulation, may be obtained at the Anti-Slavery Offices in Boston, New York and Philadelphia.

MEMORIAL OF THE PEOPLE TO CONGRESS.
PROCLAIM LIBERTY THROUGHOUT ALL THE LAND, TO ALL THE INHABITANTS THEREOF."
To the Congress of the United States:
The undersigned, citizens of , State of
,respectfully submit ï¿½-
That as the present formidable rebellion against the General Government manifestly finds its root and nourishment in the system of chattel slavery at the South; as the leading conspirators are slaveholders, who constitute an oligarchy avowedly hostile to all free institutions; and as, in the nature of things, no solid peace can be maintained while the cause of this treasonable revolt is permitted to exist; your honorable body is urgently implored to lose no time in enacting, under the war power, the total abolition of slavery throughout the country ï¿½- liberating unconditionally the slaves of all who are rebels, and, while not recognizing the right of property in man, allowing for the emancipated slaves of such as are loyal to the government a fair pecuniary award, in order to facilitate an amicable adjustment of difficulties; and thus to bring the war to a speedy and beneficent termination, and indissolubly to unite all sections and all interests of the country upon the enduring basis of universal freedom.
Editors of newspapers are requested to give this Memorial one or more insertions in their columns.

FALSEHOOD THE SUPPORT OF SLAVERY.
It remains true still, as in the early days of organized opposition to slavery, that those who would represent that state as satisfactory and beneficial to the slaves must first misrepresent it, while those who would excite prejudice against the Abolitionists must first misrepresent them. This undersigned tribute to the soundness of anti-slavery principles, and to the accuracy of those descriptions which Abolitionists have published to show the need of emancipation, is con- 
stantly paid by the advocates of slavery, pious and impious, learned and unlearned, Catholic and Protestant alike. Dr. Cahill and Dr. South-side Adams, the Journal of Commerce and the New York Herald, violate the truth with equal readiness in opposing the Abolitionists; and they show, by so doing, a consciousness most satisfactory to us, that the plain truth, either about us or about the slaves, would not answer their purpose.
One of the dishonest tricks in question is an enumeration of the evils of extreme poverty among people who are not slaves, coupled with the false assumption that those evils have no existence under slavery, and followed up by the equally false inference that the special disadvantages and disabilities imposed by slavery are, trifling, in comparison with the hardships previously mentioned. This is the ground taken by Rev. Dr. Cahill, in the extract from his letter given in the "Refuge of Oppression."
To succeed in representing the negro slaves of America as "far happier than the poor Irish," it is absolutely necessary for him to disregard and contradict mountains of evidence on the other side, extorted by the force of truth from slaveholders themselves. That there are "well-clad, well-fed and well-lodged" slaves, nobody has ever denied; but that the great majority of them are ill-clad, ill-fed and most wretchedly lodged is plain, not only from the descriptions of candid observers like Mr. Olmsted, in all parts of the Southern States, but from abundant testimony on the part of the humane sort of slaveholders, who have felt obliged, from time to time, to attempt a pruning away of some classes of the grosser inhumanities involved 
in the slave system. That the slaves have no knowledge 
of an institution called among civilized people a "poor-house" is very true; but to vast numbers of them such ignorance is a misfortune, since they suffer all their lives, unrelieved, the very evils from which the destitute freeman is protected by the poor-house. But the Rev. Dr. Cahill goes on from misrepresentation to falsehood. "They are never transported "As if there were no such thing as the internal slave-trade! As if the Virginia negroes were not bred and born and begotten for transportation! As if the female slaves of the Old Dominion were not openly sold and bought for their qualification, as "good breeders," to supply" the vigintial crop" for the Louisiana market! "They are never shot down by Negro Orangemen"! Well, perhaps it is as bad to be shot down by slaveholders, and overseers, enraged by the turning of the trodden worm, and authorized by law to shoot whenever a hand is lifted, even in self-defence, against them. So far as shooting goes, the account might be evenly balanced, if the slave were not forbidden by law to have a gun or a pistol in his possession. But it is to be remembered that simple murder is the worst the poor Irishman has to fear, in his most oppressed estate. We never hear of his being burned alive by an assemblage of the" most respectable citizens" of his native town! We never hear of his being slowly put to death with the scourge; the intervals of time, while his torturers are resting, being varied for him by the application of brine to his raw wounds! There is no instance of English laws for Ireland being so skillfully contrived for purposes of oppression as to enable any rich man to inflict these measures of barbarity upon his tenant with perfect impunity. And until these things shall be done by English to Irish, with the added aggravation of a free permission by the Church for such treatment from her rich members to her poor ones, the attempted parallel will fail, and the miseries of slavery will unspeakably exceed those which Dr. Cahill deceitfully offers for competition with them.
<c04>
A similar course of systematic misrepresentation of the facts of slavery and the purposes of anti-slavery is one habitual ingredient of the pious Journal of Commerce. In an article now lying before us, entitled "Englishmen and Slavery," its editor deprecates" immediate and violent abolition," as if the former included the latter; as if the opposes of slavery had not for thirty years been advocating immediate peaceful abolition, and showing how it might be accomplished, and how prosperity and manifold advantage to the country would be its necessary result; and as if the trouble, confusion and violence now existing in our country had not sprung directly from the pertinacious rejection of these counsels, and from adherence, instead, to the Journal's own policy of constant concession to the slaveholders. This editor assumes that "murder and rapine" would result from the overthrow of slavery; winking out of sight the frightful fact that slavery is an organized system of habitual rapine, with frequent complications of murder; and thus showing his own shameful willingness that this tyranny should continue while his white brethren can wield it.
The Journal of Commerce contradicts history as well as reason when it talks about "arousing slaves to insurrection by declaring them free." Apart from our present complication with war, a willing immediate emancipation is the surest safeguard against insurrection, and even disorder, as the history of Antigua proves. And even with this complication of war, the very shortest, easiest and best way out of our troubles would be to make the war the occasion of declaring, and the army the means of accomplishing, immediate emancipation.
This nation, led by slaveholders and their apologists, seems determined to drain the bitter cup of experience to the dregs, and to learn no wisdom, either from the past history or the present developments of slavery. We have three examples before us, showing the natural results of three different courses, and we refuse the admonition and the counsel of each. We see that the voluntary adoption of immediate instead of gradual emancipation in Antigua, in 1834, was completed without trouble or disorder, and has been followed by uninterrupted prosperity. We see that the choice of gradual instead of immediate emancipation brought upon Jamaica troubles and embarrassments, from which she has not even yet recovered. And we see that- a determination to keep slavery, and to extend it, has brought upon us calamities to which the troubles of Jamaica are as nothing. It seems as if our afflictions must go on to be commensurate with our guilt. But what a mountain height of impudence does it require to tell us, even while our national existence is threatened by an insurrection of slave-holders, that our principal danger lies in an insurrection of slaves, and that, to avert this peril, we must keep them still in slavery! C. K. W.
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY for November has 
appeared with its usual promptitude. Its list of articles 
is the following:-1. Geo. Sand. 2. Hair-Chains. 
3. The Flower of Liberty. 4. Alexis de Tocqueville. 6.
5. Agnes of Sorrento. 6. Health in the Camp. 7. "
"The Stormy Petrel."8. A Story of To-Day. 9. Concerning the People who carried Weight in Life., 10. Why has the North felt aggrieved with England??
11. The Wild Endive. 12. The Contrabands at Fortress Monroe. 13. The Washers of the Shroud. 14. Reviews and Literary Notices. 15. Recent American 
Publications.
Some of these articles are of a high order of excellence. 
The sketch of George Sand, founded on her 
auto-biography, is written by Mrs. Howe. Of the 
poems," The Flower of Liberty" is attributed to Holmes, and ""The Washers of the Shroud" to James 
Russell Lowell. The latter, using an old legend as the means of presenting truths of most serious import at the present time, suggests a result to our national contest corresponding with our sins against justice and The continuation of Mrs. stowe's interesting tale touches upon some of the mental and moral influences of enforced celibacy among the Roman Catholic priesthood. Harriet Martineau contributes the excellent Essay called" Health in the Camp"; and "The Contrabands at Fortress Monroe," containing highly interesting facts respecting the slaves, is written by a private in one of the Massachusetts regiments, E. L. Pierce, Esq.
Official Map of the State of Virginia: from actual surveys by order of the Executive, 1828 and 1859, corrected and revised by J. T. Floyd to 1861. Price $1, colored in Counties, or ten copies for $5. Mounted on linen with rollers, varnished, $2 50. Address J. T. "Floyd, Publisher, 164 Broadway, New York. The portion of this map now issued is the Eastern half, which is sent in advance, on account of the intense interest now existing in regard to the movements of various armies in that part of the State. Being on a scale of ten miles to the inch, it is sufficiently full to illustrate all the details of the war in that region. Its names of places are distinctly printed and not crowded, and the ordinary roads as well as railroads are clearly traced. This map is said to be the one used by General Scott in preparing the plan of his campaign. The Western half printed so as to match this, will be sent to subscribers in the course of the next month.
"America and her Destiny: Inspirational Discourse, given extemporaneously at Dodworth's Hall, New York, on Sunday evening, Aug. 25th, 1861, through Emma Hardinge, by the Spirits."
This address, printed in an octavo pamphlet of fifteen pages, treats of various matters of reform, in a spirit such as might be expected from the excellent woman who utters it, and in that style, so attractive to some and so distasteful to others, which marks all the productions which claim a" spiritual" origin. It is for sale at Mr. Bela Marsh's book-store. 
THE PETITION TO CONGRESS is received with great favor by our friends in every section of the country from which we have heard. Signatures to it are readily obtained, and great numbers feel that this is the indispensable work of the hour. It has been our aim to send a copy of the petition to every town where we knew of a reliable person who would take charge of its circulation. Additional copies have been called for in numerous instances, and we are still ready 
to supply such calls. Now is the time for the work, and not a day is to be lost, as Congress will assemble in a little more than five weeks. There can be no 
doubt that in a great proportion of the towns of the North, large majorities of the people would sign the petition, if an opportunity were afforded. Let us not 
fail to gather together the evidence of this mighty force, to the shame and confusion of all who desire to perpetuate human slavery, and to give it the protection of the free men and women of this land. Address Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston.
RELIEF OF FUGITIVES IN CANADA. An Association has been formed in the town of St. Catherine's, Niagara District, Canada West, to relieve such fugitive 
slaves as may be suffering from sickness or destitution. It is called "The Fugitive Aid Society of St. Catherine's." The officers are the following:-
Charles H. Hall, President: Benjamin Fletcher, Vice President; Christopher Anthony, Secretary; H. W. Wilkins, Assistant Secretary; William Hutchin-son, Treasurer.
committee: Harriet Tubman, Mary Hutchinson, John Jones, William H. Stewart.
This Association may be relied on as worthy of confidence by those who wish to help the fugitives in Canada, many of whom are undoubtedly in need of such aid.
There continue to be, as there have been for the week past, conflicting rumors about General Fremont. The wish of those who would have him removed breaks out in constant reports that he is to be removed.
<c05>
THE FRATERNITY LECTURES.
On Friday evening, Oct. 18th, the fourth series of lectures established by "The Fraternity" of the Twenty-eighth Congregational Society of Boston had a successful and brilliant commencement, at the Tremont Temple. Hundreds were waiting for the opening of the doors, the hall was completely filled half an hour before the lecture commenced, and the platform showed an array of some of the most eminent, and many of the best, citizens of Boston.
The speaker was CHARLES SUMNER, whose entrance was greeted with enthusiastic cheers and shouts; his subject was" The Rebellion: its Origin and Main- Spring."
Of this lecture, which kept the audience in earnest attention an hour and a half, interrupted by frequent expressions of applause, we give the Journal's sketch, with some additions, as follows:ï¿½
Mr. Sumner commenced by saying that, in addressing such an audience, he should naturally select some topic of literature, history or artï¿½-something at least which makes for peace. But at this moment the voice refuses any such theme. But, said he, if I speak of war, it is because war has become to us the only way of peace.
People who repine at the opportunities afforded by the time in which they live can find no occasion now for such complaints. There is nothing in the past, and it is difficult to imagine any thing in the future, more inspiring than our present. Even with the curtain slightly lifted, it is easy to see that events are now growing which will constitute the third great epoch in the history of the Western hemisphereï¿½-the first being its discovery, and the second the American Revolution. It remains to be seen if ours will not surpass the others in grandeur.
The origin of war is often difficult to declare; but, whatever may be the reason assigned by the unhappy men who began the present contest, its origin and main-spring can be presented beyond question. This must be done if you would determine how this rebellion is to be treated. Your efforts will naturally be governed by the character of the adverse forceï¿½-whether regarded as a motive power or as a disease. A steam engine is stopped at once by stopping the steam. A ghastly cancer, which has grappled the very fibres of the human frame, will not yield to lip salve, nor to rose-water.
Mr. Sumner then traced the origin of the rebellion as it showed itself after the election of Mr. Lincoln. It was not merely a rebellion; but a rebellion begun in conspiracyï¿½-vaster than any other in history. This conspiracy he traced to an early origin. South Carolina and Georgia, the original focus of it, came into the Union with hesitation, and only on stipulations recognizing the slave trade. And, ever since, they have been militant whenever slavery has been mentioned, till at last a conspiracy was formed in the spirit of the original opposition, which was denounced by General Jackson in 1833, and has been continued ever since by some of the conspirators. This conspiracy found support in the growing passion for slavery throughout the slave States. A generation has grown up ready
to say, with Satan,
"Evil, be thou my good; by thee at least
Divided empire with heaven's King I hold,
As man ere long, and this new world, shall know."
It is natural that a people, thus trained, should listen to the voice of conspiracy. Slavery itself is a continual conspiracy, and its supporters easily became indifferent to all rights and principles, by disregard of which it may be continued.
But this conspiracy would have been insignificant if it had not found aid in the Cabinet. In anticipation of the election of Mr. Lincoln, the conspirators had prepared the wayï¿½-first, by dispersing the army; secondly, by dispersing the navy; thirdly, by abandoning the Southern forts; fourthly, by disarming the North and equipping the slave States; and, fifthly, by robbing the Treasury. The President was won into a disgraceful complicity with these crimes. Finally, the conspiracy broke out in open rebellion by the at tack on Fort Sumter.
This has not been done by virtue of any revolutionary right, but under the pretence of constitutional right. The forms of the Constitution have been seized, as everything else. The pretended right of secession belongs to the brood of false assumptions and perversions, of which slavery is the prolific parent. A pretended right to set aside the Constitution to the extent of breaking up the government, is the natural companion of a pretended right to set aside human nature in making merchandise of men. They travel together, and will perish together. 
Mr. Sumner reviewed the various efforts to avert the catastrophe, showing the central part played by slavery; as in Mr. Buchanan's message, the Peace Conference, Crittenden resolutions, and other propositions, all relating to slavery and nothing else. Independent of the positive demerits of these propositions, they were all objectionable as practical recognitions of the pretended right of secession. If only in consideration of concessions to slavery, certain States consented to waive the pretended right, it was evident that the right was still held for future use. And, if acknowledged, our government became an unsubstantial combination, liable to be decomposed at: the touch of a single State; it has but the shadow of a name, or at best a mere" tenancy at will." On this ground alone, he was against any and every concession. The English orator, Mr. Canning, was tired of being a "security grinder"; but his experience was not comparable to ours. Every proposition asked some new 
security for slavery.
Thus from the beginning was slavery at the bottom of the conspiracy, and also at every stage of the efforts to arrest it. Secession and concession both had 
their root in slavery. But the conspirators acted rationally and logically. Such is slavery, that it can not exist except where it possesses the, government. The 
small minority of slave-masters have aroused and organized this rebellion; first, through the concentration and intensity of the pecuniary interest which they represent; and, secondly, because it is among political phenomena that revolutions are carried by minorities. [Here Mr. Sumner referred to the pamphlet of Condoreet, and the debate in the British Parliament upon it, asserting that the French Revolution was carried by fewer than twenty men, and on this grounding an appeal to the Parliamentary reformers of England. This traitorous minority is now arrayed in battle; but it is all in the name of slavery, and for the sake of slavery, and at the bidding of slavery. The words exposing the profligate favorite of the English monarch, the famous Duke of Buckingham,-were strictly applicable to slavery now:ï¿½
"Who rules the kingdom? The King.
Who rules the King; The Duke.
Who rules the Duke? The Devil."
These may now be altered:ï¿½
Who rules the rebel State? The President.
Who rules the President? Slavery.
Who rules slavery?
The latter question Mr. Sumner did not answer; but he went on to show that slavery was the ruling idea of the rebellion; and also that, owing to the peculiar condition of the slave States at this moment, it is, if we may credit their boasts, actually strengthened and reinforced by slavery. He then touched 
upon the evils which slavery has brought upon usï¿½- showing that it is the author and cause causans of every disaster. Does a mother mourn a son in the flower of his days cut down upon the distant battle field, which he moistens with his youthful, generous blood?--lether know that slavery dealt the blow which took at once his life and her peace. Mr. Sumner then met the cry that the war came, not from slavery, but from anti-slavery; he gave documentary proof that the plan of the rebellion had been formed more than thirty years ago, before the commencement of the Anti-Slavery movement; and he showed that the early Christians had been misrepresented just as the Republicans and Abolitionists are misrepresented to now.
Against this rebellion we wage war. It is our de-
<c06>
OCTOBBER 25.
determination, as. it is our duty, to crush it, and this will be done. The reason that, thus far the advantage has not been on our side, is that, though the rebels are inferior to us both in numbers; and resources, they have used all their means against us while we have sedulously refrained from attacking their weakest point. This forbearance is unreasonable and absurd. It remains for us to use our superior force, and to use it in the manner which will make it most effective. Without union, peace on this continent is impossible; but to live without peace is impossible also. Only by crushing this rebellion can union and peace be restored. But, in order to do this, our battalions must be reinforced with ideas, and we must be ready to strike at the origin and main- spring of the evil. I do not say, Mr. S. went on to declare, in what way, or to what extent, but simply that we must strike; it may be by the system of Butler; it may be by the system of Fremont; or it may be by the, grander system of John Quincy Adams. Reason and Sentiment both concur in this policy. Slavery is the inveterate culprit. As the less is contained in the greater, so the rebellion is all contained in slavery. the Every surrender of a slave by our army is a folly and a shame, a disgrace and a humiliation to the Northern people. The tenderness shown to slavery becomes tenderness to the rebellion itself. It is like the superstitions of the Egyptians toward the sacred crocodile. As our armies advance, this question will become of practical importance. We must determine what shall be done with the slaves in our camps, and also with the slaves of rebels.
Mr. S. contented himself with indicating the simple principle that must govern all whose desire to save the country is stronger than their desire to save slavery. If you are in earnest, you will strike where the blow will be most felt. The signs are that the government is not strong enough to save the Union, and at the same time to save slavery. One or the other must suffer; and just in proportion as you reach forth to protect slavery, do you protect this accursed rebellion. The hearts of the people are right. Events, too, under Providence, are our helpers; defeat for the rebels will be bad, but victory will be worse; for then will the North be inspired with a sub linter energy. The proposition for emancipation, which shook Athens, followed close upon the disaster at Cheronaea, and the statesman who moved it afterward vindicated himself by saying that it proceeded not from him, but from Cheronaea.
Mr. Sumner concluded by referring to the ancient fable, where the life of a mighty hunter had been made to depend upon the preservation of a burning brand. When that brand was thrown upon the fire, the hunter, invulnerable to mortal weapons, died. The story is now repeated in our rebellion, and slavery is the fatal brand. Mr. S. saw no peril which he dreaded now, except what might come from some new concession to slavery. Do justice, he said, though the heavens fall; but they will not fall. Every act of justice becomes a new pillar of the universe.
The second lecture of this course was given on the evening of Tuesday, the 22d, by Rev. JACOB M. MANNING, junior pastor of the old South Church, on "The Education of the Republic."
The lecturer claimed that New England had been the chief educator of our nation, and that the traits wherein we had made advance upon the countries of the old world were owing to the general diffusion of knowledge effected by our common school system. Very much more, however, needs to be done in this direction. The better educated classes have formed a sort of caste by themselves, held themselves aloof from the daily life of the people, and used their learning rather as a luxurious indulgence than as a help to the performance of the important duties that devolve upon them. The reality and the importance of these duties need to be more sensibly felt by our literary men. The Press, the Lyceum, and that specially American institution "The Stump," should all aim to give solid instruction to the people. They should be seriously consecrated to the work of education. Since these high duties rest upon the better educated class, they should be aided by the public authority in the performance of them. The Government should be a nursing father to the teachers and guides of the people. The evils which we have already experienced from popular ignorance loudly call for such interposition. The part of our country where slavery prevails is precisely that part: where there is least intelligence among the mass of the people; and it is popular ignorance which has rendered our present pro-slavery rebellion possible. The insurrection which now menaces our Government could not possibly have sprung up if the New England system of free schools had prevailed through the States concerned in it. The people there are led by demagogues to the defence of slavery, because they have not intelligence to understand that slavery is overthrowing their own rights together with those of the slaves. On this account, for the preservation of knowledge and virtue, and of the institutions which rest upon them, the nation should concern itself with the general diffusion of knowledge. There should be a National department of Instruction., with a Cabinet Minister at its head, charged with the duty of furnishing the means of education to the whole people.
We need scholars whose labors shall be stimulated by patriotism; men who will not pander to a corrupt public sentiment, but who, standing firmly in defence of truth and right, and looking to great ultimate results instead of present success and popularity, shall give the people what they need, rather than what they wish.
The author of all our national woe is slavery. That, like all other forms of oppression, must go down before the enlightened conscience of a free people. In an eloquent apostrophe, the lecturer sketched the advancing usurpations of slavery in the last half century, and predicted its fall into the grave which it had treacherously digged for freedom. His remarks upon this head, and an allusion elsewhere made to the career of Charles Sumner, illustrating the true function of the scholar in directing his labors to the welfare of the people, were received with enthusiastic and long continued applause. 

SHALL SLAVERY BE SPARED OR CRUSHED?
In the following article, the Tribune, replying to the calumnious mendacity of the New York Herald, points out what the Republicans desire of the Government in regard to slavery. Compliance with the suggestions there forcibly urged is the very least that should be asked of the Administration at such a crisis as this, and yet, strange and shameful to say, it seems too much for it to grant. The Republicans actually have to intercede with their President to prevent favor and special indulgence from being shown to slavery. One would think their experience should have taught them before now, that the only way to prevent the extension of slavery is to cut short its existence. 
Abolitionists need no such qualification as the Tribune makes, in deprecation of a stepping aside from the line of the Government's duty, for the suppression of slavery. Such suppression, by direct, and energetic, and persistent movements, until it be accomplished, is not only in the line of the Government's duty, as a war-making power, but is the most important means, in fact the only means of effecting a suppression of the rebellion. We wish slavery done away because it is an unmitigated unmitigated nuisance an out, rageous wickedness, a blot on the nation's character, a stumbling-stone in the way of its prosperity, a cancer preying upon its vitals. Very likely the President's heart and head are so far implicated in the nation's disease that he feels no sympathy with these considerations, and no disposition to act against slavery for its own demerits. But, nevertheless, we may appropriately ask him to direct, openly and energetically, a war of extermination against slavery because this is the only efficient means towards his object, the suppression of the rebellion. If he should set this policy at work, and use every division of the army as the means of effecting it, the North could not fail to march steadily towards complete success, both
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
in its domestic and foreign relations. Until he embraces this policy, nothing is to be expected but alternations of partial success, exhausting the vigor, and wasting the blood and treasure, of both parties.-C. K. W.
THE OBJECT OF THE WAR.
“The Federal Administration is misapprehended and misrepresented by the extreme Anti-Slavery party at the North just as much as it is by the extreme Pro-Slavery fire-eaters at the South. Both one and the other persist in representing that the object of the Government, in putting forth its strength to suppress the rebellion, is to suppress, at the same time, the institution of slavery." N. Y. Herald.
The above is a simple, naked, premeditated falsehood –concocted, disseminated, reiterated, with deliberate intent to deceive a part of the American people, to the serious wrong and injury of the rest. The writer knew perfectly well, and will continue to know while he continues to lie, that "the extreme Anti-Slavery party at the North" has never alleged, much less persisted in representing, that "the object of the Government" is "to suppress the institution of slavery." But this is a lie by which the Herald coins money, while it divides and weakens the loyal citizens of the United States; and we have no expectation that it will do otherwise than reiterate it so long as that course shall seem profitable.
What the Republicans of the North ask and expect of the Government-all they ask, and more than they have yet obtained-is, that it shall go straight ahead in the prosecution of the war for the Union, without regard to its effect on slavery. If slaveholders choose to be rebels, we demand that they be treated as rebels, in utter indifference to the fact that they are slaveholders. If they enter the rebel armies, and endeavor to kill the defenders of the Union, we insist that those defenders shall not be degraded into negro-catchers for the benefit of those sanguinary traitors. If they send their slaves to work on intrenchments and forts for the promotion of the rebel cause, we demand that those slaves be made to understand that, by escaping to the Union camps, they escape from slavery. If they leave them at home to raise provisions for the rebel army, we ask that they be advised that, by quitting that work and coming within our lines, with whatever information they can pick up, they secure a welcome and protection. The loyal States cannot afford to fight both sides of this struggle; and if the right of rebels to hold men in slavery is to be upheld, we insist that it is Jeff. Davis's business, and not Abraham Lincoln's, to uphold it.
Now see what the Government is actually doing, or suffering to be done. We quote from the Herald an order, of which it suppresses the date, but which we think must have been issued a few days before the Bull Run scandal:-
“GEN, MANSFIELD’S ORDER RESPECTING FUGITIVE SLAVES.
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF WASHINGTON.
Fugitive slaves will, under no pretext whatever, be permitted to reside, or be in any way harbored in the quarters and camps of the troops serving in this department. Neither will such slaves be allowed to accompany the troops on the march. Commanders of troops will be held responsible for a strict observance of this order.”
Who can fail to see that this is an order to our armies to put out their own eyes? How can they act without information as to the movements and strength of the enemy before them? And how shall they obtain such information if the only persons likely to volunteer it are to be forbidden to enter their camps? This order makes no distinction between the slaves of Unionists and those of rebels in arm; neither are to be "harbored" nor permitted to rest in the camps or quarters of the Union armies. What negro who has any respect for himself will work his way in darkness and peril through miles of swamp and brush and hostile pickets to bring important tidings to our camps or bivouacs, if he is to be kicked out of them the next hour? What commander who has any heart in the Union cause will give or sanction such an order as the above? We respectfully suggest to the Commander-in-Chief that, if this order of Gen. Mansfield has not already been recalled, it affords an admirable occasion for the exercise of his skill in modification.
Be it evermore understood, even by those who get their living by falsifying it, that the Anti-Slavery men of the North do not ask nor expect the Government to step one hair’s breadth aside from its line of duty as defender of the Union, to "suppress" or otherwise meddle with slavery; but we insist that it shall be equally careful not to be swayed from its proper path in order to preserve slavery, and especially rebel slavery. Woe to that man or coterie who, in striving to preserve slavery, shall sacrifice the Union!- New York Tribune, Oct. 15.

AN APPEAL TO THE GOVERNMENT.
BY A LOYALIST.
It is generally understood and acknowledged by profound thinkers, what is a self-evident truth, that there is not an effect without a cause. Therefore, in harmony with this philosophy, to which all will subscribe, whenever disease manifests itself, whether physical, mental or moral, in the individual or the nation, it is of the first importance that we should understand its cause, else we shall labor in vain for its removal.
Now, if slavery be the cause of the diseased condition of our country, which thousands are daily coming to believe, we earnestly inquire, what means shall we be justified in using for its removal, which promise the most certain and speedy success? Does not every intelligent man in the country know, that in the present servile insurrection, we have the highest and best authority for saying, and acting accordingly, that it is not only legally and morally right, but it is positively obligatory upon our Commander in-Chief, to proclaim martial law throughout the States, and then put forth a Declaration of Independence which shall give freedom to the 4,000,000 of slaves who pine in bondage upon American soil?
Let this be done, and every slaveholder, whether loyal or rebellious, would lay down his arms at the feet of the proper functionaries, and we should become really, what we have been only in name, the United States. We should thus prevent the evils of a protracted war, such as the destruction of hundreds of thousands of lives, a deterioration in morals from which we should not recover in many generations, and a waste of money sufficient to establish and sustain a government larger and better than was this when it commenced its career as an independent sovereignty.
Then why should we delay? Why not now strike for universal freedom, when every nation on earth is ready to sustain us in such a course, and to protect us, if need be, against the evil machinations of traitors, whether South or North?
Why should our government be so delicate about using the word "slavery," if there is no duplicity in it? since it must be known to be the cause of all our troubles, and that its abolition can be the only remedy? A word to the wise is sufficient.

LETTER FROM BRADFORD.
BRADFORD, Oct. 21, 1861.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,-The Young Men's Christian Association of Haverhill and Bradford have for a few Sunday evenings past been holding religious meetings in the School House in this district. Last evening, I was told the meetings were free to all, and invited to attend. I did so, and as the meeting was about being dismissed I asked the privilege to offer a few remarks. None objected, and I spoke about ten minutes, and in the course of my remarks alluded to the present war, and the deplorable condition of the country, and very briefly spoke of the anti-slavery feeling pervading all classes, when I was at once interrupted by our pious and worthy Postmaster, who said he wished I would not interrupt the meeting by any allusion to slavery, as that was a religious meeting, and not the place for the discussion of any such question. I at once asked who had been interrupted, and wished any such to manifest it by rising. None left their seats, and I continued to speak a few moments longer, as it was not then eight o'clock, and none in the house (which was well filled) seemed impatient to leave.
Our worthy Postmaster, who has been recently appointed, appeared to be the most disturbed by my remarks, while some others, as I learn this morning, were pleased.
Some who heard Sallie Holley when she was here retain the many good impressions which she left, and we greatly need the labors of such self-sacrificing friends of humanity. Of what consequence to the world can a religion be that excludes from its formula all allusion to four millions of chattel slaves in this professedly Christian land?
How grossly misrepresented are the objects and desires of the Abolitionists! Many who never hear of
<c02>
them, or read of them, except in the Boston Post or Courier, are the most ready to denounce them. The world moves, and truth must prevail, and a Christianity not based on humanity must prove a failure.
Yours, for the liberation of the world from every species of thraldom B. R. DOWNES.
P. S. I hope the meetings of the Young Men's Christian Association in our School House will be free. I shall lend my mite to make them so.

AN UNSPOKEN SPEECH.
We copy the following from a letter in the New York Tribune, giving a sketch of the Agricultural Fair recently held at Barnstable. After describing the Fair, the visitors and the dinner, the Tribune’s correspondent (Mrs. Julia Ward Howe) gives a slight glimpse of what was said, and a fuller statement of what should have been said, as follows:-
The speaking was introduced by one Marston of Barnstable, the President of the Agricultural Association, who welcomed his numerous guests with some pleasant remarks, and ended by calling up our Governor, who was received with tremendous cheering. His speech was genial and fatherly, savoring mostly of Massachusetts interests, and with tender recommendation of our absent soldiers to affectionate remembrance. It was listened to with general attention and satisfaction. Followed Hon. Hall of Plymouth, a ready, fluent man, who pinned down the present controversy of the country closely to the putting down of actual rebellion. Nothing beyond that would he allow us to perceive, by faith or sight, and having given us this glimpse out of his show box, he shut down the cover very light, and put it in his pocket. And then a speech neither called for nor announced began to arise in me, and if the thing had been allowable, I should have leapt to my feet and said:-
"Friends, he who, when a momentous question is before us, limits our attention to any but its highest point of interest, hands us the stem with the flower twisted off, the candle with the flame snuffed out. What is mankind, what are we, that those who speak to us should make ideal duty a contraband, and talk to us as to creatures whose light of conscience is put out, and who can appreciate nothing beyond advantage, convenience, and the getting and securing of our own? God never made us so; and if we have so unmade ourselves, we had better been strangled in our cradles than have come to maturity with so little of manhood in us. What constitutes us human? Justice makes us wiser than the ox-Christian love makes us more generous than the swine. Selfishness imbrutes us below the level of either, despite our upright form and thinking brain. This is a great day of settlements in our nation. Our late partners have been wronging us, but they have been wronging God a great deal more. And we are willing that they shall continue to do so, if they will only pay us. So we present our little bill, at the end of the bayonet, and are advised to insist upon that, and let the claims of the Master Creditor go. And I stand here in His name, to arrest you all. You are all bankrupts-you are all liable. North and South stand charged together in His books, and till the uttermost farthing be paid by both, there is no solvency for either. And what place is this, that we should not speak here from the very heart of truth, from the inmost soul of religion? The Cape is the classic ground of conscience. Those who first cut down its forests and tilled its fields came here to worship God in purity and sincerity. Their pastors preached to them a thorny Gospel, full of self-sacrifice and crucifixion, and they were able to receive, aye, and to thrive upon it. And are you their descendants, and must we speak smooth things to you, and pass over the awful lesson of the day, which God has appointed? Then are ye indeed the degenerate sons of mighty sires, and the glorious type of the Puritan has died out from mankind! But it is not so. They would slander you who should say it was. They do slander you who treat you as if you could not bear to hear the truth of the truth. All good capacities lie latent in mankind, till the voice of exhortation and sympathy arouses and leads them on to action. God forbid, aye, deprive me of the power of speech altogether, rather than that I should, speaking, address any but the deepest chord within your bosoms, the noblest enthusiasm you are able to cherish and to follow. And you, ye comfortable and well-to-do farmers and fishers of the Cape, who with your wives and daughters make so handsome an appearance on this occasion, what say you? Is the laborer worthy of his hire? Shall he have his little’ earnings, and build his cabin, and rear his offspring with their mother to help him, or shall he be merely fed, worked, and paired and sold like the beasts you drive? Oh! your honest hearts know which is right-they have told you that long ago. Once, you could only pray for the enslaved; now, you can speak, vote, fight for them. As you value your own liberty, see that you do it.
Remember, too, dear brothers, that the cause of God is not the cause of the rich and mighty, but the cause of the poor and oppressed. Once kings were called the vicegerents of the Almighty; but when the King of kings came, he lived the life of an outcast, and died the death of a criminal, and we have not yet forgotten the grief and shame of his non-recognition, But this has taught us to look for the Divine in all disguises of humility and poverty. God sometimes visits us as the Governor does to-day, with the trumpets to blow before him, and his ministers in flaming red and gold. Then we all turn out and take him by the hand and say, ‘How pious we are, how devout!' But He much oftener waits for us in the form of a beggar, a slave, a fugitive, and it is only after we have done such an one justice or injustice that we hear the deep and awful word, ' Thou hast done it unto me’!
So, brothers, look beyond the comforts and pleasures of the present moment-look beyond the ambitions of the forum-look beyond the successes or reverses of the field-look over there down South at the slave, unjustly bought, unjustly sold, unjustly detained from his heritage upon earth. God has a new disguise today-see that ye find it out. The slave, the slave is your master creditor now; and if the debt of this bondage be not speedily paid, the writ of execution will be put into the stately house of our Northern liberties. And we shall see it stripped and dishonored, and we shall deserve to see it."
And if I had said all this, I know not whether they would have taken me by the hand, or whether they would have led me out with a rope around my neck, a candidate for the nearest horse-pond; but this I do know, that I should have been glad to have said it, and glad to have taken the consequences of it, whatever they might have been.

REV. M. D. CONWAY'S LECTURE.
[From the Cincinnati Daily Press, Oct. 14.]
The hall of the Catholic Institute was occupied at an early hour last evening by a large and attentive audience, quite complimentary to the speaker and to the musical entertainment which had called it forth. The introductory and closing exercises by the orchestra and the Mannaerchor were, as usual, well executed and well received. At eight o'clock, the Rev. M. D. Conway appeared upon the stand, and was greeted with manifestations of applause. He said:-
The subject upon which I am to speak to-night is one of Almighty God's own selection. It is one that need not be announced to those who are in the habit of looking beneath the surface of events, and treasuring up the lessons which they teach. Every man has a right to bear within himself the spirit of the age in which he lives. The very rock that is on our coast marks where the glacier went, the formation of the soil and the limestone beneath our feet record where every fern leaf grew, and man, the crowning being of all, should not pass away and leave no trace where he lives. We have a right to grow, and know each day more than we knew the day preceding. I know there are some who sail over seas, of knowledge, travel over continents of experience, and settle down, knowing no more than they did before.
Every age has its special voice; some important lesson, some great pivot around which events revolve. We are making history to-day.
The speaker here referred to the temple in which he was speaking, and the great people who had built it. He had great respect for that mighty church that was growing up here. Referring to himself, he said, although he might bear in their midst the mark of heresy and unsoundness, he was a man of the people, and, as such, would speak. He would take occasion to correct a statement that had been lately made concerning himself, which, if uncorrected, might stand in the way of a proper hearing and understanding of what he should say to-night He did not say, as had been reported by at least four newspapers in the city, that he would rather have his right arm struck from his body by the lightings of Heaven than to fight for the Union with slavery in it. What he did say was, that he would rather his right arm should be withered than it should ever strike a blow to perpetuate slavery, even if the Union were linked with it. But he believed the Union would survive after all this had been cast off. If that be treason, make the most of it. He had long been a traitor to human oppression-to slavery. He could remember sitting in the lap of aged persons who could recollect hearing Washington called rebel, and Mr. Pitt a traitor, and he remembered how Pitt fulminated against slavery. "Sir," said that great man, who did more for American independence than any other man of his age, "I do not understand this complimenting away the rights of human beings."
He referred to the pleasure he had experienced a few evenings before in seeing the Rev. Archbishop Purcell in this house after his return, and the patriotic Mc Groarty and Green, whose wounds attest their devotion to the Union, all of whom had been reared in the bosom of this church. I seem to see the history of 
<c03>
that church eighteen centuries ago rise before me. I seem to see by my side Hermes, who celebrated the resurrection of Christ by liberating one thousand two hundred and fifty of his slaves; Chromacius, who under Diocletian, emancipated one thousand four hundred, saying; "Those who are children of God ought not to be slaves of men "; Lactantius, who said, in the church there can be no slavery; St. Ambrose, who ordered the golden vessels to be sold to ransom slaves, and Gregory the Great, who did the same. I seem to see those and more hovering around the heroic Mulligan and Corcoran in their captivity, side by side with Rosecrans defending liberty in the passes of Virginia. These draw around me the sacred presence of your church when I speak for liberty.
I am a firm believer in the maxim, "Peace hath her victories not less renowned than war." But there is a kind of peace that carries with it the sting of war- a peace of the grave, and frozen peace like that which the army of Napoleon felt in passing the Alps, who became so cold as to have a disposition to do nothing but sleep; but every man who slept awaked no more. Peace does not go with pusillanimity, cowardice. True peace must be more heroic, bolder than war. Such a peace is always ready when man is ready to work for it. Is there any such peace for us? Any sign for such a victory? I believe there is.
In this war, it is popularly said, eighteen millions are fighting against eight. We have, by our peculiar policy, made that eight millions twelve. We are going to declare that four millions of blacks must fight us to be free. They must kill our soldiers if they want to be confiscated. If a black man comes from Western Virginia to Cincinnati, and can prove that he killed Rosecrans, or some other of our men there, he is confiscated and becomes free. If Floyd told him to do it, and he slipped around in any way and did not do it, we say to him, "My dear sir, go back!" Thus we are making the path of four millions to liberty over our dead bodies. So we have managed, by considerable ingenuity, to get them all against us.
We have a free society; we have awakened wants, intellectual, manufacturing and others, so that we are compelled to keep two-thirds of our able-bodied men at home to prevent us from starving. This is a great deal more than in the South, where society is scarcely more complex than an oyster. They can leave their negroes to cultivate the fields, with a patrol for every fifty to shoot down the first one that rebels, and can bring all the rest of their able-bodied men into the field. Were we to adopt their mode and bring incalculable misery upon ourselves by drafting, get the Creeks and the Cherokees to help us, I have no doubt we could go down there and whip them. We have held back our free negroes.
Slavery has challenged liberty to a duel, and, according to the code of honor, we have a right to choose the weapons. Suppose, instead of choosing the weapons of slavery, we choose liberty's weapon, what will be the consequence? If we say to every man that comes North to assassinate us, that his slaves shall be free men, he would think twice, nay, twenty times, before he would come, and then stay at home. Even during the one week this plan was tried, Sterling Price's men went back, and took Lexington on their way, simply because they were able to take two thousand. That weapon has been tried with success in history. We have the same right to adopt it that a ship has to throw over a part of her cargo in a storm.
Martial law is so called because it is not civil. Had it not been for the presence of mind of the President in violating the habeas corpus law, we should have been fighting secession with cold steel in Maryland to-day. If we have a right to kill men without due process of law, we have a right to kill an institution. There never was an institution as sacred as a man. If we can imprison men without due process of law, we can free them.
Is it Christian? Hereupon the whole matter hinges. There is a banner higher than even the star-spangled banner, on which is written, " Do unto others as ye would they should do to you." "Love your enemies." We need a throb of Christianity through the national heart. Is it loving the South to retain an institution that is creating civil war, that is filling her people with hatred for their brethren? We know, too, that the census, like a funeral bell, is tolling the fact that the blacks are increasing in the South above the white population, and bringing on a state of affairs there awful to contemplate. You remember when the Czar of Russia was about to free the serfs, he called together his nobles, saying, "Come and help me liberate my slaves, for if they are not liberated from above, they will be liberated from below." This is what we have to fear.
A story is told of the reign of King Arthur, of a poor dwarf who went around with a sword begging every one to cut off his head, but no one would do it, for the King had commanded them not to touch him. At last he came to Sir Gawaine, who, seeing a tear in the poor dwarf's eye, was moved with pity, and struck off his head. At once the poor dwarf Carl rose to the majestic Sir Carleton, for he had been laboring under a spell which kept him a dwarf till he could find some one to cut off his head, and he said to Sir Gawaine, "Thou alone hast loved me enough." The same would apply to the negro and slavery.
What shall be done with the negro? The speaker was in favor of employing the whole force of the Government, if necessary, to keep them where they were. Let them work. "Our way has been to crush them to powder, to grind out the last ray of hope, and God will now trust us no longer." The abolition of slavery has been accomplished in Chili, Benares, the Republic of Columbia, the State of New York, St. Domingo, etc., and the speaker claimed that no evil had resulted from it. In every case, the nation that had adopted emancipation had risen at once in the scale of civilization and power. We should not adopt the bowie knife and the weapons of slavery; they are not our forte. We have no right to allow the liberty of the world and humanity's hope to be placed in jeopardy a single hour. If we would come to use the weapons of peace, every army might be forth with disbanded.
FIRST MESSAGE BY THE PACIFIC TELEGRAPH LINE. -FORT BRIDGER, Utah, Oct. 18. The Pacific Telegraph line was completed to Salt Lake City at one o'clock to-day. The line between Salt Lake City and San Francisco will be finished in a few days.
CLEVELAND, Ohio, Oct. 18. The following is the first message over the Pacific Telegraph line. It was received this evening:-
GREAT SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 18, 1861. 
Hon. J. H. Wade, President of the Pacific Telegraph: 
SIR,-Permit me to congratulate you on the completion of the overland telegraph line West to this city, to commend the energy displayed by yourself and associates in the rapid and successful prosecution of a work so beneficial, and to express the wish that its use may ever tend to promote the true interests of the dwellers on both the Atlantic and Pacific slopes of our continent. Utah has not seceded, but is firm for the Constitution and laws of our once happy country, and is warmly interested in such successful enterprises as the one so far completed. BRIGHAM YOUNG.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 20. On the opening of the telegraph to Great Salt Lake City, the following dispatches were exchanged:-
GREAT SALT LAKE CITY.
To the President of the United States:
Utah, whose citizens strenuously resist all imputations of disloyalty, congratulates the President upon the completion of an enterprise which spans the continent, unites two oceans, and connects remote extremities of the body politic with the government's heart. May the whole system speedily thrill with the quickened pulsation of that heart, the parricidal hand of political treason be punished, and the entire sisterhood of States join hands in glad reunion around the national fireside. (Signed) FRANK FULLER,
Acting Governor of Utah.
The following is the reply:-
SIR,-The completion of the telegraph to Great Salt Lake City is auspicious of the stability and union of the Republic. The Government reciprocates your congratulations.
(Signed) ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
To FRANK FULLER, Acting Governor.
"SAMUEL MAY-1797." These are the words upon a faded sign at the west corner of State and Broad streets, Boston. We first saw them there a long while ago, and never make a visit to the city without looking up, to see if they yet remain. The old sign was there last Tuesday, and, more than that, we just learn from a gentleman of Concord, many years a Boston merchant, that Mr. May still lives, at the age of ninety, and was, when he last saw him-a year or so since-walking about amidst the familiar places of his early manhood and his active prime. The business is conducted by younger men, but the firm is Samuel May & Co. The gentleman in this city of whom we speak, says Broad street was laid out, and the building erected upon which this sign is affixed, about 1806, and he thinks the senior Mr. May commenced occupancy of the store when it was completed. That will give fifty-five years occupancy of the same business stand-something at which to marvel in this capricious age. When the old sign no longer speaks with the same emphasis of the venerable gentleman whose name it bears, the public will doubtless learn more of him through the public papers of Boston. Who, in passing up or down State street, and seeing those words at the head of this paragraph, does not acquire an interest in Samuel May? - New Hampshire Statesman.
FORTRESS MONROE, Oct. 18. Gen. Wool issued an order giving every male "contraband" eight dollars a month, and females four dollars.
BALTIMORE, Oct. 19. Thomas Wilder, the founder of the order of Odd Fellows, died this morning, suddenly.
<c04>
FIGHT AT BOLIVAR, VA.
BALTIMORE, Oct. 18. A gentleman who spent the whole of yesterday at Harper's Ferry, says the accounts of the fight on Wednesday are, in the main, correct. The cannon captured is a fine new sieges gun, well mounted and in good order, with the exception of a fracture above the axles, caused during the fight. It was stationed near the abutment of the bridges, and when about being retaken by the rebels, a ten penny nail was driven into it, which has been withdrawn.
The Rhode Island battery did not participate in the fight; they were stationed on Maryland heights, and found it impossible to distinguish friends from foes in the distance. The contest lasted from 8 o'clock in the morning till 2 in the afternoon. It was a regular skirmish with varying results; the rebels when hard pressed retreated into the woods, and at other times driving the Federals back into Bolivar. The Maine regiment was beyond Bolivar on the road to Charles town.
At 2 o'clock, Col. Geary arrived with three pieces of cannon, which soon silenced the enemy's guns, and put the entire force to flight. The Chaplain, who was taken prisoner, says before he was captured eighty-seven were killed and wounded, and had been carried from the field. There was nothing positively known as to Col. Ashley being killed. It is not generally credited that an officer supposed to be him was shot during the final retreat of the rebels.
The Federals remained at the Ford all night, and yesterday morning, having brought across the river the remainder of the 10,000 bushels of wheat captured from the military depot, which they were about transporting to Leesburg, an order was given for the whole force to retire to the Maryland side.
Great distress prevails among the few remaining residents of Bolivar, 
information having reached there that it was the intention of the rebels to destroy both Bolivar and Harper's Ferry on Thursday night by fire. They were all packing up preparatory to flight.
The river is still too high to ford, and the troops were conveyed across in scows.
The prisoners admit that their force was 2000, while the whole Federal force was 460.
The change at Harper's Ferry and the thriving village of Bolivar is represented as most sad and shocking. Ruin is everywhere visible. The inhabitants were bowed down with sorrow and desolation.
BALTIMORE, Oct. 18. A gentleman direct from Harper's Ferry announces that the rebels again appeared on Linden and Bolivar heights this morning, and renewed the attack on the Union forces under Major Gould, with artillery. Major Gould fired upon them with cannister from the Columbiad captured on Tuesday, and drove them back, but not until the vandals had burned the mill of A. H. Herr, and took the miller prisoner, who was charged by them with giving information to the Union troops of the 12,000 bushels of grain being brought there to grind.
The firing was progressing when our informant left. Women and children were fleeing in great terror to the Maryland shore, in anticipation of the town being burned. Major Gould was throwing shot and shell from the Maryland heights after the rebels, and was confident that he could keep them off until reinforcements reached him.
Col. Geary's wound was only a slight cut in the calf of his leg, by a piece of an exploded shell.
Col. Geary reports that four men who were wounded at Bolivar were afterwards charged upon by the enemy's cavalry, and stabbed through the body, stripped of all clothing, and one or two laid in the form of crucifixion, with their hands spread and cut through the palms with a dull knife. This inhuman conduct greatly incensed our troops, who vowed retaliation.
BALTIMORE, Oct. 18-Midnight. The following has just been received here from Sandy Hook, Md.:-
The mill of Herr & Welsh, at Harper's Ferry, has just been burned by the rebel forces under Col. Ashley, after our troops had taken 20,000 bushels of wheat from there, and retired to their original position opposite the Ferry.
Major Gould, in command of the post, ordered his three companies (C, I and K, of the 13th Massachusetts,) and a detachment of Col. Geary's Pennsylvania regiment, under arms, and Captain Thompson of the Rhode Island battery opened, from the Maryland heights, his battery against the rebels, when Captain Scriber of the 13th Massachusetts volunteers, with his two twelve-pounders and the gloriously captured thirty-two pounder, attended to the rebels appearing on London mountain. They were driven back so as to prevent the further destruction of Harper's Ferry.
The families remaining in Harper's Ferry are fast emigrating to Maryland.
A fight took place on Monday of this week, near Leesburg, Va., between a portion of Gen. Banks 's command, under Gen. Stone, and a large body of rebels. Gen. Stone crossed the river to the Virginia side during the night, and in the morning his right wing, 1,800 strong under Col. Baker, of Oregon, was attacked by about 4,000 of the enemy, under Gen. Evans, with artillery. Col. Baker gallantly let a charge against the enemy, in which he was killed, when the men fell back, in good order, carrying off the dead and wounded, to where they could be supported by Gen. Stone and the portions of the army that had effected a crossing. Our loss in the affair is stated an 175, killed and wounded. Gen. Banks 's army is now said to be on the Virginia side of the river.
NEW YORK, October 23. A special Washington despatch to the Herald says: The latest news last night was that the whole of General Stone's Division had crossed the Potomac in full pursuit of the enemy, and that Banks's column had reached the banks of the river, and would speedily support Gen. Stone.
Information received late last night announces that the fight on Monday was a desperate one, and large numbers were killed on both sides. Although the enemy was much stronger, he was falling back before the advance of our troops, and would undoubtedly have been routed but for the fall of Col. Baker, which produced a sudden confusion among the troops, and led to a halt.
Gen. G. W. Smith commanded the rebels, and a private despatch asserts that he was shot from his horse, and carried off the field. 
Gen. McClellan left for Gen. Banks's headquarters in the field yesterday morning.
It is a subject of regret that Col. Baker should have engaged the enemy, when, according to report, he was ordered to make a reconnoissance only, with strict injunction, if attacked, to fall back and not fight. He disobeyed orders, which cost him his life. Col. Baker made his will on Saturday last and deposited it with Col. Webb, and when he left for the field he said to the latter, "I shall participate in a battle within forty-eight hours. If I fall, I request you to take charge of my body." A dispatch states that his body was pierced with six minie balls, showing that the rebels had their sharpshooters to pick off our men.
Among the killed and wounded at the late battle at Edward's Ferry, Va., are the following commissioned officers of the Massachusetts 15th:-
Killed-Capt. Rockwood, Co. A; Capt. Simonds, Co. B; Capt. Bowman, Co. C. Probably killed, Capt. Studley, Co. D; Capt. Getchell, Co. K; 2d Lieut. Grout; 2d Lieut Vassal, Co. E.
Wounded-Lieut. Col. Ward, leg amputated; Capt. Sloan, Co. F, slightly; Capt. Foreband, Co. G; Capt. Philbrick, Co. H, slightly; 1st Lieut. Holden, Co. G.
Col. Devins received a slight contusion in the breast from a musket ball
Col. Lee of the Massachusetts 20th was probably taken prisoner.
BATTLE OF FREDERICKTOWN, MO.
PILOT KNOB, Mo., Oct. 22d. The following dispatch was received here this morning, and forwarded to Headquarters at St. Louis:-
FREDERICKTOWN, Oct. 22d, 1861. In conjunction with Col. Plummer's command, we have routed the rebels of Thompson and Lowe, estimated at 5000.
Their loss was heavy. Ours small, and confined principally to the 1st Indiana cavalry. We captured four heavy guns. Lowe, the rebel leader, was killed. Major Gavit and Capt. Wyman of the Indiana cavalry were killed in the charge on a battery.
The command of Col. Plummer referred to above was, on Friday morning last, ordered forward by General Grant from Cape Girardeau, with instructions to move towards Fredericktown and cut off the rebels of Thompson's and Lowe's army.
GEN. FREMONT'S REMOVAL ASSERTED TO BE DECIDED UPON BY GOVERNMENT-GENERAL HUNTER TO BE HIS SUCCESSOR. Cincinnati, Oct. 18th. The Gazette editorially says that when the Secretary of War went to St. Louis, he carried an order from the President removing General Fremont from the command of the Western Department, and instructing him to transfer it to General Hunter. The delivery of this order was left to the discretion of the Secretary of War. His visit to the Western Department convinced him that a change was positively required, and he presented the order to General Fremont, who asked a delay for a few days in the execution of the order; but his removal was decided upon to take place next week-probably it will be made Tuesday.
The Secretary of War has also ordered that modifications be made in General Fremont's operations in St. Louis in respect to fortifications, contracts, and military appointments.
ST. LOUIS, Oct. 19. The statement in the Cincinnati Gazette of yesterday to the effect that Secretary Cameron, in his recent visit to this Department, brought an order from the President instructing General Fremont to transfer the command of the Western Military Department to Gen. Hunter, and that the order was delayed at the request of Gen. Fremont, is pronounced untrue. If Secretary Cameron had such an order, it was not presented. The interview between Gen. Fremont and Secretary Cameron was satisfactory to both parties.
<c05>
HAYTIAN EMIGRATION.
At the twenty-first annual meeting of the American Baptist Missionary Convention, held in the Salem Baptist Church, 25th inst., (says the New Bedford Standard,) Mr. John Oliver submitted the following preamble and resolutions, who said his motive for doing so was from the fact that, when the Southern slave States were driving the free colored people from their homes, he then thought that Hayti would be a good opening for those residing in Louisiana, South Carolina and the other tropic States. But when Mr. Redpath spreads his scheme all over the Northern States to induce those who have no just cause to leave the country, be discovered the whole plan calculated to increase and not reduce the malicious negro hate so prevalent, and that the enemies of human freedom will use the emigration scheme, as they have heretofore done, as a reason why we should leave the country:
Whereas, in view of the present hopeful indications that God is about to answer the prayers of a long degraded and oppressed people, by bringing both sections of this guilty nation, which continues to bold them in bondage, face to face in battle; and believing that the pride of the South and the honor of the North make it impossible for the two sections, which are now at war ever again to effect a compromise like that of 1789, by which the colored people were constitutionally doomed to there present condition, therefore,
Resolved, That this Convention feel it to be their duty to protest against the operations and designs of those in charge of Haytian emigration, and that we look upon any body of men who seek our wholesale removal, as is contemplated by Mr. James Redpath and his coadjutors, as being characterized by the same spirit which breathed into existence the old American Colonization Society.
Resolved, That we condemn the infamous doctrine, upon whatever grounds it may be predicated, that the white and black races cannot live together upon this continent in a state of freedom and equality.
Resolved, That we feel a deep sense of regret that colored men in whom we have confided as our leaders should allow themselves to be the tools of a widespread evil, which is discouraging and dividing us just at the daybreak of our universal emancipation.
THE "CHRISTIAN" INDIANS AND THE SOUTHERN CONFEDERACY.
ROLLA, Mo., Oct. 19. John Ross, Chief of the Cherokee Indians, in a note to Major Clark of the rebel army, dated the 24th ult., says: " I herewith forward to your care despatches for Gen. McCulloch, which I request you will have forwarded by the earliest express."
At a mass meeting of 4000 Cherokees at Tarliquaha, on the 21st, they, with marked unanimity, declared their adherence to the Confederate States, and have given their authorities power to negotiate an alliance with them. In view of their action, a regiment of mounted men will be raised, and placed under the command of Col. John Drew, to meet any emergency that may arise. Having espoused the cause of the Confederate States, they hope to render efficient service in the danger which now threatens the country, and to be treated with a liberality and confidence becoming the Confederate States.
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE SLAVE QUESTION. The opinion seems to be gaining ground that, at the last moment, if needed in self-defence, the rebels will proclaim emancipation. This was the policy proposed by the government in Cuba, if necessary to arrest the filibustering of Lopez or of the United States. The intelligent Baltimore correspondent of the New York Tribune says that a similar policy will be adopted by the South:-
"When Gen. Toombs made his speech against the increase of the army, in the Senate, two years ago, he warned the North that the South held the institution of slavery in its own hands, and that if events should justify it, the slave States would anticipate outside pressure, and by a sweeping act of emancipation, convert the slave into a friend of the South. The secessionists of the more ardent sort in this city do not hesitate to assert this will be the policy of the South, as the war progresses, rather than suffer the rebellion to be put down. They are free to admit that a vigorous prosecution of Fremont's policy would speedily end the rebellion, and hence their joy at its modification."
ANOTHER REBEL OUTRAGE ON THE PLATTE RIVER. The following is an extract from a private letter which we have received from Macon City, Mo., dated October 13:-
"The Platte River bridge, that is, the one which was burned near St. Joseph, has failed, and they are now obliged to cross in small boats and on rafts. Night before last, fifteen hundred regulars from Utah crossed, and many of them with their families. Being so many of them, some were obliged to cross on the rafts. They had ropes across the river, and those on the raft took hold of the end and pulled, and it drew them across; but some one-a secessionist, they think-had cut the rope, and when they were about in the middle of the river it gave way, and they floated down stream a short distance, and the raft hit against a tree and turned them all over, drowning a wife and only child of one man, three only children of another family, and a babe of eleven months old of another family. The bodies have not yet been recovered from among the rubbish. It was very dark, and they were obliged to come along and leave them. They passed through here yesterday, and some mothers were ringing their hands and crying for their lost children. Some spoke not a word, but looked heart-broken; others mourning for a loved wife or children. O, it was a sight to melt a heart of stone."
The regulars referred to in the above extract have probably reached Washington, ere this. We understand that Major N. A. M. Dudley, of Massachusetts, is with the command.
Great outrages are perpetrated by the rebels in the southeastern counties of Kentucky. The finest private residences in Barboursville have been converted into stables for their horses, and the most wanton destruction of property has marked their progress. In Laurel, they visited the farm of Jacob Hackney, tore down his house, destroyed his fences, made his place a scene of desolation, deprived him of his winter clothing, and utterly ruined him. The leading citizens had been compelled to fly from home in order to save themselves from personal outrage.
NEW YORK, Oct. 21. The Tribune says it knows it to be true that Secretary Cameron took with him to Missouri full discretionary power to supersede Gen. Fremont, and turn over the command of his army to Gen. Hunter, and that he did not see fit to exercise that power. All beyond this is idle speculation.
THE WAR AT THE WEST. The difference between the movements of the armies put in the field by both parties at the East and the West is noticeable. In Northern Virginia, the progress is at a snail-pace, compared with what it is in Missouri. Within a week one may hear of an army in the latter State having travelled more than one hundred miles-to be succeeded, the week following, by rapid strides in the opposite direction. The present is the third grand march across that extensive State; may we indulge the hope that it will prove the last, by putting a complete extinguisher on the rebellion?-N. Y. Com. Journal.
STORY'S BUST OF PARKER. The friends of the late Rev. Theodore Parker will be gratified to learn, that the marble bust by Wm. W. Story, Esq., so long expected, has recently been received in Boston, and has been placed by Mrs. Parker in the Public Library, for a limited time, on examination. Mr. Parker sat many times for the model during his sojourn in Rome, and expressed the highest satisfaction at the result. He said to the sculptor, " It looks as if it could do what I would, but cannot."
STAMPEDE OF SLAVES.-New Creek, Va., Oct. 14.- Six slaves from near Romney came into camp to-day. They were pursued until within six miles of our camp by the rebel cavalry, who were after the reward that had been offered for them, which was $600. As soon as they came in, eighty of our cavalry went in hot pursuit, but the rebels hearing they were pursued, retreated to Romney. The negroes report 4,000 rebels at that place.-Correspondence of the Cincinnati Commercial.
DISTRESS IN ST. GEORGE'S BAY. A letter from St. George's Bay, N. F., of date of August 27, published in the St. John's papers, says:-"The state of affairs in St. George's Bay is very alarming-distress has already commenced, and if something is not done to relieve the people before winter sets in, ’tis feared that a famine will be the result. On account of the American war, they can't get any price for their herrings; and Mr. Lawson, the principal supplying merchant, has suspended his affairs in the Bay.”
A NOBLE SPEECH. The Boston Traveller says that "Mr. Winthrop made a noble speech on presenting a flag to Col. Wilson's regiment." It was all that; and the only exception that can be taken to it, is its age, as it ought to have been made years ago.- Worcester Palladium.
It is reported from Washington that the Commander of the blockading fleet at Charleston has been superseded for permitting the steamer Nashville to escape.
The Boston Herald says that the Democratic party "is neither anti-slavery nor pro-slavery." It is neither hot nor cold on the greatest question of this age. It is likely to meet the fate of the lukewarm.
Beauregard's official report of the battle of Bull Run has not yet made its appearance.
<c06>
FRATERNITY LECTURES. 
FOURTH SERIES.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully informed that the FOURTH SERIES of FRATERNITY LECTURES continues weekly at TREMONT TEMPLE.
The lecture on Tuesday Evening, Oct. 29, will be by GEORGE W. CURTIS, ESQ.,
To be followed on successive TUESDAY EYENINGS by Lectures from the following gentlemen:-
November 5-T. WENTWORTH HIGGINSON.
November 12-RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
November 19-WILLIAM R. ALGER.
November 26-HENRY WARD BEECHER.
December 3-FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
December 10-DANIEL S. DICKINSON.
December 17-EDWIN H. CHAPIN
December 24-WILLIAM S. STUDLEY.
December 31-EZRA H. HEYWOOD.
January 7-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Organist-HOWARD M. Dow, Esq.
Doors to be opened at 6 1-2 o'clock. Lectures to commence at 7 1-2 o'clock, precisely.
A limited number of tickets (admitting the bearer and a lady,) are offered for sale at $2 each; to be obtained at Oliver Ditson & Co.'s, No. 277 Washington street, John C. Hayes & Co.'s, 33 Court street, D. 0. Goodrich's, 302 Washington street, of the several members of the Fraternity hitherto having the disposal of tickets, and at the Tremont Temple. Oct.11
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the American A. S. Society, will speak on "The War," at
Brattleboro', Vt., Sunday, Oct. 27.
Springfield, Vt., Tuesday, Oct. 29.
THE TWENTY-EIGHTH NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.-The exigencies of the cause having this year occasioned an earlier call for funds than usual, friends at home and abroad are entreated to advance and increase their subscriptions as far as. practicable,-addressing them to WILLIAM. I. BOWDITCH, Esq., Treas. Am. A. S. Society, Boston.
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN.
AID FOR FUGITIVE SLAVES.-.The fund raised to aid fugitive slaves is now, and has been for some time, exhausted. Those who are disposed to contribute to this deserving charity are respectfully invited to leave their contributions with FRANCIS JACKSON, Hollis st., or R. F. WALLCUT, at the Anti-Slavery office.
NOTICE. Mrs. H. F. M. BROWN, of Cleveland, Ohio, has been appointed an Agent for the Anti-Slavery Standard; and is fully authorized to receive new subscriptions to the same, as well as payments on old accounts. Mrs. Brown's address L 288 Superior street.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
Reference- David Thayer, M. D.; Lather Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to P. M. 

Woman's Rights under the Law.
THREE Lectures delivered in Boston, January, 1861, by Mrs. C. H. Dall.
I. The Oriental Estimate and the French Law.
II. The English Common Law.
III. The United States Law, and some Thoughts on Human Rights.
16mo., cloth, 63 cts. 
Published by
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
245 Washington street, Boston.
Uniform with
Woman's Right to Labor, 63 cts.
Practical Illustrations of the same, 63 cts.
Historical Pictures Retouched, $1.00.
All of which are sent free by mail on receipt of the price. 
Oct. 25-3tis.
THE most able and brilliant book, called forth by the present struggle, is
THE REJECTED STONE:
Or, Insurrection vs. Resurrection in America.
By a Native of Virginia. 12mo., flexible covers-50 cts.
Published, and sent free by mail, on receipt of the price, by 
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
Oct. 25-3tis 245 Washington street, Boston.
OUR NATIONAL WEAKNESS.
REV. Dr. Hedge's admirable Fast Day Sermen-price 12 cts. Published by WALKER, WISE & CO.,
245 Washington street,
Boston. 
Oct. 25 

$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread. Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
“Four Parker's SEWING MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These, together with Parker's improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to 120each. They are very perfect in their mechanism, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for gauging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz.: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite that had smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account."
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine, cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in, this country, and which is highly beneficial, to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
J. B. SWASEY,
Boston.
LAW OFFICE, 114 STATE STREET, ROOM 11.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
OUR COUNTRY IN THE RIGHT.
“Our, country, right or wrong,"
From many a. month is heard 
Among the giddy, thoughtless throng,
Whose passions war hath stirred:
‘Tis sad how they forget,
Who often sing this song,
The nations whose bright sun hath set,
Because they did the wrong!
Shall we who make our boast
We're wedded to the right,-
That Truth shall conquer Error’s host,
And chase the shades of night,—
Shall we join with the crowd,
Our streets who daily throng,
And sing-while death shall weave our shroud-
"Our country, right or wrong"?
Let each a moment pause,
Ere he his aid shall lend,
And ask-Is it a righteous cause
Which I would now defend?
And let him rather die
Than join the thoughtless throng
From whom is heard the craven cry-
"Our country, right or wrong!"
Far better will it be
We in the contest fall,
While striving the oppressed to free
From chains, which them enthral:
Then death shall have no sting,
And all beyond be light,
If by our life we daily sing-
Our country, when ‘tis right.
Boston, Oct. 30, 1861. JUSTITIA.
The sentiment of a poem by George Lunt, (one of the editors of the Boston Courier,) which was first published during our war with Mexico, and has been republished in some of our leading journals since the commencement of the uncivil war in this country.

From the Atlantic Monthly for October.
OUR COUNTRY.
On primal rocks she wrote her name;
Her towers were reared on holy graves;
The golden seed that bore her came
Swift-winged with prayer o'er ocean waves.
The Forest bowed his solemn crest,
And open flung his sylvan doors;
Meek Rivers led the appointed Guest 
To clasp the wide-embracing shores;
Till, fold by fold, the broidered land 
To swell her virgin vestments grew,
While Sages, strong in heart and hand,
Her virtue's fiery girdle drew.
O, exile of the wrath of kings!
O, Pilgrim Ark of Liberty! 
The refuge of divinest things,
Their record must abide in thee!
First in the glories of thy front
Let the crown jewel, Truth, be found;
Thy right hand fling, with generous wont,
Love's happy chain to farthest bound!
Let Justice, with the faultless scales,
Hold fast the worship of thy sons;
Thy Commerce spread for shining sails
Where no dark tide of rapine runs!
So link thy ways to those of God,
So follow firm the heavenly laws,
That start may greet thee, warrior-browed,
And storm-sped angels hail thy cause!
O land, the measures of our prayers,
Hope of the world in grief and wrong,
Be thine the tribute of the years,
The gift of Faith, the crown of Song!

IN TYRANNOS.
Tyrants! your doom is nigh: 
Short is your reign:
Your bondmen's wailing cry 
To Heaven again 
Hath risen, and the Infinite God 
Whom ye have long denied,
Whom ye have long defied,
Prepareth his avenging rod,
Whose chastisements shall fall,
And spread the hideous pall 
Of desolation o'er your land,
And when your woe is direst, ye shall see 
Those outraged bondmen, by the Lord set free,
Erect in majesty of manhood stand!
II.
Though ye have said 
“God is dead,"
Yet shall ye awake in dread 
From your long and guilty dream:
Though his righteous judgments seem 
Long delayed,
They are terrible and sure!
Though his mercy long endure,
Be afraid!
When His wrath, which seemeth to sleep,
Shall arouse to its deepest deep,
It shall overwhelmingly sweep 
Your refuge of lies away;
And in that day,
Beneath His rod,
Your souls shall say
"God is God!"
III.
Too late shall ye believe!
Too late the truth perceive!
Ye have hugged the lie so long,
(Ye love it still,)
It hath bound its chain so strong 
Around your will,
That ye cannot now turn back!
Ye chose Destruction's track
With open eyes,
And your vision now is sealed
Till the judgment be revealed!
That shall your souls surprise,
That shall unseale your eyes,
And in that day,
With new-found sight
And new-discovered light,
Your souls shall see
Despairingly,
And, broken 'neath his rod,
In anguish say,
"God is God!"
Paterson, September, 1860.

From the Cambridge Chronicle.
BRAVERY.
He may be brave
Whose strong right hand
Can wield the brand,
And strike the opponent down;
To win the field
Of mortal strife,
Who gives his life,
Shall gain a bright renown.
But battle-plain,
And warrior's fall-
These are not all
Hero and coward make;
Strong hand, strong frame
May have no part
With upright heart,
And win no honest fame.
The coward he
Whom laugh or jeer,
Or idle sneer,
Can force into the wrong;
And he alone
The hero proves
Whom no lure moves.
Who in the right is strong. C. F.
<c02>
The Liberator.
WHY THE JUDGMENT OF GOD IS UPON THE NATION.
A Sermon by REV. DR. WILLIAM H. BRISBANE, formerly of South Carolina.
ISAIAH, 58: 6. "Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke?”
Do you know, my respected hearers, for what our nation is now suffering the judgment of God: why God is offended with us? It is because we have not remembered those in bonds as bound with them. It is because we have four and a half millions of the colored race subjected to the most cruel system of slavery the world ever knew. It is because, when he called through various messengers to break every yoke and let the oppressed go free, the nation would not heed his voice, but allowed his prophets to be lynched, and stoned, and slaughtered. Let us, on this occasion, glance at the history of this nation, and we shall not wonder that God has allowed the petted slaveholders of the Southern States to bring their madness to bear against those who have helped them in their iniquity.
Our fathers established for us a government which they designed to sustain and maintain liberty; and although they unfortunately incorporated into the Constitution some features which were not in harmony with that design, yet they never thought that slavery could be fostered by the government they established. A stranger who should come to our shores, and who had never known any thing of our history or of our domestic institution, could never infer from a perusal of the U. S. Constitution, that we were a shareholding nation. Madison, that great statesman, said it would never do to incorporate into the Constitution the idea that man could hold property in man; and, hence, the word slave does not occur in that instrument. It was supposed that slavery would very soon, by the action of the several States, die out, and, therefore, a wording was given to such clauses in the Constitution as referred to the condition of slavery, which would not be repugnant to a condition of freedom; as, for instance, the fugitive slave clause is quite as applicable to apprentices and persons bound by their own consent, as to slaves.
It was never designed by the fathers of the Republic that slavery should be perpetuated; and of this, the history of their times gives abundant proof. The philosopher Franklin was the President of the Pennsylvania Abolition Society. The great statesman, John Jay, who was the first Chief Justice, was President of an Abolition Society in New York; and there were in their day Abolition Societies in Connecticut, New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina and Kentucky. The great Washington himself said, "It is among my first wishes to see some plan adopted by which slavery in this country may be abolished by law." Jefferson's views on that subject were frequently given in some form or other to the public, and his words have often been quoted, which express the idea that God can not take part with the slaveholder. Luther Martin, who was a delegate from Maryland in the Convention that framed the Constition, gives as a reason for having omitted in that instrument the word slave, that it was "odious in the ears of Americans."
There is no fact in history more undoubted than that the fathers expected and designed that slavery would and should soon pass away. In Massachusetts, such was the state of public sentiment, that no act of the Legislature was necessary to give freedom to their slaves, but, under the mere Declaration of Rights, their Court judicially decreed slavery to be abolished, and in none of the States, except it may have been occasionally by some unheeded essayist or scribbler, was any defence or advocacy of slavery set up. It was almost the universal sentiment that it must soon come to an end. Nor was it until about thirty years ago, that any serious attempt was made to secure to the system a perpetual existence, except it may have been by those who framed the Constitution of South Carolina. And even in that State, it was then difficult for the pro-slavery politicians to impress upon the people at large the idea that it was to be perpetuated Until about thirty years ago, it was common, even in South Carolina, to condemn the system. But about that time, after the Nat Turner insurrection in Southampton, the Virginians entered into an animated and serious discussion of the question of emancipation, which excited the apprehension of the cotton planters further South; and, as cotton was then becoming a very profitable staple, they sympathized with the slave-breeders of Virginia, and from that day to this have been trying to move heaven and earth in behalf of the “peculiar institution." Their early plans were by some means ascertained by Benjamin Lundy, of Baltimore, who, travelling in Texas, learned that that portion of Mexico was to be wrested from the Mexican government, and annexed to the United States, as a means of strengthening slavery. He returned to Tennessee and announced his discovery. But his words were unheeded, except by a few. He was so zealous, how ever, in his endeavor to arouse the American people and their statesmen to the threatening danger, that although a poor man, he began the issue of a small sheet advocating the doctrine of emancipation, and at the same time travelled and lectured through the country, occasionally stopping a short time in some city to get his paper printed. He soon fell in with WM. LLOYD GARRISON, a young printer of Boston, Massachusetts, who entered heartily with him into the work. Garrison was laid hold of in the city of Baltimore, by the authorities there, and cast into prison. While there, he wrote these words, which show the spirit of the man:-
“High walls and huge the BODY may confine,
And iron bars obstruct the prisoner's gaze,
And massive bolts may baffle his design,
And vigilant keepers watch his devious ways;
Yet scorns th' immortal mind this base control!
No chains can bind it, and no cell inclose!
Swifter than light, it flies from pole to pole,
And in a flash from earth to heaven it goes!
It leaps from mount to mount from vale to vale
It wanders, plucking honey'd fruits and flowers:
It visits home to hear the fireside tale,
Or in sweet converse pass the joyous hours:
‘Tis up before the sun, roaming afar,
And in its watches wearies every star."
A man who could thus utter himself in his prison cell has a mind that is unconquerable. Arthur Tappan, then a wealthy merchant of New York, paid one hundred dollars, and set Garrison again at liberty. Undaunted, he again spoke out, and declared that the nation should hear his voice. Benjamin Lundy died, but he had inspired the young printer with a noble determination to free his country from the curse of slavery. And, whatever objections may be mad to the religious views of the man, or however we may, be at issue with him upon some opinions and some measures, I would be doing injustice to my own heart not to say of WM. LLOYD GARRISON, that he is a great and good man; and whether this nation lives or perishes, the name of GARRISON will be immortalized by the friends of liberty. But for him, this nation would have slumbered until the crack of doom, and the arrogant slaveholders of the South would have had it bound forever in manacles and chains. But, while he aroused the passions of the arrogant slaveholders, he also aroused the patriotism of a BIRNEY, a MORRIS, a GIDDINGS, and a JOHN QUINCY, ADAMS, with a host of others, to warn the nation of its danger, and to plead the cause of the enslaved.
But, in the mean time, by the power of party causes, the people were not permitted, except to a limited extent, to hear and understand the true position of the Abolitionists of the country. And the hue and-cry was made against them, that they were a band of wicked incendiaries, until the very word ABOLITION became the synonym of all that was base and odious! But WM. LLOYD GARRISON still said, with poetic fervor:-
<c03>
“I am an Abolitionist-
I glory in the name,
Though now by Slavery's minions hissed,
And covered o'er with shame;
It is a spell of light and power,
The watchword of the free;
Who spurns it in the trial hour,
A craven soul is he!”
Had the nation listened to his warning voice a quarter of a century ago, had the ministers and churches in this land done their duty as he exhorted them to do it, we should have been now rid of the crime of slavery, and there would have been no occasion for this judgment of God upon us. But a rope was placed around this early champion of freedom, and by a yelling mob he was dragged through the streets of Boston, under the very shadow of the Cradle of Liberty; and from that day, until within a few years, have those who have had heart enough to call themselves abolitionists, or shown any disposition to befriend the slave, been ostracised from society; whilst many of them have suffered in their own persons indignities, and even cruel scourgings, and some have suffered death. The brave and noble LOVEJOY, brother of the now distinguished Senator in Congress, was shot down while defending the press in the city of Alton. The noble-hearted TORREY, an eloquent minister of the Gospel, was sentenced to the penitentiary in Maryland, and was there left to pine away and die. 
But time would fail me to talk of the lynchings of faithful ministers of the Gospel, and worthy Christian editors, and noble-hearted philanthropists, and refined ladies. And the Congress of the United States, and the Judges of the United States, and the Presidents of the United States, looked on, and saw these things, and then did as the oppressors told them to do. And popular Doctors of Divinity, and wealthy and influential church members, helped to put in office the very men who encouraged these mobs, and who trampled upon the petitions of the friends of humanity; to put into office the very men who were combined to uphold the slaveholder, and crush forever the hopes of the slave.
Yes, this nation, founded by those who fought and bled for liberty, and who sounded it out for the nations of all the earth to hear it, that "all men are created equal,” this nation, founded by Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, Adams, and their noble compeers in Freedom's cause, have allowed a small aristocratic band of slaveholders to control all its departments; and even the so-called free States have succumbed to their dictation. The poor slaves have been uncared for; and even now that the judgments of God are coming upon us, in the fashion of clashing arms and thundering artillery, how few there are among us who have a word to utter in behalf of down-trodden and crushed humanity! Nay, such is still the strength of the Slave Power, that even the benevolent-hearted Abraham Lincoln, with a Republican Cabinet surrounding him,-whatever may be the noble impulses of his nature,-feels so assured that it will weaken the arm of his administration to take part with the slave, that, in the face of the nations of the earth, he calls upon the great-hearted Fremont to modify that grand proclamation which sent a thrill of joy through every philanthropic nerve of the free States! Yes, humanity has been so crushed out of the body politic, that even when REBELS AND TRAITORS are trampling upon the flag of this Union, and the Ellsworths, and the Lyons, and other brave and noble spirits, are shot down by traitorous arms, our President is required, by considerations of policy, to spare to these infamous rebels the prerogative of slave masters, who are in arms against the Government for no other purpose, under the wide heavens, than to rivet tighter the chains with which the slave is manacled!
I do not condemn the President. Doubtless, he does the best he can, under the circumstances. I believe his sympathies, as Abraham Lincoln, are with the slave; but, as President of the United States, he is fettered as securely as the slave, and the yoke must be taken off his neck before he can proclaim it aloud,” Break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free.” It is yet with the people the people of the North—this want of preparation for the year of Jubilee. When we are ready to stand by the Government in behalf of the poor slave, then will the Government be ready to mend that broken bell in old Independence Hall in Philadelphia, upon which is stamped “Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof," and which used to call the Fathers of the Republic together; but which, after they were gone to their reward, and their degenerate sons forgot the motto, refused longer to peal its sweet tones, and cracked with mortification! And there now it stands in that old Hall, waiting for the time to come when the Government shall be prepared to repair it, and swing it again to the old tune of "Liberty through out all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
In the year 1851 ten years ago these prophetic words were uttered by one of Freedom's bards:-
"But, Afric, brood not o'er the past,
Gaze into the future afar,
Though darkness be over it cast,
Beyond there is beaming a star.
Thou shortly shalt see it arise,
To brighten the earth with its blaze,
To scatter the gloom of thy skies,
And bring to thee halcyon days.
Though God is a being of love,
His justice to man shall not cease;
Thy prayers have ascended above,
And thou shalt have answers of peace.
But woe to the nation whose laws
Have given no comfort nor rest, 
When God shall remember the cause
Of those who are sorely oppressed!"
That prophecy, it seems to me, is being fulfilled. And with it I am reminded of the words of Jefferson— “I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just." But I am also reminded of the strong words of Holy Writ-“Among my people are found wicked men; they lay wait as he that setteth snares; they set a trap; they catch men. Shall I not visit for these things? Shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?" "Execute judgment in the morning, and deliver him that is spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor, lest my fury go out like fire, and burn that none can quench it.” Ye have not hearkened unto me in proclaiming liberty every one to his brother, and every man to his neighbor; behold, I proclaim a liberty for you to the sword."
And true it is that the sword is now free from the scabbard, and God is wielding it even with the hand of those whom the nation joined with to oppress the poor. That hand is now turned against the Government that strengthened it. This Government raised up and educated a Beauregard and a Jefferson Davis, and, instead of teaching them to love freedom, and to hate slavery, it gave them preceptors who instructed them that slavery was the corner-stone of this republican edifice! And these men, now, in violation of their oath of allegiance, are investing the capital with a great rebel army, and pointing, their guns at the Presidential mansion. And yet such is still the oppressive character of this nation, that the President, when he issues his Proclamation for a day of fasting, humiliation and prayer,-although under the war power, (however in time of peace the Constitution may limit his authority,) he may, as a means of weakening the rebel strength, now proclaim freedom to the slaves of the rebel States; and although the Almighty has proclaimed what kind of a fast He is willing to accept,-yet, I say, the President of the United State not only dared not (in that Proclamation for a fast) first to break the oppressors' yoke, but he has not even asked us to remember in our prayers the poor crushed and bruised sons and daughters of Africa! Will God hear our prayers as a nation, so long as our President is obliged, by public sentiment, to withhold all words o of sympathy for these our peeled, and afflicted, and oppressed countrymen? I repeat, I do not censure Mr. Lincoln. He acts in his representative capacity; and while, doubtless, he feels for the poor and oppressed, and longs for their deliverance, and sincerely prays himself for the freedom of the slave, yet is he governed by that policy which, dares not go in advance of the sentiments of that portion of the people from whom loans are to be obtained for the war.
Many men in high places, if they are not traitors to
<c04>
the Government, are traitors to humanity; and under their influence, the people and their conventions stifle the noblest impulses of their natures, lest they might seem to be in opposition to the Administration in its time of peril, not remembering that the true way to support the Government is to strengthen it on the side of righteousness.
But it is for THE PEOPLE to require of the Government to come up to the true standard, whilst they themselves are the defenders of that righteousness which exalteth a nation. As I believe in God, as I believe in the blessed Saviour of sinners, the Great Redeemer who came to preach deliverance to the captive as I believe in this Holy Book before me as the Revelation of God's will so do I believe that there is no salvation for this nation until it repents of the wrongs done to our sable countrymen, and is ready "to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke." I call, therefore, upon Christian patriots, on this day, to pray to God with their whole hearts to change the disposition of the people, to bring them to true repentance, and to prepare them to do justice to the slave. Otherwise, God will not only shake this nation to its centre, but, whilst He sweeps away in his wrath those who, to establish slavery, have drawn the sword against the Government, will also with the same besom of destruction sweep away the Government itself, and leave us to be spoiled by those whom we have despoiled.
But I have hope for my country. I do not believe that, there is to be an end of our nationality. I do not believe that the goodly inheritance left us by our fathers, and for which they shed their blood, is to become the soil of despotism, and that the freest and best of all governments upon the earth is to be displaced by a government either of tyrannical slaveholders, or of self-emancipated slaves, demanding vengeance upon those who enslaved them. No: I believe my countrymen will repent. I believe that these Northern States will yet learn that, to secure the whole Union, and retain every star in our star-spangled banner, we must say to the haughty Southern, SLAVERY MUST AND ALL BE ABOLISHED. I believe we shall yet stand on the side of the downtrodden, and throw to the breeze the banner, LIBERTY TO ALL, OF EVERY CLIME AND OF EVERY HUE; and that the now poor and ignorant and oppressed of the South, whether white or black, and the masters themselves, will all thank God that the North was true to freedom.
Then sound it, sound it, found it strong!
That Freedom's right, that Slavery's wrong;
And soon this truth will all men see,
And strike for glorious Liberty!

THE ATTACKS ON THE EMANCIPATIONISTS.
We suppose that no sensible, candid man will deny that the existence of slavery is the cause of the present war; that it has been a drag upon the onward movement of the Republic for years; that it has brought about an utter alienation of feeling between the North and the South, and that it has caused nothing but bitterness among ourselves, and disgrace before the world. But see with what hatred men are attacked, who propose getting rid of the nuisance,-t only by the old allies of the slaveholders among us, but by whilom Republican sheets, from which we had a right to expect different treatment. It may be all very well for the opponents of the slave system to be liberal, throw away their offices, and, as a consequence, find themselves thwarted and tied up in their State and National action, by and bye, by the allies and apologists of the Southern rebels, but its wisdom is doubted; for, even now, it seems that the hand held out in friendship must not only be bitten, but the holder must help in the tearing process, and assist in dragging down his friends. Plain, loyal people among us ask, Why this savage, horse-pond onslaught upon men who suggest, in view of our reverses, and the devil-like hate of the enemy, the necessity of emancipating the slaves of disloyal masters and beginning an end of this horror? We have clearly the military right to do it, and God knows we have need enough to call upon all the flesh and blood in the nation to help us, be it black or white. And if the day of need has come, and having the right, why can we not discuss its expediency without being subject to abuse? The threats of the border States to side against the Government, if it meddles with the cause as well as effect, of the rebellion, should weigh but little. The feeling that the Union is a safer keeper of their slaves, than a confederacy based on the right of secession, is about all the loyalty exhibited by any one in those States Scarce a man of influence among them ever offers to urge the freeing of the slaves, if necessary, for the general good. Their action has cost us dearly, in the early part of the war, and now the free States must, it seems, furnish all the troops and do all the fighting; for the straddle-the-fence-policy-he fear of being on the losing side-as made them worthless in every battle. Two thousand five hundred of them refusing to leave Carthage, to fight at Wilson's Creek, lost us the battle and the noble Lyon. At Lexington, they stuck up the white rag with alacrity and without orders. It has been no better in Western Virginia; and now Kentucky gives us a crop of the same foot soldiers, (swift, too,) 800 of them having broke and run before 250 rebel cavalry. In war, it has been the usual policy to act upon an enemy's fears, rather than his hopes. A determined government (and all governments should be determined) would say, Be loyal, do your duty, and if found necessary to strike at the root, you will be paid. Dare to rise in rebellion, and by that act your slaves are freed, and shall be turned against you. But we act upon the conciliating, the slaveholder policy, which will have to be abandoned, or the disasters of a long war, without sufficient object, will drag us to ruin.
It is always urged, as an excuse for this policy, that there are many friends of the Union among the slaveholders in the rebel States who will help us, as we go along. Now, it is found that about 300,000 comprise all the slaveholders in the States, and the whole population some 8,000,000. Would it not be more sensible, then, to look for our friends among the millions of non-slaveholders, rather than among the thousands of slaveholders, if we are bold enough to strike a blow at that system, which has always kept them "poor whites," and always will? But we have got to come to the determination to rely on ourselves, and to subdue them, or they will certainly subdue us; and the quicker we believe it the better. It can be done; and we shall take hold of it soldier-fashion, soon, and go through with it. For the notion, that it is next to impossible to conquer any country, is quite untrue. All waves of civilization come from abroad to any people. Every nation under heaven has been conquered, over and over again. Analogous to great movements in the earth, it is one of the ways of the Almighty to mingle and advance the race. Without looking too far back, to where everything and nothing can be proved, for thorough work in that line, instance William the Norman's conquest of England, cutting up root and branch every institution that stood in his way, without scruple, and in no long time. England has, no doubt, been the better for it; and the world, for eight hundred years, has approved of his way of doing it. Cromwell, too, another workman in that line, dealt in the same way with Ireland and Scotland, and for doing his work boldly and well, his name will live forever.
The rebels have no scruples. They mean to conquer us, if possible. Their young Generals understand the art of war, as practised by Frederick and Napoleon, and by all great soldiers, that to seize upon an enemy's weak points, overcome and destroy him utterly, or bring him to terms, is their duty. They have used the greatest exertions to get all the savages upon us with their scalping knives, and thousands of them are now in their ranks; and we, like imbeciles, hesitate to even arm the eager colored men among us, or that come to our lines. No, we allow some flunkey colonel to send them back, or open a nice set of books with his of times rebel master. It is asked, What 
<c05>
shall we do with these 4,000,000 slaves, if freed? Set them to work like other men, and women, if they come four way,-in your kitchen, on your farm, or in your shop; and if they do your work, pay them their wages; they will manage all the rest. Work or starve is a primal law, scorched into the brain of every human being,-the last stamp of the Almighty's hand, and is quite as well understood by the ignorant slave as by the polished scholar. And as to 4,000,000 of them being in the way, “bear in mind the fact that (speaking broadly) the United States, from sea to sea, as far as the human race is concerned, is still a wilderness. The rebels must conquer us, or we must conquer them, and it will not be a paper conquest, that the politicians can arrange, and things go on comfortable with us. They are quite determined that the North shall feel that they are the dominant race, and that will certainly be done, by their marching armies of men, Attila-like, over our land, sacking our cities, wrenching hundreds of millions from us in gold and goods, for the expenses of war, and for vengeance upon what they esteem a vile money-getting race; Lexington, Bunker Hill, and all our old glories will in that day be extinguished forever, and we shall stand stripped before the world, ruined, craven, cowardly sneaks, who, having numbers, wealth and right on our side, were too imbecile to use them. All this is not a guess at something that may happen years hence and far away; it is now in Missouri; and after a few more cowardly retreats and surrenders, a few more lost battles, will be here, in Philadelphia, New York, and in Boston.
Whence comes this dreadful fear of encroachment upon the constitutional rights of rebels? These same Democrats who denounce emancipation, sat for years and saw the Constitutional rights of the North set aside and spit upon at the South, in the matter of the mails, the imprisonment of seamen, the expulsion and barbarous treatment of Northern men, for opinion's sake, heard their avowal by Southern despots, on the floor of Congress, and then, in open defiance of the government to help itself in the matter, they heard all this, but never a word of condemnation from them. But now, when these same slaveholders, grown bold by their aid and countenance, rise in rebellion, and threaten to destroy the government, and five-sixths of the whole honest people of the free States, rush to arms to crush this rebellion, resolved not only to crush, but to remove the cause of it, before they lay down their arms Oh, then, what conscientious regard for sacred constitutional rights these gentlemen have! Then comes their determination that the war shall be ended, no matter how disgracefully to the North; no matter if the whole world shall look upon us with feelings deeper than contempt or disgust, as absolute cumberers of the earth, for letting pass a great opportunity; their only wish is, that the war shall be brought to an end with slavery untouched, the serpent unscathed. Then, when their Southern masters are again in their seats in Congress, they well know that, with their old adroitness and audacity, they will soon have their old control; and when the question of "soundness upon the goose" comes up, then can they point to their clean record, all through this war,-how they treated the Northern fanatics, like Sumner, Wilson, Butler and the rest, and then can they point to that little row of bright porringers, kept clean and shiny, for the reception of the coming pap. It is the usual cant of these worthies, that the Deity will change this system, if it is evil, in His own way, and His own time. No doubt he will; but no man ever yet saw the bared arm of the Almighty. He effects physical changes through His agents, the earthquake, the rains, the winds; and moral changes through certain convictions in the minds of men. We have faith to believe that such changes are now taking place, in the thoughts and consciences of all men about us, with regard to this matter. We have our doubts, however, about the possibility of any change taking place in the minds of pro-slavery office-seekers. No human being would attempt to make it; but mountains are levelled, and the seas dried up, and the whole face of the great globe changed by Omnipotence. He may do it. Still, without wishing to speak discouragingly or irreverently, we must say, that to effect this change, and cause them to regard the honor and interests of their country, and the welfare of their posterity, (if we are to be afflicted in that way,) more than the possession of an office under a future slave-driving oligarchy, will be a big job.
G. D. W.

OUR MILITARY CORRESPONDENCE.
FROM WESTERN VIRGINIA.
CHARLESTOWN, (Va.,) Oct. 1, 1861.
Great and important results must naturally follow this rebellion. While the policy of the Government has been constantly assuming a bolder front, public sentiment has kept in advance of it, thus opening the way to a still bolder stroke of policy. Within the next six months, the great issue which absorbs all others will be made, and those in rebellion against the Government be made to feel personally the calamity which they have brought upon the country. Gen. Fremont has nobly led the way. and the Government must, sooner or later, support him in the position he has taken. Fremont, in taking the position which he has, is cordially supported and endorsed by the people. Every true-hearted American feels that those in rebellion ought to be made to pay the expenses of this war. To do this, the Government will be compelled to confiscate their property, without any regard to its character. No distinction whatever can be made between horses and negroes, for, if the one is confiscated, the other must be. In the confiscation of slaves, a great stroke is aimed, indirectly, however, at slavery. The slaves which are taken by the Government cannot be sold to defray the expenses of this war, for, in that case, the Government would at once admit the idea of property in man; consequently, those slaves must be set free. Military necessity will thus effect an object which Congress would have hesitated to meddle with for years to come, had both sections of the country continued at peace with each other.
From my own observations, I am confident that the slaves of the South are just as well informed with regard to their relation to their masters as we are. They are impressed with the idea that some great change is to be brought about, in which they are deeply interested. They watch with great interest every movement of troops, and are continually asking questions as to the disposition to be made of them, thus evincing an interest in passing events of which their masters little dream. They may talk of the deep devotion on the part of slaves to their misters, but they will find, when the time comes, that this devotion on which they have relied will not prevent them from cutting their masters throats, when an opportunity arrives, by means of which they can gain their freedom.
An instance of this great devotion, on the part of the slave for his master, was related to me but a few evenings since. Dr. D. a well-known physician of this village, owned a colored servant by the name of John. He enjoyed the unlimited confidence, of his master, who was in the habit of trusting him as he would an own child. This confidence was reciprocated by a like devotion on the part of the slave for his master. One day a neighbor told the doctor that his John was about to run away, as he had had repeated conversations with his servants on this subject. The doctor flew into a passion, and felt very much grieved that his neighbor should think for a moment that his John, whom he had raised from infancy, should prove so ungrateful as to leave him. The only attention which he paid to this timely warning was to put still greater trust in his servant. One day, shortly after this, John was missing, and, not only this, but he had taken his wife and three children. The last which the doctor heard from the faithful John, was, that he was safe in Ohio. Now, Dr. D is a very good man and a Christian, and, from my own knowledge, treats his servants very kindly; but that God-given principle, a desire for personal liberty, actuated John, in common with other men of fairer complexion. John undoubtedly left his master and his old home with many regrets, but a desire for freedom overpowered every other passion.
I was told by a colored man, but a few evenings ago, (a man in whose integrity I have the utmost 
<c06>
confidence,) that there is an association among the negroes, extending all over the South, the purpose of which is to one day liberate themselves from slavery. He says that hundreds of slaves, who apparently are as innocent as ignorant, are well educated, and are secretly bending every energy to bring about an insurrection which shall end in their being released from their bondage. I asked him if the fields hands were members of this association. He said that they were, and, although possessing less information than those who lived in the cities and villages, yet they were aware of what was going on, and that after their work was done at night, they often met in their cabins and discussed the prospect before them. He also said that, in the larger cities of the South, this association had its regular meetings and its officers; that they were waiting only for the proper time, when a tragedy would be enacted all over the South, at which the world would be astonished. If this association really exist, and I sincerely believe that it does, the South, before they are through with this rebellion, will have quite as much as they can do at home, without keeping an army menacing Washington.
Since the Federal army has occupied this country, the slaves have been much less guarded in what they say. One of these slaves, an old man, was passing the tents one day, when one of the boys said to him that he belonged to Jeff. Davis. With a knowing look, he replied:” I did, but now I belong to Uncle Sam.” A colored woman who has been a slave for years, (as she is very old.) came into our room the other day, and talking up a paper, asked if we wanted it. Some our told her, as she was about leaving the room, that she had better not be seen with that paper, as it was not the kind her mistress admired. Says she, “I know what miss us likes; I can take care of it,” and, slipping it under her apron, she left the room. That slave can read and write, and yet her master knows nothing of it. So it is with hundreds of others. You may wonder how they acquire this knowledge. They acquire it in a great many ways. Many of them learn of their master’s children, with whom house servants spend a great deal of time. Having acquired a slight knowledge, it only stimulated them to greater exertions. They obtain scraps of newspapers and parts of books, and thus gain a great deal of knowledge entirely unobserved. The slaves know how to keep secrets consequently, any scheme which may be on foot is seldom discovered.
Yours, truly, GEO. L. WOOD.
-Jeffersonian (Ohio) Democrat.
WHERE THE DANGER LIES. Ex-Governor Wright, of Indiana, late Minister to Prussia, recently made a speech at Indianapolis, in which he said:-
“There is more danger this day from a divided North than from anything else. A firm, decided, united North, will settle the question, and that speedily. But we must not listen to those violent, miserable Abolitionists of the North, who are asserting that the object of this war is to interfere with the institutions of the South. This is what the Secessionists of the South love to hear, because it unites the South just in proportion as it is believed.”
The lines which have lately been going the rounds of the papers as the production of Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, are taken from “Knox's Songs of Israel,” under the title of “Mortality.”
Rev. H. Lincoln Wayland, of Worcester, Massachusetts, has been appointed Chaplain of the 7th Connecticut regiment, which has just left for Washington. He is son of Rev. Dr. Wayland, of Providence, and has accepted the appointment.
African slavers have discovered a new way of reaching Cuba with their cargoes. A few weeks since six hundred negroes were landed on Anguilla Island, one of the Bahamas, the slave ship burned to escape detection, and the cargo forwarded to Cuba, in two trips, by a schooner.
Gen. McClellan has now ninety-six batteries in the Potomac army.
SERFDOM IN RUSSSIA. M. de Brischen contributes an article on Serfdom, to a recent number of the London Journal of the Statistical Society, in which he states that the number of serfs in Russia, at the commencement of 1859, was no less than 22,563,086, which is considerably more than one-third of the whole population, (61,129,480.) This startling disproportion is, however, distanced by the contrast with the number of owners of these serfs, viz.:-106,897 proprietors.
Fifty-seven persons were killed, and two hundred and twenty-four wounded, by railroad accidents, in this country, during the month of September.
ARREST EXTRAORDINARY. We learn that William H. Russell, LL.)., the correspondent of the London Times, who is spending a few days in Illinois shooting prairie game, was yesterday arrested near Wilmington, in Will country, at the instance of residents in the vicinity, for shooting on the Sabbath. We are not in possession of the particulars of the arrest, but learn that he was to have an examination at Wilmington to-day.-Chicago Journal, 30th.
Another female has been discovered concealed in a volunteer’s uniform. Her name is Sophia Cryder, and she was found on guard, doing duty as a sentinel, at Camp Curtin, near Harrisburg, by her friends, who were searching for her. She had been in the ranks for a week, is a plumb lass of only sixteen years of age, and had so completely unsexed herself that she could safely bid defiance to any one not acquainted with her to detect her. She is represented as a girl of unblemished reputation, and to have enlisted from a pure love of adventure. It is stated that the most reckless dare-devil attached to the Pennsylvania 7th Regiment of the three month’s volunteers was a woman,-the mother of four children.
They have a famous negro tragedian in Europe. His name and titles are “Chevalier Ira Aldridge, K. S.” He is about to proceed to Russia to undertake a series of those Shakespearean performances which have been crowned with such brilliant success in numerous foreign capitals. He will fulfill engagements in various parts of Prussia, Austria, and Russian Poland, as well as in Moscow, St. Petersburg, and Odessa; and overtures have been made him to appear in Paris, under illustrious patronage.
Dr. G. B. Windship, of this city, in his experiments in the branch of Physical Science which he has made a study, has arrived at some astounding results, demonstrating the amount of strength in the human muscles. At a lecture in Brighton, the present week, he actually lifted twelve men at once, each of whom was heavier than himself, and all having a combined weight of over eighteen hundred pounds! Dr. Windship is preparing to give his lectures and repeat his experiments in this vicinity. His powers, mental and physical, were never in a finer stage of development than at the present time.-Roxbury Journal.
REWARD OF HONORABLE PERSEVERANCE. Nothing could be more striking, and at the same time more gratifying, than the entire conversion of our neighbors, the Daily Advertiser and the Journal, to the political views which the Courier has so long and, it seems, successfully advocated, with a conviction of their necessity, to which we have only regretted that our ability could not render full justice.-Courier.
Samuel Williams, the first selectman of the town of Enfield, N. H., a man of much local influence, has enlisted as a private in the 7th New Hampshire regiment.
Col. De Courcey, an English officer formerly commanding a Turkish regiment in the Crimean wars has tendered his services to the government, and has been accepted.

JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street,
AN elaborate Work, entitled “Relation of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions to Slavery. By Charles K. Whipple,”-a volume of nearly 250 pages, In cloth, 37 cents-in paper covers, 25 cents.
Aug. 30.
Diseases of Women and Children.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWNS, M. D., and MRS. MARGARET B. BROWN, Accoucheuse,
HAVE opened an office at 274 Washington Street, treatment Boston, and will devote special attention to the treatment of the above diseases.
Offices Hours, from 10, A. M., to 4, P. M.
Boston, Oct. 4, 1861.
3m
TRANSIENT BOARDERS.
THE subscriber has just opened houses No.77 Myrtle st., for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes’ walk of the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. Rooms furnished with or without board Terms moderate.
Boston, Jan. 7.
S. NEWELL.
