THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLILSHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING.
—AT THE—
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents—one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:—FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 4.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 1859.
WHOLE NUMBER, 1577.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
There is a queer admixture of assinine stupidity and pro-slavery malignity in the following article.
From the Boston Post.
THE RE-ELECTION OF HENRY WILSON.
‘I hope, my dear sir, that we shall all strive to unite and combine all the friends of freedom; that we shall forget each other’s faults and short-comings in the past; and all labor to secure to secure that Co-operation by which alone the slave is to be emancipated and the domination of his master broken. Let us remember that more than three millions of bondmen, groaning under nameless woes, demand that we labor for their deliverance,’—Henry Wilson to Phillips, in 1855.
‘Upon the map of North America your eyes will trace, between the twenty fifth states of the Republic. In those fifteen States thee are over four millions of men held in perpetual by the force of public opinion. 200,000,000 of dollars are drained backs of the unfortunate slaves. From the bended their masters gained the power, seized the reins of government.’
‘But my opinion is this—that the men of the North, the men of the free states—no matter to what side or party they heretofore belonged, must now unite together like a band of brothers—(hear, hear)—that they should so cling together and swear it at the rising of the sun, and the going down thereof, that they will overthrow this slaveholding oligarchy in the federal government, take possession of the reins, and save the territory of the Republic forever for the free labor of this country.’—Henry Wilson, Oct. 1858.
It is remarkable that the same Massachusetts, which so long and constantly supported a statesman of such conservative principles relative to the Union and the Constitution as Daniel Webster, a political agitator of such radicalism relative to the rights that underlie the Union, and the obligations that are found in the Constitution, as Henry Wilson. The great and patriotic labors of the former tended to preserve the work of the fathers; the labor of the latter tends certainly to the destruction of their work.
Strange as it may sound, it is for this detestable work of sowing the seeds of destruction—for a reckless war on the South—that Wilson wears his honors. In writing thus, we utter no misrepresentation; and to make the words good, we need go no further back than to listen to the sound of his sedition trumpet in the last political campaign—the last labor of aiding to secure the re-election of the kindred spirit who removed Loring because, Loring executed a law of Congress. Did not Wilson then point out the fifteen slave States on the map, and describe how, in them, over four millions of men were held in perpetual bondage? Did he not portray the character of the merciless laws—as he had it—upheld by the power of public opinion? Did he not work upon Northern audiences by urging that two hundred millions of dollars were drained form the bended backs of these bondmen? Did he not call up ’THE MEN OF THE FREE STATES’—to rally and attack this state of thing; or, to use his own phrase, this’ oligarchy’? And when, in allusion to some who held that the battle had been fought and won, did not Henry Wilson proclaim that this Kansas struggle was but the Lexington of the contest, and that the Bunker Hill and Trenton, and Yorktown fight had yet to come off? If there be meaning in language, there can be no other meaning put upon such words as Wilson habitually uses, than this: that he would rally the free States of the North into a war of extermination on the slaveholding States of the South; and hence, that he would continue, for purposes flatly unconstitutional, just such a sectional party as the patriots, whose toil and blood made our country, never ceased to deplore—just such a party as Jefferson and Washington feared above all things. 
It is with this moral treason upon his lips that Massachusetts has re-endorsed her Senator. It is no use, and indeed, it is a piece of self-deception, to say that a third of the voters stayed from the polls, and because no party is clean enough for them; that hence, Wilson has not been sustained. According to our polity, those who stay away from the polls sanction what is done by those who discharge their duty as freemen; and hence, it is an unquestionable fact, that Massachusetts has endorsed the course of this Senator, and clothed his voice of war on the South, and his rank sectionalism, with whatever of influence her majority can give to it. He stands in the Senate, an agitator endorsed by his own State.
Is this position of rank hostility to the South to last always here in Massachusetts? What, in the name of common sense, is there to gain by it? Is it right in itself? Is it the position that the public men of Massachusetts assumed when the work of creating national rights connected? Did Samuel Adams, or John Adams, or Hawley, or any one of the, men whose names are household words, win their honors by holding up Washington and his Southern contemporaries as an oligarchy? Why, the very suggestion of such a line of conduct in patriots of their real love of country and comprehensive statesmanship, is a libel on their venerated names. They were true to the interest and traditions of their fathers; they were loyal to the minutest little of the rights of their States; but these noble men never poured forth scorn, misrepresentation, foul falsehood, and unsparing abuse on the lands of a Gadsden, a Marion, and a Washington.
While Massachusetts thus, through her Legislature, through a majority of her presses, alas, through even the organs of mercantile opinion in commercial Boston, is cheering on a fratricidal and suicidal war on the South, a core of good men and true men remain the protest against the unhallowed work. It is false to allege that they are working for slavery; working to extend slavery; much less working to introduce slavery into the free States; and those who even now ring out these charges are libellers of the noble and only national party. They are working for the old right of each State to determine this matter by itself and for itself. In this they know they are with the Democratic party, for this is the corner-stone of its domestic policy It us fidelity to this that enable us to assume a national name: and the results of this assumption constitute an ever-living, and never-to-be-refuted argument to prove that it is patriotic, by the respect for coequal rights, to frown upon the policy that ministers to local passions and prejudices, and cherish the policy that promotes fraternal feelings between the people and the States of this Union. This is the ground of the men of Massachusetts who protest against the re-election of Wilson, and the deplorable hallucination that has brought it about.
It is gratifying to think that the national party is growing larger every day. Its adherents know they are right; and they will not cease to hold up the supporters of a sectional party to the reprobation they deserve, and rely on the comprehensive patriotism of the majority of other States to ward from our country the terrible calamity of their success.
<c02>
WEBSTER AND HIS EULOGISTS.
The birthday of Daniel Webster. ’so fallen and lost,’ was celebrated at the Revere House, in Boston, last week, by a convivial entertainment on the part of a conclave of pro-slavery demagogues. In the course of a high falutin’ speech, Rufus Choate said—
He did not favor a premature and unprincipled expansion of territory—though he saw and rejoiced to see that if America continued just and continued brave, and the Union lasted, how widely—to what Pacific, and what tropic seas she must spread, and how conspicuous a fame of extent was spread out before her. But when the annexation was made, and the line drawn, and the treaty signed, then he went, for her, however’ butted and bounded,’ then he kept steady to the compact of annexation—then there was no date so small, no line so remote, that he would not plant on it the ensign all radiant that no foreign aggression might come! Here you have the Websteriansim of Webster.
I cannot trace this great central principle and this master sentiment and trait which is the characteristic of his whole politics, through the last years of his life, without awakening feelings—some feelings unsuited to the time. I believe, you believe, the country and history will believe, that all he said, and all he did, be said and did out of a’ full heart for the Constitution,’ and that the’ austere glory’ of that crisis of bin America, and of himself, will shine his brightest glory. When some years have passed away, if not yet, that civil courage, that wisdom which combiner, constructs and reconciles; which discerns that in the political world, in our political world especially, no theory and no idea may he pressed to its extreme; and that common sense, good tamper, good nature, and not the pedantry of logical abstraction, and the clamor of intemperate sectional partisanships, are the true guides of life: and that deemed a gloomy foolishness, refuted by our whole history, that because in this cluster of States, there are different institutions, a different type of industry, different moral estimates, they cannot live together, and grow together, to a common nationality, by forbearance and reason; that an honest, just, and well-principled patriotism is a higher moral virtue than a virulent and noisy philanthropy; and that to build and keep this nation is the true way to serve God and serve man—these traits and these opinions will be remembered an the noblest specimen of the genius and wisdom of Webster. Better than any other passage, or any other catastrophe, these will be thought most happily to have’ concluded the great epic of his life.’ I refer you for them all to his immortal volumes; lasting as the granite of our mountains, lasting as the pillars of our Capitol and our Constitution.
Among the letters read on the occasion were the following from Senators Hammond and Davis, two of the bitterest enemies of New England Institutions, and stoutest advocates of eternal slavery:—
WASHINGTON, Dec. 22, 1858.
Dear Sir: I am very grateful to you and to those. whom you represent, for your polite invitation to attend your dinner in Boston on the 18th prox. in honor of Mr. Webster’s birthday; and for the kind assurances accompanying it, in which I have full,’ confidence. My duties here, however, so entirely engage all my time, that I must respectfully decliney our invitation.
You say that in the Revolution, Massachusetts and South Carolina’ stood shoulder to shoulder.’ It would be well for the world if they stood so now. And why do they not? To have brought about their present relations, one of them must have erred much, possibly both; another age will decide between us 
Born and bred in South Carolina, of which State my mother is a native, my father is a Massachusetts man—a college friend of Mr. Webster—and descended, I am proud to say, from your earliest Puritan’ I immigrant—in the antagonistic positions of these two small, but noble Status. I have personally much to regret—as a patriot, still mare. I wish the breach could be filled up and obliterated. If we have done you a wrong, if we have been the aggressors I think I can assure yon that there is not a man in South Carolina who is conscious of it: not one who would deprive Massachusetts of a single political right—not one who would interfere with any of her institutions; not one who would thwart in’ the least any of her peculiar and legitimate interests; and could it be shown that we have done any of these things, not one but would desire to make prompt and ample reparation. If the same spirit animates the people of Massachusetts to the same extent, we may justly hope, that—the deluded falsehoods of political aspirants trampled under foot—our two States may yet stand ‘shoulder to shoulder’ the pillars of a constitutional Republic, wisely and justly administered for the protection and advancements to of all, without special privileges or endowments to any section, class or individual, but ensuring to all and each the full development of themselves. I have the honor to be 
Most respectfully, 
Your ob’ t servant, 
J. H. HAMMOND.
PETER HARVEY, ESQ. Boston.
WASHINGTON, D. C. Jan. 2, 1859. 
PETER HARVEY, Esq.;
My Dear Sir—Accept my thanks for your very kind invitation to a dinner to be given ‘in commemoration oration of the birthday of Daniel Webster,’ and regret that circumstances will not permit me to be present, and to join with the friends of the Constitution in doing honor to the memory of the man who won the title of its expounder, and on all occasions manifested to it the sentiment of allegiance.
At a time when partisans avow the purpose to obliterate the landmarks of our hi there, and fanaticism assails the barriers they erected for the protection of rights coeval with and essential to the existence of the Union; when the federal officer have been sought by inciting consituences hostile aggression, and exercised, not as a trust for the common welfare, but as the means of disturbing domestic tranquillity; when oaths to support the Constitution have been taken with a mental ram-ration to disregard its spirit, and subvert the purposes for which it was established; surely it becomes all who are faithful to the com pact of our Union, and who are resolved to maintain and preserve it, to forget differences on questions of mere expediency, and, forming deep around the institutions we inherited, stand united to uphold with unfaltering intent a banner on which is inscribed toe constitutional union of free, equal, and independent States. 
May the vows of love and allegiance’ which you propose to renew as a fitting tribute to the memory of the illustrious statesman whose birth yon commemorate, find an echo in the heart of every patriot in our land, and tend to toe revival of that fraternity which bore our fathers through the Revolution to the consummation of the independence they transmitted to us, and the establishment of the more perfect Union which their wisdom devised to bless their posterity forever.
Though deprived of the pleasure of mingling my 
<c03>
affectionate memories and aspirations with yours, I send you my cordial greeting to the friends of the Constitution, and ask to be enrolled among these whose mission is, by fraternity and good faith to every constitutional obligation, to ensure that, from the Aristook to San Diego, from Key West to Puget’s Sound, the grand arch of our political temple shall stand unshaken.
Very truly, your friend,
JEFFERSON DAVIS.

TRACT MEETING IN NEW HAVEN.
A large and highly respectable meeting in behalf of the American Tract Society was held last Sunday evening in Rev. Dr. Cleveland’s church, New Haven. The Sharp’s Rifle clergymen declined announcing the meeting from their pulpits, and in one of their churches a popular young preacher, of the Henry Ward Beecher school, was Drought out, and attracted a large audience. But, as we said, it did not prevent a noble gathering in behalf of the American Tract Society. Interesting addresses were made by the Rev. Mr. Eastman, one of the Secretaries, and Rev. Dr. Poor, of Newark. Also a few remarks by Rev. Dr. Cleveland, and a brief statement of the finances of the Society, by O. E. Wood, Esq. a member of the Finance Committee. From this statement it seems that the total receipts of the Society, from April 1st (the commencement of the Society’s year) to the 14th of the present month, exceed those of the corresponding period last year, more than fifteen thousand dollars; or say $15,136. The donations were only $653 less than last year to same date. From all New England, except Connecticut and Rhode Island, the donations were $425 more than to same date last year,—of which excess, $300 is from Massachusetts. The donations from the South and Southwestern States are considerably in advance of last year, while those from the West and Northwest (where the money pressure is still severely felt), are proportionately less. The Middle States exhibit about the same results as last year. Hartford and New Heaven, notwithstanding the extraordinary efforts to divert their donations into other channels, are quite in advance of last year. These facts are truly encouraging, and show that the power of the Independent Order of Clergymen to damage the Society, is much less than their disposition. They have done their worst—the Society prospers in spite of them. It prospers more with their open hostility, than it did with their pretended friendship. Laus Deo!

ABOLITIONISM IN ENGLAND.
The Earl of Carlisle, batter known in this country as Lord Morpeth, has picked up the now tattered and threadbare mantle formerly worn by Clarkson, Wilberforce, Brougham, and Buxton, and being at this moment out of political employment, like his colleagues of the Palmerston Government, has taken to attending’ Anti-Slavery’ Society soirees in his native county, Yorkshire. At one of these philanthropic gatherings held at Leeds, on the 23th ult. the benevolent but not over-gifted Earl delivered an address, the greater portion of which referred to Slavery in the United States, and the duty of young men in Leeds and elsewhere to constitute anti-slavery associations, and hold anti-slavery meetings, to aid the abolitionists of the United States in achieving the triumph of ’their immortal cause.’
The young man of the Leeds Anti-Slavery Society were told by his lordship, among other things, that’ every information that had lately been received from the United States tended to show that a crisis was approaching, if it had not already come;’ that’ the cause of the abolitionists in the United States was making real, palpable, and daily progress;’ and that it entered into every election of members of Congress, of Senators, and Governors of States.’
We believe that in early life, Lord Morpeth was a very indifferent poet, and wrote some exceedingly bad poems, and that more recently he has published a translation in versa of one of the books of the Old Testament, in which the’ poet’s license’ was pushed very far beyond its legitimate limits. It must have bean this same poet’s license which his lordship was abusing when he gave the young abolitionists of Leeds the information above quoted. We believe, and we think that it is the general belief in this country, that so far from abolitionism making ’real, palpable, daily progress,’ it is decidedly on the wane. There are a few man in the United States,—certainly there is no party,—mad enough to advocate openly the doctrines of the Abolitionists as understood by Lord Carlisle. There are some, who for selfish purposes avail themselves of the anti-slavery cry to aid them in attaining power and place; but the masses of the American people, whatever their opinions as to the abstract question of slavery and free labor, are convinced that as slavery is a local institution, the States wherein it exists have alone the right to determine whether it shall continue or be abolished.
The fact is, we are a very practical people in this country. We are also a really philanthropic people; but we are bitterly opposed to wild theories and bogus philanthropy. With the example of Jamaica and Hay before our eyes; with a knowledge derived from actual observation of the practical effects of Abolitionism in those two islands,—namely, utter debasement of the negro population, untilled sugar plantations, and deserted cotton fields—the American people cannot appreciate the ’sublime notions’ of Abolitionism, of which his lordship of Carlisle discourses so fluently, and hence it is that his ’cause’ has not made that real progress to which he fancifully alluded.
The London correspondent of a morning contemporary believes that the good-natured Earl has been pushed into this anti-slavery movement by Lord Palmerston and the Cambridge House clique of politicians, whose game it is to raise an anti-American, and anti-democratic movement to head off John Bright and the democratic reformers. We believe that the venerable and once popular Viscount is very anti-American in his feelings and views; but we give him credit for too much shrewdness to believe that he would try to revive the anti-slavery cry as an anti-American dodge. The fact is, that Abolitionism has been proved to be a failure, both in point of economy and philanthropy; and most of those in England who lauded highest the emancipation of the negroes in Jamaica, are now willing to admit that it has nearly ruined the Island, and that the free negroes are in a worn condition morally and socially than they were when in slavery.
Lord Carlisle and the young abolitionists of Leeds can raise’ the voice of sympathy,’ hope and encouragement to Gerrit Smith and his followers, and may strive to ’invest their utterances with new and undreamt of responsibilities;’ they may pity the slave,’ and renew their allegiance to’ the undying cause of freedom,’ but we do not anticipate that they will get much by their motion.
Extract from a Mississippi letter:—
“Let me tell you, Abram Pryne, that with one Mississippi regiment, I can whip every d—d abolition Yankee north of Mason & Dixon’s line; and let me further say, that if you put your foot on Southern territory, you will be instantly clothed with a coat of tar and feathers. Lee H. <illegible>’
<c04>
SELECTIONS.
SPEECH OF LORD CARLISLS ON AMERICAN SLAVERY.
A soiree in connection with the Leeds (England) Anti-Slavery Society was held in the Victoria Hall, on Tuesday evening, 28th ult. The Mayor (Sir Peter Fairbairn) presided; and on the platform, and in other parts of the hall, were the Right Hon. the Earl of Carlisle, the Rev. J. Blomefield, Incumbent of St. George’s, Rev. G. W. Conder, Independent, Rev. J. P. Chown, Baptist Bradford, W. E. Forster, Esq., D. Lupton, Esq., Edward Baines, Esq.—&c., &c.—Lord Carlisle rose to move the first resolution:—
The Noble Lord, on rising, was received with vehement applause, after which he proceeded to observe that he had really hoped his public functions for the year 1858 had come to an end, but be felt bound at once to surrender at discretion, when he received a summons from the Leeds Young Men’s Anti-Slavery Society to attend there that evening. There were various incentives to his attending that meeting. First, there was the locality—the place in which they were assembled—the town of Leeds—which had witnessed and won many an uphill fight in the good cause of human progress. (Applause,) Next, there were those of whom the Society was composed, the young men of Leeds. He could not help remembering that the first time he ever addressed any large assembly of his countrymen was in Leeds, in the Colored Cloth Hall, and that in the first moments of shyness and nervousness, he was cheered by some one crying out from the crowd, ’Good lad.’ (Laughter and applause.) Now, he stood before them a grey-headed man, and he felt that it was on the young men of Leeds they must, mainly rely for ardor of feeling and vigor of will, in the prosecution of any great object. Above all was the incentive arising from the purpose for which the society was constituted. It was an Anti-Slavery Society, and this he firmly and potently believed to be the most important, the most elevating, and the holiest of causes which could enlist the feelings, the convictions, or the conscience of mankind. (Applause.) In accordance with that view, he had been asked to move the following resolution:—
‘That freedom being the gift of God, it is the inalienable right of every man; that to deprive a man of this right is contrary to all laws, human or Divine; and that therefore we regard slavery as an unmitigated evil, demanding the condemnation of every human being who respects the laws of God, or recognizes the principle of natural justice or the equal rights of man.’
In those days of his early canvas to which he had alluded, animated by the recollection that he was aspiring to fill she seat which had been long occupied by William Wilberforce—(applause)—animated by the actual presence and colleagueship of Henry Brougham, who was devoting his great talents (probably then at their highest pitch of excellence) mainly to this great cause—thus animated and encouraged, he called upon the man of Yorkshire by voice and vote to hasten the day when, in their own colonial possessions, the slave should kneel down and thank Heaven for its best blessing, and spring again from the ground without a chain and without a master. (Applause.) Well, in a short time afterwards, (the late Mr. Cobbett saying that it was principally in consequence of the fuss made about it by the cracked-skull county of York)—(laughter)—so far as British agency and British participation in this accursed property were, concerned, slavery received its death-blow. (Hear, hear.) Then our hands, thanks be to the Almighty goodness, our own hands were entirely clean. Why then, it might be asked, did the young men of Leeds and of other towns feel themselves called upon to constitute Anti-Slavery Associations, and to hold anti-slavery meetings? It might not be an imperative duty, but of this he was certain, it was a righteous exhibition of feeling and a graceful act of sympathy. (Applause.) They were not there to learn how large au extent of the country of a kindred people in the United States of America—in how large a portion of that immense continent—slavery still prevailed; they knew it prevailed to an extent fearful to contemplate. He did not affect on that account, however, to draw up any bill of indictment against the American nation; he did not presume to assert that the system was incompatible either with the name of a Briton or the faith of a Christian. Their own complicity had been too recent to make him feel himself authorised to be the person to make that charge, however much inherent truth there might be in it. He could not erase from his knowledge that it was the mother country that originally innoculated her offspring with the pest, and he felt conscious that in early life many of his own acquaintances held property in man. On the other hand, he knew that there were now across the wide Atlantic a noble brotherhood, aye, and a noble sisterhood,—(applause)—who were straining every nerve; who were devoting time, opportunity, and health; who were sacrificing station, popularity, power—nay, who were perilling limb and life—who had caught the mantle of our own, Clarksons, Wilberforces, Broughams, and Buttons, and who were entering upon that costly career of self-devotion and self-sacrifice, to do the same work and achieve the same result. (Loud applause.)
Everything that had recently reached them from the United States tended to show that a crisis was approaching, if it had not already come. (Hear, hear.) The leaven was fermenting, effervescing fast and hot. The straggle became every day more intense, more fierce, more pervading. Had not some of them read lately instances of the treatment of slaves which transcended even the usual depths of blackness and horror? Had they not seen what was perhaps a sort of indication still more to be relied upon, that there had been a convention of the State of Maryland, to decree that, after a certain period, all free blacks were to be banished from the State? (Hear, hear.) When he was in the United States, seventeen years ago, he remembered being much struck with the circumstance that whereas in this country the great abolitionist leaders were almost always held in honor and spoken of with respect, even by those who might not feel much sympathy with their views, in the United States he never heard the abolitionists spoken of, except in terms of slight and of contempt. (Hear, hear.) He imagined that this was now very greatly altered. The abolitionists had become in the eyes of their opponents more formidable, if not more acceptable. They excited fear, hatred, rage, but no longer contempt. (Hear, hear.) Slaveholders had attacked his much-valued friend Charles Sumner—(applause)—as he sat quietly and unsuspectingly in his seat in the Senate-house of his country, and nearly took away his life, and then they presented the executioner with votive canes and commemorative eudgels. Battery, assault, mutilation, and murder were indications of hostility, of alarm, and of consternation, but not of indifference and contempt. (Applause.) Depend upon it, the cause was making real, and palpable, and dally progress. (Hear, hear.) It entered now into every phase of public, social, and domestic life; the decisions of the courts of law teemed with it; it was matter of comment, either as being adverted to or as
<c05>
being omitted in the teachings of the pulpit: it entered almost into every election, the great staple of American existence; it affected the election of members of Congress, of senators, of governors of States; and might, perhaps, before long, affect even the selection of the President of the Union. (Applause.) Under these circumstances, he did wish that the voice of sympathy, and hope, and encouragement, even from their old Europe, their old England, aye, and their old Yorkshire, might not be wholly wanting. (Applause.) It might also be of importance to Europe and to England. (Hear, hear.) They had already been reminded by the Mayor, that indications had not been wanting in the great neighboring nation of France, that the claims of liberty, which were not treated with inviolable respect in the interior relations of that country—(hear, hear)— might also meet with but scant observance in its exterior relations. (Applause.) He did not touch upon the question as to the lawfulness of the ships and cruisers of this country ascertaining the bona fide character of other vessels—whether they might be engaged under the lawful flag of their country, or were merely piratical and slave-carrying vessels? That question might, for the moment, be involved in some embarrassment, which he should be sorry by any observations of his to increase, especially as he could not tell exactly and precisely how it stood; but he must say that some of the abolitionists of the United States themselves in speaking of this question last year, and of the part this country had taken, did not evince much generosity or much gratitude for the efficient part which Great Britain had always taken in every measure for the suppression of the slave trade. (Applause.) Whatever this country, however, did for that great—he had almost said that godlike purpose—it had not in view the thanks or gratitude of man, and it might well pass without them; but he did feel anxious that the demonstration of the feelings which animated their countrymen on this class of subjects, and which was evidenced by their society, should serve to show their own rulers, their own Parliament, the nation, and mankind at large, that, in all the essential questions relating to slavery or the slave trade, they would be true to themselves and true to the great part which their fathers played in this immortal cause. (Applause.) Most fervent, indeed, was his hope that the present display of the spirit that wan within them might even make itself felt and known across the wide world of waters, amongst those where this cause was still only militant, and had not yet become triumphant. (Applause.) There was a sublime notion connected with the laws of sound, which he believed Mr. Babbage had most impressively mentioned in one of his works, namely, that all sound whatever, even the lightest word which escaped their lips, was never wholly lost, but was so impelled by the undulations of the air, or whatever medium it might be, as to leave its impress through all space and during all time. Such a notion seemed to invest all their utterances with new and undreamt of responsibilities. The very youngest amongst them had been startled by the marvellous facts of electrical communication, and he asked them only to figure to themselves that, by a chain of communications and sympathies still more to be relied upon than that great Atlantic cable which still lay submerged at the bottom of the deep, they were from their Town-hall that night wafting across the mighty ocean, even to those rugged steeps once trod by the pilgrim fathers, to those wide-spread plains where Washington unfurled the standard of independence, or, to present the reverse of the picture, to the rice swamp, the sugar plantation, and the slave mart, where the slave still toiled and bled, and was sold afresh,— that they ware wafting from this real land of liberty to that still subsisting home of slavery, the accents of their sympathy with the abolitionists, their pity for the slave, their allegiance to the undying cause of freedom. (Loud applause.)

From the Ohio Anti-Slavery Bugle.
BOLD EXTORTION.
SALEM, Columbiana Co. Ohio, January 15th, 1859.
To F. M. Wright, State Auditor, Columbus, Ohio:
SIR: Conscious that I had last spring been taxed for property I did not possess, I applied to the proper authority for an abatement in the same. I believed that neither the State nor County Auditor had so little respect for justice as to consent, much less to insist, that imaginary property should be taxed, and the assumed possessor be compelled to submit to official robbery of the most shameful character. In this, so far as the first named official is concerned, I was disappointed, as you well know.
With the hope of having justice done, I made application through our County Auditor to you. Mr. Colestock, in his letter covering the application, says, ’I take it that his statement is substantially correct.’
I have your reply to Mr. Colestock before me. Referring to my statement that I declined making oath or affirmation to the assessor, though giving him all the necessary information, you proceed to say:
‘The reason for refusing to swear he thinks it hardly necessary to state—you, however, say in explanation, he is one of that claw of politicians who refuse to participate in government by voting, &c. commonly called Disunionsists or Abby Kellyites. I can only say that persons who refuse to obey the law or acknowledge its force, have a good deal of assurance to ask protection from the effect of their disobedience when it injuriously effects their interests. I therefore decline to grant any relief. F. M. WRIGHT.’
In the application I made you through Mr. Cole-stock, I declined giving my reasons for refusing to swear, mainly because it was a matter with’ which you, as State Auditor, had no business to intermeddle. The mere fact that I did refuse to swear, was all upon that point which it concerned you to know. If I was prevented by conscientious scruples, it was not for you to decide whether those scruples were well or ill founded. If views of policy withheld me, it was not for you to judge whether I was mistaken. You greatly misunderstand the character of your office, if you suppose it confers upon you inquisitorial powers. With the antecedents of those who come before you, or with their principles or policy, whether peculiar or otherwise, you have nothing whatever to do. Tour province is simply to inquire whether injustice has been done the applicant, and if so, to redress it. Whether or no you thank me for enlightening you upon this point, community I am sure will he glad I haw conveyed to you so desirable a piece of information.
You had my statement as given before a Justice of the Peace, that wrong had been done me, and you had Mr. Colestock’s assurance that he believed that statement to be substantially correct. The facts as therein set forth are such as you cannot deny, the injustice is so palpable it admits of no excuse But instead of considering the grounds upon which redress in asked, you raise the inquiry, ’What are the political views of the applicant?’ and having ascertained that he is a Disunionist, you very significantly say, ’I therefore decline to great say relief.’
I thank you, sir, for being so explicit—your language is <w>able of being misunderstood or mis-
<c06>
construed. The only reason you give for not doing me justice is, that I am a Disunionist, and’ therefore’ relief is refused. Had I been a Republican, or even a Democrat, I might have hoped for justice; but being neither a Republican nor Democrat, but an opposer of both,’ therefore’ is no relief to be obtained, and ’tis a great piece of ’assurance’ to ask for it!
Had you possessed a little more shrewdness, you would have endeavored to conceal the motives that influenced your decision, and have at least pretended you were not satisfied with the correctness of my statements; and not have presented a reason so absurd, so wicket, so unjust, and so unconstitutional, that those of your Republican friends who have any conscience will be ashamed of their State Auditor, and your Democratic opponents will marvel that so incapable a man was foisted into office. Judge Taney decided that the colored man had no rights which a white man was bound to respect; you, sir, have taken a step in advance of the Chief Justice, and decided that a Disunionist has no rights which a Republican is bound to respect. There is, however, a degree of consolation to be found in the thought that you do not yet occupy a seat upon the bench of the Federal, or any State Court, or even fill the office of Justice of Peace.
You think that Disunionsts have great assurance to ask you to do them justice—to equalize or abate taxes wrongfully laid. I believe eels manifest, even yet, some uneasiness at being skinned alive, long as they have been used to the operation; and although the legal rights of Disunionists have been so often denied, let me inform you they have not yet concluded to entirely refrain from protesting against the wrongs done them, nor have they ceased to appeal for redress when there is a reasonable prospect of obtaining it; and much as I may be supported to deprecate your displeasure, I cannot refrain from writing you this letter, although I fear you will consider it a piece of assurance almost equal to my application for the remission of unjust taxes.
It is very true that Disunionists refuse to adopt for their government, or endorse by their support, any code of laws or form of Constitution, the faithful observance of which would require them to disgrace their humanity, and trample under foot the teachings of Jesus. It is very true they refuse to become parties to a confederacy with slave-claimants, by which the slave is held in his chains. It is true they refuse to sing praises to that’ glorious Union’ which has not only sacrificed the rights of the colored American bondman, but has so trampled upon the rights of the whites that men have been driven from the South for holding the sentiments of the Republican party, while the party itself has been prevented from forming an electoral ticket in any Southern State. All fulsome panegyrics upon such a Union, all praises of its glory, and unbounded professions of allegiance and devotion, they leave to the Republican party, whose monopoly of them cannot be questioned.
Disunionists, however, do not refuse obedience to laws which they consider just and righteous; but they have no reverence for unjust laws, and no ’respect’ for them, although they come clothed with the authority of the National Government. You, sir, I presume, hold with Governor Chase and the Republican party, that Federal laws, ’whether just or unjust, if properly administered, will be respected. ’This position is in accordance with your oath of office; and by swearing to support the United States Constitution, to stand by and see fugitive slaves taken from the soil, and from the protection of the people of Ohio, you possess the power, as you have given the promise to do the work of the slave holder. Embued with his spirit, you make outlaws of all who refuse to take the wicked oath; and when they ask for justice, not according to their standard, but according to the standard of Ohio law, you lecture them with official pertness about their assurance.
Disunionists have never consented to your tax laws, nor to any other of your laws, I may add, though they generally submit without much complaint when they are themselves alone concerned. Had they been parties to your governmental contract, there would seem to be more propriety in their keeping silence in regard to taxation, no matter what form it might assume; but such not being the case, it would be difficult to convince any honest person of average intellect, that it was a piece of assurance for them to ask that justice be done them in the apportionment of taxes. But if your position be correct, then every Old School Covenanter in Ohio, every foreigner who settles in the State, and hates slavery here as he did at home, and every Disunion abolitionist within her bounds is open to robbery by the Republican party, and when any of them apply for redress, the State Auditor stands ready to raise his hands, and exclaim with verdant amazement, ’What assurance!’
I shall not here speak of the claim which your party put forth on the ground of being in favor of retrenchment and reform, though the heavy taxes might present a strange commentary thereon. Although the rate of taxation is high, I made no complaint of assessment upon actual property, but only complained of levying taxes upon that which is imaginary. You refuse me relief because I am a Disunionist, and by that decision you have as unquestionably and as dishonorably appropriated my money, as did Gibson and Breslin the funds in the State Treasury.
I write you this letter through the columns of the Anti-Slavery Bugle, for three reasons: 1st, because I wish Disunionists to know where the decision of the State Auditor has placed them; 2d, because your Republican friends will be more likely to see the letter than if sent privately, and thus have the opportunity to express dissent from your position if they feel it; and, 3d, that Democrats may know how far the State Auditor of Ohio transcends in his decision the application of the principle laid down by Judge Taney of Washington.
Hoping that in time your actions may assimilate more closely to your name. I subscribe myself,
Yours, to rebuke,
BENJ. S. JONES.

From the New York Independent.
RAREY ON BLINKERS.
Taking up the New York Observer to look at the editor’s remarks on President Hopkins’s views of the relations of the American Board to the subject of slavery, we lighted, in another column of the paper, (whether it was a secular or religious column we cannot tell,) on an article concerning Mr. Rarey’s views on blinkers. It seems a wonderful discovery that horses can do without blinkers, or blinders, as we used to call them in New England. The discovery may possibly be extended, and it may yet be found that men as well as houses are quite as safe without blinders, and will ran quite as well, quite as intelligently! Mr. Rarey states (according to the Observer,) that the use of blind is rapidly disappearing in the United States, and predicts increased in the home, when this folly of the nineteenth century is abolished in London.
In London they are taking the blinders from the men, and putting them on the houses; in this country, they are taking them from the houses, and putting them up <illegible>
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ’a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men on unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMINO THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free states are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
under management in this country, institutions, corporations, boards, churches, pulpits, ministers, need blinkers. In England, where they are half the time under a fog, the method of treatment must of course be different, beginning with the horses, In this country, where the human chattels especially are in danger of being blasted with excess of light, blinkers cannot be dispensed with, and the proposition to abolish them savors of radicalism. Indeed it is unsafe here to propose the abolition of anything.
On the subject of slavery, some of the friends of the American Board think we cannot get along without blinkers. Even side views of the Gospel against slavery they think will startle the whole team from its propriety. It ought to be driven straight in the direction of a pure Gospel, without aiming at any sin in particular, without being permitted to notice any sin in particular, and under the one plain rule of giving no offence anywhere but especially at home; and therefore, in order that it may drive right in the midst of all manner of sin, and not be disturbed by it, or run against it, all vision but that which is foreign, and in a straight line with the pole of the carriage, must be excluded.
The inventions to gain this purpose in more than one of our Ecclesiastical Corporations are increasing, and some of them are very ingenious, and will be patented. Some of the best of them were the result of much thought in the putting together of some twelve or fifteen of the best and wisest heads of the country in committee, For example, the plan cut out for the Tract Society to issue tracts concerning the moral duties that grow out of the existence of slavery as an Institution, is a very fine specimen of the blinker. The point of excellence claiming the patent in this case was the exclusion of the ground idea of sin from the mental vision, of course dispensing with the use of the vexatious word sin, whether sin per se or merely sin prohibitum.
The methods of the Tract Society, with its books, contriving that men may drive straight through them from beginning to end, as a man of fashion might drive a span of horses down Broadway, without so much as knowing that such a sin as slavery, or the rebuke of it, ever existed, are good ingenious specimens of blinker. The covering up of the word slavery, because it is no bigger than a sixpence, is a very fine example of the blinkers. Inasmuch as they cannot put their blinkers on their readers, they must put them on their books; there is no alternative. Blinkers there must be; the world would go insane without blinkers; all eyes would be dazzled without blinkers; the most obfuscated steadiest old fogies would become skittish as unbroken colts without blinkers; all our conservatives would startle at their own shadows without blinkers.
Blinkers there must be; you can never tame society without them; you can never subdue the caperings and prancings of free wild 'coursers,' so as to make the highways of trade safe, without them. Nothing is so safe, as when men are harnessed in the domestic institution, moving at the touch of its reins, with their vision so barricaded, that they can see nothing but what is straight before them, and are compelled to walk according to the range of their blinkers, turning neither to the right hand nor to the left.
The expunction, by the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, of the article forbidding the buying and selling of human beings as sinful, but not meaning by such expunction to express any opinion in regard to slavery, was a similar ingenious specimen of the blinkers
The scraping of the slave out of Ary Scheffer's picture, in order to fit it for the Prayer-Book, was a very remarkable specimen of the blinker. Nothing so effectually blinks a subject as the removal of it entirely out of sight. The scraping out of the text, 'Remember them that are in bonds, as bound also with them,' would be the same blinker applied to the New Testament.
The introduction and adoption, in the General Orthodox Creed, of the article, that slavery is not sin in itself, and that only the evils growing out of it are to be reprobated, answers all the ends of every blinker yet patented. Even as an evil, regarded in this ingenious method, slavery is not malumlin se, but only malum prohibitum.
The treatment of slavery as sin only in the concrete, but not in the abstract, or vice versa as sin only in the abstract, but not in the concrete, will answer the same purpose. If you succeed in preventing any definition of slavery except by its evils, you prevent also the condemnation, and have got one of the best blinkers possible.
The adoption of the rule, that in all young men's associations, but especially Christian, no subject whatever shall be permitted to be discussed, concerning which there is any difference of opinion, is a wonderfully decisive and comprehensive method of the blinker. It is as good as charity soup-houses for the poor, to prevent the vexation of individual consciences with the question of their relief by employment.
The putting up of a sign-board over the doors of our prayer-meetings, informing the public that no controverted subjects are permitted to be introduced here, is an excellent mode of the blinker, to prevent the vagaries of radicalism under the pretence of grace. The removal of each black sheep, as fast as be enters, separating him from the white fold, and carrying him up stairs, is an additional security. The controversy is thus blinked, both in the abstract and the concrete, and the prayer-meeting is rendered as homogeneous and perfect a unity as a piece of concrete spar. There is also this advantage, that the black sheep is carried nearer heaven, and is above the prayers below, even if he be not the subject of them.
Let no man imagine, however, that the blinker is a modern invention. On the contrary, it was patented immediately after the fall, and perhaps the very first example of it, in Cain's hands, was, after all, the most perfect. 'For the Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel, thy brother? And he said, I know not. AM I MY BROTHER'S KEEPER?' There is a blinker for you, 'as is a 'blinker'; it can scarcely be improved upon, though there may be great ingenuity in adorning and fastening it.
The re-opening of the slave trade, and its coastwise protection, afford a great field for the blinker. The question of the right of search is an admirable political blinker, as good as a hatchway battened down over the whole mischief. The ignoring of a bill of indictment by the Grand Jury, against the owners and navigators of slave vessels, is as good as Cain's defiance, without its apparent insolence. Nevertheless, as to all modifications of Cain's patent, there are some difficulties. As for example, 'If thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be slain; if thou sayest, Behold we knew it not; doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it? And he that keepeth thy soul, doth he not know it? And shall not be render to every man according to his works?'
The famous maxim, Our country, right or wrong, go it blind! is a thorough specimen of the democratic blinker. A still more perfect example is the assertion of the inherent right of popular sovereignty to do wrong, and the plank in our judicial platform, that black men have no rights that white men are bound to respect. As good as this, and quite as comprehensive, ecclesiastically, is the fundamental plank, or principle, that nothing shall be said against sin, as sin, which does not meet the approbation of all evangelical Christians of every denomination.
The declaration that neither the Tract Society nor the American Board is an Anti-Slavery Society, is another fine specimen of the blinker. It has advantages even over the original patent; for it blinks the whole subject of slavery in the most perfect and decisive way. In regard to the American Board, for example, The New York Observer and The Boston Recorder announce this decision as a declaration of independence, cutting off all those thorns in the flesh that have so provoked men's patience, in the shape of pricks and goads from Anti-Slavery radicals. Just as if either the American Board or the Tract Society could have anything to do with slavery in any way!
The recent Report of the Board on the Cherokee and Choctow Missions is a very admirable instance of the practical blinker. When you can blink a difficulty or a sin, by turning it bodily over into other hands, it is out of your jurisdiction: you can never again be twitted with it, or called upon to wash your hands of it.
The effort of The New York Evangelist, and of the Stated Clerk of the General Assembly, to excuse the crasure of the testimony of God's Word against Slavery, that testimony which denounced it as the guilt of man-stealing, is a capital specimen of the blinker. So was the erasure itself a very curious and perfect specimen of the blinker. Ecclesiastical skill was never more needed, nor ever more happily exercised, in blinking the testimony of God's Word against sin. The explanation of the expunction is not so adroit, being more cumbrous, indeed, than the whole original Assembly's blinker, which was a very composed and compact thing. The Assembly
<c02>
of 1816 expunged the note against slavery; and simple expunction is the briefest, safest, most executive possible example of the blinker, the least liable to entanglement or misconception, and the least open to question. The Assembly of 1836 though they could improve upon this patent, though wherever sin is to be blinked, who could improve upon silence? There is exceeding great wisdom in silence.
However, some persons will be always tinkering, and can never be persuaded to let well alone; so the Assembly of 1836 explained that the testimony of Godï¿½s Word being only in a note, the Assembly of 1794 had no business to put it in ï¿½The Book;ï¿½ consequently, its insertion was not the work of the Church; consequently, neither was its expunction. This is an improvement, blinking the original blinker, somewhat as if McCormickï¿½s Reaper should be so improved as to reap down itself, or the common scythe so amended as to cut off the legs of the mower instead of the grass. In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin, but he that refraineth his lips is wise. [REV. GEORGE B. CHEEVER.]

CUSHING ON THE RIGHT OF PETITION.
Instinct is a great matter. So is courage. Falstaff knew the former. The gallant and sagacious Brigadier-Attorney-General Cushing knows the latter. Indeed, he must know both, for no lesser knowledge could have nerved him to encounter a whole army of aliens, the host of the Black Republicans of the Bay State, on so chivalrous an emprise as he undertook last week. The gallant General, we think, had no chance of crossing swords with the Mexicans when he 'drew the voluntary blade' in the cause of his country ten years ago. The only opportunity he had of displaying his gallantry, that we remember, was his memorable encounter with the 'Seenoreeta' which left him lying disabled at the bottom of a ditch, like vulgar food for powder, near Metamoras. It must be a great consolation to his heroic spirit that his paralytic and decrepid old mother Newburyport has chosen him above all her sons to go forth in her behalf to fight the domestic foes to the peace of the land, and to the rightful supremacy of its natural suzerain. Last year, our readers may remember, he did good service on the same quarrel against the same enemies, and on the same battle-ground. And, now, he has the good fight to fight over again, but against much greater odds than then. But his stomach for it seems as sharp as ever.
The salutary principle which our intrepid statesman wished to introduce into the old-fashioned and dilapidated code of Massachusetts Legislative customs, was not indeed original with him. But he had seen its wholesome workings in the logocracy at Washington, and, like a faithful son, he sighed to give his native State the benefits of its virtues. It was nothing less than that Golden Rule which the wisdom of the slaveholders, co-operating with the patriotism of the Democrats, had devised for giving the Right of Petition a name to live, while they smote it under the fifth rib, which skill may be regarded as the grand arcanum of National Statesmanship. A quantity of those nondescript inhabitants of the land, who have no rights that white men are bound to respect, in contempt of the Supreme Court of the United States, and in violation of the peace and dignity of the same, sent in a petition to the General Court of Massachusetts, asking it to do what it could to free them from the effects of the Dred Scott decision, whatever they may be. Gen. Cushing met these miscreants at the very threshold, and raised the question of the reception of the petition. The speaker informed him that it was received by the act of presentation, and that the only question was as to which committee it was to be referred to. Against this extraordinary ruling, our hero appealed to the House, and that body, with hearts as black as the faces of their petitioners, affirmed the decision of the Chair by a frightful majority! So the benighted State of Massachusetts will have to remain a while longer deprived of the gentle restraint of the gag.
Our readers must not for a moment suppose that the late legal adviser to the nation denies the Right of Petition. Far from it. He respects that right as devoutly as Gag Atherton or Bully Brooks. He only vindicates the right of a Legislative Body to refuse to receive whatever it doesn't wish to receive. It is not to be supposed that the Right of Petition involves any reciprocal right of a consideration of the thing petitioned forï¿½a right plainly subversive of all legislative independence. Anybody may ask Congress or a State Legislature to do something he wants, but the petitionees may rightly refuse to look at his request, or to give it a moment's notice or consideration. This is the true doctrine of the Right of Petition, which is admitted on all sides to be of the highest and most sacred nature; and it is highly honorable to Gen. Cushing to volunteer to attempt to bestow its inestimable benefits on his native State, after it has worked so admirably for these many years in Congress assembled. The simplicity and beauty of this view of this doctrine cannot be too much admired. It may be briefly illustrated thus: Suppose a man has put certain servants, carefully selected by himself, into a house belonging to himself, to do certain work for his own advantage, according to the servants' best discretion and skill, the employer may rightfully, according to Gen. Cushing's views, knock at the door, in a respectful manner, and ask his servants to do a particular piece of work in a particular way. This is his Right of Petition; but, on the other hand, the servants have the correlative right to refuse to listen to the request, to slam the front door in their master's face, and kick him down the steps into the street. Can anything be clearer than that all the duties of the servant and all the claims of the master are fully satisfied by this exegesis of their relative bearings?
So much for the courage which the veteran of the Rio Grande has shown in vindicating the constitutional rights of Legislatures, and in endeavoring to persuade Massachusetts to accept one of the choicest boons of national invention, and this in the face of a majority which would have made any other man look like a fool -New York Tribune.
From the Boston Traveller.
HENRY WARD BEECHERï¿½SBEECHER'S DEFENCE.
Notwithstanding Mr. Beecher's able defence of himself, in the Independent, against certain censures of his Orthodox brethren, it will, we think, generally be admitted alike by the plain common sense reader as well as the acutely critical mind, that ingenious and powerful as is the defence in many respects, it is in others inconsistent and contradictory. One can hardly rise from a perusal of it without a suspicion that there is insincerity in some portions of it. A plain Quaker (we take him to be,) in the New Bedford Mercury, speaks as follows:-
'For my part, I cannot honor an ambiguous tone of speaking, when a man has intelligence and power of expression enough to make himself understood. How is it that Mr. B. has to explain and defend himself in two long articles? He is down on total depravity in his lecture, with no explanation. Again he is down on it in his newspaper explanation, but says:-'We believe that there is not one faculty of the human soul that does not work evil, and so repeatedly, that the whole human character is sinful before Godï¿½s laws.ï¿½ Would any one have imagined this from the lecture, or from the rest of the newspaper article? Or could we have expected, in one who is apparently so emancipated from old dogmas, such language as this-ï¿½Could Theodore Parker worship my God?ï¿½Christ Jesus is his name.ï¿½ Mr. Beecher is an honest man, and a discernimg one; and he ought to know by this time that to seem double-tongued is the next thing to being so; he ought to know also that the true friends of liberal Christianity are just as opposed to an equivocal position as the bigoted are. 'Better the bluff winds of Mr. B.ï¿½s ï¿½blustering march of controversy' than a coquetting summer day in the midst of March. Better Mr. B.ï¿½s gruff ï¿½watch-dogï¿½ of orthodoxy, than the same dog wagging his tail at everybody, and running hither and thither, until nobody knows where Tray belongs. A man of Mr. Beecherï¿½s power should leave no one in doubt or mistake, at any time, as to his real sentiments.ï¿½
A FUGITIVE SLAVE IN THE WHITE HOUSE. Our Washington correspondent tells a good saying by Thaddeus Stevens, the Republican Representative elect from Mr. Buchanan's district:
'A gentleman was referring, in presence of Thad. Stevens, to the possibility of Mr. Buchanan's turning against the South for the purpose of retrieving his lost fortune in Pennsylvania, and asked Mr. Stevens what he thought would be the result. Mr. Stevens replied that there would be no trouble about that, as the South could reclaim him any time under the Fugitive Slave law! The inquirer seemed perfectly satisfied.'-N. Y. Post.
A free negro, convicted at Easton, Md., of larceny, has been sold as a slave for 25 years for $138
<c03>
The Liberator 
NO UNION WITH SLAVE HOLDERS.
BOSTON, JANUARY 28, 1859.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Our friends who have not yet paid for the Liberator for 1858 will bear in mind our rule, by which their papers must be cut off, if payment be not made before February 1st. These terms must indeed be accounted liberal, as they give not less than thirteen months credit. We hardly need add, that our subscription list needs greatly to be enlarged, and that any curtailment of it is most undesirable. R F. W.
MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The twenty-seventh Annual Meeting of the MASSACHUSETTS.ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in Boston, at MERCANTILE HALL, Summer street, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, January 27th and 28th, commencing at half-past 10 o'clock, A. M., on Thursday. The members and friends of the old Pioneer Society will not fail, we trust, to be present in strength of numbers and zeal, and in the determination never to turn back from the cause of freedom, cost what it may, and come what may. The times both demand and encourage the boldest and most explicit testimonies from every enemy of Slavery, and the most persevering efforts to effect its speedy overthrow.
Among the speakers, confidently expected, are WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, PARKER PILLSBURY, Mrs. CAROLINE M. SEVERANCE, T. W. HIGGINSON, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, CHARLES LENOX REMOND, STEPHEN S. and ABBY K. FOSTER, E. H. HEYWOOD, &c. &c. 
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Rec. Set.
TRIBUTE TO THEODORE PARKER.The morning discourse before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at Music Hall, on Sunday last, was delivered by WM. LLOYD GARRISON. At the conclusion of it, the speaker alluded to the illness of Mr. Parkeri in the following terms:ï¿½
There is much pious exultation, I hear, in various quarters, at the illness of Mr. Parker, as though it were a visitation of Divine displeasure, on account of his alleged ï¿½infidelity;ï¿½ as though it were in direct answer to the stupid and superstitious, the ferocious and malignant prayers that were made in the Park Street vestry, during the late artificial revival, that the Lord would put a hook into his jaws, or paralyze his tongue, or in some way break him down, empty Music Hall, and scatter his congregation to the winds. What is this but the spirit that stoned the prophets, crucified Jesus, put to death the apostles, burnt the martyrs to ashes, imprisoned Bunyan and Fox, instigated the St. Bartholomew massacre, exiled the Pilgrim Fathers, and hung that noble Quaker woman, Mary Dyer, upon Boston Common-all ostensibly for the glory of God, and the extirpation of pestilent heretics, but really to gratify a ravenous priesthood and a corrupt church, that had ï¿½stolen the livery of the court of heaven,ï¿½ that they might serve the devil therein with entire impunity? What is it but the spirit which tauntingly said, as Jesus hung upon the cross, ï¿½He saved others; himself he cannot save. He trusted in God; let him deliver him now, if he will have himï¿½. Which said of David, ï¿½An evil disease cleaveth fast unto him; and now that he lieth, he shall rise up no more. When shall he die, and his name perish?ï¿½ Which said of Jeremiah, ï¿½Come, and let us devise devices against him; come, and let us smite him with the tongue, and let us not give heed to any of his words.ï¿½ Happily, the fangs of the serpent are drawn; and though it has the will, it has not the power to execute its deadly purpose. To be hated, proscribed, anathematized by it is the best evidence of fidelity to God and man, and the highest tribute that can be paid to any one in an evil and corrupt ago. What strange thing has happened in this particular case? Not until the self-styled ï¿½orthodoxï¿½ preachers cease to be mortal, and to die like other men,-not until they show themselves to be, by reason of their faith, beyond ï¿½the ills that flesh is heir to,ï¿½-can they or their echoes take up the reproach against Mr. Parker, that his sickness is a token of Divine retribution. There is no such God in the universe. Noï¿½it is not for his ï¿½theological heresies,ï¿½ or his ï¿½pernicious teachings,ï¿½ that your beloved minister has been stricken down, but for his unwearied zeal and devotion in the cause of mental freedom, of religious liberty, of suffering humanity, which have overtaxed his brain, and drawn exhaustingly upon his vital powers. ï¿½The blessings of those who are ready to perish shall rest upon his headï¿½-for who has been more thoughtful and compassionate towards the needy and oppressed, the ï¿½perishing classesï¿½ of every description, than himself? In the largest and most practical sense? he has been eyes to the blind, feet to the lame, and a mouth-piece to the dumb. He has done a mighty work for the enfranchisement of the human mind, on both sides of the Atlantic, in vindicating freedom of conscience, exposing religious hypocrisy, and showing what is merely ï¿½transientï¿½ and what ï¿½permanentï¿½ in religion. His name shall be enrolled, by a grateful and admiring posterity, high upon the list of the worldï¿½s benefactors, alike in the field of humanity and the realm of thought. Wherever tidings of his illness shall spread, there will be great anxiety of mind, great sorrow of heart, and the most earnest invocations for his speedy restoration to health, on the part of the truly noble and good, of all who are divested of the hateful spirit of bigoted intolerance, of all who are able to perceive or appreciate rare learning and scholarly culture, moral heroism of purpose, spotless integrity of character, active humanity, consummate ability, and a beautiful life. Let us not despair of his recovery. ï¿½The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down; for the Lord upholdeth him with his hand.ï¿½ We will at least hope for the best. No matter who may seek to disparage or revile him; we know him as one who has proved his love to God by the love he bears for his fellow-men, and every other test is worthless.
In so much as he is both hated and feared by the traffickers in human flesh, and the venal accomplices of a heaven-defying slave oligarchy; by the whole tribe of hypocritical scribes and pharisees, and their deluded followers; by every wolf in sheepï¿½s clothing, by every low demagogue, by every enemy of human progress; in so much, and more, shall he be loved, revered and honored in the great Hereafter.
ï¿½By their fruits ye shall know them. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?ï¿½-ï¿½He that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?ï¿½-ï¿½Which, 
now, of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbor unto him that fell among thieves?ï¿½
ABOU BEN ADHEM. 
Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase!) 
Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace,
And saw, within the moonlight in his room,ï¿½
Making it rich and like a lily in bloom,ï¿½
An Angel writing in a book of gold.
Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold,
And to the presence in the room he said, 
ï¿½What writest thou?ï¿½ The vision raised its head,
And, in a voice made all of sweet accord,
Answered, ï¿½The names of those who love the Lord!ï¿½
'And is raise one?ï¿½ said Abou. ï¿½Nay, not so,ï¿½
Replied the Angel Abou spoke more low,
But cheerly still, and said: ï¿½I pray thee, then, 
Write me as one who loves his fellow-men.ï¿½
'The Angel wrote, and vanished. The next night
He came again, with a great wakening light,
And showed the names whom love of God had blest;
And to! Ben Adhamï¿½s name led all the rest.
I leave this congregation to make the personal application. 
<c04>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
THE LIFE OF THOMAS PAINE, Author of 'Common Sense,' 'Rights of Man,' 'Age of Reason,' &e. With Critical and Explanatory Observations on his Writings. By G. Vale, Editor of 'The Citizen of the World.' Boston: Printed and published at the Boston Investigator Office, by J. P. Mendum. 1859. No writer has been more venomously assailed, or more unrelentingly aspersed, than Thomas Paine. Of the tens of thousands of individuals who have been led to attribute every thing of evil to him, and who never mention his name except in derision or abhorrence, probably not fifty have ever had either the courage or the fairness, even if they have had the opportunity, to read his writings, or learn the facts of his personal history. With them it has sufficed that he stands branded as an 'infidel' by chief priest, scribe and pharisee, and the nominal church. Unlike those who said of him of old, 'We have heard his blasphemy, what need have we of further witnesses?' they have only heard of the blasphemy of Thomas Paine, through the most prejudiced sources, and dare not or will not investigate for themselves the truth on precise meaning of the allegation. Such conduct is as cowardly as it is unjust. It is the spirit of modern, not of primitive Christianity.
Of four lives that have been published of Paine, not one is now extant in the United States. The first was by 'Francis Oldys,' alias George Chalmers, written in London in 1792 for political purposes, in a slanderous spirit, at the instigation of Lord Hawksbury. This soon passed into oblivion. The second was by a political renegade appropriately named Cheetham, (cheat'em,) whom Paine scorchingly rebuked for the desertion of his principles, and thereby incurred his deadly enmity. It sounded, of course, in false allegations and bitter calumnies, which have been the 'stock in trade' of all who have sought to blast the character of Paine. The third life was written by 'an excellent and amiable Quaker,' named Rickman, 'who was to Paine what Boswell was to Johnson.' With the best intentions, he was not the man to do the subject of his narrative justice. The fourth, written by T. W. Sherman, of London, though incorrect on some points, was the most reliable, but too exclusively adapted to English readers. The present life of Paine, by G. Vale, is unquestionably the most authentic of the whole series, written as it is in a calm and sober spirit, with evident care and candor, 'nothing extenuating, and setting down naught in malice.' In his introductory remarks he says:-
'We are not about to write a eulogy; to enhance his virtues, or to suppress his faults or vices. Paine was a part of human nature, and partook of its imperfections; and our purpose is fairly to represent him as he was; but the greater rart of Mr. Paineï¿½s life was public, and as such we know of no man who had greater virtues or less vices. 'His natural life is distinctly marked into four periods: his history in England before he embarked for North America; his residence and exertions in this country during the revolutionary war; his return to Europe, and his exertions in France and England during the great French revolution and revolutionary war; and his final return and residence in the United States till his death. He came to this country in 1774, by the advice of Dr. Franklin, who was at that time in England, and who had the sagacity to perceive his talents as a writer, and to appreciate his zeal in the cause of liberty and equal rights. As soon as he landed, he became the bold and eloquent advocate of American independence; though, (says Mr. Vale,) as late as January, 1776-
'None talked of independence, but a few of no weight in society; as none of the leaders would risk their popularity in supporting what appeared hope less: yet Jefferson, Franklin, Patrick Henry, and others, evidently wished independence: but this could only be supported by the unanimity of the body of the people; and these did not dare to dream of it. At this period of excitement, anger, and fear, Paine published his 'Common Sense;' and boldly proposed independence, as the best means to get out of the difficulties into which they had now plunged; and as an object alone worth fighting for. This pamphlet effected wonders: it overcame difficulties apparently insurmountable, for it removed prejudices, generally a hopeless task: it convinced the people that the British constitution was not the best that could be, and that a government of kings, lords, and commons, might not be the essence of all that is excellent in each; but that the union might retain much that was bad in each: he satisfied the people of the disadvantages of carrying on war with a government whose authority was acknowledged: and he opened to them the resources within their power, and hinted at the possibility of getting foreign help as an independent nation. He produced, what his writings generally did produce, a change of opinion. The pamphlet was read from North to South; everybody talked about it; and each seemed surprised that he had not had the same thoughts, so clear did the propositions appear as explained in 'Common Sense.' The boldness of the language, indeed, alarmed those who are in the habit of understanding for other people: they had no objection to it themselves, but they thought the people not yet prepared for such opinions; and some ludicrous scenes occurred. The people, indeed, were not prepared: they read first from curiosity, and then became convinced. Paine absolutely produced the events he sought. He wanted a declaration of independence, and he produced the wish for it.'
Mr. Vale pertinently adds:-
'The impression which the first number of the ï¿½Crisisï¿½ made on the public mind is evident by the very first sentence being handed down already to two generations, as a sort of watchword: ï¿½THESE ARE THE TIMES THAT TRY MENï¿½S SOUL;ï¿½ yet the dastardly enmity to Paine has suppressed the author. Thousands use this expression, while individuals only know the origin of it. Yet the fact of this expression being thus handed down, even in spite of the personal prejudices against the man, clearly shows the impression this well-timed pamphlet must have made on the nation.ï¿½
Historical truth demands the acknowledgment, that to no writer, at that eventful period, was this country so indebted for its independence as to Thomas Paine; nay, on such isolated events are mightiest consequences often dependant, it is very doubtful whether that independence would then have been attempted, had it not been for his patriotic appeals and the inspiration that pervaded his writings; yet who ever sees or hears his name honorably connected with that memorale struggle, in any celebration thereof? And why this injustice? It is because he was the consistent and courageous advocate of religious liberty, of mental as well as political independence, of the supremacy of reason as against theological dogmatism and priestly imposture. It is because he dared to read and judge the Bible as he read and judged any other book, and to reject the popular Protestant idea of its infallibility and plenary inspiration. Had he bean silent on those matters, and submissively conformed to the prevalent religious opinions of the age, he never would have been held up as a monster of iniquity, nor been forgotten as among the foremost in and throughout the revolutionary struggle. But he could not stifle his own convictions, nor play the part of a dissembler. To quote his own words:
'It is necessary to the happiness of man, that he be mentally faithful to himself. Infidelity does not consist in believing or disbelieving; it consists in professing to believe what he does not believe. . . When a man has so far corrupted and prostituted the chastity of his mind as to subscribe his professional belief to things he does not believe, he ha has prepared himself for the commission of every other crime. . . I have always strenuously supported the right of every man to his opinion, however different that opinion might be to mine. He who denies to another this right, makes a slave of himself to his present opinion, because he precludes himself from the right of changing it. The most formidable weapon, against errors of every kind, is Reason. I have never used any other, and I trust I never shall. . . I believe in one God, and no more; and I hope for happiness beyond this life. I believe in the equality of man; and I believe that religious duties consist in doing justice, loving mercy, and endeavoring to make our fellow-creatures happy.'
These are noble sentiments, worthy to be recorded in letters of gold, and perfectly in accordance with the interrogation of Jesus, 'Why judge ye not of yourselves what is right?ï¿½with the apostolic injunc-
<c05>
tion, ï¿½Prove all thingsï¿½ and with the Golden Rule, ï¿½Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.
We are by no means endorsing all the views expressed by him in his writings, but only maintaining that he has been cruelly maligned and most unjustly treated,- we believe mainly, if not exclusively, on account of his theological non-conformity. Whatever may have been his error in this particular, he was no dissembler or time-server, but ever set an example of manly courage and conscientious integrity.
The common charge, that he was a man of grossly intemperate habits, has very little of truth in it; and if it were wholly true, it would only show that he was at last overcome by the universal custom of the times, in company with many eminent statesmen, politicians, and divines, and not as a legitimate consequence of theological opinions on one side or another. Let justice be done to his memory.
SCRIPTURE ILLUSTRATED BY MORAL AND RELIGIOUS STORIES, FOR CHILDREN. By Mrs. M. L. Willis. New York: Published by Joel Tiffany, for the use of Sabbath Schools, 1859.
This is an excellent little work, in spirit and execution, inculcating the best moral sentiments and the noblest acts. We give the table of contents with great pleasure:-The Little Peacemaker; The Child's Prayer; The Desire to be Good; Little Mary; Harry Marshall; Wishes; The Golden Rule; Let me hear the gentle Voices; Filial Duty; Unfading Flowers; The Dream; Evening Hymn. It will prove a very acceptable gift-book to children.
WOMAN'S RIGHTS-A GOOD DONATION.
A donation of five thousand dollars has recently been placed in the hands of Wendell Phillips, to be used, principal and interest, for the Woman's Rights cause.
Gov. Wisner of Mich., in his late message, insists that the women of that State ought to have the same right to an education at the State University, that men have. Horace Greeley thus speaks of it:
ï¿½The Normal School, of course, welcomes to its halls young women as well as young men; the University as yet opens its doors to males only. A pressure in favor of a more liberal and impartial rule begins to be felt, and the demand is backed by Gov. Wisner in his late excellent Message. I think I am correct in stating that the Faculty of the University form the chief remaining obstacle to the admission of women, and I judge that their resistance will not be protracted inveterately. In fact, when it is conceded that the education of youth of both sexes in the same class at a Normal School is proper and unexceptionable, it is manifest that there is no remaining ground on which to justify the exclusion of girls from colleges -that the argument is exhausted, and that only time is required to insure the inevitable result. At present, the proposition of the anti-Progressives is that a Female Department be added to or created in the University-devoted, we must presume, to the inculcation of female Greek, philosophy and mathematics. When such a proposition is made on the side of the past, the end cannot be distant.ï¿½
SLAVERY AND THE SLAVE TRADE. At a recent meeting of the Rocky Creek Baptist Church, in South Carolina, it was first
'Resolved, That we do not oppose the existence of Slavery as we have it among us, but are willing to defend it with all the means that God has given us.ï¿½
It was next
ï¿½Resolved, That to bring untrained Negroes from Africa, and land them upon any portion of the soil of South Carolina, for the purpose of making slaves of them, meets our unqualified disapprobation, and we will oppose it with all the legal means within our power.ï¿½
Whoever can reconcile the logic and morality of these resolutions will be competent to reconcile any absurdities and contradictions, however monstrous. Think of a Church, claiming to be Christian, resolving to defend Slavery as it exists at the South, with all the means in their power-defend imbruting the soul, defacing the divine image, enforcing rape and every other form of lewdness, violating every filial and parental tie, and committing every conceivable outrage upon human nature! Will water baptism, even though ï¿½full many a fathom deep,ï¿½ wash out the guilt of such a Church, or secure to its members a passport to heaven? A Christian Church! Nay, a ï¿½synagogue of Satan-a cage of unclean birds.ï¿½
AN ANNUAL REMEMBERANCE. Our old and tried friend, PHILIP SCARBOROUGH, Esq., of Brooklyn, Ct. has for several years past sent a weighty and prime cheese of his own unrivalled making, to the AntiSlavery Bazaar in this city, to 'help the cause along.' He accompanies his gift, this year, with the following note:

BROOKLYN, (Conn.) Jan. 23, 1859.
MY DEAR FRIEND WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
For the support and encouragement of the AntiSlavery cause, I forward you a cheese, which you will, I trust, convert into that which will produce one mite to carry on the great movement, and 'feed the lamp' which is now burning to light up the world. God speed the day when the black man, as well as the white, shall be liberated in mind and body; when no one shall have a desire to oppress his brother man; when a universal anthem shall go up to the Father of the human race, that there are 'none to molest or make afraid in all his holy mountain.' I should like to be with you on the day of the 'Soiree,' (Jan. 26,) to see again those noble faces which to me are held so dear, and hear those eloquent voices plead the cause of the oppressed of all lands; but my age, and its numerous cares, must be my apology for not being present.
Truly yours, for the oppressed,
PHILIP SCARBOROUGH.
SEND IN THE PETITIONS!-Already, a large number of petitions, most respectably and numerously signed, have been sent to the Legislature, praying that body to recognize the right of every fugitive slave in this State to his freedom. There are many others yet to be forwarded. Let there be no unnecessary delay. Here is a brief but excellent letter received by our friend Francis Jackson:ï¿½
'To MR. FRANCIS JACKSON:
RESPECTED SIR-Your circular was sent to Pocassett, my former place of labor;-the names enclosed have been obtained in the Common Street Methodist Church in Lawrence, Mass. [A good list.]
Praying that success may crown your efforts in favor of freedom and justice, and that you may have a rich reward in heaven, I remain,
Your servant in Christ,
(Signed,) JOSHUA HUDSON.'
[Pastor of the Church.]
THE NORFOLK MARTYRS. Thirteen of the Philadelphia physicians and nurses who fell victims to the fever at Norfolk in 1855, in the cause of humanity, have been disinterred, and removed to Philadelphia for burial. Religious services were holden at St. Stephen's on Tuesday, at which Rev. Dr. Ducachet, (formerly of St. Peter's in Salem,) made a feeling and eloquent address.
In one of the front pews of the church was seated one of the heroes of the pestilence, a slave, owned in Norfolk, and named Robert Butt. He is sexton of one of the churches there, and one of the best nurses in the city. During the time of the pestilence he was ever at his post, sleeping in the church yard, and always ready for every call on his humanity. He was sent on with the bodies, and it is in contemplation to offer freedom to him and his family, as a testimonial of his heroism.
Dr. Ducachet, as we learn from the U. S. Gazette, closed with a most affecting eulogy of Robert Butt. He spoke of his devoted faithfulness and large-hearted humanity, and asked if such a man should remain a slave? No! he repliedï¿½we must set friend Bob free, (if he desires it,) with his wife and family. He has been sent on here with these bodies, though a slave, by his master, and he shall go back to Virginia a free man, and tell our friends in Norfolk what we have done. With his own hands he has buried 1159 bodies, and he has nursed and buried our friends and kindred. [Great emotion and general sensation.]
<c06>
JANUARY 28.
A GOOD MAN CALLED AWAY.
MY DEAR GARRISON:
I have just received a slip, cut from the Detroit Tribune of a few weeks ago, containing a notice of the death of WILLIAM D. COCHRAN, late Principal of the Commercial College in Detroit; a man whom it has long been my privilege to count among my highly valued personal friends; a friend also of freedom, humanity and justice, and an earnest worker in their behalf. You, too, if I mistake not, have had some acquaintance with him as a co-worker in the AntiSlavery cause, perhaps enough to be able to bear testimony with me to his sterling worth, as modest as it was genuine. I hope you will agree with me that the departure of such a man from the earthly scene of his beneficent activity and varied usefulness is a fitoccasion for a word of tribute to his memory, in the Liberator.
It is, I think, about sixteen years since first, on a tour of lecturing for Anti-Slavery, I shared his hospitality, cordially tendered for my work's, sake; and from that timeï¿½how long before I know notï¿½his house has been open to the laborers in that cause, and he has been ready, whenever opportunity and ability occurred, to serve it with hand and head, and heart and purse. Not agreeing with yourself or me on every question of means, and measures, he was still in hearty sympathy with us as to principles and aims, (and mainly as to measures too,) and was ever prompt to welcome and to aid us whenever we sought a hearing from the people among whom he dwelt; and once and again have I been favored with substantial <illegible> of his lively interest in our enterprise. Duly to appreciate his fidelity to its claims, and the ever ready and cheerful services in which it was exhibited, we must remember how much the prosperity of such a business as his must have depended on the favorable regard of his fellow-citizens, and how unpopular among them were the cause he was promoting, and those advocates of it with whom he openly cooperated. Without ostentation, his Anti-Slavery faith and works were also without concealment, where, if barely to be known as the friend of the unpopular right was to serve it, it was also to risk sharing its unpopularity. That, notwithstanding this, his College was flourishing and successful, is a testimony to the respect and confidence which his frank integrity and manly independence, and his eminent qualifications as a teacher in his chosen department, had won in a community in which his sentiments on anti-slaveryï¿½and, I may add, on other reformsï¿½were very far from finding general favor. As the Tribune says, 'he was in all his acts thoroughly, conscientiously honest. This fact was speedily impressed upon the mind of every one with whom he came in contact.' Such as a man not only must, of moral necessity, be true to his anti-slavery convictions, but could be, without losing the esteem of those who did not share them.
In other fields of benevolent effort, also, he labored diligently. In the words of the Tribune's obituary, 'it was in the private and associate efforts made to relieve the distress of the poor, the "sick and in prison," that his character took on its brightest <illegible>. He was a member of the Visiting Committee of the Young Menï¿½sMen's Benevolent Society for the past four years, and never were the often laborious duties of such a member more faithfully performed. Hours were spent by him in tramping from one scene of want or thriftlessness or vice to another, and listening to the various tales of need or wo, and hours more were consumed in devising means to alleviate distress by providing labor and other means. And all this was done while the claims of his business pressed upon him unremittingly. For nearly or quite two years, he was in the habit of visiting that very uninviting and well-nigh deserted field of religious effortï¿½the jail. Regularly every Sunday he was to be found distributing tracts among prisoners, and counselling them as to their course. In these and in other ways he was constantly engaged in doing good, literally keeping his left hand's work a secret from the right hand. We are persuaded that there will be not a few to rise up and call him blessed in the great and final day.'
Liberal in his own religious views, and charitable toward the differing creeds of others, he sought to make his profession of religion not so much in words and ritual forms as in life; with what success, the testimony given above will partly show.
I cannot deny myself the satisfaction of adding here an extract from the letter in which I received the slip cut from the Tribune. It is from one who has known our departed friend longer and more intimately than I have done:-
'I have known Mr. Cochran more than twenty years and can truly say, a man of like worth I have never known. Could I feel assured that my life had impressed any soul as his has mine, in that deep, strong faith in the possibility of human excellence, I should at its close bless God with fervent rapture for its existence.ï¿½
I will but add an expression of cordial sympathy with the afflicted family; the wife no way unworthy of such a husband, and no less devoted in heart and life to the same noble objects which engaged his interest; and two fine boys of goodly promise; left to inheritï¿½if a scanty portion of this world's goodsï¿½the priceless legacy of, honest pride in the memory, an incentive to noble emulation in the example, and an enduring blessing in the still living influence, of him whose departure they bewail.
C. C. BURLEIGH.
We had not the privilege of an intimate acquaintance with Mr. COCHRAN, but we know enough of his history, spirit and character to enable us to endorse the feeling tribute which our friend Mr. Burleigh has so justly paid to his memory. This The death of one so upright, so humane, so true to an enlightened conscience, so ready to bear the cross for righteousness sake, is a serious loss in any community. Nevertheless, it is soul-strengthening to know that
'No power can die that ever wrought for Truth;
Thereby a law of Nature it became,
And lives unwithered in its sinewy youth,
When he who called it forth is but a name.
Thou art not idle: in thy higher sphere
Thy spirit bends itself to loving tasks,
And strength, to perfect what it dreamed of here,
Is all the crown of glory that it asks.
Farewell! good man. good angel now! this hand
Soon, like thine own, shall lose its cunning, too;
Soon shall this soul, like thine, bewildered stand,
Then leap to thread the free unfathomed blue:
When that day comes, O, may this hand grow cold,
Busy, like thine, for Freedom and the Right;
O, may this soul, like thine, be ever bold
To face dark Slavery's encroaching blight!'
To his beloved and estimable wife, we proffer our hearafterheartfelt sympathy.-[Ed. Lib.
WHAT THE TIMES NEED.
Extract of a letter from our esteemed friend, Rev. A. BATTLES, of Bangor:-
'The times need more earnest labor and more unreserved consecration. Slavery is growing bolder, and more audacious; and it sometimes seems as though the public conscience is getting duller and harder. The impudence of Buchanan and Douglas is shameful, but the lukewarmness of the Republicans is quite as much so. There is but one issue to make. We must beard the lion in his den. The slave must be set free. If we ever meet with say success, it must be under this banner, else we shall all go down together. Trusting in God, I will hope that the victory will be with those who love the right.
'What a calamity to Boston to lose the labors of Mr. Parker! How many prayers will be breathed for his recovery! May they be answered!'
STAMPEDE. A few nights ago, some half dozen slaves, belonging to Mrs. Barnes, Oliver Jackson and others in and about Morgan town, Va., ran off upon the 'underground railroad.'
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
MRS. SCRANTUM’S HEALTH
FRIEND GARRISON: 
My sympathies have been unusually moved by a consideration of the very precarious state of 'Mrs. Scrantum's health and general functions, as detailed by her so pathetically to ‘Miss Verne’ on the last page of the Liberator of January 7th. And as my tears and pity flowed out together, I could but suspect that the poor woman was not a reader of the Liberator for had she been, she could not have failed to have seen and read those blessed little notices and disinterested commendations or puffs, that are so curiously and ingeniously interpolated among its editorials, as well as among its notices of anti-slavery meetings and agencies, that she who runs may read, of those various and wonderful medicaments and nostrums that will so magically and successfully cure all the ills that flesh in general, and poor Mrs. Scrantum in particular, is heir to Pray Mr. Garrison do send the poor old lady the Liberator, that she may thereby learn the magic virtues of the various ‘Pectorals, ‘Cathartic <Illegible> Oxygenated Bitters,’ ‘Balsams,' and other humdrums, that it so frequently and ably portrays to the unwilling vision of its readers; and using thereof, she may get relief from her dyspepsia, her cough, and spinal and nervous complaints, with all her other besetting ills: and healed, invigorated and rejuvenated. the old lady may become a blessing and joy to herself and the enduring Mr. Scrantum, and other friends and sympathisers. J. A. H.
REMARKS. We accept, in good part, this witty thrust, as it does not jar (J. A. H) our feelings in the least, knowing as we do that our correspondent is one who is strongly disposed to ‘throw physic to the dogs,' even if he die for it. In extenuation we beg leave to say, in the first place, that we do not hold ourselves responsible for what is said, by way of advertisement, in our columns, in favor of any medicine, any more than we do for the opinions and sentiments of our correspondents. In the second place, it does not follow that because there is such a thing as quackery, every kind of medical preparation, not sanctioned by the medical fraternity, must be put down in that category. In the third place, we cannot accept the mere ipse <Illegible> of our friend ‘J. A. H. that the medicines we advertise are mere ‘humdrums’; especially when their efficacy is attested by multitudes of well known, responsible and highly respectable persons, under their own signature. If he has tried them, and found them unavailing, it is competent for him to testify to that extent, and nothing beyond it. But he has not done this; he ‘begs the ‘question’ by assuming that they must be worthless nostrums, because the market is flooded with such. In the fourth place, we can speak favorably of Ayer’s ‘Cherry Pectoral,’ and Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry,’ because we have tried them both personally and in our family, and derived benefit from them, and we have no doubt that thousands of others have been relieved by their use; though nothing is better established than the fact, that what will benefit one person, will not always prove equally efficacious in every other case, even in the same discase; and therefore a universal and infallible panacea is ‘doubtless an absurdity. Every case has its peculiar concomitants, while the general results may be very favorable As to the ‘Oxygenated Bitters,’ we have never tasted them; but we know a number of gentlemen who have certified to their excellence, whose veracity we cannot question, and who would never designedly lend their names to sanction a worthless nostrum. Finally, we are as much opposed to quackery, ‘scientific’ or otherwise, as J. A. H.’, and shall never allow any preparation to be advertised in our columns which we know, or have good reason to believe, is a mere catchpenny affair.
P. S. Oar facetious correspondent recommends us to send a copy of the Liberator to the afflicted old lady aforesaid, so that she may be apprised of the magic virtues of the various balsams, &c. advertised therein. The suggestion is a benevolent one. He will recollect that Mrs. Scrantum told Miss Verne that she had not received any medical treatment, on account of the expense. Who knows but she may yet be restored to health, if she can only be induced to try a little ‘Cherry Pectoral,’ &c.?-[Ed. Lib.

SLAVERY IN MISSOURI.
ST. LOUIS Mo.) Jan. 10, 1859.
FRIEND GARRISON:
You know this is a great State of border ruffians and slaveholders. But it is now an interesting field for Abolitionists. Having been made the thoroughfare for Kansas emigrants, and being so nearly surrounded by free States, the spirit of freedom is considerably infused in many parts of Missouri. Let the agitation be brought here. Let freedom-loving emigrants from the East settle on this soil, and ere many years, liberty will be proclaimed to a hundred thousand toiling bondmen.
As yet, the anti-slavery feeling is very much like milk and water, and very little milk, too. The talk is merely political-there is no Humanity in it. ‘The blacks are a nuisance,’ they say; ‘they are unprofitable; we must get rid of them; they must be sent to Africa or to Yucatan.’ This is Black Republican antislavery. Not many actual slaveholders will say as much as this.
St. Louis has her slave pens and slave auctions, and her papers advertise ‘Negroes wanted,’ and ‘Negroes for sale’: yet there are so many non-slave-owners here, that it produces a spirit of toleration, at least to ‘prudent’ abolitionists.
The majority of the colored people here are ‘free negroes,’ who pay each $10 license for the privilege of living in the city.
Yours, for the ‘good time coming,’

LECTURES OF HENRY C. WRIGHT.
NEWBURYPORT, Jan. 24, 1859.
BRO. GARRISON:
Yesterday, H. C. Wright lectured to the people of this place, in the afternoon, on ‘What shall I do to be saved:?’ showing that if we would be saved from our sins, we must study the laws of God as written on our hearts and bodies; and, by following out those laws, we shall be saved from the wrath to come. In the evening, he spoke of the location and employment of man after death; and said the more interest he felt here in the happiness of his fellowman, the more interest would he feel after he left the body; and his spirit would hover round and urge to good deeds those he left behind. In his remarks he was very clear, and his words commended themselves to every man’s conscience. He had a good audience; and while some went to hear, expecting to see a beast with seven heads and ten horns, they went away, in many instances, pleased with the man, and well satisfied that he uttered more truth than those who oppose him. Some of his old Orthodox friends were pleased to see him, while others said, ‘He hath a devil, and is mad; why hear ye him?’
We hope soon to have him with us again. Many more will go and hear him when he come, s again. Hundreds in turn are sick and tired of the ‘chips and porridge of sectarian theology,’ and are longing for something better.
Yours, in haste, R PLUMER.
BIRTHDAY OF ROBERT BURNS. The centennial anniversary of the birthday of Robert Burns was <Illegible> in this city, on Tuesday evening last, by the Boston Burns Club, by a banquet at the Parker House, at which speeches were made by Gov. Banks, Mayor Lincoln, Ralph Waldo Emerson, N. P. Willis, Hon. Josiah Quincy, Jr., Hon. George S. Hillard, Sidney Webster, Esq., Lord Radstock, and others: and an original poem read by James Russell Lowell, one from J. G. Whittier, and one by the ‘Autocrat of the Breakfast Table,’ &c. It was, of course, a very brilliant occasion.
<c02>
LETTER FROM ANDREW T. FOSS.
NORA, Joe Davis Co., (III.) Jan. 12, 1859.
DEAR FRIEND MAY:
Since I wrote you, I have held a series of meetings in Sterling, in Palmyra, in New Genesee, and in Unionville. In Sterling, our meetings were well attended, and considerable interest was manifested. The religious denominations are, throughout the West, much less interested in anti-slavery than when I was in the country two years ago. The revival of a pro-slavery religion last winter has sadly demoralized the people. The voice of humanity is drowned in the din and clatter of the sects, contending for their creeds and forms. The Anti-Slavery cause has tested the religion of the land, and shown it to be utterly worthless, for any purpose of moral reform. A legion of devils possesses this poor world. War, Slavery, Intemperance, Avarice, Superstition-the meanest devil of them all-are rending the garments, and tearing the flesh of this demoniac world-and does the Church call upon them to come out? No! but she fraternizes with them, and casts the sanctity of her mantle upon them; and while the spirit of Jesus calls upon them to come out, the Church, in the language and spirit of these demons, cries, ‘Let us alone; what have we to do with thee?’ She has taken her stand with these powers of evil, and in antagonism to the eternal principles of right and truth. Well, let these demons and their potent ally-the Church-rave and foam; their doom is fixed; the potent voice of truth bids them come out, and the whole crew will have to make a speedy exodus. In Sterling there are a number of good friends to our cause. Jacob Powell paid all the expenses of our meetings there, and also made a donation to the cause. Also Joseph and Eliza Brown are among the best friends of the cause. Henry and Clark Powell, with their companions, are always forward and active in the good work. James Birdsall and family are efficient workers in the good cause. Wm. E. Lukens and family-old and tried friends of the cause-are here, and always ready to give effective aid. Samuel Albertson and family are also hearty workers in the Anti-Slavery cause. Besides these, there are many young people who show hearty sympathy in the great work of human redemption.
In Palmyra I had two good meetings. There are none in this town who adopt our motto of ‘No Union with Slaveholders.’ I was taken to these meetings by my good friend Henry S. Powell, some six or seven miles, and brought back to his hospitable home each night.
In New Genesee, we had a good series of meetings. Here live John and Emily De Garmo. No truer friends to the slave, and to the Garrisonian idea of duty and obligation to him, are to be found, or to be desired. My stay with them was very happy. Some of the Methodists were much filled with wrath as the pro-slavery character of their miserable, idolized church was exposed. Their ravings, however, only added interest to the meeting by way of variety and amusement.
In Unionville I spoke five times. A part of the time the weather was exceedingly cold, and the meetings not as full as they otherwise would have been. The meetings here were holden in the Wesleyan chapel. In criticising the other denominations, these people showed very marked approbation of my most severe denunciations of their spirit and position in relation to slavery. I asked them if they desired or expected, because I was in their house, and enjoyed their hospitality, that I should, out of courtesy to them, leave their sin unrebuked. There was a very decided negative to this inquiry. I then stated the fact that the Wesleyans fraternized freely with the Episcopal Methodists, who are notoriously a slaveholding body; and also with other pro-slavery bodies of professing Christians. I stated that this they would not do with Universalists, or with persons of known immorality. Even Spiritualists had been shut out of the house, and only gained admission by a young man breaking it open; that even the Wesleyans did not treat slaveholders and their apologists as they do those whom they regard as heretics or immoral persons. I will do these people the justice to say, they bore these criticisms with Christian temper, and in the main did not deny their justice. One of their number said, their minister did not preach on anti-slavery he had scarcely heard him allude to it at all. So far as I am able to observe, this sect is fast losing the anti-slavery life which brought it out of the Methodist Episcopal Church. My way was prepared before me; and I was most hospitably entertained by L. C. Campbell, who was formerly a Congregational minister, but who now, with his excellent companion, in doing very earnestly the better work of humanity. They take and read the Liberator, and are deeply imbued with its excellent spirit.
My last address in Unionville was before a literary Society. The gentleman who was under engagement to speak, kindly gave way, and the Society invited me to address them, which I was glad to do, as it gave me the opportunity of speaking to a class of persons which otherwise I could not have reached.
For a fortnight past the weather has been tolerably good, and our meetings have been very successful, but there are signs of breaking up, and I fear I am again to be stuck in the mud.
The West, in regard to money matters, is in a deplorable condition. They feel the pressure now much more than last year. Sueing, foreclosing, mortgages, trust deeds, going into chancery, and (worse yet,) hiring money at three per cent a month, is the order of the day. There are a few that will do a little for Anti-Slavery; but it is little indeed that can be had for this cause. There are many that would do, if it were in their power. I feel quite sure that if there were money in the hands of the people, I could get many subscribers for our papers. As it is, it is nearly useless to make the attempt.
The wheat crop was to many of the farmers worse than a failure. Many would have done better to have burnt their crop upon the ground, as it did not pay the expanse of harvesting. The oat crop was nothing; and potatoes little better. I have not, for some days, enjoyed the luxury of a poor potato; and the prospect is dark enough for enjoying the pleasure of a good one. The corn crop was only middling. On this the farmer was dependent for raising money; and the result is, that corn is being pushed into market much earlier than usual. The wheat is now nearly all out of the country, and by next June the corn will nearly all have gone forward. The result will be, that prices will go up to a high figure; but the farmer, whose sweat and toil have produced the crops, will not be benefitted by the rise, as the grain will be in the hands of the speculators.
There will be comparatively but little wheat sown the coming season. The reasons are two. First, the farmers are much discouraged by the uncertainty of this crop. Secondly, there is not seed wheat to be had for more than a very limited sowing. If the season should prove favorable, there will be an immense corn crop, as every body seems determined to go into this branch of farming.
If some way could be devised by which the producer and consumer could be brought nearer together, and this army of ‘middle-men,’ who are making splendid fortunes out of the toil of the sweating millions could be dispensed with, it would be an incalculable blessing to the world.
But perhaps this is not in place in the report of an anti-slavery agent; so I will forbear.
I am now with our good friends J. P. Harriman and family, formerly of Danvers, Mass. I have held one meeting with encouraging success.
Yours, truly, A. T. FOSS.
SAMUEL MAY, Jr., General Agent.
A slave, named Milford, was burnt to death by a mob, in Alabama, during the last week in December, for the murder of his master. Horrible!
<c03>
THE SLAVE-RESCUE CASE IN OHIO-Arrest of the Student Lincoln in his Scholl-Letter from Prof. Peek, of Oberlin.
From the Columbus Stat Journal
OBERLIN, Tuesday, Jan. 18, 1859
Editor State Journal.-Your readers have been, advised of the facts that the alleged rescuers of the slave John, at Wellington, have been indicted, and most of them have voluntarily appeared in Court to answer, to the bills found against them. They will, perhaps, be interested to hear of a new feature which the case has taken on-the violent ARRESTIRONING and IMPRISONMENT in your county, of one of the parties indicted. The gentleman who has suffered the indignity I am about to describe is a young Englishman, a member of College in this place, and a person of excellent character and deportment. Before notice of the indictments was served, Mr. Lincoln, for such is his name, had gone to your county to take a school. The fact that he was in the neighborhood was presently discovered by Mr. Samuel Davis, a bailiff in the United States Court, and a helper of Deputy Marshal Lowe, in ‘the Wellington case.’ With a zeal worthy of his Wellington antecedents, Mr. Davis wrote to Cleveland for a warrant for the arrest of Lincoln, and on its arrival he made haste to execute it. The serving of the writ occurred in this wise: About 1 1-2 o’clock on Friday last, Mr. Lincoln was engaged in the duties of his school, when suddenly one of the children cried out with terror, (for threats from the officers had reached the ears of the scholars,) ‘Master, there comes Sam Davis.’ ‘Well, children,’ answered the teacher, ‘whatever may happen, keep perfectly quiet.’
There was a knock, the door opened, Mr. Davis, and another of the same breed presented themselves. ‘Your name is Lincoln?’ abruptly said the official. ‘It is.’ ‘Ah! you are just the man I want; I’ve got a warrant for your arrest; so come alone.’ And while saying this, the dignitary drew from his pocket a pair of manacles, which he proceeded to attach to the person of his prisoner. Stop,’ says Lincoln, ‘I shall make no resistance; I shall of course go with you; you need not put these things upon me.’' But the plea was of no avail. The official could not lose the opportunity for revenging the fright he had got at Wellington. So, kindly giving his captive permission to say a few words to his school, he drove off with his prisoner in chains; and that prisoner an unoffending Christian man, who would have scorned to make the least resistance to the writ which had been served. I ought to say that the valiant official did not get away until the outraged children had launched at him a good many epithets less complimentary than true.
The arrest completed, Davis proceeded to lodge his prisoner in the jail of your city, which was twelve miles distant. On the way, he was several times asked to remove the irons, but refused to do so, nor were the manacles unclasped till the prisoner had been taken into the interior of the jail, and introduced to Marshal Lowe. Then, when Lowe had sufficiently triumphed over his prey, the young man was turned loose among the felons who were to be his companions for the night. Precisely how desirable a lodging among thieves in a fetid cell swarming with rats was likely to be, you can imagine as well as I.
Presently, the prisoner made an effort to communicate with personal acquaintances in the city; but the greatest favor he could receive was the promise that a letter should be lodged in the Post Office (to get thence to its destination after he should be miles away.) But, though in bonds, the captive was honored with company. Two or three men came in, evidently either to sound or taunt him. One of the visitors was Dayton, Clerk of the House, who hails (and we always put on sackcloth and ashes when we acknowledge it,) from our place. As he was in cahoot' with Lowe when that worthy was man-hunting in Lorain, it was proper that he should be invited in to share the official’s triumph. Some of us wonder that we did not think of making some recompense for the protection he enjoyed at our hands, when his soul shivered before popular rage which his complicity with kidnapping roused, by hastening to Professor  Monroe, whether he was asked to do so or not, and telling him of the plight a neighbor was in.
Not to dwell on further particulars, I may say that the prisoner was kept with no food till the next morning at 3 o’clock, when Lowe started with him for Cleveland. At Cleveland the prisoner was discharged on his own recognizance, as soon as Judge Wilson could be found. Now, if manacles and imprisonment in a jail are not singular treatment for a man who is on his way to be discharged on his own recognizances, and whom the attending officer had reason to suppose would be so discharged, then I am altogether mistaken.
And I am still more mistaken if Davis and Lowe do not find, before they get through with this matter that kidnapping in Ohio and all its adjuncts are serious and expensive amusements. I promise you, sir, that the fire which this outrage has kindled in Lorain will not go out till an effort has been made to teach these arbitrary and insolent officials that freemen know what their rights are. Respectfully, yours,
H. E. PECK.

‘FELON FEAST' AT OBERLIN.
The thirty-seven indicted rescuers of Oberlin and Wellington had a festival-a dinner, at which a number of guests were invited, at Oberlin, on Tuesday of last week. The Divine blessing was invoked by the venerable Rev. JOHN KEEP. Letters were read from gentlemen invited, but detained from attendance. As samples of the spirit pervading this remarkable gathering, we give the regular toasts as published. There were also several pointed volunteer toasts and speeches, which in tone ring like the metal of ‘76.
1st. The inalienable rights of man-Founded in Nature as constituted by God, and well recited by our Fathers in the Declaration of Independence.
2d. Good will to man-The best bond of Society; the surest support of government; and never more happily developed than when at the call of the weak and oppressed, it resists the tyranny of wicked rulers.
3d. Loyalty to God, and loyalty to human government when it is loyal to God-the Patriotism which inspired our Fathers, and which shall prompt us and our children.
4th. Personal Sacrifices-The seed of to-day which brings the harvest of the morrow.
5th. The sovereign authority of the State, and the voice of the people-the refuge of American citizens from the tyrannies of federal enactments not sanctioned by justice and the Constitution.
6th. The alien and sedition law of 1798 and the fugitive slave act of 1860-Alike arbitrary, undemocratic, and unconstitutional. As did the one, so may the other rouse the country to a political and moral revolution, which shall restore the doctrines of personal liberty and State rights, which centralizing power has wantonly violated.
It is not often that men under indictment for a high misdemeanor, meet and invite their friends to a dinner party. Significant, if one looks at it with open eyes, is this demonstration against the execution of the infamous fugitive slave law.

HIGHWAYMEN AND BRAVOS
Correspondence of the N. Y. Tribune.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 22, 1859. The intestine strife which is rapidly rending in pieces the Democratic party broke out with great virulence in the secret session of the Senate yesterday. Mr. Hale was in the chair, and a discussion arose upon the merits of some nominations to office which had been sent in by the President. Mr. Pugh of Ohio denounced the President with great bitterness, accusing him of insincerity and insolence, and declaring that he meant to oppose and thwart him whenever and wherever he could.
Mr. Douglas spoke in the same strain, stigmatizing Mr. Buchanan’s recent appointments to office in the West in very severe terms. He intimated that the Buchanan Postmasters in Illinois were little better than thieves, and were so regarded by the people. If any thing was missing from the mails, the Postmasters were instinctively suspected of larceny.
These imputations on the standard-bearers of the Faithful, roused the ire of Mr. Fitch, who denied their justice, charged Mr. Douglas with uttering shameful calumnies, and denounced him as a rebel to the Democratic party.
Mr. Douglas haughtily replied that he was an unsubdued and successful rebel, and that neither the President nor his Senatorial followers could put him down. He then retorted upon the gentleman from Indiana his charges of falsehood and defamation. At this stage of the affair Mr. Hale, the Chairman, called the disputants to order, kindly suggesting, in his facetious way, that the harmony of the Democratic party would not be promoted by such displays of fraternal affection. The war of words still continuing, Mr. Jefferson Davis at length interposed, and sternly rebuked the scolding Senators. He told them they were talking like highwaymen and bravos’-I give you his exact language-and that their conduct was shameful, and disgraceful to the Senate. This brought them to their senses, and they subsided into silence.
This scene is said to have been the most violent and indecorous that has ever occurred in the Senate, even in secret session, where the proceedings are accompanied always with great freedom of manner and of language-the Senators fighting their cigars, and talking and discussing in the free and easy style of an after-dinner conversation.
<c04> 
DOUBLE MURDER BY A HORSE THIEF.
[From the Lawrence (Kansas) Republican, Dec. 31
Information reached us this morning. of the shooting and killing by a horse thief, of Samuel Stewart, and Reuben Palmer, of Eldorado. Both were Free State men., They were pursuing a horse thief in the Cherokee Nation, when he turned and shot and killed both.’-Topeka Tribune.
We hope that the above may prove untrue. Samuel Stewart was one of the noble men who stood by the cause of Kansas in its darkest hours, and most deadly perils, He was one of the prisoners confined at Lecompton for about six months on the false charges which served as a legal basis for the arrest and imprisonment of so many of our best men. Of late he has made his home at Eldorado. He was a worthy member of the Leavenworth Constitutional Convention, and, if the above account should prove true, his untimely death will be deplored by all who knew him.
Since writing the above, we have learned further particulars of this affair, which unfortunately leaves us but little room to doubt that Mr. Stewart has been killed. It seems that he and his companion had over-taken and arrested the horse thief, and were returning with him to Eldorado. They supposed they had thoroughly disarmed the villain, but it seems that he had a revolver secreted upon his person which they did not discover. While stopping at a hotel on the road, the thief asked Mr. Stewart to call the landlord and ‘they would have some fun.’ Stewart, not suspecting, stepped to the door, and hardly cleared it, when the wretch drew his revolver and shot Mr. Palmer, killing him on the spot. Steward’ heard the report of the pistol, and immediately sprang to the door, but, as he opened it, the villain shot him also, killing him instantly.  The affair has caused the greatest excitement at Eldorado, and a man called Hildebrand, supposed to be implicated in the affair somehow, has been whipped, and driven out of the country. Mr. Stewart leaves two orphan daughters to mourn his sudden and terrible death.

FALSEHOOD REFUTED.
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune.
SIR: As a native of the Island of Jamaica, I beg to state that the assertion of a writer in Wisconsin, signing himself Ogden Barrett, and quoted by you, that he has seen negroes in that Island, whip in hand, driving their women to fetch all the coal for the American steamers there, has not even the equivocal apology of an exaggeration. It is pure invention. The penalty in Jamaica for assaults on women and children is hard labor in the Penitentiary for any term not exceeding six mouths, on conviction before any two magistrates, not to mention the more summary application of Lynch law which assaults of so public and aggravated a nature-savoring, as they would, of the days of slavery-would be sure to drawdown of the fools who should dare to make any such demonstration as that mentioned by the veracious Mr. Barrett.
S. B. SLACK, late of The Jamaica Press. 
New York, Jan. 12, 1859.
PRESIDENT POLK’S SLAVES ON TRIAL—A NEGRO INSURRECTION. –A correspondent of the Memphis Avalanche furnishes the following account of a novel slave trial in Tallahatchie county:—
‘The case of the State against Giles and Emanuel, slaves belonging to Mrs. James K. Polk, of Nashville, was the last case of importance upon the State docket, and elicited much discussion from the bar, and feeling from the community at large. The defendants were charged with ‘a conspiracy to make insurrection,’ an offence under our law punishable with death. The evidence showed that the overseer, a timid man, and afraid of the negroes, was in the habit of calling upon his associates to assist him in correcting them; that upon one of such occasions, they resisted him and his friends, and apparently with concerted purpose.
Our State declares the term insurrection to mean ‘an armed assembly of slaves or freeholders, or both, having intent to resist or subvert lawful authority.’ The indictment having been drawn under this statute, Judge Fisher, the counsel for the defendants, contended with great force that it charged no legal offence, because the authority to be resisted or subverted must be governmental authority- that is, the power of the State itself; that the term lawful authority does not mean such authority as that of the master over his slave; and, although the law sanctions and regulates this magisterial authority, it is but an authority derived from a domestic relation-not the creature of the law, but existing independently of it. This view was not, however, sustained by Judge Cothran, and the case was submitted without argument to the jury, who found the defendants ‘guilty as charged.’ The case being one of life and death will, doubtless, be appealed; and, as the question to be determined is one of novelty and great importance, the bar look forward with much interest to the decision of the Appellate Court.’
REVOLUTION IN HAYTI. The schooner North Wind, Capt. Higgins, from Gonaives Jan. 1st, reports that a revolution broke out in Hayti, Dec. 22d, between the Haytien Government and a party of Republicans headed by General Goffard, one of the Haytien Generals. He took the city of Gonaives, and was proclaimed President. He entered the city with only four men. The inhabitants are joining Gen. Goffard wherever he goes. Aux Cayes, Jacmel and all the South have declared in his favor. Capt. Higgins passed St. Marks on the night of January 1st, and saw the place in flames, on account probably of a division of opinion of the inhabitants (St. Marks is a small fortified town). Goffard was to enter that place on that day, and probably did so, but met with some opposition from a party of Solouque’s adherents.
HAYTI.-In an article on the insurrection in this island, the New York Herald says the area of the island is about 29,000 square miles, one-third of which is comprised in the empire of Hayti and two-thirds in the Dominican republic. The population of Hayti is 650,000, and that of the republic of Dominica 150,000, nine-tenths of whom are of African descent, and the remainder of the Spanish and Indian races. The capital of the republic is the city of St. Domingo, built by Bartholomew Columbus, brother of the great discoverer, in 1496. The army numbers about 12,000 men, while that of Solouque is as large as 20,000; and he has a navy composed of four small vessels and one steamer. The climate of the island is one of the most delightful in the world, the soil rich and the scenery superb; but its productiveness has declined under the miserable and corrupt rule with which it has been afflicted; the export of coffee and tobacco has fallen off almost to nothing, and sugar is actually imported from the United States into a country where it once formed a rich and abundant crop.
A THREATENED CUBA MASSACRE.-The Havana correspondent of the Charleston Mercury states that the slaves, as usual at the close of the New Year holidays, took possession of the town, and there were rumors that they intended to close their jubilee by a general massacre of every white person they found on the streets. The Captain-General, however, had the city police and military paroles instructed, resulting in the arrest of some 200 of them armed with long bladed and sharp pointed knives. A hardware merchant has also been arrested for selling them the weapons.
THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW OPPRESSION. The case of the United States vs. S. M. Booth of Milwaukee, Wis., is now before the U. S. Supreme Court at Washington. Mr. Booth was prosecuted for rendering assistance in the escape of a fugitive slave, and the Supreme Court of Wisconsin decided, that the Fugitive Slave Law was unconstitutional, and discharged Booth. The case was carried by the government to the U. S. Supreme Court, and the Washington correspondent of the Tribune says: 
‘Attorney-General Black delivered in the Supreme Court to-day an on elaborate article on the famous Milwaukee Fugitive Slave case. The government wishes the United States Supreme Court to reverse the decision of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, pronouncing the Fugitive Slave Law unconstitutional, and discharging Booth on a habeas corpus. No one appeared for Wisconsin, as the Supreme Court of that State does not acknowledge the right of the United States Supreme Court to take cognizance of their decision that the Fugitive Slave Law is unconstitutional. Mr. Black talked of attaching the Wisconsin Judges for contempt, but said that the government would mag­nanimously refrain from doing so.’
CAPTURE OF SLAVES ON THE AFRICAN COAST. A letter from Havana to the Savannah Republican says:
‘The schooner Kate Ellen, which formerly hailed from Portland, and was partly owned by a person named Johnson, at Matanzas, at which port she fitted out some little time since, has been captured by a British cruiser on the coast of Africa, having been detected in being engaged in the African Slave Trade. The brig Rufus Souls, formerly of New Orleans, which also fitted out some time since, at Matanzas, was captured on the 11th of October last, off Cape Bengy, on the S. W. coast of Africa, by the British steam cruiser Viper. The Rufus Soul had her slave deck fitted, and was to have embarked her living cargo on the night of the day in which she was captured.
<c05>
UNDERGROUND. They run to Abolition, color and Underground Railroads in Syracuse. They have in that city the principal depot of the Underground Road. They help keep the road in order. On the 25th and 26th inst, they were expected to come together at the house of the Rev. Mr. Loguen, colored, and help sustain him in his operations for the relief of fugitives passing through the city. Mr. Loguen ‘keeps the depot.’ As if some attraction were necessary to bring the people of the Salt City together, it is advertised that twenty escaped fugitives will be at Mr. L.’s on the 26th, to show the people what sort of creatures they are. Mr. Loguen has assisted between one and two hundred persons in their escape from Slavery during the past year.- Utica Observer.
There was a striking spectacle afforded to the street public of Washington, near the Baltimore railroad depot, Friday. A string of slaves, with a white man at their head, loaded pistol in hand, and another in the rear armed in like manner, marched from some private slave pen to the depot to take the cars for Baltimore, where they were to be sold. Shame!

NEW YORK STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Third Annual Anti-Slavery Convention, for the State of New York, will be held at ALBANY, on MONDAY, TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY, January 31, and February 1 and 2, 1859.
This Convention, held under the auspices of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and of annual recurrence, is important, not only for its local effect, but, through representatives in attendance, and members of the Legislature, is designed to reach all parts of the State. At no previous period since the commencement of the Anti-Slavery struggle has there been a more pressing need of united, earnest and untiring effort for the immediate and entire abolition of chattel slavery. While the great question, in some of its aspects, is now more widely and earnestly discussed than heretofore, it is also true that the aggregate number of slaves was never before so large, and never so rapidly increasing; that, besides the revolting features of slave-breeding and the inter-State slave trade, the African slave trade is now virtually reopened; that heroic fugitives may still be hunted with impunity, and their friends persecuted, fined and imprisoned on the soil of New York; that the schemes of slave propagandism by those ‘ in authority,’ were never more threatening, bold and defiant.
Let the friends of impartial freedom, throughout the State, spare no efforts to render this Convention such, in character and influence, as the exigencies of the cause demand. Give, if possible, your personal presence, your friendly counsel and co-operation. Let every county in the State be represented by one or more delegates. 
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, WENDELL PHILLIPS, PARKER PILLSBURY, SUSAN B. ANTHONY, OLIVER JOHNSON. AARON M. POWELL, and other speakers will be in attendance.
The Convention will be held in ASSOCIATION HALL; the opening session, on Monday evening, at half-past 7 o’clock.
The Question Settled!- Those eminent men, Dr. James Clark, Physician to Queen Victoria, and Dr. Hughes Bennett, say that consumption, can be cured. Dr. Wistar knew this when he discovered his Balsam of Wild Cherry, and experience has proved the correctness of his opinion.
RALPH WALDO EMERSON will read a Lecture on ‘Culture, on Sunday morning next, Jan. 30, at the Music Hall, before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society.  E. H. HEYWOOD will speak as follows, viz.:-
In Clinton, (Lyceum lecture,) Friday, Jan. 28.
Bolton, Saturday, Jan 29.
Clinton, Sunday, Jan 30.
Lancaster, Monday, Jan 31.
Leominster (Lyceum lecture,) Wednesday, Feb. 2.
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak’ at Stoneham, Sunday, Jan. 30.
SPRINGFIELD.-PARKER PILLSBURY, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak in HAMPDEN HALL, Springfield, on Sunday, Jan. 30th, afternoon and evening.
WANTS A SITUATION.- A widow lady wishes to get a situation to wait on a lady, or to work as seamstress in a respectable family.
Apply at this office, or at 6 Stillman street.
TO THE FRIENDS OF THE FUGITIVE.-A young able-bodied Fugitive, from the South, wants a place. He can take care of cattle, drive horses, wait and tend, chop wood, or work on a farm. Apply to R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office, 21" Cornhill, or by letter to FRANCIS JACKSON.
DIED- In Salem, (Mass.) January 20th, JOSEPH H. PUTNAM, aged 33.
The announcement of this dispensation of Providence will convey sadness to the hearts of a large circle, to whom the deceased was endeared by a combination of qualities, both of head and heart, which shone out in his beautiful and consistent daily life with rare brilliancy.
His mental and moral characteristics gave, in early life, a promise which was abundantly realized when he ascended the platform of man's estate. The few years that he served as assistant School Teacher in Boston, his native city, contributed to develop a prominent trait in his character a love of that order which is 'Heaven's first law.’
Two years since, he returned from a successful business sojourn in Australia; and his family and friends indulged the fond hope of long basking in the sunlight of his genial society; for home and friends were to him a golden link of associations, the severing of which was indeed the pang that laded heavily the word, ‘ Farewell!’
Yet, in view of his approaching dissolution, he gathered inspiration from his chosen words-‘Fortitude and Resignation.’
His soul abhorred meanness and duplicity in every phase, in condemnation of which he was very outspoken.
To the anti-slavery cause he gave an intelligent and unwavering support, being one of those <illegible> colored Americans, whose theory is hatred of <illegible> whose practice coincides therewith.
He was an obedient son, an affectionate brother, a faithful husband, a kind father, and to his friends as steadfast as truth itself. His mission on earth was brief indeed, compared with the usual allotment of man; but he was diligent and progressive, and reaped the reward of well-doing. His body now reposes in Harmony Grove, and his soul revels in ‘Love, Rest, and Heaven.’ W. C. N.
We have known the deceased friend, to whom the above tribute is so justly paid, from his early youth up; known him to esteem and admire him for his exemplary deportment, his intellectual and moral development, his brilliant promise; and it is hard to part with him at a time like this, at so early and unexpected a period.
'Early hath the spoiler found thee,
Brother of our love! 
Winter’s frozen earth around thee, 
And its storms above!
Evermore that turf lie brightly, 
And, with future flowers, 
O’er thy slumbers fresh and brightly
Blow the summer flowers! 
If the spirit ever gases
From its journeyings back; 
If th’ immortal ever traces 
O'er its mortal track; 
Wilt thou not, O brother, meet us
Sometimes on our way, 
And, in hours of sadness, greet us.
As a spirit may 
In Philadelphia, Jan. 17, JOHN C. HENSON, .of <illegible>, N. J., aged 83.
<c06>
TO DYSPEPTICS,
And all who suffer the tortures which the disease inflicts, in one form or another of its many phases: Cure yourselves permanently and speedily by using
The Oxygenated Bitters,
The ‘Weekly Noyalette,’ of Sept. 18, says:
Dyspepsia is one of the prevailing diseases of our country. This is owing both to climate and the almost universal habit of eating our meals too rapidly to admit of proper digestion. But, in spite of these adverse circumstances, this disease, even when it becomes chronic, disappears rapidly by the use of the Oxygenated Bitters, which have been found to prove an infallible remedy.
Front the Publisher of a weekly circulated Magazine.
MESSRS. S. W. FOWLE & CO: I have taken three bottles of the Oxygenated Bitters, and have derived great benefit from their use. I have been much troubled with Dyspepsia for several years, and found nothing that afforded me any relief until 1 used the Bitters. I most cheerfully recommend them to all who are afflicted with this troublesome and stubborn complaint.
JAMES ROBINSON, 
of the ‘ Student and Schoolmaster.’
From Gen. A. C. DODGE, our Minister to Spain.
WASHINGTON, D. C., May 18. 
DR. GEO. B. GREEN: DEAR SIR- The Oxygenated Bitters with which you were so kind as to furnish me, have had a most salutary effect in my case. I was troubled with Dyspepsia for four years, during which time I tried many remedies, but never met with any so good as your Bitters. I am now in the enjoyment of good health, and I hope and believe that all who use the Oxygenated Bitters will find them as serviceable as I have found them.
With high respect, your ob’t servant.
A. C. DODGE. 
Prepared by SFTH W. FOWLE & CO., BOSTON, and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England. 
Jan. 21-4tis 

PHRENOLOGICAL
EXAMINATIONS,
142 Washington Street, Boston. ROOMS OPEN DAY AND EVENING. Correct Examinations and Advice as to
1st Choice of Occupation.
2d Health, Habits and Diet.
3d. Matrimonial Adaptation 
4th. Children -their management.
5th. Choice of Help, Clerks, &c. 6th. Self-Improvement in general.
As a matter of conveniences, Daguerreotypes may be sent us by mail, and a written description will be returned at our regular price.
CLASSES are in operation during the Fall, Winter, and Spring. Students can enter at any time, and be thoroughly qualified for PRACTICAL EXAMINERS.
LECTURES. Invitations to lecture in any of the cities, towns, or villages of New England, before Lyceums, or otherwise, will be considered, and when practicable accepted.
BOOKS on Phrenology, Physiology, Water Cure, and the Natural Sciences generally, including all of Fowler & Well' publications, at wholesale and retail.
IMPROVED PHRENOLOGICAL BUST and Chart, including late discoveries and divisions of the Organs.
D. P. BUTLER, (LATE FOWLER, WELLS & CO.)

JAMESTOWN INSTITUTE.
IN May last, we opened our School with only one pupil as boarder, and no prospect of a second; with no expression of confidence in our peculiar method from any one, and without counsel or aid. We have now twenty-eight pupils in the family, four Assistant Teachers, a Matron, and a lady to superintend the wardrobe of the children. We daily receive letters of inquiry from all parts of the country-more than  we can properly answer. Each month our family has been larger than the preceding, and as happy a family as we ever saw together. Each week we have promise of more, and a GREATER WORK OPENS BEFORE US THAN WE CAN POSSIBLY PERFORM ALONE.
Our method is original and very peculiar. We never reward merit nor punish transgression, but have more confidence than ever that ‘the rank weeds that infest the moral character of children will wither and die’ in an atmosphere of love and purity. We never assign lessons to be committed to memory, but our pupils give their own thoughts in their own words, and go to their books as they go to the table for the food they need and crave. To a great extent we have won them from mere PLAY to amusements that develop as well as entertain. The sexes associate with a freedom, purity and beauty we are proud to have observed and examined.
A few weeks ago, a stranger whom we had never before seen, called on us and carefully inquired into our method, and we have just received his ‘Christmas gift ’of $100, as an expression of his appreciation of our plan and method. This led us to publish this circular, believing our movement to be demanded by human progress, and that others desire to aid such an Institution.
With the donation received we shall found a Juvenile Library, and we invite donations of juvenile and scientific books and periodicals, and especially of tools and specimens for a Geological Cabinet. We shall welcome pecuniary aid in any form. If ten persons would take scholarships for one year, it might double the practical value of the labors of five teachers
More than all, we need an energetic and loving man to unite with us in this work-a manly man, who can relieve us of all duties except the school and ' general care. We need a Matron who knows she has love enough to soothe the troubled spirits of children, and strengthen their good resolutions.
S. Albro, Esq., of Buffalo, and A. E. Newton, of Boston, have spent some time with us, and know something of our plans and purposes. Our patrons are:
George Kellog, 8 University place, New York City.
J. Seymour Brown, 112 Lex. Av.New York City.
M. S. Roberts, Esq., Pekin, Niagara Co., N. Y,
Dr. C. Parker, Fredonia, Chaut. Co., N. Y.,
Dr. J. F. Carter. Laona, Chaut. Co., N.Y.,
J. G. Rood, Esq., Brigham, Chaut. Co., N.Y.,
David Mc Wethy. Wethersfield, Spring, N.Y.,
Dr. S. R. Mettler, Hartford, Conn.
Asa H. Rogers, Esq., Waterbury, N.Y.,
Wm. Ritchie, Esq., Springfield, Mass.
Amand S. Brett, St. Louis, Mo. 
William Paul, Esq., Peru, Ill
J. L. McCormic, Esq., Peru. Ill.
Dr. J. F. Weeks, Peru. Ill.
Mrs. H. Whitehead, Peru, Ill
Jesse Blinn, Esq., Rockford III
J. M. Sterling, Esq., Rockford. III.  
C. J. Fox, Esq. Foxbury, Forest Co., Pa.
Louis Belrose. Philadelphia, Pa. 
We refer inquirers to any of the above, but more especially to the school and family, where we shall welcome the most careful inquiry and the most faithful criticism.
O. H. WELLINGTON.
Jamestown, N. Y. Jan. 1, 1859.

TWO
FREE LECTURES
EVERY WEEK,
AT LINDEN HALL, 16 SUMMER ST., BOSTON.
BY MISS S D. CARMAN.
Physiological, Mechanical & Pathological Physician.
On THURSDAY EVENINGS, at 7 o’clock. to Gentlemen and Ladies, and on FRIDAY AFTERNOONS, at 3 o’clock, to Ladies only. The other four days devoted to country practice.
Physicians, Invalids, Parents, Teachers, Guardians and Philanthropists will find science, common sense and medical skill illustrated and applied to the wants of each and all.
The only scientific SKIRT SUPPORTER, with Braces of all kinds, and CHAIRS to correct and support the Spine, for sale and fitted at her office, Linden Hall,- open only on Friday and Saturday, for patients and visitors, from 9 A. M. to 7 P. M.
Beware of imposition practised by pretenders who recommend worthless and useless articles. 01 6m

John Quincy Adams.
JUST PUBLISHED, by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield Street, Boston, in one large handsome octavo volume of 459 pages, ‘Twelve Messages from the Spirit JOHN QUINCY ADAMS,’ through Joseph D. Stiles, Medium, to Josiah Brigham, Quincy-written in the peculiar handwriting of Mr. Adams.
This unique work contains the autographs of Mr. Adams, Mrs. Abigail Adams, and George Washington -first, as recorded by themselves when in the body -and second, as written by them through <illegible> agency.
Price $1.50.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator
TO THE DAUGHTERS OF AMERICA.
Ye daughters of America,
This far-famed happy land,
Ye who in pleasant circles shine,
And round the fire side stand-
Ye who are on Ambition’s mount
With laurel on the brow;
Ye who within the costly fane
In worship meekly bow-
Ye who have graced the college halls,
And won an envied name;
And walk with agile step the path
That leads to wealth and fame-
Ye who beside the bed of pain
Display your love and skill,
And in the dangerous, dying hour
Your sacred trust fulfil-
Oh, let the prayer your sisters breathe,
In brutish Slavery’s mart,
For freedom and a happy home,
Reach and enlist the heart.
Oh, think while you with all most dear
Have naught to cause a sigh.
The cursed law of slavery
Dissevers every tie.
The mother’s heart, however black,
Is loving at thine own;
And lustful man, in pride and power,
Heeds not the hapless moan.
Then, woman, act for the oppressed,
Thou heat a strength untold;
Then up, and for thy kindred speak
In accents strong and bold.
In God and on thy strength rely,
And even in halls of State,
In no far-distant, future day,
Thou shalt for truth debate.
Wherever men may nobly stand,
There is thy station too;
Oh, then like woman may you act,
Be noble, great, and true!
Manchester. Jan. 1859. SYLVESTER.

For the Liberator.
MARION.
Her dark eyes were so beautiful, her face so radiant fair,
And round it fell, in clustering curls, a wealth of raven hair:
Her voice was oh, so musical, her smile so very bright,
And You’d think she lived in heaven, that made her eyes so light,
Revealing life so rich within you longed and prayed to find
God’s glorious truth, that brings on earth a heaven Within the mind. KATE.

THE REFORMER.
Calm, and earnest, and unshrinking,
In his study, lone and still,
Sat a great reformer, thinking
Of the past, and promise drinking
Of the future’s good and ill.
Mild of mien, and strong of spirit,
He had scorned deceptive arts:
Fashion swayed him less than merit,
And the fame he would inherit
Was the love of honest hearts.
He had met the world’s derision,
But he yielded not to fear;
For the soul-inspiring vision
Of the future’s bright elysian
Filled his noble heart with cheer.
What to him were idle praises.
At the sacrifice of right?
What were Fortune’s ruddy blazes,
Or the throne which Triumph raises,
Coming with a ban and blight?
As his inspiration bore him
Through the night of future years,
Doubt and Error fled before him.
And a halo circled o’er him
Bright as Heaven’s arched bow appears.
Perfect freedom of opinion
Blessed the glorious coming time;
Virtue held supreme dominion.
And fair Truth on airy pinion
Soared in majesty sublime.
Thus comparing Past and Present
With the Future’s destiny,
Home still made his path way pleasant.
While he sheltered king and peasant
With his broad philanthropy.
And at each Successive viewing
Of the shifting scenes of life,
He was ardently pursuing
Truth and goodness, and renewing
Strength to conquer in the strife.

From the Independent Democrat.
TO JOHN G.WHITTIER.
BY SILAS KETCHUM.
Bard of the North! We hear thy strain
Ring o’er our rugged Northern Clime,
Whose ever great and noble hearts
With warmth beat back responsive time.
The Laborers hear, and from the field
And workshop rises high thy name;
For honest men rejoice to give
To well-earned worth the meed of fame.
Along these valleys, hills and streams
That gave the noble Indian birth.
Peals the loud not to tell our race
His untold dignity and worth.
Friend of the Bondman! as the rock
Beneath the sledge’s blow will give,
So walls and chains, beneath thy words,
Give way to let the victim live.
Friend of Humanity! from age
To age shall all revere thy pen.
As working out God’s noblest law,
Or serving God in serving men!
Measure and verse are to thy words
As wings are unto eagles given;
As volume to the mountain stream,
Or speed unto the bolt from heaven.
Brother, go on! the field is large.
The world is sick, and groans with pains;
Deceit and Crime are nursed by law,
And bondmen clank appealing chains.
The day demands an Arm of Iron,
A Heart of Love, a spirit strong,
To build for Mercy. Truth and Right,
A throne upon the tomb of wrong
Amherst, Dec.22, 1859.

MUSIC.
How soft the music of those village bells,
Falling at intervals upon the ear
In cadence sweet! now dying all away,
Now pealing lone again and louder still,
Clear and <illegible> as the gale comes on.
With easy force it opens all the cells
Where mem’ry slept. Wherever I have heard
A kindred melody, the scene recurs
And with it all its pleasures and its pains
<c02>
The Liberator.
ADIN BALLOU ON THE INSPIRATION OF THE BIBLE.
FRIEND GARRISON:
Our community is passing through a most healthy excitement. The self-styled Evangelical sects, with the aid of some would-be liberals, have instituted a course of lectures on the Inspiration or claims of the Bible. The resident ministers, and some of their ministerial brethren from abroad, have put forth their efforts to prove the plenary inspiration of the Scriptures. This absurd and injurious claim has been met in meetings of lively discussion. The pulse is beating warm in theological circles.
Of course the platform. ruled by Ministerial authority, has been foreclosed against all honest liberals. Our work of investigation has been outside, and proved effectual. Last Sunday evening, at the request of numerous citizens, Adin Ballou, of Hopedale, gave a lecture on the Inspiration of the Bible. It is needless to say that the subject was elucidated in a clear and masterly manner. All who are acquainted with Mr. B. know his ability and honesty of purpose. It was a great success. Never was our spacious Town Hall packed closer with patient and gratified auditors. And, as a matter of regret, we mention the fact that hundreds were unable to find room even to stand. We took note of time, not impatiently but to regret its flight, and for one hour and a half the lecturer, by close logic and acumen, instructed us in the true merits of the Bible.
I am happy to say that a synopsis of this lecture is needless, since in a few days it is to be issued. The care and precision with which Mr. Ballou has written out his views on the important question of Inspiration will make it a pamphlet of great value.
Next Sunday evening, Parker Pillsbury is to give us his lecture on the French Revolution. The object of this is to meet the current clerical argument, that the Revolution in question was the sole result of infidelity. We hail the present agitation with joy, believing that right and humanity have much to gain.
‘Thrice is he armed
Who hath his quarrel just.’
G W. S.
Milford. Jan, 17, 1859.
We are obliged to an unknown correspondent, ‘MULATICO,’ for translating the following sketch of the life of a black man of great musical genius, which has recently appeared in a Paris journal. It will be read with interest and pleasure.

Translated for the Liberator.
CLAUDE BRINDIS DE SALAS.
It is impossible to observe without admiration of the fact, that those men who have realized great things on the stage of life, and have surpassed their contemporaries, have all been-or, at least, the greater part of them-of obscure origin. It were useless to stop to cite examples in support of a matter so well known, and to enumerate them in this short article would be to annoy the reader unnecessarily. It is in this manner, without doubt, that nature wishes to demonstrate to the world, that to her alone, and not to human wisdom, is due the existence of great men. She, beginning to exercise her power at a period of 1ife when this wisdom can do nothing, obliges us to admit that all is her work.
Claude Brindis de Salas, if we consider the place in which he was born, and the epoch, ought undoubtedly to be classed with those men who have distinguished themselves for good actions, and whose life, as will be shown in this narrative, may be considered an example of what a combination of good luck and talents may accomplish.
The family of this person confuted of his parents and several brothers, all of pure black African origin, but living in a state of respectable industry to which this race may attain. In the year 1800, Claude Brindis was born in Havana, and nature, already preparing for him a station attained only with great difficulty by persons of his class, permitted, a few days after his birth, that his mother should have the honor to be chosen nurse to the most excellent Count, Don Jose Maria Chacon, head of one of the moat illustrious families of Cuos. On account of her good conduct, she had previously been employed as wet nurse to a brother of the first-born of said house of Chacon. This double foster-brothership, the great retirement in which the nobles of Havana were at that time educated, and the good character of the son of the nurse, attracted the attention of his excellent foster brother; and from that moment, he and his mother became the recipients of the greatest kindness and favors, corresponding with the patriarchal character of the Havanese.
The little negro was a trifle more than fourteen years of age, when, in view of the great taste he manifested for music, they placed himns a pupil in the Academy of the distinguished Professor, Ignatius Calvo, well known in Cuba for his musical talents, as also for his worthy emulation of the not leas celebrated Thomas Alarcon. As the pupil advanced in his studies, he distinguished himself as a singer, and the excellence of his voice was such, that he was in demand at all great festivals, and was asked, as a great favor, that his voice might be heard, as ‘his treble was unequalled. ’At that time, the island was governed by his Excellency, the Marquis of Somervelos, who had to assist at a feast in the convent of Our Lady de Mercedes, and where, delighted to hear so fine a voice, he took pains to inform himself about the circumstances of the singer, when he desired to see him. Now begins the true epoch of the musical triumphs of our hero. The community, or the largest part of it, endeavored to get an introduction to the young singer., The Governor showered eulogiums and favors on him; advised him to continue his studies with diligence and constancy; gave him a gold coin valued at seventeen dollars, and offered him his protection. Friendly and enthusiastic gifts from others followed on that, to Brindis, memorable day, and he returned home with a sum amounting to nearly a hundred dollars-the total amount of the donations made by his auditors.
Nature did not confine Brindis to two talents-two faculties; he was familiar with dancing, and for a long time a director in and teacher of this art to the most distinguished youths, including the families of the Governors. He even eclipsed professors of greater reputation.
Hardly was Brindis out of his boyhood, when he appeared as leader of a large and select orchestra. His first step then was to offer his services to his distinguished protectors, who gave him the appointment of musical director at the grand entertainments of his Excellency, which post he filled till the termination of the Count’s administration.
In 1837, he was elected musical conductor at a great banquet given by the garrison in honor of his Excellency, Michael Tacon, Governor of the island. There he demonstrated the extent of his knowledge of his art by playing his first composition, which was so well received by all present, as well as by Tacon, that the latter selected him to direct the band on the occasion of the dedication of the flag of the Havana regiment: and at that of the inauguration of the Place of Arms, he paid him the same compliment.
When the Marquis of St. Philip and St. James complimented Gen. Bertrand with a ball, which was attended by a great number of foreigners, noblemen, authorities in a word, by the elite of Havana society, Brindis, as usual, attracted universal attention; and General Ullos, of the marines, gave him charge of the orchestras during the royal feasts celebrated at the majority of Queen Isabella II in short, the fine character, engaging manner, and elegant air, united with the talents of this negro, made him an indispensable auxiliary aft every entertainment given by the ability and gentry. He even experienced the hap-
<c03>
piness of being crowned at a ball by several ladies to whom he had inscribed his exquisite compositions.
The Corporation of Havana submitted him to a rigorous examination, from which became forth ‘Maestro Composer and Musician compositions were popular in Havana, and foreign papers even noticed them favorably.
Brindis was, besides, director of the orchestras of various Philharmonic and dramatic Societies, and figured at the principal concerts; obtaining from the first honorable mention-as he also did from one of the greatest Professors of the island, Mr. Roffdin, for having distinguished himself at a musical concert composed of nine orchestras.
We will not conclude this sketch without saying that Brindis served his Queen as sub-lieutenant in the (now extinguished) colored regiment of Havana, and that he dedicated to her a richly bound collection of his compositions.
His absence of eight years from the island did not obliterate from the minds of his friends the remembrance of his good qualities and talents. On his return from the province of Merida, where he gathered not a few laurels, he met in Havana a great many friends; and if it is true the great and rapid progress which the opulent capital of Cuba daily makes attracts to it talent of every kind of the highest order, it is also true that that does not prevent Brindis from again filling a respectable station, and acquiring the title of sympathetic friend and persevering person, by which he is generally distinguished at the present time.
This sketch has two objects. 1st. To inscribe a remembrance from this land to the man who contributed to make our youthful days pass pleasantly. 2d. To verify the assertion with which we prefaced it, respecting the great results which are almost always obtained, even from the most barren natures, by civilization, education and protection.
(Signed) SABINO LASADA.

CRIMINAL PAPERS. NO. III.
BY CHAKLES SPEAK.
THE GALLOWS.
Since my last paper, the Governor has commuted the sentence of Jones of Springfield, and thus settled the whole matter, probably concluding that he was not well enough to be hung! Ere this time, he is laboring in the State Prison, with the sad prospect of a life-imprisonment. There are now about thirty criminals under a life-sentence in our Prison. The next step probably will be so to modify the law that no execution will take place, save on those who commit murder in the prison. The Governor’s message looks that way. The Warden is afraid, though he has a plenty of guns and revolvers, and can at any moment order the marines from the Navy Yard to his assistance! What wonderful courage! What new law will be enacted against prison-keepers when they murder the inmates is very uncertain. We see that when the matter of killing the poor negro convict in Auburn, by showering to death, was brought up, it was decided that this horrid act was an error of judgment! Wonderful! I suppose they said, it is only a negro! When the murders happened in our State Prison, the whole country was in arms, ready to kill the culprits on the spot, without judge or jury! What a mighty difference between murdering a keeper and murdering a convict! Even the New York Journal of Commerce, with all its horror of broaching the ‘negro question,’ ventured to say that even convict life should be cared for! What a magnanimous state! to hang women and boys, and yet to spread the mantle of charity over the prison-keeper who deliberately kills a negro convict who was known to be uniformly kind in his deportment, and industrious in his habits! But, enough. Massachusetts is not to be disgraced, at least at present, by another execution. The abandoned and criminal population, and the evangelical supporters of the gallows, clergy, prostitutes and all, will have to wait awhile before they can have their thirst slaked for blood at the foot of the gallows. The passage in Genesis sleeps for the present. Legal murders are not very fashionable just now. There are probably three things that will never occur again in Massachusetts. There will never again be a woman or a boy hung, or a public execution. So much is granted. Another wonderful thing! even Gen. Cushing, last winter, introduced a bill defining murder, and dividing the crime into two degrees. Now nobody suspects Gen. Cushing to be a reformer, yet it is remarkable what strange instruments the Lord makes use of, that even this man should have been induced to endorse a bill which will really do more to abolish capital punishment than the labors of philanthropists for years! We hardly dare to whisper this, for fear the General should learn that for once he had pleased even the philanthropists; for he is such a perfect hater of human flesh when connected with crime, or when in black, that he would bring his whole legislative power to repeal any act that favored either. Well may the philanthropists take courage. The last woman hung was Rachel Whall, on the Boston Common. The death-warrant was signed by John Hancock-we trust with not quite so bold a hand as that which headed the Declaration of Independence!

INFORMATION DESIRED.
FRIEND GARRISON:
It is to be regretted that our excellent friend Higginson, in his remarks at the recent meeting in Worcester, did not give the name of the crawling reptile whose relative and manager contrived to wriggle it self into his anti-slavery presence with the insulting proposition pendent from its proboscis, for our friend to write spiritual articles for its benefit, provided he could do so, and ‘say nothing about slavery.’ It is due from friend Higginson to the Spiritual papers and their patrons, to make the name of the thing whose manager had the meanness to approach him with such an insulting proposition, as public as the fact itself. I have taken a Spiritual paper published in Boston for several years, and among other pleasant things connected with its perusal, I thought I had discovered, in its chief editor at least, some evidences that he belonged to a class of beings known among naturalists as upright vertebrates. Now, if I have been deceived, I desire to know it, and I will shake the thing from my hands as quickly as it is said that Paul shook the viper from his, and for the same reason.
I confess to a considerable degree of confidence in the facts, phenomena and usefulness of Spiritualism; but I have no idea of supporting a Spiritual paper that dares not say that its soul is its own, in the presence of slavery, that bloated pet of both Church and State in our besotted republic; neither would I sustain the Liberator, should it become thus craven-hearted and cowardly; a contingency, I trust, which is among the things impossible. Let the paper be named.
Yours, for whatever is good, wherever found,
E. W. TWING.
Springfield, Jan. 17, 1859.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
In your paper of Jan. 14, it is reported of a meeting held in Worcester, that T. W. Higginson said that he had been solicited to contribute to a Spiritual paper, with the proviso that he should say nothing on the subject of slavery.
Now, I am a subscriber to a Spiritual paper, but I do not, knowingly, intend to uphold any wrong, come what will. I therefore feel it due to the cause of truth that friend Higginson should give, through the Liberator, the name of the paper which would gag the mouth of him who would speak for the poor and down-trodden. I would not trouble you with this, but the cause of truth demands it.
Yours, for the redemption of man
S. MITCHELL.
Cornville, (Me.) Jan. 16, <illegible>
<c04>
WOMEN AND WORK.
‘WOMEN AND WORK,’ by Barbara Leigh Smith Bodichon, -with an Introduction by Catharine M. Sedgwick,’ is the title of a neat and sensible little pamphlet, just published by C. S. Francis & Co., 554 Broadway, New York. Below we give Miss Sedgwick’s Introduction.
Religious works and moral essays written for the English public, require some modification to meet the wants of the American people.
We are at a different stage in civilization-in a different position. We have different modes of education, different modes of life, and far different prospects. We are nut consolidated by stable laws, by usage, by hereditary customs, by inexorable prejudices; in short, we are still plastic, and fusible, while, for any great change, they moat pass through the process of re-casting. Therefore we have an easier work, if a wider and more solemn responsibility, thaw the English people.
These truths have induced me (at the earnest solicitation of a friend,) to write a short preface to the admirable Tract of Madam Bodichon, not, certainly, in the expectation of enhancing its intrinsic worth, but affectionately to ask my country-women to consider the value of her theory, and to make some suggestions as to its adaptation to our wants.
It is the Christian theory of our social organization, that no class among us is condemned to perpetual labor, and none, (like the English Aristocracy) exempt from it. Labor-work, should, therefore, have no plebeian brand among us. Qualification for work should be the stamp of citizenship-the badge of nationality. Our women of every class have a right to this qualification. They are not to be resolved into non-entities, and to have no more effective existence in the republic than the Mahometans allow to their women in Heaven.
There is no country in the world where the mutations of fortune are more certain, and so sudden and pervading as in this. Gold mines are discovered in newly acquired regions. Inexhaustible mines of coal are found in our sterile mountains; lead mines crop out into gold, and the enterprises of commerce and the audacities of speculation convert the poor man of this year into the possessor of a palace or a principality of the next. From like causes spring a series of unforeseen failures and sudden disappointments. What security is there against them? and how is this security to be attained?-Only by qualification for work for which the wants of society will afford a market.
Is there any reference to this qualification in the education of the daughters of rich parents, beyond a faint and indefinite reference to the possibility of their becoming, by some improbable and fatal reverse of fortune, Teachers?
And how are they qualified for this high office which implies a divine mission?-By their home education?-by the instruction they receive in the schools?-by their devotion to that instruction?- by the lives they lead in the interim between schooldays and married life, or the fixed condition of single (not) blessedness?
Are young ladies (ladies par excellence,) qualified in any one branch of education for professional Teachers? Do they study the science and art of music, and all its delicate attributes? Do they attempt to master the science and practice of drawing? Do they study any one foreign language as a future professor should? Do they aim to make themselves mistresses of their own language?-good mathematician!)-accurate grammarians-skilful chirographers, or even (though last, certainly not least,) good readers? And above all, do they endeavor to perfect themselves in the calmness, gentleness, and patience essential to the vocation of a Teacher?
Alas! these questions are sadly answered to us by most of the young girls whom we have seen sent to boarding-schools, with huge trunks filled with rich and richly trimmed dresses, and other drawing-room gear, into whose heads it seldom seems to enter that education consists in any thing beyond exile from luxurious homes, and gliding and dodging through tiresome lessons.
We believe that the education (so called) of the daughters of our farmers and mechanics is not better conducted. We know that it is common for them to be spared from household labor by unwisely tender mothers, and that the money spent in their education is devoted to obtaining a smattering of accomplishments.
Many parents will reject Madame Bodichon’s exhortations to provide their daughters with a profession, or trade, with which they may meet the exigencies of life. They expect their daughters to marry, and thus be provided for-the daughters themselves expect it. But it may be well for both parent and child to consider the chances against the provision. Marriage may come, and a life of pecuniary adversity, or a widowhood of penury may follow-or marriage may not come at all. As civilization (so called,) goes on multiplying wants, and converting luxuries into necessities, the number of single women fearfully increases, and is in greatest proportion where there is moat refinement, whereby women are. least qualified to take care of themselves. In the simple lives of our ancestors, men were not deterred from marriage by the difficulty of meeting the expenses of their families. Their wives were help-meets. If they could not earn bread, they could make it. If they did not comprehend the ‘rights of women,’ they practised her duties. If they did not study political economy, and algebra, they knew the calculation by which the penny saved is the penny gained Instead of waiting to he served by costly and wasteful Milesians, they ‘looked well to the ways of their household, and ate not the bread of idleness.’ The Puritan wife did not ask her husband to be decked in French gauds, but was truly
‘The gentle wife who decks his board,
And makes his day to have no night.’
In giving the reasons that restrain men from marrying at the present day, and thereby diminish the chances of this absolute provision for women, we beg not to be misunderstood. We would not restrict women to the humble offices of maternal existence. The best instructed and most thoroughly accomplished women we have ever known have best understood and practised the saving arts of domestic life.
If parents, from pride, or prejudice, or honest judgment refuse to provide their daughters with a profession, or trade, by which their independence may be secured; if they persist in throwing them on one chance; if the daughters themselves persevere in trusting to this ‘neck or nothing ‘fate, then let them be qualified in that art and croft in which their grandmothers excelled, and which is now, more than at any preceding time, the necessary and bounden duty of every American wife, whatever be her condition. Never by women in any civilization was this art so needed, for never, we believe, were there such obstructions to prosperity and comfort as exist in our domestic service. And how are the young women of the luxurious classes prepared to meet them? How are the women of the middle classes fitted to overcome them? And how are the poorer class brained to rejoice in their exemption from then? If a parent looked forward to provision by marriage for his daughter, he should at least qualify her for that condition, and be ashamed to give her to her husband unless she is able to manage her house, to educate her children, to nurse her sick, and to train her servants-the inevitable destiny of American housewives. If she can do all this well, she is a productive partner, and as Madame Bodichon says, does as much for the support of her household as her husband.
It may, or may not be the duty of a mother to educate her children in the technical sense. But if her husband is straining every nerve to support his family, it would be both relief and help if she could save him the immense expense of our first rate schools, or the cost of a governess. If she be skilled in the art of nursing, she may stave off the fearful bill of the physician. If she know the cost and necessary consumption of provision, the keeping of accounts, and, in short, the whole art and mystery of domestic economy, she will not only preserve her husband from an immense amount of harassing care, but secure to him the safety, blessing and honor of living within his means.
If she be a qualified housewife, the great burden, perplexity and misery of house-keeping, from the rising to the setting sun, from oar Canadian frontier to far South of Mason and Dixon’s Line, will be- we will not say overcome, but moat certainly greatly diminished.
Overcome it cannot be while the present imperfection of domestic service exists. It is a rough saying, but true, ‘We mast take the bull by the horns’ We must fight the battle. We must accept God’s appointment. We must, year after year, receive into our families demi-savages-foreign people, ignorant of our modes of life, grown up in habits adverse to them. We must skillfully teach, firmly discipline, and patiently bear with them. We must do this for the lure of God and our neighbor-and for self-preservation; and when this, perchance, is 
<c05>
done, we must see them pass off into their vocation, married life, and take to our homes a new raw force! We know nothing of Southern life from observations; but we have no reason to believe that the Southern mistress of slaves has an easier task than the matron of the free North.
These, certainly, are not the light visions that float around the romantic beads of our young women when they look forward to marriage as a condition of sweet dependence and elegant leisure. These are not the calculations of their parents when they transfer them to their husbands for support and exemption from work.
But these hard tasks are in the future of every American married woman. Work in this form is her inevitable destiny. No amount of fortune, no contrivance of tenderness can secure her from it. Is it not, then, true wisdom to fit herself for her work? Ought she not to study the domestic arts as lawyers and doctors study the sciences of law and medicine?
We do not limit our suggestions to the young women of the luxurious classes. The daughters of our farmers and mechanics are not brought up in the steps of their frugal grandmothers. Their parents strain every nerve, not to qualify them for productive labor-but to enable them to dress showily, or if they fail of marriage, to half educate them for the genteel business of teaching.
We have limited our remarks mainly to the domestic education of expectants of marriage. We believe there are very few of our young women who are not within this class, and with them, as it seems to us, this great reform is needed. The administration of her family is the work before her. We are not among those who claim or desire the right of suffrage for women. We believe that her exemption from direct political duties is a privilege and blessing to her. But we also believe that, unless she be qualified by training and study for the government of her family, we shall continue to hear from one end of our broad land to the other the continual wailing and complaining of young wives, wearied, worried and worn by cooks, nurses, and house-maids as incompetent as themselves; and continue to see husbands obstructed, teased, disappointed, accepting life in a boarding-house as a refuge from homes which their young dreams had glorified with domestic happiness, found too late net to be the 
‘Bliss that has survived the fall.’
We have endeavored to show that if marriage is the destiny of our women, they should be prepared to make that destiny endurable to themselves and others. Madame Bodichon maintains that it does not exempt them from the wisdom and duty of qualifying themselves for work that will enable them to aid their husbands (if need be), or to secure their independence in the reverses and exigencies of life She sets forth the happiness of ‘leaving this work a little better than we find it;’ and she shows that new fields of labor are opened to women. ‘The barvent is plenteous, as yet few reapers have entered in.’
Mrs. Fry, Florence Nightingale, Miss Dix, and many other noble women have led the way to voluntary and beneficent work, fitted for women of education and refinement who have the great heart and sanctified courage to leave luxurious homes to ‘visit the sick and in prison.’ They are exceptional characters, but have they not solved the problem of employment for those single women-the spoiled children of luxury and idleness-who have hitherto fretted out life in invalidism and ennui? Monastic institutions in Catholic countries have absorbed this class, and anticipated death by seclusion from the world.
We are ready to reproach the Romish religion with its errors; let us not forget the example of its self-sacrificing daughters.
The heart of the Protestant world has been stirred by the beautiful mission of Florence Nightingale But similar work has long been quietly, patiently and efficiently done by the ‘Sisters of Charity,’ who have visited prisons, have trained poor children, have shrunk from no climate, nor noisome den, nor raging epidemic. And ladies of the Catholic Faith, not bound by VOW, have endowed and sustained hospitals and other charitable institutions.
The whole field of charitable work is open to the hand of woman. The rich woman with her wealth, (which is one of her talents,) is bidden to it; and the large class of women who must or should work for their living-who can no longer spin or stitch, can earn salaries, and put their souls into the work -work-houses, prisons, reformatories, penitentiaries and hospitals are open to them. They should be at least as well paid as men, for they are by nature better qualified for the tasks which call for delicate perceptions, ready sympathy and patient endurance Teaching is now almost the only employment that our young women are educated for, that comes with-in the range of their parents’ ambition for them, or their own forecast. But there are hosts of young women who have no taste fur teaching, and no natural fitness for it. There are many branches of productive manufactures attainable to these, which are suited to them. They may be made perfectly competent sales-women and shop-keepers. They may be printers, watch-makers, engravers. The schools of design are open to them, and offer to them many branches of productive industry that do not in the least trench upon the delicacy of their sex. And, if endowed with genius and perseverance, they may follow in the footstep of Angelica Kauffman, Rosa Bonheur, Harriet Hosmer, and Madame Bodichon herself, to high achievements in sculpture and painting.
We do not wish to see women lawyers, or divines, so far as officiating in public is concerned, but surely they can be the ministers, messengers and servants of Christ, in prisons, hospitals, and in all charitable institutions. The experiment of Elizabeth Blackwell and her coadjutors in New York has been so modestly prosecuted, that there are many who are not aware how completely they have demonstrated the adaptation of the healing art to women, and their superior qualifications for the administration of hospitals and dispensaries.
This is to sanction political injustice, and usurpation of power by men over women.-[Ed. Lib.

CONVENTION OF COLORED MEN.
The convention of the colored men of Indiana, which assembled in this city on Tuesday afternoon, was in session all day yesterday in the school room of the African Methodist Episcopal church. A prolonged discussion arose on a proposition for memorializing the Legislature in reference to the natural rights of the colored people of the State. A number of the speakers desired the memorial to contain matter foreign to the purpose which the convention had in view on assembling. They were extremely radical in their views, but were not sustained by the majority of the delegates. Most of those who spoke, however, thought a half loaf was better than no bread, and that it would not be wise to ask for too much at once.
The principal object of the convention is to petition the Legislature for the passage of a law making colored persons competent witnesses in courts of justice. They insist on such a measure as a matter of equal justice to all classes of persons. Under the law debarring negroes and mulattoes from testifying where a white person is a party to a suit, injustice had been done to both whites and backs in numerous instances. Illustrations of the evil effects of the law were given. White persons, it was contended, suffered by it quite as frequently as negroes or mulattoes.
The Thirteenth Article of the new Constitution of Indiana, which prevents the immigration of negroes to the State, was regarded as heartless and cruel. It was said that Maryland, Virginia and Kentucky were agitating the question of ridding themselves of all free persons of color. Other slave States had laws preventing the emancipation of slaves within her limits. Indiana, through her constitution, says no more colored persons shall have a home within her borders. Where, asked members of the convention, were they to go? They and their ancestors were brought into the several States named without their consent, and after having their lots cast for them by others, they were denied the natural rights which the American Declaration of Independence concedes to all men.
The question of the extension of suffrage to Colored men was briefly alluded to by some of the speakers, but with no hope of being able, at this time, to effect anything in reference thereto. They thought that while they were taxea to the full of their pecuniary means to support the government, they should have some voice in the direction of that government and the expenditure of their own money.
Many of the points made were sustained with considerable strength of argument. The convention numbers some forty or fifty members, from all parts of the State, and embodies more intelligence than would be expected in an assemblage of its character. It is presided over by Rev. E. Weaver, pastor of the African M. E. Church of Indianapolis.-Indianapolis Journal.
<c06>
FUNERAL OF JUDSON J. HUTCHINSON.
The funeral of Judson J. Hutchinson took place at Lynn, Tuesday. A correspondent of the Journal writes:
‘His name is linked in memory by the golden chain of melody with many hearts all over the land. His work is done. His song has ceased, and now the snows of the winter cover his form, and memory recalls while friendship and sympathy cherish the true and noble heart that has stilled its beat forever.
A nature touched to finest issues treads its dizzy pathway quite near the borders of mental disease. Genius and insanity seem sometimes to be nearly allied. I would offer neither eulogy or unfeeling criticism, yet, as a friend, say what I feel, that a true heart, which beat in strong pulses of love for the suffering and oppressed, should have the benefit of charity and kind remembrance, as one not to be judged by the common rules we apply to those whose current of life runs at a lower level.
His remains were taken to the Granite State, he loved so well, as the home of his childhood, and the inspiration of his song, there to be buried with his fathers at Milford. Throngs of people came yesterday to mingle their silent sympathies with the sorrow of the bereaved family, and the faithful and true wife who has clung to Judson in weal and who, and watched him as she would a child for years, when clouds were passing over the sun of his mental life.
As we stood in the house he had built, overlooking the country for miles around, and saw what be loved so well, and beheld upon the walls the pictures he loved to gaze upon, among them that of Wendell Phillips, Parker, and other men of mark, we could read out on the very walls and landscape some pages of his deepest and truest life.
Pitying hearts and strong hands have done the offices of charity, friendship and love; and one voice of true melody is hushed now.
All the day before he died, he was singing a piece which commences thus-
‘Hark, I hear an angel sing;
Angels now are on the wing;
And their voices singing clear,
Tell us that the spring is near.’
Appropriate religious services were performed by a friend, the Rev. M. W. Willis of Nashua. What rendered the service peculiarly affecting was the singing by the Hutchinson family, as it were, the requiem of the departed brother. It was meet that he whose life was a song, should have kindred voices linger in solemn echoes around his grave.’

Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substance of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SEROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, EAURTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES,BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISASES, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OF TIC DOULOUREUN, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERUSIPSLAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY’S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul human which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanup out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sore; cleanse it when yon mid it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bottles for $5.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Erysipelas. Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liter Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purpose of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Fox; Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER’S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO., BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
And by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where. 6m May 7

MPROVEMENT IN CHAMPOING AND HAIR-DYEING.
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington st., and 20 West st.; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town.
Hair dressed in the latest style. She can refer to the first people in the cities of Boston, Providence, Worcester, and elsewhere. Come and try for yourselves. October 8.
