THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, general agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for ten dollars, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (post paid) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for the liberator.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
vol. XXXI. No 41 BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1607.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
A WAR OF EMANCIPATION.
A war of emancipation, if it were a moral war, that would seek the emancipation of the slaves of this country, when it would be for the good of all, and by such means as all would be justified in using, would be to our minds. We have been engaged in it from our boyhood, and we hope we shall be till death. But a war, a civil war, like that in which we are engaged to-day, for the liberation of African slaves, would be madness intolerable-folly and insanity such as the world never saw. Still, it cannot be defined that very many who enter this war- nominally to sustain the Union and the Constitution-actually desire unconstitutionally, and by the most violent and bloody means, to overthrow slavery, when every man's reason must teach him that emancipation by such means would be destructive to whites and blacks alike; and if they cannot so gain emancipation, then they care nothing about the Union or the Constitution. For four millions of blacks to whom they are not allied by race, civilization or destiny, and who would not be advanced by their action, they would jeopardize the rights, liberties and interests of thirty millions of whites, and quench in blood the light and hope of the world, in the destruction of the best government that God ever vouchsafed to man. We are more and more convinced of this wide-spread heresy by the comments of the press on the proclamation of Fremont, and the President's letter relating thereto, and also by a perusal of the reports of sermons delivered on Fast day. many of which wore simple abolition harangues which, reduced to the fewest words, would read thus:" Emancipation to be gained, or the war a farce." In keeping with this idea is a communication from a citizen of this town, intelligent and highly respectable, which we give to-day on our first page. Extending to him the privilege of publication, which we never deny to any respectable parties in town, we still feel bound to dissent, absolutely, from his reasoning and conclusions.
Slavery is a monstrous system of tyranny, in our view, but not necessarily a cause of war. Induced, in three-quarters of a century, while other matters caused insurrections and rebellions in Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and South Carolina, slavery has not before been charged with creating war. It does not matter whether it is slavery, or religion, or trade that is in dispute, if two sections of the country differ upon it, and commence to abuse and proscribe each other on account of it, they will finally come to blows and bloodshed. Slavery had its existence before the Government, and in forming the Constitution it secured certain rights and immunities; and whatever that compact was. we should abide by it, not bating one jot or title of the bond. But, say they, these men are traitors, and have forfeited all rights: let us take their slaves, and set them free." If we were disposed to discuss this point, we should say that, if living under the Constitution, the confiscation of private property for treason is forbidden. If the Constitution is suspended by the military power, then private property, except on the high seas, unless used in the war, is exempt from seizure by the rules of war. And finally, if we would not be governed by the Constitution or the rules of war, we would leave slavery alone as an act of policy and an act of humanity-from love to ourselves and our children, and in kindness to the slaves.
Says the writer, my "heart fails within me, and I don't care which side prevails, if the slaves are not set free." Then not by love of the Union, and of our noble flag, the symbol of the Union; not by reverence for the Constitution, and the desire for national greatness and happiness under the Constitution, as we have enjoyed them in the past, is he moved, but to release from the control of their masters, four millions of barbarous blacks, without inquiring what we shall do with them, or they with themselves, afterwards! This brings us down to the simple theory of Lloyd Garrison. Now," when such shall be the issue, we can tell him that many a man's heart, now strong for the Government, will sink within him; and when it is settled that the policy of Jeff. Davis or Lloyd Garrison must prevail, millions there are who would not snap their finger to turn the scales. When emancipation is made the issue. Dr. Adams has truly said:" We have not begun to know what trouble is." They look for strength in a decree of Abolition! What folly! It would be followed by dissensions in council, tumult in armies, emptiness of treasury, treason in States, and ruin everywhere. There is only one ground upon which the States and people loyal to-day can be kept together through the war, and the country be saved; and that is in defence of the Union as it was formed by our fathers, and of the Constitution, unmarred and unmutilated. If in such a war God's providence overthrows slavery, let it be so; but it is no more an object of the war than will be the shooting off some man's nose, who will lose it by a rifle bullet. Let us take hold, one and all, by sword and pen, by rifle and human voice, by vote and money, to carry on the war, till treason is subdued. If after that there are minor questions in dispute, whether they relate to the relation of husband and wife, parent and child, or master and servant, we will consider them. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof; and quite enough is it for us to provide for the white race, without going into any great humanity schemes for blacks; quite enough to attend to the well-being of America, without looking after Africa, One thing at a time, and let them last the longer.-Newburyport Herald.
All men can sustain the war so long as it is a war to maintain a legitimate Government; but a war to abolish slavery is a rebellion against the laws and the Constitution as much as that in which Jeff. Davis is engaged; and when it comes to be such a war, the movers will have no right to complain if it breeds rebellion in the North. and they are fools if they think it will result in aught else than chaos and ruin. We have a single object-to maintain a free Constitutional Government, and for that object we can be united, and we should be united on that, forgetting all political differences, and ceasing all political proscription, in every loyal State of the Union. -Ibid.
Charles Sumner's speech will be found on our first Page to-day. We give it, not by way of approval, for it seems to us the worst speech that could be made. Its only influence will be to distract and divide the North, and raise up a faction here against the administration which has declared for an entirely different policy; while at the South it will kill what little Union sentiment remains, and rejoice the rebel hosts, giving them better ammunition for their treason than, powder would be. What will Mr. Crittenden and Mr. Holt say to this in Kentucky? what will the Union men of Maryland, Western Virginia and Missouri, who were scarcely able to stand up before, say to having such a load put upon
<c02>
their shoulders? What will the conservative men of the North, who have supported the war with the single idea of defending the national unity-and what the bankers who have loaned money not for emancipation, but for the Constitution, say to this appeal from one occupying such a position? We don't know how it appears to others, but it seems to us that if Jeff. Davis had liberty to send his own agent here to do the worst for us, he could have done nothing more.
The war can be fought on no such grounds; and before it closes, we shall discover that fact. We were glad to sec that the Convention refused to commit itself to his schemes, and therefore tabled the resolutions of Mr. Freeman Clarke, which embodied the principles of the address. We wish our space would admit a fuller notice of Mr. Sumner's position: perhaps it will to-morrow.-Ibid.
Mr. Sumner, whose hatred of the white men of the South, not love of the negro, has done, as much as the conduct of any Southern rebel to involve the nation in its present fearful calamity, would plunge it into still deeper horrors and distress by his fanatical malignity, aided by such adjuncts as the extreme Abolitionist, the Rev. Mr. Clarke, and Mr. Bird, who was, but a year or two ago, attending a Convention at Worcester, called to devise ways for the dissolution of the Union, and Mr. Moses Kimball, the Know Nothing leader and negro militia champion. Men of their mental cast and inclinings are ready to sit at the feet of Mr. Sumner, and bow at his bidding; they are suited to the position. Such men may direct the current of popular opinion in Massachusetts for a time, but they cannot so enervate the perceptions of the voters of the State as to gain a permanent control of public affairs in this Commonwealth,. Many of those who have cooperated with them are already restive; even now they utter rebuke in a manly and decided strain. The Daily Advertiser says:-
"The Convention sought solely to forward the restoration of the Constitution and the Union; it had no ulterior objects, no purpose to make this work the cloak under which to carry out other designs, no wish to re-open the slavery question in a more terrible shape than ever before. The Convention looked with a single eye to the performance of the duties of the hour,-duties in which all patriots can join, and the accomplishment of which will restore to us a national frame-work, the complete and final symmetry of which they were willing to leave, without violent and unlawful action of their own, to the ultimate Providence of God. The Convention did not, in fine, either approve the objects or sanction the views which Mr. Sumner laid before it, in a speech which is equally to be condemned, whether regarded as abstract political doctrine, or as laying down a practical policy for the present crisis. Those are not the objects and views of Massachusetts Republicanism, nor of Massachusetts Unionism,-nor were they the views and objects of the Convention. The latter, indeed, by the character of its resolutions and of its nominations, and by its dismissal of other resolutions, introduced immediately after Mr. Sumner closed, and apparently intended to test the accordance of the Convention with his views,-plainly manifested its aversion to the path which he was willing to tread. The Convention sought to unite and not to distract those who have been invited to join in it."
The Boston Journal, upon the same subject, uses this language:-
"The patriotic sentiments of the Convention are reflected in the resolutions, which are brief and patriotic, free from all coloring of past issues, and eminently appropriate to the present condition of the country. They reflect opinions which every loyal and patriotic citizen can indorse, and in their hearty and unequivocal support of the Government leave nothing to be desired. Nor was the conservatism and patriotism of the Convention less conspicuous in the refusal to indorse the resolutions offered by Rev. James Freeman Clarke, approving the policy of making the war one of emancipation. Even the ill-timed eloquence of Mr. Sumner failed to move the Convention to indorse a policy fraught with consequences more momentous than human foresight can penetrate. The sentiment of the Convention was pointedly in favor of prosecuting the war upon the basis of respect for the Constitutional rights of the loyal slave States -of making it a war to restore the authority of the Government, and not for emancipation."
This indicates a healthy tone of politics; a regard for the supremacy of law, patriotism and common sense over the subterfuge of party, the cant of fanaticism, and the bigotry of the charlatan.-Boston Post.

CHARLES SUMNER.
Can any patriot read the rhodomontade of this classic fanatic at the Worcester Convention, without a sense of pain, nausea and disgust? He certainly ought to be put in a strait-jacket for talking about "our present triumphs-the ample occasion for joy in the victory already won, which we may especially enjoy on this occasion." What blatant nonsense! Where is he going to erect the "pillars of Hercules to mark the progress"-at Bull Run or Lexington? He rejoices that all party divisions have ceased, and they (the Republicans) are going to make" Spanish infantry" and "Numidian horse" of the Democrats and Union men, and come the Hannibal over the Southern rebellion!! He thinks we are now" squandering life and treasure in a vain masquerade"-who does he mean, Fremont?" The overthrow of slavery will at once wake an end of the war." We must carry "Africa into the war." and cure the disease by emancipation! Blue pills applied externally, I suppose, or black draught ejected classically through an Abolition syringe!! He better catch "Agag" or "Benhadad" first, before he talks about hewing than to pieces. The heels of old Achilles were probably not as long as those of some of our modern Senators. He does not inform us whether Philip of Macedon had rifled artillery, minnie rifles, revolvers and bowie-knives, or whether Caius Marius encountered any masked batteries on landing at Telamon. No doubt they were high old times, but King Cotton was not born, and Johnny Bull was not playing neutral around the corner. Caius Marius might have met the fate of old John Brown if he had lived in these days, and attempted to march into Dixie with his "Marusia horse" and army of a "thousand men" marching "on to Richmond!" Can't this classic nincompoop see any "unutterable woes, madness or atrocities," except those connected with slavery? Is there no tyrannical usurpation except that of the slave oligarchy? Freedom of speech and freedom of the press have been vindicated with a vengeance lately! What does Jeff. Davis care about the Constitution and the laws when he is practising martial law and self-defence, which Sumner says are above the Constitution! Where is the "retreating fend"? Suppose, Mr. Sumner, after we have an empty treasury, sacrificed half a million of lives, and incurred a debt of two thousand millions of dollars, slavery should come to an end, will the Union be restored, and the black or white race be any happier or dwell in peace together? Does ancient history prove it? Instead of looking to ancient history for guidance and inspiration, you had better read the Farewell Address of
-Boston Post. WASHINGTON.
<c03>
FREMONT'S PROCLAMATION.
In the name of common sense, are we not under the Government of law, and not of men? Is it possible for one man, be he who he may, to make and unmake the law? Has Gen. Fremont any more power to decree the emancipation of slaves than Gen. Snooks?
And yet the Abolition press, which set up the. idea that this proclamation was the most important event of the war, now howl at the President for modifying it, like so many howling wolves. Take as a sample, the Chicago Tribune. It represents the feeling in Chicago on reading the President's order, as" one of blank astonishment and dismay." "No Sunday, in our recollection, has been so broken by general indignation and rage. The expression was a common one among Democrats and Republicans, that Bull Run was not a circumstance compared with this deplorable mistake." And it called for a public meeting to petition the Government to" adopt General Fremont's policy!" Now the Chicago Times pronounces this statement as to a general indignation, as falsehood. No doubt there was gnashing of teeth, but it is the same tiger teeth that have been gnawing at the Constitution, alleging its being a covenant with hell, for years. It is precisely because she believes the Government means to be true to the Constitution, as well as to the Union, that Kentucky is where she is to-day, by the side of the President, with sword in hand to uphold the standard of the law, of Republican law, of her own local law as well as the organic law of the nation.
This is the grand position of Kentucky. In what does it differ from the position of the. President? When and where has he pledged himself to war on the constitutional rights of people or States? Does not his fifteenth of April proclamation contain, in terms, an explicit pledge of protection to their rights? Does this promise emancipation of slaves? The President, in officially declaring General Fremont's loosely worded proclamation to be under the laws of the land, discharged but his duty. Such Abolition railers at the President as the Chicago Tribune deserve unsparing condemnation. Their appeal from the constituted authorities of the land to the policy of Gen. Fremont is traitorous; and the movements of those who dare to make it deserve to be watched with the same keenness as those are watched who bring up at Fort Lafayette.-Boston Post.

FANATIC INCANTATIONS TO BAAL.
Referring to the Anti-Slavery discourses from the pulpit, Fast Day, the brazen-faced editor of the Boston Post says:-
Party had its say, also, in the pulpit. It was the party of extremists. They, instead of looking upon the Constitution and Union as of the Providence of God, as did Washington and the Fathers, look upon it as a covenant with hell; and so, in lieu of invoking the God of the Fathers, they paid their vows to the Abolition god; and a few pulpits rung out, as usual, with partizan and now disloyal anathemas on the South, on slaveholders and slavery. Such fanatic incantations to the Baal of Exeter Hall, instead of exciting a devotional turn, maddened hearers up to the hissing point. Good God! what are these clerical partisans made of? Is there not horror enough on the land? Must it also drink the cup of servile war? Must they prattle forever about things of country, which they do not understand, like so many children? Do they reflect on what an Abolition war would be? Can't they comprehend at least the situation of such States as Maryland, Virginia, Kentucky, and Missouri? the momentous consequence they are in the stake at issue? How can they keep up the partizanship that wars on the constitutional rights of the righteous, loyal men of these States, and justify it by an appeal to the higher law? Does not patriotism in those States rise to the sublime? How can these partizans invoke fire and sword on their homes? What a perversity of duty! When State legislature upon State legislature, Congress, the Cabinet and the President, are giving the most solemn assurances that the war is not to subvert the social institutions of the slaveholding States, it is astonishing that even fanaticism can be so rabid as to inflame the public by urging old worn-out party appeals. God inform, correct and convert these party men! They know not what they do, no more than did Saul when he stoned the prophets.
But the indignation that we have heard expressed against these utterances of the party of the extremists shows that the love of the common country, which in all ages has been placed next to the love of God, is about to assert the. same supremacy over the ministerial demagogue that it has over the tenderest family tie. This feeling shows unmistakably the drifting of the current, and it is against all parties. It may be affirmed with more confidence than ever, that tried even by the severe test of political sermonizing, Massachusetts is more against a partizan spirit and nearer the national days of her revolutionary patriots than she has been since the glorious era of Independence; that there is more unanimity in standing by the Constitution and the Government than there was in ordaining it; and that all disloyalty to it, whether it comes from the party of Abolitionism on the one side, or of the party of Secessionism on the other, is frowned upon by the good sense of the community.

THE PRIMARY CAUSE OF THE REBELLION.
Commenting upon an article in the Tribune, favoring the abolition of slavery by the government, under the war power, the N. Y. Journal of Commerce says:-
1. Anti-Slavery is the primary cause of the rebellion. But for anti-slavery, there would not now be a seceded State, nor a regiment in arms against the Union. When the Tribune makes it plain that slavery, an existing, passive subject, is any more active than anti-slavery, an aggressive, revolutionary principle, then it might do to tell men that slavery was more the cause of the rebellion than anti-slavery. It is idle to reason in this manner. The truth lies between the two. The responsibility of the war rests on extreme men and extreme principles on both sides. Who has the greater share, we will not now discuss.
2. True, the Union men of the South are dumb; but proclaim abolition as your war-cry, and their sealed lips will open in shouts of defiance; you will thereby make every Union man in the South an enemy.
3. Instead of your proclamation weakening the Southern forces, it would add tenfold to their strength. The very fact of our adopting slave insurrections as a part of our war material would forever unite the slave States in a war of self-preservation, whose end we might none of us live to see.
We do sincerely hope that the Tribune will recall this avowal. We search the pages of history and the revealed word of God, in vain for a justification of the idea, or a palliation of its atrocity.
<c04>
Selections.
LINCOLN AND FREMONT.
Extract from a very able Discourse delivered at Peterboro', N. Y., Sept. 22d, 1861, by GERRIT SMITH, and published in full in the N. Y. Tribune, Sept. 28:-
Of all that has occurred to inspire me with the apprehension that the President's habit of worshipping the Constitution and Slavery will never be broken, and that our country may therefore perish, his recent treatment of Gen. Fremont is chief. The Proclamation put forth by that brave and judicious man had awakened, all over the North, the hope that the policy of saving the Constitution and Slavery, at the hazard of losing the country, was at last entirely abandoned. But the President has laid his hand upon the Proclamation, and blasted all the hope it had awakened. Here again he has invited the remonstrance: "Thou lovest thine enemies, and hatest thy friends." Let me say of the Proclamation, that if it is wrong, it is so solely because the exigencies of war did not call for it. To say, as the President does, that it is wrong because it does not correspond with a certain law of Congress, is simply ridiculous-disgraceful to himself, and to the country which has called him into his high office. Amid such exigencies Commanders are not to look to Congress for law. They" are a law unto themselves." Least of all are they to look to such a poor, cowardly, contemptible, absurd law as is this, which the President thrusts in the face of Fremont, and bids him obey. The President was reluctant to sign this law, because it bore so hard upon the rebels. Whereas, he should have refused to sign it, because it bore no harder. What a law was this to enact when the enemy was at our gates!-a law providing that we might take a very little of the enemy's property, and leaving the whole balance to be used by him for prosecuting the war against us! What is more clear than that both Congress and the President are still under the spell of Slavery, and still bound up in their educated servility to it, and still far from being entirely in earnest in the work of saving their country! I sometimes am tempted to wish that I were not an Abolitionist - that so I might be heard - for yet awhile an Abolitionist cannot, must not be heard. My soul is sick of the shams of this war. My indignation is impatient to break forth in the presence of popular assemblies. But on the whole, I am content to be an Abolitionist, and to belong to that class which, say what you will against it, will never furnish an inmate for Fort Lafayette, nor for any other prison for traitors. No, never one of this class will be so much as suspected of sympathy with the rebels. I do not forget that the Abolitionists are esteemed to be fools. But give me earnest folly in preference to heartless wisdom.
One reason why Abolitionists are, as Abolitionists, saying so little is, that, until the country is up to the low point of saving itself, it is vain to ask it to save the slave. When a man is drunk, we do not speak to him of Christianity. We wait until he gets sober. When he is insane, we postpone speaking to him of what sanity alone can comprehend. Until our country shall have so far come to herself as to be willing to defend herself by every weapon within her reach, and to reduce the power of her enemy in every possible way, she will be quite too low to be reached by Abolition truth. That truth will be to her but as "pearls before swine." We will talk to no man for the slave, who is himself so enslaved to his prejudices, or so tender of the guilty interest of his foe, as to refuse to be saved at the expense of offending those prejudices, or of damaging those interests. Our first work with that man is to cure him of his idiocy or insanity.
The course for the President to pursue toward Gen. Fremont was a plain one. 1. If he had confidence in the General's judgment, he should have left him to its free exercise, instead of exciting doubts of its soundness, and thereby impairing his prestige and influence. A schoolmaster, correcting the written page of his pupil, illustrates the attitude to which the President has degraded Fremont in the eyes of the country and its enemy. No thanks to the President if, either in council or battle, Fremont shall still be able to have himself respected as every commander needs be respected. 2. If the President were so conceited as to believe that he, sitting in Washington, knew more of the wants of Missouri than did Fremont, who was acting in Missouri, then he should have recalled him, and supplied his place with one in whose wisdom he had more confidence. But I have no doubt that all the differences in this case between the President and Fremont are resolvable into the single difference, that while the one does, like a wise man, hold to the Commander's absolute right, in certain circumstances, to dispose, at his mere discretion, of any or all the property of the foe, the other, sadly perverted by his pro-slavery training-if not, indeed, ruinously so both for himself and country - still persists in qualifying this right. It is for the country to decide between them. If it goes with Fremont at this point, it is saved; but if with the President, it is lost. It is idle to deny that this is the real difference, and that the cause of it on the part of the President is regard for slaveholding interests. If he was so slow to consent that even Congress should provide for the confiscation of even so small a part of the possessions of the Rebels, how strongly must he have been opposed to sweeping them all away-and that, too, by also much humbler authority! Again, if the President must take exception to the Proclamation, why was it not to that part which orders the sure and summary shooting? Simply because that is not the part which disturbs his long and deeply-cherished sense of the sacredness of slave property. His concern is for such property - not for life". The President seizes citizens even in the free States, and imprisons them without publicly preferring any charges against them. He suspends the habeas corpus, even where martial law is not declared. All this he does without caring to have any cover of law for it. And in all this I admit that he is right, emphatically right. But Slavery he holds is too sacred to be touched but in the name of law! Nay, he can hardly be brought to sign a law for touching it, even very tenderly! For God's sake, and man's sake, do I say-out with this pro-slavery education!
I said that the country is the umpire between the President and Fremont. It has already shown itself to be on the side of Fremont. Such as the New York State Democratic Committee praise the President; and in having the glory of such, he verily has his reward. I see with amazement and sorrow that Mr. Holt, of Kentucky, is on the side of the President. Knowing his fine talents, and his declarations in favor of "no compromise" with the rebels, I should once have been glad to see him in the Cabinet. But I beg to know what is compromising with them, if exempting a part of their property from our grasp is not. Nay, I deny (and, earth over, the court of common sense will sustain my denial) that the President and Mr. Holt are to be regarded as favoring the most earnest prosecution of this war, so
<c05>
long as they will leave to the foe the property he needs for furnishing himself food, clothing, or other means of subsistence, be this property plows, horses, or anything else which he claims and uses as property. That Mr. Holt's soul is not yet wrought up into such prosecution of the war is manifest from his calling the disposal of the slaves of the Rebels a" delicate and perplexing question." I trusted that he had, by this time, got very far beyond that milestone-very far beyond feeling delicacy or perplexity in depriving the rebels of any of their property or power. I trusted, in a word, that he was by this time for war, without any qualifications or reservations.
Mr. Holt illustrates in himself the mistake of long that men, brought up under the befogging and befooling influences of Slavery, can ever be good for anything as statesmen or lawyers on questions connected with Slavery. Mr. Holt does not admit that the slaves, which our Government takes from the Rebels, do thereby become necessarily free. On the contrary, he manifestly believes that it will be for" the Courts of the United States or subsequent legislation" to decide whether they are free, or whether they have but shifted owners. Such is his view of the Constitution, that Government can become a great slave-owner under it-having millions of slaves to hire out or to sell!
The bare statement of Mr. Holt's position is enough to show its absurdity. Not only is it true (and this Mr. Holt will himself admit) that the change which the President's fingers (not Fremont's unsoiled fingers) put into the Proclamation has no retroactive power, and that, therefore, the slaves whom he freed are forever free; but it is also true that the slaves, who under the changed Proclamation or under the law of Congress referred to, shall pass into the hands of Government, will also be forever free-at the most, men being slaves under State law -never after they have passed under Federal law. For if it is held that it is the office of Federal law to enforce State law in certain circumstances against slaves, nevertheless, it is not held that Federal law extends to the making of slaves. Being but auxiliary to the State law, the Federal law can no longer have to do with the case, after the State law has forever ceased to operate in it. In other words, the Federal law has no independent or original action in the case. In still other words, when the slave has escaped from the clutches of the State law, he has escaped from the clutches of Slavery. But it may be said that our own State did, in the Revolutionary war, continue to hold in Slavery the slaves whom it took from the rebels. It did-though it soon acknowledged their manhood. But the conclusive answer is-that, in that case, the slaves did not pass, as in this case, under one law from another. They remained under the same law. They changed owners without changing laws.
And Mr. Holt says that Gen. Fremont's Proclamation" violates the law of Congress." But just as well might he say that it violates a law of the British Parliament. For, in deciding what the exigencies of war called for at his hands, Gen. Fremont was no more to be guided by a law of Congress than by a law of Parliament. Those exigencies and his power to meet them belonged to a sphere where the civil law was silent. But it is hardly fair to single out Mr. Holt for censure. He is only chiming in with the Administration policy of tying up the war power with Constitutions, statutes, and red tape. What a laughing-stock throughout the world does this war make of American wisdom! It is only, however, from what Slavery has done to us that our wisdom is at so great a discount. In other words, it is Slavery only that has made us fools. Take any other people, and compel them to sustain Slavery, and to be mixed up with it-and they will be as great fools as we are. By nature we are as bright as others. And, indeed, we are still bright in all those things where Slavery does not control and confuse us.

GENERAL FREMONT.
Gen. Fremont has been ordered to modify his proclamation in relation to the slaves of rebels, so as to conform to the mere letter of the act of Congress of July, which prescribes that slaves assisting in the rebellion should be forfeited to their masters. Gen. Fremont had taken a common sense view of the subject, and ordered the emancipation of all slaves held by rebels, because, while in the hands of rebels, they would certainly strengthen the rebellion, and freeing them would as certainly weaken it. But this has so alarmed our chicken-hearted politicians, that they have procured an order from the President, requiring this modification. It may not affect much, as all depends upon the construction of the law at last. But there is a craven cowardice about such an order, at this time, as will stink in the nostrils of all true men. It is of no use to mince terms any longer. We are reaching a crisis when things should be called by their right names, and men should speak what they mean. If the Government is to fight this rebellion, and practise the treason to itself of sustaining slavery for the rebels, and giving them the aid and comfort of returning all their fugitive slaves, it is time that we should know it, that we may calculate how much of our blood this Moloch demands as our sacrifice, before we can. have peace. Our people will sustain their flag, at all events; but this requiring of them to sustain the flag for us, and slavery for rebels, is such a burden as no other Government has ever laid upon its people; and it should be required no longer. Let the people speak, and demand of the President, in tones that will be heard above the voice of the mousing politicians who infest the councils of the Government with, their intolerable cowardice, that this course must cease; and that they shall no longer be required to make this fearful sacrifice of blood and treasure to sustain that monster evil.-Ashtabula Sentinel.

THE PRECISE DIFFERENCE.
The difference between Fremont and the President is simply one of construction of an Act of Congress. Whether the General or the President is right in regard to the literal meaning of the statute of confiscation, it is obvious that Fremont's is the most popular and practical view. The difference is well stated by the Worcester Palladium as follows:-
"Gen. Fremont interprets the law to mean the emancipation of the slaves of rebels; while the President construes it to mean simply the forfeiture of the slaves. Fremont takes whatever the rebels hold as property, and confiscates it for the Government. In the revolted States, slaves are bought, held, and sold, the same as any other property; and whatever rebel property the Government can take, hold, and convey, Gen. Fremont appropriates to the use of the Government after confiscation. But slaves, although recognized as property in the rebel States, are not what the Government can rightfully take, hold, and convey. He must take them; but what shall he do with them? He cannot hold or convey 
<c06>
them, for the reason that the moment they pass out of the ownership of the rebel masters, and into the custody of the General Government, they cease to have value, and cannot be disposed of as properly. Confiscated property is of value to the Government; but when it has no value for use or for sale, what can the Government do with it but throw it aside as worthless? That is all that Gen. Fremont has done, or proposes to do, with the slaves of rebels-dispose of them as valueless to the Government, and leave them to take care of themselves. Manifestly, this would be a plain and palpable duty of Gen. Fremont, even if no confiscation act had ever been passed. A commander must cripple his enemy by divesting him of whatever he has that can be employed by the enemy against the Government. It would be Gen. Fremont's duty to set free the slaves of all rebels taken in rebellion, even if no confiscation act had ever been passed; and it is none the less his duty under the clumsy statute of the late session of Congress. Therefore, in any light in which we can, look upon the matter, the administration has as little ground for complaint against Gen. Fremont, as it would have if his army should appropriate to its own use such articles as it finds of value on a rebel's plantation, and fling away what it could not use. It is hoped that our Government is not going to invest slavery with a character so sacred that it cannot be touched by the rules of war. This is a slaveholder's rebellion, and they who have 'sown the whirlwind' should be allowed to take the consequences of their own acts."

FREMONT FULLY SUSTAINED.
Among the efforts to put down the rebellion, no one act has caused more profound satisfaction than the proclamation of Gen. Fremont, emancipating the slaves of rebels in Missouri. Friends of the Union of all parties hailed the act as wise, timely and just. It was refreshing to see a real step in advance taken. Not only did all parties of loyal men sustain him, but they commended him for his sagacity, boldness and promptitude.
It was a thunderbolt to the rebels; they felt that it meant something. It taught them that their grasp on their victims was less strong than they believed it was. Its moral effect was not confined to one State. It had a ring that was heard to the Atlantic and the Gulf. It said to the rebel slaveholders, "You have invited the overthrow of your cherished system by your traitorous acts, and think it not strange if you see it accomplished."
While the loyal people were thus rejoicing-almost holding a jubilee over the manly and decisive proclamation of the General-what were our grief and mortification at seeing the letter of President Lincoln objecting to the proclamation, in so far as it went beyond the Confiscation Act passed at the late session of Congress!
To our mind the Act of Congress had nothing to do with it. We may be ignorant, but we supposed that martial law, while in existence, was paramount to all other, and that the commanding General could properly perform any act which he considered of urgent necessity. In the general approval of Fremont's act, it was hoped that the President also would give it his emphatic sanction, thus giving it strength, dignity and efficiency.
It is getting to be seen that all hope of relief to the country is centered in emancipation. Our greatest statesmen see it, the patriots of Europe see it, and reproach us for not making it the immediate issue. It is time to make the wishes of the people known to the Government. Let the press and the living voice thunder in the ear of the Executive, that they want this contest terminated in the quickest, easiest and cheapest way, and that is by emancipation. The people will shrink from no burden in the right direction. They will uphold the President in extreme measures, if necessary. They will pay for the slaves of loyal slaveholders. They are but few in number, while rebel slaveholders deserve no tenderness, but rather, speedy retribution.-Milford (N. H.) Republican.

THE SLAVES OF REBELS.
A letter from Rev. Samuel Wolcott, in the Congregationalist, written during a visit to Cairo and Paducah, says:-
"On our way down the river, we encountered something worse than tidings of defeat. We felt the chill and paralysis of moral defeat, when a paper came on board, containing the President's reversal of Fremont's proclamation. On all the officers from Missouri and Illinois, with whom I then and subsequently conversed, this document fell like a wet blanket. Let us be thankful that it cannot act retrospectively, and that thousands whom Fremont had lawfully enfranchised cannot be returned by the President to the bondage in which his modification would have kept them. The policy which this act betokens will kill the enthusiasm of the free States. This may not be so apparent if they are cheered by great successes, but if another great defeat ensues, they will despair of God's favor unless they can have a new lead. The Administration will learn, sooner or later, that the only classes on whose support it can rely are these who, with whatever differences of opinion, or even of practise, about slavery, are willing to see it abolished for the most effectual suppression of rebellion-and that every attempt to catch others will be fruitful only of present weakness and future disaster."

A SEPOY LANDLORD.
The particulars of the destruction of a railroad train near St. Joseph, Mo., where scores of innocent travellers met a horrible death, or were so mutilated that instant death would have been a mercy, and that this calamity was caused by the acts of the proslavery Sepoys of that region, have all been told. But here is a new fact in relation to it, which we find in the Daily Nebraskian:-
"In St. Joseph, when the bridge-burning fiends returned from their work of murder, and told of the destruction they had caused, and the hearthstones they had made desolate-the lives destroyed and hearts broken, when the sad tidings should be made known to anxious friends-the proprietors of the Pacific Hotel threw open their doors, and, spreading their tables with rich food and costly wines, invited them to a feast such as no other body of men ever partook of in that city. This, too, is the very house before which, the dead and wounded were placed, and while the groans and cries of the latter commingled with the lamentations of friends who were searching amid the pile of blackened and disfigured dead for the faces of loved ones, were borne upon every breath of air which entered its open doors, and while the spirits of the murdered dead were hovering around the very windows of the festive hall."
It was to make the barbarous population amenable to some law suitable to their behavior that Gen. Fremont issued the proclamation, confiscating their property and freeing their slaves. Who will say that anything that is less stringent than martial law will restrain the evil passions of these pro-slavery, miscreants?-Chicago Tribune.

The United States Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under than meat absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republies, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult she understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it- no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-John Quincy Adams.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A SOUTH-SIDE VIEW.
Among the few persons who seem to know no more in this month of October than they knew in the same month of last year, stands conspicuous the Rev. Nehemiah Adams. D. D., of Boston, sometimes profanely styled the Rev. Southside Adams. He is noted, mainly, as the author of two very vile and disgraceful pro-slavery books, and as having been for many years the religious teacher of the late Mr. Choate, who, on the occasion of some anniversary festival at Essex-street Church, a few years ago. bestowed Upon the pastor the equivocal compliment of saying that he, Mr. Choate aforesaid, had never had his meditations disturbed by anything in the way of pulpit ministration which the pastor had indulged in. The English bumpkin complimented his religious teacher in a similar way when he said: "I cocks up my heels, and thinks o' nothin'!" This reverend defender of slaver and persistent teacher of the Gospel of Nothingness to his rich and influential parishioners, lately visited the White Mountains, and on his return visited upon his people the results of his tour, in a sermon which reaches us in the columns of The Boston Courier. We began to read it with Strong expectations of finding something rich and juicy, for almost the first sentence we read was this: "For self-defence against each other, if for no other reason, the North and South must be one people." This is worthy of Sir Boyle Roche, the Irish blunderer; or does it mean that war and separation will eventually compel the defenders of slavery here in the Free States to cease wagging tongue and pen in the cause of barbarism, and so the South be finally deprived of its most willing auxiliaries in its war against civilization and common sense? Either way the remark is a curiosity, and led us to expect other novel things in the sermon. But we find it made up in about equal proportions of foolish sentimentalism, melancholy fancies, and malapropos similes drawn from the White Mountain tour, and the repetition, in cautious but offensive form, of the old pro-slavery theories of its author.
It seems that the Rev. Southside was relapsing into a morbid state before he started. "Feeling sick with every day's report of the war," he says. "I had no heart to take the usual vacation this Summer until the time for it was half expired. But remembering how bad a symptom as to health is an apathetic indisposition to a change of place and scenes, I left home," etc. No wonder he was sick of the war. For a dozen or twenty years he had been preaching and book-writing from the Satanic text, "Evil, be thou my good," trying to show the people that slavery was as good a thing as freedom, and on the whole a little better, especially for black folks; and instead of convincing anybody, he had found half a million of men in arms, and ready for deadly conflict, on opposite sides of this to him very unimportant and insignificant question. He found himself cut off from his sweet communings and correspondence with his beloved brethren of the South, good Christians as himself, and better, because more patriarchal and less hampered with modern customs as to the sacredness of family, marriage, and property relations. He found infidelity spreading-infidelity, in his opinion, consisting in a disbelief in the righteousness of slavery, the good effect of universal concubinage among four millions of people, and the equity of cheating laboring men out of their wages. He fled to the mountains. There he saw a 6-pounder drawn by four horses to the top of Mount Washington, and he heard it fired in honor of the opening of the new carriage road; and because the gun awoke no echo, but only gave forth a sharp bark, he came to the profound conclusion that "the nearer we get to heaven, cannon arc more and more out of place." Undoubtedly the plains are more favorably situated for warlike operations; yet musketry may be used in the mountains to great advantage, and the absence of an echo is no indication that Heaven looks unfavorably upon the struggle that is going on for their defence. We regret that the listener from the window of the Glen House could get no better lesson from the cannon. Next he tried the mountains, and seems to have had no better luck. He found several peaks which are known by the names of Southern statesmen, such as Washington, Jefferson, Madison and Clay. "What a story docs this contain (he ejaculates)! what mighty witness and what great reproof does it bear! We were designed to be one! These mountains have an eternal covenant of baptism joining the North and South!" Well, this is maudlin enough! We don't dispute the conclusion, but the reasoning is quite unsatisfactory. We dare say some sickly and moonstruck Tory parsons of the Revolutionary era used to excuse their lack of patriotism by similar rhapsodies over the impossibility of making enemies of two nations, each of which had a town of Boston and a county of Worcester. There is a good deal in a name, but not quite enough to settle this war question.
The Rev. Doctor proceeded to give us a few statistics of travel: "Five thousand people," he says. "have passed the toll-gate from the Glen to the top of Mount Washington the past Summer." An interesting fact to the hotel keepers; and also to the public, as it shows that there is money left in the country for the pursuit of pleasure. But the Doctor deduces a moral from this fact, or rather from the accompanying fact, which he states, viz.: "that few so few that a child can write them, were from beyond the free States." A child might write them, we suppose, if they were many, only give him time enough: but we won't cavil at the language in that way. What is the Doctor's moral? Why, that we shall be happy again when the Southerners revisit the Mountains. We confess we don't see the logic of this, any more than of other parts of the Doctor's discourse. If unrestricted visiting of the White Mountains by Southern people, could not prevent the war from breaking out, how is it going to prevent new difficulties at any moment when the spirit of rebellion shall again arouse itself? There has never been any lack of the means of pacification, such as the "Sable Cloud" and the "South-Side View," and the New York Herald and the Boston Courier and the Cincinnati Platform, and the precious olive leaves of the Tract Society. The mails have been free; the hotels have been open; the pulpits have been unrestricted; Dr. Adams has been Southward and Dr. Fuller has come Northward; the Whit Mountains and Newport have contributed their sky-ey and billowy influences; but all in vain. We are at war, and it is not at all probable, that a restoration of the means of travel to the Northward will bring peace to us. When McClellan registers his name in Richmond, Wool in Charleston, and Fremont in New Orleans, we shall begin to have hopes of a restoration of pacific relations.
The war seems to Dr. Adams to be quite accidental. According to his notion, it was a speed which somebody made in Montgomery the night o the capture of Sumter, which left the North no alter native but war. The cause of the difficulty, how ever, lies far back of that. It is, not slavery, but anti-slavery; in other words, "the great original of all this trouble is the conscientious opposition of the people of the free States to the relation of ownership in man." And, of course, the Dr.'s remedy is the cessation of this conscientious opposition. This would undoubtedly be effectual, if there were not insuperable obstacles in the way. Conscience is a hard thing to overcome; and the principles of civil liberty embodied in the free State Constitutions express the settled convictions of the people, so that there is no hope whatever that they will be rooted out by sermons, books of travel, or religio-political novels of the sable-cloud stamp. And none but a lunatic would suppose that a war like this, with its loss of life and treasure, would help bring about any such modification of opinion as Dr. Adams deems necessary. His theory of the result of the war is that we shall let the South alone hereafter, and leave to Providence the question as to the destiny of the slaves. The North, he says, must adopt such views as the candid Christian people of the South generally entertain, or consent that they shall, unmolested, perpetuate or change their social state; and if the latter, in their own time and way. Considering the fact that the slaveholders have made war upon us, not because we have meddled with their institution, but because we have taken precautions that it shall not meddle with and destroy us, this is refreshingly cool, and shows that the preacher who is undertaking to find a solution of our troubles is not only prepared for any degradation to which the slaveholders may ask us to submit, but eager to consent to it. He thinks that the North is wrong and the South right, and he Lopes that the result of the contest will be. not the undisputed supremacy of the free ideas and institutions of the North, but the toleration, of the patriarchal institution throughout the country. In fact, slavery is Dr. Adams's ebony idol. He graciously concedes that the Lord may, if He sees-fit, do away with it; but it is evident that his ideas of the Divine wisdom will be very greatly diminished if He does. And he even goes so far as to allow that the slaveholders, in their own time,
<c02>
<illegible> do away with it, if they please. Bat if the Northern people make the war a war for emancipation, every State in the Union will be likely to be <illegible> the condition of Missouri! That is to say, if the people of the North take advantage of the war to <illegible> a blow or let a blow be aimed at what every man <illegible> a lunatic, an idiot, or an Adams, knows to be <illegible> sole cause of the war, the pro-slavery men, with <illegible> priests at their head, will resist, and rally to slavery's defence. It is painful to witness such fanaticism for slavery in a New England clergyman; but it is quite harmless. We have no reason to doubt that an immense majority of the people, including most, of the heretofore pro-slavery classes, would gladly welcome an opportunity to do away with slavery. Poll Essex-street Church itself, and we cannot doubt that the pro-slavery priest would find himself in a meager minority.-N. Y. Tribune. 

A SAD STORY.
The following narrative is given by the correspondent of the New York Tribune, under date of September 2d. The scene occurred at Camp Holt, by the Falls of the Ohio, near Louisville, Ky. The story itself will touch every heart susceptible of Christian or honorable feeling. The Union force at the Falls is composed entirely of Kentuckians:-
This morning, as some of Capt. Stone's men were bathing in a river, they saw a negro, spent and almost drowned, struggling towards them across the rapids. They saved him from a watery grave, and brought him, naked as he was born, to headquarters. Here some old clothes, and some bread and meat, the first he had taken for more than a week, were given him, and then he was ordered to give an account of himself.
The fugitive's name is Goree. He is a slave, and was the body-servant of Lieut. Col. Bob. Johnson of the rebel Camp Boone. Goree ran away from him for being beaten without offence, and after adventures enough to make an "Uncle Tom's Cabin," arrived at daylight this morning on the bank of the friendly Ohio. But he was not yet safe. So, pulling off his clothes and wrapping them around his head, he plunged into the river, and struck out boldly for the further shore, distant almost a mile. The swift current swept him down among the rocks and breakers; his heavy turban became saturated, and threatened to sink him; he was bruised and cut horribly by the jagged granite of the Falls. He struggled manfully rather than part with his clothes, his little earthly all; but finding that he must choose between death and nakedness, he concluded to take the latter, and so set his wardrobe adrift. He continued to flounder on towards freedom's bank, now sucked under by the powerful eddies, now swept forward with frightful rapidity by the current, or dashed hard against the rocks. He must have perished if Stone's men had not drawn him from the river.
His surprise and distress at finding himself in camp may be imagined. He supposed he would instantly be returned "away down in Dixie's land," for his master had told him that Lincoln's soldiers caught all runaway niggers and sold them down South again. Poor Goree, I pity him. As I write, he is crying as though his heart would break, and refuses to be comforted.
Goree is a really intelligent lad. He can read and spell and write as well as any boy of his age in the land; and if he had but a white skin, he might make a respectable man. But, like all his unfortunate race, he has no resting in this life, and his only future, lies in the vale of shadows beyond the tomb. Amid his sobs, he implores that ho may not be sent back to the brutal Johnson. He says he does not care what becomes of him, so that he is not returned to him. But he will be returned. As I write, a sergeant and squad have him in their midst, and are marching him back to slavery!

O. A, BROWNSON ON THE WAR.
This distinguished Catholic writer has a powerful article in the last number of his Review, in which, strangely enough, considering his well known conservatism, he takes ground in favor of emancipation as a war measure. The following extracts will sufficiently indicate his position, which is maintained with his usual ability and force:-
"There is neither reason nor justice in Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and the great States northwest of the Ohio, pouring out their blood and treasure for the gratification of the slaveholding pretensions of Maryland, Kentucky or Missouri. The citizens of these States who own slaves are as much bound, if the preservation of the Union requires it, to give up their property in slaves, as we at the farther North are to pour out our blood and treasure to put down a rebellion which threatens alike them and us. If they love their few slaves more than they do the Union, let them go out of the Union. We arc stronger to fight the battles of the Union without them than we are with them.
But we have referred only to the slaves in the rebellious States, and if it is, or if it becomes a military necessity to liberate all the slaves of the Union, and to treat the whole present slave population as freemen and citizens, it would be no more, than just and proper that, at the conclusion of the war, the citizens of loyal States, or the. loyal citizens of loyal sections of the rebellious Stales, should be indemnified at a reasonable rate for the slaves that may have been liberated. The States and sections of States named have not a large number of slaves, and if the Union is preserved, it would not be a very heavy burden on it to pay their ransom; and to paying it no patriot or loyal citizen of the free States would raise the slightest objection. The objection, therefore, urged, though grave, need not be. regarded as insuperable; and we think the advantages of the measure, in a military point of view, would be far greater than any disadvantages we have to apprehend from it.
Whether the time for this important measure has come, or not, it is for the President, as Commander in-Chief of our armies, to determine. But, in our judgment, no single measure could be adopted by the Government that would more effectually aid its military operations, do more to weaken the rebel forces, and to strengthen our own.
It seems to us, then, highly important, in every possible view of the case, that the Federal Government should avail itself of the opportunity given it by the Southern rebellion, to perform this act of justice to the negro race; to assimilate the labor system of the South to that of the North; to remove, a great moral and political wrong; and to wipe out the foul stain of slavery, which lies hitherto sullied the otherwise bright escutcheon of our Republic. We are no fanatics on the subject of slavery, as is well known to our readers, and we make no extraordinary pretensions to modern philanthropy; but we cannot help fearing, that if the Government lets slip the present opportunity of doing justice to the negro race, and of placing our Republic, throughout, in harmony with modern civilization, God, who is especially the God of the poor and the oppressed, will never give victory to our arms, or suffer us to succeed in our efforts to suppress rebellion, and restore peace and integrity in the Union."
This conclusion is the language of common sense, of genuine patriotism, and of true religion.

SLAVERY.
What some of the Border States Unionists think of slavery is pretty clearly stated in a speech which the Rev. Mr. Carter, of East Tennessee, made in Cincinnati, a few days since. He said:-
"I am a slaveholder; my ancestors, for three generations, have been slaveholders; therefore, 1 cannot be charged with any prejudice against slavery. But, I tell you here, that 1 regard the union of the States as of infinitely more value than all the negroes in America, and Africa too. Nay, I go further, and say that, if the prosecution of this war and the perpetuation of the Union require that African slavery shall! die, then I say, let it perish."
And yet we have people, here at home, crying and whining lest Government should do something concerning slavery, which may not be agreeable to the unionists in the border States! These persons are making themselves exceedingly uneasy about a matter which don't trouble the unionists in those States at all. The latter understand very well that slavery is at the bottom of the rebellion; to secure for it special advantages was the design of the movers in the affair; hence, they see clearly that, if the Union is to be restored on its original principles, slavery must be dissevered from all national support, even if it is not swept away entirely. Why, then, should unionists at the North fear the adoption of measures designed to affect slavery- the great rebel interest?-Bath Sentinel.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCT. 11, 1861.
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that the military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, slavery among the rest. Under that, state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the President of the United States, but the commander of the army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the staves."
"From the instant that your slaveholding States become the theatre of war, civil, servile or foreign, from that instant the war powers of Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery in every way in which it can be interfered with, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of the State burdened with slavery to a foreign power."
"If civil war come, if insurrection come, is this beleaguered capital, is this besieged government to see millions of its subjects in arms, and have no right to break the fetters which they are forging into swords? No!' The war power of the Government can sweep this institution into the Gulf." JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
The following Memorial to the next Congress has been prepared for universal circulation, with the belief that it will readily be adopted by all but those who are in favor of eternizing the accursed system of slavery-who, while pretending to be on the side of the Government, are secretly in hearty sympathy with the Southern traitors-and who would prefer to set the Federal forces every where defeated, the blood and substance of the people expended to no purpose, and the rule of the Southern Confederacy victorious over the whole country, rather than have the oppressed set free under law, even though a satisfactory adjustment is proposed in the case of the so-called loyal slaveholders. Let the most active measures be at once taken to procure the signatures of men and women, voters and non-voters, to this Memorial, in every city, town and village. A MILLION such can be easily obtained by energetic and concerted action. Forward!

MEMORIAL OF THE PEOPLE TO CONGRESS.
"PROCLAIM LIBERTY THROUGHOUT ALL THE LAND, TO ALL THE INHABITANTS THEREOF."
To the Congress of the United Slates:
The undersigned, citizens of, State of, respectfully submit -
That as the present formidable rebellion against the General Government manifestly finds its root and nourishment in the system of chattel slavery at the South; as the leading conspirators are slaveholders, who constitute an oligarchy avowedly hostile to all free institutions; and as, in the nature of things, no solid peace can be maintained while the cause of this treasonable revolt is permitted to exist; your honorable body is urgently implored to lose no time in enacting, under the war power, the total abolition of slavery throughout the country-liberating unconditionally the slaves of all who arc rebels, and, while not recognizing the right of property in man, allowing; for the emancipated slaves of such as are loyal to the government a fair pecuniary award, in order to facilitate an amicable adjustment of difficulties; and thus to bring the war to a speedy and beneficent termination, and indissolubly to unite all sections and all interests of the country upon the enduring basis of universal freedom.
Editors of newspapers are requested to give this Memorial one or more insertions in their columns.

THE TIME FOR NATIONAL DELIVERANCE.
While no change has been made in the letter or spirit of the Constitution of the United States, or in the disposition of the Government faithfully to execute all its provisions, the slave-holding South, with a few questionable exceptions, has proclaimed and is vigorously carrying on war against the Government, repudiated its allegiance to the Constitution, withdrawn from the Union, and organized a Southern Confederacy, claiming its recognition as an independent nation by all foreign powers. On the other hand, the Government is seeking, with all the military and naval power within its command, to maintain its authority upon the original basis.
We are in entire agreement with the Government, that the course pursued by the Southern Confederates has been marked, throughout, by the blackest perfidy, the most revolting barbarity, the fiercest despotism, and the most hateful treason. Having always shaped the policy and controlled the action of the Government until the election of Mr. Lincoln, they had nothing to complain of as inimical to their slaveholding designs. Without waiting even for his inauguration, and under an administration of their own choosing, they broke their plighted faith, and dissolved the Union in violence and blood. It is unnecessary to recapitulate their atrocities, or to show how utterly inexcusable they are, before heaven and earth, for whatever they have done or attempted. They are not only wholly undeserving of sympathy or forbearance, but they justly merit the indignant condemnation of the civilized world as peerless in their iniquity.
It is certain, however, that this explosion is in the nature of things, according to the law of righteous retribution and eternal justice, and finds its source in the existence of slavery at the South. The old Union is so widely sundered that it borders upon lunacy for the present administration to suppose that it can ever again be restored upon its original conditions, bad as they were respecting the millions held in bondage. The South may possibly be conquered by the Federal forces, but a standing army will be required in every one of the Confederate States to secure the enforcement of any law of Congress, or to protect those who are loyal to the Government, in their persons or property in that section. What, then, is the alternative? It is, first, to carry on the war, at an immense sacrifice of blood and treasure, for an indefinite period, and without any prospect of amicable adjustment or willing submission; or, second, to acknowledge the independence of the Southern Confederacy; or, third, to make it possible speedily to end the war, to uphold the Government, and to preserve the Union for the purposes of freedom and free institutions, by abolishing slavery on the ground of necessity, if not from convictions of justice, under the war power. To the first alternative, none of sound mind will give consent. To the second, few who believe in the duty of the Government to suppress treason, at whatever cost, will readily accede. Must not the last, then, be adopted, however reluctantly? and to induce the Government to proclaim freedom to all, is it not the duty of every lover of his country to demand that it lose no time in proclaiming universal emancipation?
Whence originates the present rebellion? In the slaveholding States, and -in the system of slavery. The active conspirators are all slaveholders. Jefferson Davis, Alexander H. Stephens, all the members of the Confederate Cabinet, all the prominent officers in the Confederate army, not only hold slaves, but are zealous for the universal extension of slave institutions. Had they not been slaveholders, they would not have been guilty of high treason. Slavery abolished, every Southern State would immediately come under the conditions of freedom as they exist at the North, and these produce equality of rights and privileges, free institutions of every kind, and consequent security and prosperity. No peculiarity of soil or climate, no geographical distance, no diversity of industrial labor and enterprise, have ever caused any serious divisions or dangerous rivalries among the free States. Their blood, their pulsations, their aspirations, their instincts, their necessities, their methods of development, are essentially identical. The manufacturing and commercial East and the agricultural West feel no jealousy of each other, but, on the contrary, are made harmonious by the law of elective affinity. Not so with the South: with one third of her population deprived of their natural rights, and owned as property by a haughty and insolent oligarchy, she
<c04>
is from the beginning been factions, belligerent, <illegible>, and contemptuously defiant toward the North,-tolerating the connection only because she has en able, through her bullying and perfidy, to so far <illegible> the latter as to succeed in shaping the policy <illegible> government, according to her desires, until recently. <illegible> the formation of the Constitution, the "<illegible> conflict" between the free and slave elements <illegible> exhibited itself,-comparatively few as were <illegible> slaves, and notwithstanding there was not then <illegible> a bale of cotton in all the South to be thrown to the scale adversely to freedom. The world knows <illegible> insane attempts were then made, through <illegible>, to circumvent God, and prevent the operations of his eternal laws. The slaveholding delegates, <illegible> by the spirit of oppression, and disregarding be claims of justice and the dictates of humanity,- <illegible> quote the language of John Quincy Adams,-" re-<illegible> their subscription to the parchment till it should <illegible> SATURATED WITH THE INFECTION OF SLAVERY, WHICH NO FUMIGATION COULD <illegible>, NO QUARANTINE COULD EXTINGUISH. The freemen of the North gave way, AND THE DEADLY VENOM OF SLAVERY WAS INFUSED INTO THE CONSTITUTION OF FREEDOM." Thus was made the "covenant will death," and thus "with hell were they at agreement"-imagining, in their fatuity, that, henceforth all troubles would be ended; that when the overflowing scourge should pass through, it would not com nigh unto them, for they had made lies their refuge, and under falsehood had they hid themselves. But now the refuge of lies is swept away, and the waters overflow the hiding-place, and God is "doing his work, his strange work, and bringing to pass his act, his strange act." "Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men; therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among the people, even a marvellous work, and a wonder; for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid. Woe unto them that seek deep to hide their counsel from the Lord, and their works arc in the dark, and they say, Who seeth us? and who knoweth us? Surely, your turning of things upside down shall he esteemed as the potter's clay."
The Constitution of the United States should never have been adopted with its slavery-upholding provisions. No such Union should have been formed, or assented to, or carried out. It was "cursed with a curse" as soon as made: and now has come the day of visitation to the whole land. As a people, we have despised the word of the living God, and "trusted in oppression and perverseness," and sought to stay thereon; and for this, divine justice is now impartially meted out. Yet, happily, there is a way of escape, and there shall be mercy mingled with judgment, if we will but break every yoke, and let the captive millions go free. The slaveholders of the South are, with few exceptions, in hot rebellion against the government, have trampled upon all their constitutional obligations, and joined themselves to a hostile confederacy, and, therefore, have voluntarily relinquished whatever guaranties were accorded to them as loyal supporters of the Constitution. What claim has their slave property to any consideration on the part of the government? Have they not involved the country in a war, the pecuniary burdens of which must heavily press upon coming generations, as well as upon the living (1)-to say nothing of the blood that has been shed, and that yet remains to be poured out like water? Have they not already captured scores of defenceless merchantmen, and are they not trying with their piratical cruisers to sweep from the ocean every Northern ship sailing under the national flag? Have they not lawlessly seized all the ships, fortifications, arsenals, custom-houses, and mints within their Confederate domains belonging to the government, and confiscated Northern property and released Southern indebtedness to the extent of hundreds of millions of dollars? Are they not actively using their slaves to carry on their treasonable designs, and boasting of their villany in tills particular? And are they not placing the Capital in a state of siege, and threatening it with such forces as to cause the utmost anxiety of mind as to what a day may bring forth?
Having, then, not only forfeited all claim to constitutional protection, but subjected themselves to the penalty of death as traitors,-having perpetrated every outrage and sought to inflict every injury in their power,-they can make no just complaint if the war power is exercised against their slave possessions (which are also stolen possessions) to the fullest extent. Did Heaven ever before vouchsafe to any government, in time of war, such an opportunity to strike its enemies in their most vulnerable point, without malice or cruelty, and for the grandest and most beneficent ends? And now we say to President Lincoln and his cabinet advisers-
"When for the sighing of the poor,
And for the needy, God has risen,
And chains are breaking, and a door
Is opening for the souls in prison;
If then ye would, with puny hands,
Arrest the very work of Heaven,
And bind anew the evil bands
Which God's right arm of power hath riven"-
if, instead of delivering the oppressed and executing judgment, ye would leave them in chains in the hope and with the design of renewing the ancient "covenant with death and agreement with hell," your damnation will be equally sure and just! To refuse to deliver those captive Millions who are now legally in your power, is tantamount to the crime of their original enslavement; and their blood shall a righteous God require at your hands. Put the trump of jubilee to your lips! Then shall
"The grain grow green on battle-plains,
O'er awarded war-mounds graze the cow;
The slave stand forging from his chains
The spade and plough.
Where frowns the fort, pavilions gay,
And cottage windows, flower-entwined,
Look out upon the peaceful bay,
And hills behind."
*****
So much for the slaves belonging to the Southern traitors. As to the "loyal" slaveholders, it is evident that they constitute a very small minority-so small as scarcely to be perceivable. Excepting Delaware, whose whole slave population is not larger than may be found on a single estate at the South, there is not a loyal slave State in the Union-not one. Maryland, Kentucky, Missouri, what of these? True, they have not yet in form joined the Southern Confederacy, neither are they loyal to the Government. In them all, the secession spirit is in the ascendant, and in open rebellion, more or less rampant, and only held in check by the potency and presence of Federal bayonets! It is still very doubtful whether they can much longer be kept even partially subjugated. But, without waiting to ascertain how many genuine cases of slaveholding loyalty exist, they can easily be disposed of by allowing them the market value of their slaves, not as a recognition of the claim to property in man, hut in order to facilitate a satisfactory solution of the difficulties in which they are involved, to make the work of emancipation effectual through its universality, and so to bring this desolating and sanguinary war to a speedy termination. Losing nothing by such an arrangement, they will have nothing to complain of, even from the low plane of their pecuniary selfishness.
(1) Here arc some items for grave consideration:-
"In estimating the amount of the debt to be created by the war, some of the journals have fixed it at only five hundred millions. The debt on the 15th December will amount to about three hundred and cloven millions, und at the present rate of expenditure it will be seven hundred and fifty millions one year from that date. Should peace be made at any time upon the basis of the old Union, the public debt of the Confederate States must also fall upon the general government. The war debt of each party to the conflict is likely to reach a very respectable amount, even should we have on early peace."
"The estimated value of Yankee property in Virginia, confiscated by the rebels, amounts to thirty millions."
"Isaac Davenport, of Richmond, has given ten thousand dollars ho owed to Northerners to the rebel Commissioners."
<c05>
THE LAST TRICK OF THE "AMERICAN BOARD."
A full exposure of that crafty management by which, for forty years past, the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions have contrived practically to favor slavery, even while (as in the last third part of that period) they were using language which seemed to imply opposition to it, would require a large volume. A small book recently published (entitled "Relation of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions to Slavery,") gives the documents in which a careful and observing reader can trace all this "management," but exposes at length only a few special instances of their self-contradictions and sophistical entanglements. On the other hand, Dr. Anderson, the senior Secretary of the Board, has just published an octavo of 462 pages-entitled "A Memorial Volume of the first Fitly Years of the American Board"-giving a history of everything in the concerns of that body except its complicity with slavery, and the troubles thence arising. So nearly absolute is Dr. Anderson's exclusion of this topic, that only from one line in his whole book would the reader ever suspect that the Board had ever had any trouble in connection with slavery. How far such falsification of history will avail to keep up the credit of the Board remains to be seen. The purpose of this article is to speak of a later piece of management, occurring in the Annual Meeting of that body, Oct. 1st, at Cleveland, Ohio.
The relation really sustained by the Board to slavery, on their coming together for the Annual Meeting of 1861, is shown by the following facts in their past history. From 1818 to 1860 they had given their sanction and authentication to the practice of slaveholding, by freely admitting slaveholders to membership in their mission churches among the Cherokee and Choctaw Indians; and they first evaded, and then refused, compliance with the remonstrances made by Christians in the Northern States, for fifteen or twenty years last past, against this practice.
Wearied, apparently, by the continuance of these remonstrances, though still unrepentant, in 1859 the Prudential Committee discontinued the Choctaw mission, alleging as the reason "the unceasing embarrassments and perplexities" connected with it. The existence of "embarrassments and perplexities" there proved to be very real, for it shortly after appeared, in spite of the silence preserved by the Board's missionaries, that a sister in one of their churches had been burned alive, at the instigation of another sister in the same church, seven months before the discontinuance of the mission, and without the slightest disciplinary action of that church, or its minister, or any of his missionary associates, against the murderess.
In 1860, the Prudential Committee discontinued the Cherokee mission also, alleging, as the reason for this action, not "embarrassments and perplexities," but the Christianization of the Cherokee people, to an extent which rendered further missionary labor on their part inappropriate. They not only declared the slaveholding Cherokees "a Christian people," but took pains to declare that the discontinuance of the mission was not on account of slavery, and not on account of any unfaithfulness of the missionaries. Of course, this was a formal proclamation on the part of the Prudential Committee that (in their judgment) slaveholding might properly be practiced by Christians, and allowed a refuge in the church by Christian ministers.
In the Annual Meeting of 1801, just closed, the Board made no retraction of the shameful positions previously taken. But, on motion of one of the Corporate Members, John Kingsbury, Esq., of Providence, the following resolutions on the state of the country were unanimously adopted:-
"Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with our National Government in its struggle with the rebellion which threatens its very existence, and imperils the success of this Missionary Board; and we fervently implore the God of Nations so to overrule the conflict that the rebellion may be crushed, slavery, its prime cause, removed, and that peace, prosperity and righteousness may be permanently established throughout our whole land.
Resolved, That we not only thus pray for deliverance from our present national distress, but also that the nation having been purified in the furnace of affliction, and made meet for the Master's service, shall hereafter render the same devotion to the cause of Christ and Christian Missions which is now put forth for the preservation of our beloved country."
Before the passage of these resolutions, the indulgence of slaveholding for forty years in the Board's Indian mission-churches had brought forth its natural fruit, in the expressed determination of the Cherokees and Choctaws to adhere to that system, and, for the sake of it, to join the rebel Stales of the South, and fight in the war they are now waging against the United States Government.
In what attitude are the Board now placed by their unanimous adoption of the foregoing resolutions?
In the first place, in praying that the rebellion may be crushed and slavery removed, they are praying against their Choctaw and Cherokee converts, and against a course, on the part of those converts, naturally and almost inevitably flowing from the forty years' teaching of their missionaries; missionaries whose "faithfulness" the Board had reaffirmed, at their last previous meeting; and teaching, the soundness and expediency of which they had steadily maintained for forty years, against strong and oft-repeated remonstrances of Northern Christians.
In the next place, their practical course, up to October 2d, 1861, the day on which this resolution was passed, has been a direct maintenance of slaveholding as, under existing circumstances, right and Christian! Is their incidental petition that slavery may now be removed-their brief request, smuggled into the middle of a resolution respecting the National Government, for the removal of a system which they have hitherto actively supported, and represented God as supporting, and the Bible as permitting-to be looked upon as the taking of a right position on their part?
Nay, verily! If they say A, let them say B. Let them honestly avow the reproach and disgrace which their present action throws upon their past action. If they now pray that the movement of their Cherokee and Choctaw converts may be "crushed," and that the system which they have been helping to perpetuate among those nations may be "removed," let them at least confess the incorrectness of their certificate that the Cherokees are a Christian people; and the incorrectness of the certificate volunteered by their senior Secretary, in his "Memorial Volume," that the Choctaws also are a Christian people.-C. K. W.

A LETTER FROM MRS. CHILD.
TO "OUR JESSIE."
This is a familiar phrase, and had a pleasant sound years gone by; but I, who am slow to adopt popular shibboleths, have never had it come home into my heart till these latter times. Now I see you forsaking elegant drawing-rooms for the fatigue and privations of a camp; zealously devoting your rare talents and accomplishments to the service of your imperiled country; doubling the indomitable energy and unwearied industry of your noble husband, by adding to them your own; sympathizing with his large and liberal feelings; and by your full appreciation and cordial approbation confirming him in all high principles of freedom, justice and humanity. Seeing you thus, my heart spontaneously repeats the old popular phrase, and affectionately greets you as "our Jessie," the hem of whose garment I would stoop to kiss. The wife who thus cooperates with her husband in all his best endeavors and loftiest aims fulfils the prophecy of the poet:-
"Woman sets herself to man,
Like perfect music unto noble words.''
In the name of the womanhood which she adorns, I thank "our Jessie."
In view of your able and prompt adaptation to the present momentous crisis, I cordially thank you both. Though personally unacquainted, I have heard much of you from those who know you well, and, unless I mistake, the elements of your characters, you are in-
<c06>
dividuals made for times like these__"of such stuff as they, use to make storm stay-sails."
The crisis calls aloud for such souls. All feel the need of strong men and energetic measures; though few even begin to comprehend the vast import of this struggle, and the immeasurable influence its result will have, for good or evil, upon all our own posterity and upon the world at large. If we rightly exert the power which God has put into our hands, this may prove the last great battle, in open field, between the forces of Despotism and the forces of Freedom. The Christian world is watching the combat with a more or less defined consciousness of this truth. Enlightened statesmen, as well as upright moralists, every where perceive that this is no mere sectional or party strife. They universally recognize it as the collision of antagonistic principles, producing a projectile force which is to throw this country into the orbit of a new era. And those among ourselves who have the deepest insight and the most sober thought are painfully aware that this is one of those rare and moments, sent of God, when men are called on "To decide,
In the strife of Truth with Falsehood, for the good or evil side.
This great cause, God's new Messiah, offers us the bloom or blight;
And oar choice goes by forever twist the darkness and the light."
How strangely Winded are those who can see in this grand epoch only a game of temporary expediency for selfish politicians to exercise their cunning upon! The enthusiasm of the people is real. Their wishes are honest and true, though often imperfectly defined. They love their country, and are willing to make large sacrifices for the sake of seeing it become truly great, united and free. In their patriotic minds there has always been a dim but unpleasant consciousness that national boastings had something of falseness, and must needs sound hollow in the ears of the world. The present crisis has brought this latent feeling into recognized, existence and universal expression. The earnest wish of the people, spontaneously expressed in cars and depots, by the fire-side and the road-side, is to have their beloved country really and entirely free. How it will be brought about, they cannot foresee; but they have faith that this war is destined to accomplish the salutary work, and with that expectation they are anxiously watching the signs of the times. They have been educated to respect law, and as "iniquity has been framed into a law," the moral sense of many has been obscured by the fog necessarily arising from such circumstances. But the fog clears at once in the presence of unlooked-for events, which bring with them undoubted legal power to abolish the iniquity. They take fresh courage, rejoicing in this light, which God has flashed upon the nation in the uproar of a storm.
Can this mighty pulsation of the popular heart prove all for nought? It would be downright atheism to think so, for never has the hand of God been so signally manifested in the course of human affairs. Seldom, indeed, does it happen in a war that one of the contending parties can secure victory and speedy peace by a measure which will also prove a real and permanent benefit to the defeated party. Seldom is the chance offered to any people to obey the dictates of justice and the impulses of humanity toward millions of oppressed fellow creatures, and thereby save for themselves an immense amount of bloodshed and expense, while they secure incalculable advantages to posterity, throughout the whole length and breadth of the land. This country will have to pass through shameful stages of degeneracy, leading to a terrible ordeal of suffering in the future, if we blindly and recklessly throw away the glorious opportunity for atonement which the Divine Ruler has placed within our reach. The masses are easily misled by selfish, artful men, in times of political excitement, because their, honest simplicity is duped by false professions; but when there is a real "Uprising of a Great People," the voice of the populace is the voice of God, became it is the in-dwelling God that speaks through them. The American people now give general indications that they are roused from their long drowsiness to a "wide-awake" conviction that "Righteousness exalteth a nation, and sin is a reproach to any people." They believe, with the sublime prophet of the olden time, that "The work of righteousness shall be peace; and the effect of righteousness quietness and assurance forever."
Politicians never understand great impulses, and never have faith enough to make use of them. Instead of taking a wide, comprehensive view, they look downward to their own game, studying how to checkmate each other; and this they sometimes continue to do long after the concussions of an earthquake have sent kings, castles and knights all reeling out of the positions in which they had so carefully and cunningly placed them. The earthquake was no part of their programme. What are they to do with it! They can see nothing better than to busy themselves with resetting the capsized kings, castles and knights in their old places, and striving to make them "stay put," that they may again go on comfortably with their game.
"We see dimly in the present what is small and what is great:
Slow of faith, how weak an arm may turn the iron helm of fate!
But the soul is still oracular; amid the markets din,
List the ominous stern whisper from the Delphic cave within:
'They enslave their children's children who mate compromise with sin."
I have read of a Hindoo woman who belonged to a sect that worshipped crocodiles. Believing we hideous animals to be gods in disguise, she took one into her dwelling, and petted it till it was tame enough to feed from her hand. She felt sure that the presence of this disguised deity would bring blessing on her house. The monster grew in size, and devoured more and more, till one day it ate up her child. Her idolatry was not at alt changed by this event. She maintained that the ugly deity had brought blessing on her house. Exultingly she asked: "What honor or benefit could have been conferred on my child equal to that of being eaten by a god, and thus becoming part and portion of his sacred form?"
This is the extremest case of infatuated idolatry I have ever known, except that which has been manifested in the unlimited indulgence and submissive tenderness of the United States Government toward its pet crocodile, Slavery. The ravenous beast has become so odious in the eyes of the rest of the world. that nation after nation have driven him from their shores, considering it well worth a large expenditure of money to get quit of a monster it cost so much to support, and whose violent behavior brought all its protectors into danger and disrepute. Though this movement of the nations proved a good business transaction, besides adding immensely to the sum of human happiness, the United States has persevered in a totally different policy. It continued to feed its pet with pap; it constantly widened us range; it tightly enclosed within its reach millions of men, women and children, for it to grind in its bloody jaws; if a few of its wretched victims escaped, servants were sent to drive them back at the point of the bay net; and the humane were forbidden to interfere in their behalf on peril of fine and imprisonment. Thus pampered, the gormandizing monster grew ever stronger and stronger, more and more rapacious, and, withal, very sly and treacherous to the hand that fostered it so carefully. But the huger and more violent it became, the more deferentially it was treated. So the great wide-jawed brute has gone on increasing in bulk and rapacity, ever lying in wait in our midst, mounted on logs of its own color, crawling about in all sorts of invisible places, changing its element as suited its convenience, and, whether on land or water, grabbing everything it wanted. It will devour our children if it continues to be petted. But then, is it not a god? Will not our children be blest if they become incorporated with it, part and portion of its divine being? Its peepers have of late given us re iterated assurances that it would be so, and have earnestly recommended us to consent to have them devoured.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
But there is a large and ever increasing class who consider this doctrine a baneful superstition. Few of them dare to speech of expelling the monster from our domains, and those who have done so, have been exposed to constant thrashings from its far-reaching tail. But many have ventured to suggest that it would be a wise precaution to set bounds to its mischief by fencing it in. It required a great deal of courage to urge the expediency of such a measure. They did it in terms of polite expostulation; they agreed to leave a very wide area for it to drag its slime over undisturbed, with a hundred thousand babies a year for it to eat, besides millions of grown men and women, who would be diligently driven back if they attempted to escape. Notwithstanding these liberal terms, the mere proposal to limit its ravages has thrown the bloody monster into such a furious rage that it plunges about in the most frantie manner, crunching our people and our ships in its ruthless jaws. The eagle of the United States watches these ferocious proceedings, but hesitates to pounce. His portrait represents him with arrows in his claws, but he lays them aside and puts on velvet gloves when he approaches the precious pet. Perhaps it will get over its wrath, and graciously consent to be petted again. It is such a valuable creature, and brings us so much honor, it would be a pity to hurt it.
For my own part, I have not the slightest faith in the divinity of this foul, lazy creature, that lives by eating women and babies. To my mental vision it is simply a beast-a very deformed, obscene, thievish, gluttonous and cruel beast. Therefore I live in hopes that, before it destroys every good thing in the country, some St. George will be sent, strong and courageous enough to spear the desolating dragon. I would have blazoned, in characters brilliant as the sunshine, this motto: The Slaves are henceforth Free Men." 
That battle-cry has the ring of true metal. By that we shall be saved. But, as a nation, are we worth saving? Time will show whether we have virtue enough left in us to appreciate and seize the great chance so wonderfully presented to us.
If this country ever does truly become the land of the free"- if we are ever all ransomed, all redeemed from this most accursed thraldom-then our Starspangled Banner" will, indeed, be the genuine emblem of universal liberty and equal justice. Looming above the dispersing smoke of battle, it will look more lovely than the rainbow after a tempest. The good and the true every where will greet it with wholehearted enthusiasm. So glorious will it be in its transfigured beauty that angels might wave it from the battlements of heaves, while all their golden harps rang to the joyful chorus: The great battle of Armageddon has been fought and won by the hosts of heaven-Glory! Hallelujah!" 
Still hoping and praying for this grand result of all the sacrifices and sufferings of the people, I will strive to await in patience the development of events, carrying ever in my heart a fervent benediction for our Jessie" and her brave husband, and for all souls who are kindred with them.
L. MARIA CHILD.
We copy the happily conceived and admirably expressed letter of Mrs. Child to Mrs. Fremont from the New York Evening Post, in which paper it originally appeared. Here is another tribute to that excellent woman, which we find in an exchange paper:-"OUR JESSIE."
The name of one Northern woman is recorded who, without making a fuss, or having it announced in the newspapers, is doing her duty at her husband's side, and does not complain of weariness or fatigue, or find it necessary to leave him to go to fashionable watering places, or keep posted in the doings of the fashionable world. This honored name is that of Mrs. Fremont-"Out Jessie" of long ago, the wife of a Presidential candidate, the admired of the highest circles in London and, Paris, as well as in America, and now the active, industrious secretary of her husband, his confidential adviser, his invaluable reporter, who takes notes of important facts and statements during the General's interviews with the officers of his command, attends to much of his business correspondence, and in every respect supplies the place of a thoughtful, industrious second self.
That is a wife who is worth cargoes of the stuffed and painted and bedizened women who, got up after the style of the latest fashion plate, think they form the completest model of an ancient muse or a modern grace. It is to be hoped Jenkins" won't get his eager eye upon Mrs. Fremont, because the beauty of her work is that it is done in a quiet, unostentatious manner, from her pure, womanly instinct of love and duty, and it would destroy its great charm to have it hawked and placarded like a new patent medicine. There is no danger, however; the perfumed, patent leathered, and kid-gloved Jenkins delights in what is brilliant, flashy, and meretricious, and would not dream of assisting even our Jessie" to overhaul her husband's musty papers, in his dingy western office.
FACTS AS THEY ARE OUT WEST.
To the Editor of the Liberator: When Fremont's proclamation first made its appearance, it seemed to electrify every body with zeal for the war; it gave life, vigor and determination to the masses; there were more enlistments for a few days than weeks before. Every to-day talked of going to the war-the nerve and bone of the land at that. But, now, what a change has come over the country, while every body is reading the President's instructions to Fremont with disgust! The life and enthusiasm before manifested are entirely gone, and people seem to take but little interest in affairs, with the exception of getting the latest news.
If the late pro-slavery actions foreshadow the future policy of the administration, I guess it will soon wind out, from the fact it is neither hot nor cold"; therefore THE PEOPLE will spew them out of their mouths.
The whole concern appears to work like some old rusty machine that wants grease. They will yet probably realize the truth of Lovejoy's assertion, that, before the rebellion is put down, they will have to make use of every thing that has nerve. Poor dupes! they are fifty years behind the people. The fact is, Toombs's assertion stands plausible up to this time, that he will yet call his roll of negroes beneath the shadow of Bunker Hill monument, and whip them through Ohio corn fields.
In my estimation, history will say that the great blunder of the war was in trying to conciliate the Union slaveholders in the Border States. God bless Fremont for his proclamation!" is the general response. A. T..-Minersville, Illinois.
The pregnant statement of our Illinois correspondent, A. T."-in regard to the damaging effect at the West of President Lincoln's letter to Fremont,
is confirmed by a letter published in the New York Christian Inquirer, from Rev. Moncure D. Conway of Cincinnati, in which he says:-
"There is a hard, burning feeling out here at the exception taken by the President to Gen. Fremont's proclamation, which, as far as the public know, is universal. It is most seriously felt at the recruitingoffices, which were all doing a great business under the prospect of being with Fremont, but which are now utterly paralyzed. Several of our wealthy citizens who had sent on large sums of money to take the Government loans, instantly countermanded their orders-among these, our old friend, Davis B. Lawler. Nothing can describe the thrill of delight that followed Fremont's proclamation here; nothing the disheartened chill that followed the exception thereto. Why is there not some sensitiveness to acts of Congress when Gen. McClellan returns five fugitives against the express declaration of Congress that it is no part of the duty of our military arm to catch or return fugitiveslaves'? Why is the sensitiveness reserved for cases where some things bear against, instead of for slavery?
Fremont violated no law; McClellan did. 
Things will be dark enough out here. We heed no warning, consider no experience, but, right under the Sinai where God is thundering his law, still bow down before the accursed idol that seems to have infatuated our whole country."
The Louisville Journal says the secession organs of Kentucky have refused to mention or in any way recognize the fact that the President of the United States has rectified the proclamation of Gen. Fremont, so as to make it conformable to the act of Congress in relation to the confiscation of the property of belligerents. Rolled in the dirt for nothing!
<c02>
WHITTIER TO FREMONT.
The following tribute to General Fremont, from the pen of John G. Whittier, appears in the Boston Transcript:-
TO JOHN C. FREMONT.
Thy error, Fremont, simply was to act
A plain man's part, without the statesman's tact,
And taking counsel but of common sense,
To strike at cause as well as consequence.
So take thou courage! God has spoken through thee,
Irrevocable, the mighty words, Be Free!
The land shakes with them, and the slave's dull ear
Turns from the rice-field stealthily to hear.
Who would recall them now must first arrest
The winds that blow down from the free Northwest,
Ruffling the Gulf; or, like a scroll, roll back
The Mississippi to his upper springs.
Such words fulfil their prophecy, and lack
But the full time to harden into things. J. G. W.
SLAVERY AND THE CONSTITUTION.
In whatever light the Constitution may be regarded, whether as an anti-slavery or a pro-slavery instrument, all must agree that it does not pretend to guarantee the perpetuity of slavery. It recognizes it as existing; it endows it with the most important privileges; it even offers a premium for its extension and continuance; but, spite of ail this, it nowhere declares the system safe from ultimate assault and overthrow. In providing for its own amendment, it makes no exception in favor of slavery beyond the year 1808. The compromises of 1787 are as liable to alteration as any the most trivial clause in all the bond. Furthermore, the Constitution nowhere establishes, nowhere affords the power to establish the servitude of any race. So far, then, freedom has a strong hold on the national charter. Slavery exists by local law, or, more properly, local usage; the Constitution acknowledges it, but does not create it.
Now it would seem unnecessary to assert that laws are made for subjects, and privileges designed for obedient subjects. To impose laws on a foreign people, and to confer privileges on those who scout your authority, would be equally preposterous. Yet this is the conduct of our government. The slave States repudiate the Federal authority,-refuse submission, and back their refusal will bullets and bayonets; nay, not content with that, they seek to demolish the government which, as of their own choice, they were morally bound to support. Will any one, a half century hence, believe that the United States government was so infatuated as to enforce the rendering unto Caesar what had long ceased to be Caesar's due? that it fought with its rebellious subjects on the one hand, and on the other treated them as if still obedient? that, dealing with them as enemies (and justly),-destroying them on the battlefield, incarcerating them without process, of law, and confiscating any and all of their property except their slaves,-it refused, from constitutional scruples, to interfere with their privilege of slavery, while it disregarded the rights which as loyal men they might have claimed? in short, that the administration was so suicidal as to support the cause and the sustenance of the war, because it could see no difference between Jeff. Davis and an honest citizen?
But grant that the Constitution bars the way to confiscation of property in human flesh, though not to that of any other worldly possessions, not even to the taking of life itself. There is something above the Constitution, though vested in it, and that is, martial law. General Fremont proclaimed it in Missouri, and under it freed the slaves. He did what he had a right to do. He did what he was bound to, on the score of justice or of expediency. What says the President? Fetter those freedmen! By what right, Mr. Lincoln? The Constitution? It was superseded by martial law. What Fremont has done, and what he may yet do, has your authority implicitly, or he would be only a brigand.
You may check him, but until you do so, his word is law, his credit is unimpeachable. Has he made a contract? If not fraudulent, you must acknowledge
it. Has he made an armistice? You must sanction it. But he has done nothing fraudulent; he has not exceeded his authority. You may, as commander-in-
chief, revoke his martial law, but while it lasts, he is commander-in-chief, and his acts are good. 
Well, Fremont has freed the slaves of the rebels in the interval between his proclamation of martial law and the President's letter. The slaves are freemen, Can Mr. Lincoln turn back the hand on the dial? We assert he cannot. He may have authority to keep slaves in bondage, but whence does he derive the power to transform freemen into slaves? We have seen that that instrument does not provide against such an emergency as that in which Fremont found himself. The conclusion is evident. The President has violated the Constitution, and this time, unlike his previous violations, which the people of the North have joyfully sanctioned, he has done so in the interest of slavery. We have a right, then, to protest loudly against such infamy. Mr. Lincoln has already received
the stigma of theslave-hound of Illinois"; it was reserved for his last public act-as weak as it was wicked-to brand him forever with the disgraceful distinction of being the first man on the American continent who, not only when slavery was perishing, would not let it die, but even stooped, under the guise of law, to reduce free men to slaves. G.
THE LIFE AND LETTERS OF CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN,
who was executed at Charlestown, Virginia, Dec. 2, 1859, for an armed attack upon American Slavery; with Notices of some of his Confederates. Edited by RICHARD D. WEBB. London: Smith, Elder & Co., 65 Cornhill. 1861.
This new tribute to the memory of one of the most heroic men who have ever lived,-one of the few truly great men whom this country has produced,-will receive a cordial welcome from the many who, however differing in their estimate of the methods employed by John Brown, know how to honor his wonderful resolution, his superiority to ordinary objects of ambition, his self-devotion and self-sacrifice. All such will rejoice with us at the appearance of this new volume, admirably fitted as it is to remain a permanent biography and memorial of JOHN BROWN, and of the great work for justice and freedom which he pondered, and labored for, so many years. The work of preparing this Life has fallen into the best hands. A sincere admiration of the noble points in John Brown's character, and a profound sympathy in the work of the deliverance of the oppressed, (attested by a life-long interest in the cause,) together with high literary qualifications and admirable taste and judgment, all qualify Mr. Webb in an eminent degree to be the biographer of John Brown. We are sure we only anticipate the judgment of all who are yet to read this volume, when we offer to Mr. Webb our very sincere thanks for the admirable manner in which he has performed his disinterested labor, and for the valuable book he has given us. To call it a book every way worthy of its subject is certainly high praise; and we think that this may be said of it with entire truth. In course of a few weeks, as we have reason to believe, copies of the Life will be for sale in this country; and in justice to John Brown, we bespeak for it a wide circulation.
A letter just received from a Philadelphia gentleman says:" I have seen the new Life of John Brown, and I like it exceedingly. I do not hesitate to say
that it equals my best expectations. It is a plain, straightforward, chastely-written, faithful narrative, embodying all the letters and papers necessary to its object, and making a most interesting and valuable volume." We congratulate all lovers of the good cause of Liberty upon the appearance of this Life of one of its most disinterested and conscientious defenders.
For the Fourth Series of the fraternity course of lectures, in this city, with its brilliant and attractive list of speakers, see advertisement in another column. No time should be lost on the part of members of the Fraternity, or of the public generally, in procuring tickets. It will be seen that Hon. Charles sumner is to give the opening lecture on The Rebellion-its Origin and Main-Spring." How ably and eloquently the subject will be handled, we need not predict. Get your tickets, and let the Temple be filled to its utmost capacity.
<c03>
THE REAL SPIES AND TRAITORS.
dear garrison-There are spies and traitors in the ranks of liberty. Who are they? Slaveholders and their apologists. No matter what are their titles; no matter what their conditions; no matter what offices
they hold, nor by what nor by whose authority they act, North or South, every man who, by word or deed, apologizes for or sustains slavery, or sympathizes
with slaveholders because they are slaveholders, is a spy and a traitor among the mustering hosts of liberty, and will surely betray the holy and humane
cause of freedom in every way in which he can.
The bloody and barbarous South is rallying in defence of the abolition of the relation of marriage and parentage; of the right to annihilate the relations and endearments of husbands and wives-of parents and children-of brothers and sisters; of the right of fathers to breed and sell their children in the market, their sons to unrequited, compulsory toil, and their daughters to prostitution. Virginia and the entire slave States are rallying to defend and perpetuate the right to punish men with stripes and death for learning to read and write, and for daring to defend their wives, daughters, mothers and sisters against rape and rapine.
Are you for slavery or for liberty? Are you pro-slavery or anti-slavery? This is the issue. This is the test question of the hour. Spot the man who says,I am pro-slavery"; who defends slavery; who, by sympathy, by counsel, by word or deed, defends slavery,or justifies those who are seeking to establish and perpetuate it as the governing power of the land. Whether he be priest or politician, whether in the pulpit, on the platform, in the school, in social or domestic
life, in the street, or in the editorial chair, the man who would throw the sanctions of law or religion around this system of pollution and crime is the enemy of liberty, of man, of his country and his God. He is a spy and a traitor in our midst.
Had there been no pro-slavery spies and traitors in our midst, the present civil war had never existed. Let the North now be united, as one man, against slavery,
and put forth its resistless energies to bring it to an end, and the conflict will soon be decided. The people of the North have no conflict with the people of the South; the North has no controversy with the South. But Liberty has a conflict with Slavery; the customs and institutions of Liberty have a conflict with the customs and institutions based on Slavery; and this conflict is irreconcilable and eternal. The friends of Slavery and its spirit and institutions will certainly betray Liberty and its spirit and institutions. The lamb may as well trust the wolf, or the dove the vulture, as Liberty Slavery.
Spot, then, the apologist of slavery in our midst. Spot him well; for he will betray the cause of liberty when and where we least expect. He will deliver us over to the tears and blood of the slave-pen, the slave-auction, the slave-driver's lash, and the slave-breeder's harem.
Every feeling and sympathy of my soul go with the object of this universal uprising of the masses-so far as that object is the abolition of slavery, and 
the securing of liberty" to ourselves and our posterity," without regard to sex, sect, color, clime or condition.Give me liberty, or give me death." Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God." Be these our watchwords.
The Stars and Stripes" are nought, except as they symbolize liberty. Patriotism is a mockery and a crime, except as it signifies the inalienable right of all men tolife, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
THE TRUE INDEX.
"Well done, good and faithful servant."
No more significant act has been performed for months, than the re-nomination of our present excellent Governor. The manner in which he was again nominated
is an encouraging indication. At a Union Convention, and by acclamation; it was a vote of thanks to him for his unceasing services pro bono public, during
the recent and perilous times of the nation. No civilian could have done better; and none could have tried harder to perform his part, in every particular. Not only did he proffer the words of a cordial welcome to the throngs rallying to defend the country, cheer them with encouraging hopes as they left for the theatre of action, greet them at their return from scenes of blood and carnage, as well deserving a nation's gratitude for their exhibited courage and patriotism,but he personally engaged in the work necessary to organize, uniform, officer, equip and provision the troops. He was at it day and night, wherever occasion called. He was and is almost ubiquitous. Nor did he desert the patriotic soldier disabled by wounds and sickness, or stretched out by death. His benevolence gushed from his very soul, and coined for his lips, Send them home tenderly. That word is characteristic of Gov. Andrew. We have known him for years, and can vouch for its sincerity and genuineness.His cardinal traits are fidelity, cordiality and earnestness. He means right; and whenever he does anything, it is, in his opinion, for the best; and we doubt whether any other man, in his place, would have done better for the cause than he has. Many, very many, would have done worse. His re-nomination has eloquently indorsed his policy, and his overwhelming reelection will rivet the proof of the popular sanction. Those who envy him, and those who were set aside by his rigid tests of unmistakable loyalty, altogether indispensable at such a crisis as this, when a large number were in masquerade, and it was difficult to know their real colors, have received the first reply of the people, and next month will declare their verdict by ballot.
Not only does the complimentary act indicate the popular satisfaction, but it was done with a full and fair understanding of his Excellency's views on the war.The inauguration first, consultation afterwards:" Public and unflinching was his course when summoned to Washington, at an earlier date, on the Harper's Ferry tragedy. Prompt and summary his policy at the discovery of fraud or peculation. Radical as were his opinions pronounced, the eminent Hunker of New York early, and the distinguished Hunker of Massachusetts more tardily, are not far in his rear, by profession at least. They, too, will see with his Excellency that the cause of the national difficulty is slavery, and that the only permanent cure of it is by a removal of the cause, if they do not already
recognize it. There are many who do perceive this fact, but do not feel yet quite at ease to promulgate the same, to assert it publicly. However, the harvest is near, and the opinions are ripening. They will be ready in due time; and that Convention have put this State under the proper Governor to perform our part well, when the time comes. They have placed the man in advance of the time, that he may be ready to welcome its advent. Nor will it be many months before emancipation will be demanded, if not by the army, or the people, or the Administration, or the Confederacy, the stern mandate of necessity will no
only demand, but will achieve it. The county with become relieved of its evil as the patient often is relieved from his disease, even in spite of his physician. This Convention indicates our people to be prepared for the event, and the ballot-box will show then anxious for it; for, till then, they clearly see, then can be no permanent peace, and not even precarious safety for the United States.
As to the suffrage for his Excellency, there will be no need of urging voters to the polls, either for making a respectable display of ballots, or for defeating a antagonistic party; they will come forward with alaority, and john A. Andrew will receive an almost unanimous voice from the loyal citizens of Massachusetts.
They will award to him their appreciation his ability, fidelity, integrity and philanthropy, and also by the same token coincide with him while pursuing
the same straightforward policy. If we are no greatly mistaken, Massachusetts will yet have reason to be even more proud of her whole-souled Chio Magistrate. N.
<c04>
THE FAST AND ITS USES.
President Lincoln's Fast has furnished another occasion to measure the tendencies of the national heart and mind. The people, through the pulpit, have again spoken in vast numbers, and with an emphasis that will be heeded through the land. When the infamous Buchanan proclaimed his Fast, the hearts of loyal citizens beat with indignation; now the response is unanimous.
In this response there seems to be no admixture of superstitious fear, no servile cringing, nothing like a blind faith that a little abstinence from food, or by mere lip service, the plans of the Almighty are to be changed.
In this terrible conflict between the sections, when slavery is pitted against freedom, barbarism against civilization; when war, to be war at all, would seem to require the impetus of all that is base and brutal in passion; it is refreshing to see so wholesome, so ingenuous and rational an acknowledgment of the short-comings of Northern men, mingled with so much pity and forbearance toward the victims of false social and political doctrines.
This truly Christian spirit seems to have been the life of our Fast; and if something of this spirit shall be borne away in every friendly breeze, to alight on hostile camps and battle-fields, and over the hearthstones
and homes of the South, it may beget a spirit, in return, which will be of more value than a hundred victories.
But with this spirit the Fast has rightly coupled the exigency of war-if need be, the bloodiest;-war against a base conspiracy, for the liberation of the misguided and innocent, among bond and free. The dove of peace, the Cross and the sword loom up against the sky-the olive-branch for the peaceful, the unsheathed sword for the enemy of his country. This is the lesson of our Fast. O! may its spirit find a home in every loyal heart, and crush out all traitors by its divine power! May the pulpit, now in the upward path of its duty, be made the fit exponent of all right sentiments and convictions of the people! Especially may the American pulpit have a just sense of its exalted function! As an instrument of instruction in the high truths which most concern man, may the wrongs inflicted on him by tyrants be ever held to be legitimate subjects of prayer and discourse! True to its divine office of unfolding the blessed nature of God and the destiny of man in their eternal relations, what a power may the pulpit, now and hereafter, become in this country, to mould and shape every means of human advancement! But for the mistaken belief of Christian ministers, that their duty lies in ignoring great social questions by substituting therefore the dry husks of sectarianism, we might now have been exempt from the trials which so sorely beset us.
The war is working a revolution in all our minds, as well as in matters of polities and government. Our theologies, our sciences and social systems will share the change. Every thing is tending to bind up anew diversity with unity in the bands of Christian charity, and the uses of doubt" and infidelity" are already visible in the light now ushering in a, brighter day for humanity. The hand of Providence is beginning to be dimly perceived as it moves the machinery of society, and reminds good men, as well as the ambitious and self-seeking, that they are, in the pomp and circumstance" both of peace and war, but instruments in His mighty hand to work the great problem of human destiny.
In the utterances of lamentation over our selfishness, and mean complicity with wrong as a people, which formed so striking a feature in our Fast, there is evidence of heart-felt conviction that a nation, no more than an individual, however great the appearance of prosperity and power, can fail to suffer the penalties of violated justice and right.
As this war progresses, it is to be hoped that still other occasions, under whatever name, will be furnished by the Executive, to lay open the mind and the heart of the nation-through the clearer medium of the pulpit-to the view of those whose business it is to maintain and administer the government. W.
MR. FOSS IN VERMONT.
WEST RANDOLPH, (Vt) October 1, 1861.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,- A. T. Foss is again in Vermont, holding meetings for the good of mankind-four million American slaves included. He is faithful to the society whose agent he is, and never unfaithful to his own highest convictions of truth and justice.
He has lectured in this town and in Bethel, Braintree, and Brookfield, in all of which places he has had good and full meetings. Particularly at West Brookfield,
on Sunday last, was there a very large, attentive and interested audience. His subject, the exciting and all-absorbing one, the war," draws many who have turned a deaf ear to the importunities for justice to the bondman. The still small voice" was unheeded, and now the trumpet-tone of bloody conflict are awaking all to the demands of Justice, which pleads no longer, but, armed with deadly missiles, will be heard and felt. Mr. Foss was clear and forcible in his remarks, showing plainly that the present Rebellion cannot be put down without sheltering the great primal cause, Slavery, and that Emancipation is the vital point upon which hangs our success. Much as we lament over and suffer by this war, we must feel that it is but the natural and inevitable result of causes pointed out, and warned against by Abolitionists for thirty years, and more to be welcomed than apathy and subserviency.
Mr. Foss went from Brookfield to Roxbury, where, I am told, he had a very large audience, including one hundred recruits, ready and eager for the fray." He gave great satisfaction. A. H.
TO A. HOGEBOOM.
I reply to your communication in the Liberator of October 4th. You would have no objection whatever to a formal acknowledgment" of the fact of the separate existence of the Southern Confederacy, if the South would peaceably abide the conditions" propose. I have shown that they could be compelled to this easier than they could to allegiance, or emancipation by war.
"But why remove from them the character of rebels, and invest them with the character of legitimate nationality?" Because-1st, This is the truth; and it is ridiculous and disgraceful to prosecute a war on a falsity. 2d, Because we should unbind ourselves from constitutional restrictions; and might then conduct
the war, as with any other foreign nation, by all legitimate martial methods, even to entire emancipation, without compensation. 3d, We should then not divest the North, in the eyes of the world," of an obligation, but establish in their eyes a right to impose the conditions I insist on. The other remarks I do not understand. J. P. B.
"The Chicago Tribune sums up the meaning of the long resolutions passed by the Democratic State Convention of New York,-to the effect that while declaring they will sanction no peace tending to the separation of the States, they are equally determined against emancipation as a result of the war,-by saying this can only mean that a rebel's negro is more precious than a rebel's neck.' Was ever such nonsense? Mat. Carpenter names it right when he says it is treason."
Well, there are traitors in high places, then, for of just such nonsense" has Mr. Seward, or, if you please, Mr. Lincoln, been guilty.My dear friend," says the gentle author of the President's letter to Gen. Fremont, my dear friend, your threatening to shoot the rebels does not trouble me; but it is positively
shocking in you to deprive them of their property.' The Constitution does n't allow that, you know." But what is property" without life in which to enjoy it? Or, in the order of blessings, which comes first? A model slaveholder, truly, under the ground! He shall have his Constitutional rights, "gays the sage of the White House.He is welcome!" cries every slave, from the Potomac to the Rio Grade. G.
<c05>
MR. SUMNER AT THE WORCHESTER CONVENTION. The editor of the Dedham Gazette, who was a member of the late Convention at Worcester, thus speaks in relation to Mr. Sumner's speech:-
"The most significant feature of the Convention was the speech of Mr. Sumner, which was received with the strongest expressions of approval by the great mass of delegates present. The fixed and earnest attention with which every word was received, and the hearty and repeated applause which greeted every allusion to the doctrine of emancipation, proved conclusively that upon this question the people are far in advance of the Government."
In addition to this, the Boston correspondent of the Springfield Republican gives its readers the following, about the speech and the Convention:-
"Charles Sumner's speech was the great event of the day, however. It was an epoch and a victory in itself. The right thing was said in the right way, at the right time, by the right man. It was wise, conservative, practical, as Mr. Sumner always is, and it unquestionably met the views of four-fifths of the audience.Those who did not enthusiastically applaud, said, Oh, it isn't quite time; Sumner is right; this will be the result, we hope and expect; but let us wait for Providence and the Administration.'
The New Bedford Standard tells its readers, of Mr. Sumner's speech-
"Its perusal by all earnest and sincere lovers of freedom will no doubt be a rich treat, as it was to those who had the pleasure of hearing it from the Senator's lips. The manner in which it was received by nine-tenths of the Convention was a true indication of the state of feeling in the old Bay State."
Charles Sumner was present at the Convention, and made one of his best speeches on slavery and its relation to the war. It is sound in argument, and such a one as might be expected from its author. It was received with great applause; but the Springfield Republican, as usual, which is always afraid of party damage, calls it ill-advised and out of place, and proceeds
to ridicule Mr. Sumner after its old habit. Why could n't the Republican afford to state what Mr. Sumner said, that was so objectionable, before creating an impression that it was something terrible, so that its readers could judge for themselves! Notwithstanding the Republican was so incensed, some of the New York papers were well enough pleased with the speech to procure an advance copy, so as to publish it entire on the morning following the Convention.
The Republican is always ready to condemn others for being consistent, and seems horrified if a public man discusses the same side of any topic more than once. We will defy any one to be more inconsistent than the Republican has been; and we would be willing to pay a small sum if the editor, or any one else, will define the position it has taken on any public question, either moral, religious, or political, within the last half-dozen years, and maintained it. After any great popular demonstration has been made, like the old lady whose cow swallowed the grindstone, it always chimes in with, Just as I expected; I told you so!"
The idea of making a popular newspaper, suited to all localities, is so apparent that its theories and principles have been dealt out a good deal like Lord Timothy Peter's punctuation marks, in his Pickle for the Knowing Ones,"-all at the end of the book, with an invitation to the reader to use such as suit his fancy. If there is any one who can tell what the Republican has or has not advocated, or show where it has not contradicted itself at least half a dozen times in as many weeks, he is a much greater curiosity than the famous What is it?" The Republican oftentimes utters noble sentiments, but they are no sooner said than it turns about and kicks them over."-Northampton Free Press.
THE SLAVES AS A MILITARY ELEMENT IN THE SOUTH.
The Total white population of the eleven States now comprising the Confederacy is 6,000,000, and, therefore, to fill up the ranks of the proposed army (600,000) about ten per cent, of the entire white population will be required. In any other country than our own, such a draft could not be met, but the Southern States can furnish that number of men, and still not leave the material
interests of the country in a suffering condition. Those who are incapacitated for bearing arms can oversee the plantations, and the negroes can go on undisturbed in their usual labors. In the North, the case is different; the men who join the army of subjugation are the laborers, the producers, and the factory operatives. Nearly every man from that section, especially those from the rural districts, leaves some branch of industry to suffer during his absence. The institution of slavery in the South alone enables her to p/ace in the field a force much larger in proportion to her white population
than the North, or indeed any country which is dependent
entirely on free labor. The institution is a tower of strength to the South, particularly at the present
crisis, and our enemies will be likely to find that the moral cancer," about which their orators are so fond of prating, is really one of the most effective weapons employed against the Union by the South. Whatever number of men may be needed for this war, we are confident our people stand ready to furnish. We are all enlisted for the war, and there must be no holding back until the independence of the South is fully acknowledged.-Montgomery (Ala.) Advertiser.
LETTER OF EX-PRESIDENT BUCHANAN.
At the Great Union Meeting at Hayesville, Chester County, Pennsylvania, on the 1st instant, the following letter from Ex-President Buchanan was read:-
WHEATLAND, near Lancaster, Pa., Sept. 25,61.
Dear Sir,-I have been honored by your kind invitation as Chairman of the appropriate Committee, to attend and address a Union meeting of the citizens of Chester and Lancaster Counties, to be held at Hayesville on the 1st of October. This I should gladly accept, proceeding as it does from a much valued portion of my old Congressional District, but advancing years and the present state of my health render it impossible. You correctly estimate the deep interest which I feel, in common with the citizens who will there be assembled, in the present condition of our country. This is indeed serious, but our recent military reverses so far from producing despondency in the minds of a loyal and powerful people, will only animate them to more mighty exertions in sustaining a war which has become inevitable by the assault of the Confederate States upon Fort Sumter. For this reason, were it possible, waiving all other topics, I should confine myself to a solemn and earnest appeal to my countrymen, and especially those without families, to volunteer for the war, and join the many thousands of brave and patriotic volunteers who are already in the field. This is the moment for action, for prompt, energetic and united action, and not for the discussion of peace propositions. These, we must know, would be rejected by the States that have seceded, unless we should offer to recognize their independence, which is entirely out of the question.
Better counsels may hereafter prevail, when these people shall be convinced that the war is conducted, not for their conquest or subjugation, but solely for the purpose of bringing them back to their original position in the Union, without impairing in the slightest degree any of their constitutional rights.
Whilst, therefore, we shall cordially hail their return
under our common glorious flag, and welcome them as brothers, yet until that happy day shall arrive, it will be our duty to support the President with all the men and means at the command of the country, in a vigorous and successful prosecution of the war.
Yours, very respectfully,
(Signed) JAMES BUCHANAN. 
An attempt was made on Friday last to throw a train on the Lexington and Louisville (Ky.) railroad off the track. The 14th Ohio Regiment was in the cars, which were stopped in time to prevent an accident. A detachment of soldiers immediately pursued the miscreants who thus attempted to destroy their lives, and caught two or three of them. Among them were two negroes, who asserted that they were compelled to place the logs on the track by their masters. One white man who plead guilty was taken to Louisville, and while under guard a German, who was passing by in a wagon, learning the cause of his arrest, jumped down, made his way through the guard, before they were aware of his approach, and cut the fellow's throat, vowing that he should try to throw no more trains off the track. The soldiers arrested the German, and committed him to jail. It was supposed the man who was cut could not recover.
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo., October, October 7. Information received here says that about three weeks ago a slave insurrection was attempted in Jasper county, and that about 35 of the negroes were killed, and a number of others are to be hung. The discovery of the plot proved that the insurrection was wide spread, and that the slaves intended to murder their masters and perpetrate
all manner of barbarities.
IMPORTANT FROM HATTERS INLET. On Friday last, 2500 rebels, consisting of a Georgia, South Carolina and Virginia regiment, came over the main land in six small steamers and schooners, with flat boats, and attacked the 20th Indiana regiment, who were obliged to retreat, with loss of 50 taken prisoners. Saturday morning, the Monticello steamed round the cape, and a few miles up the coast met the rebels marching down the narrow neck of land to attack our troops. They were in easy range, and the Monticello opened upon them with shells of five seconds pause, 218 of which were fired from three guns in three hours and a half, doing great execution. It is supposed that the loss of the rebels must have reached between two and three hundred in killed and wounded. An escaped prisoner reports that the first shot from her killed Col. Bartow, of the Georgia regiment, and the havoc was frightful.
<c06>
FRATERNITY LECTURES.
FOURTH SERIES.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully Informed that the fourth SERIES of FRATERNITY LECTURES will be inaugurated at TERMONT TEMPLE, on
FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 18, 1861,
on which occasion
HON. CHARLES SUMNER.
will pronounce an Address on
THE REBELLION: ITS ORIGIN AND MAIN-SPRING.
To be followed on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS by Lectures from the following gentlemen:
October 22-JACOB M. MANNING.
 29-GEORGE WM. CURTIS.
November 5-T. WENTWORTH HIGGINSON.
 12-RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
 19-WILLIAM R. ALGER.
 26-HENRY WARS BEECHER.
 December 3-FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
 10-EZRA H. HEYWOOD.
 17-EDWIN H. CHAPIN.
 24-WILLIAM S. STUDLEY.
 31-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
Organist- HOWARD M. Dow, Esq.
Doors to be opened at 6 1-2 o'clock. Lectures to commence at 7 1-2 o'clock, precisely.
A limited number of tickets (admitting the bearer and a lady,) are offered for sale at $2 each; to be obtained at Oliver Ditson & Co.'s, No. 277 Washington street, John C. Hayes & Co.'s, 33 Court street, D. O. Goodrich's, 302 Washington
street, of the several members of the Fraternity hitherto having the disposal of tickets, and at the Tremont Temple. Oct. 11
JOHN BROWN.-GRAND EXHIBITION.-A Memorial of the Martyr Hero of Freedom will be exhibited at Joy Street Baptist Church, on Tuesday evening, Oct. 15. Doors to be opened at 7 o'clock; exercises to commence precisely at 8 o'clock, at which time Prof. W. F. Johnson will exhibit, by the aid of the Camera Obscura, five interesting Views, drawing a vivid picture of the JOHN brown raid at harper's ferry. the whole to be interspersed with liberty songs and instrumental music.
Tickets of admission, 15 cents.
Boston, Oct. 11, 1861.
NOTICE.-Mrs. H. F. M. brown, of Cleveland, Ohio, has been appointed an Agent for the Anti-Slavery Standard; and is fully autherized to receive new subscriptions
to the same, as well as payments on old accounts. Mrs. Brown's address is 288 Superior street.
OBITUARY.
Parsed to the spirit life, in Princeton, July 13, 1861, ELIZA A., daughter of JAMES M. and SARAH P. Eveleth, aged 23 years.
In this departure of a cherished one, the afflicted friends have yielded up to the reaper Death the harvest of their hearts truest wealth. Miss Eveleth had been a number of years engaged in school-teaching; this being a favorite employment with her. In this capacity she was very much beloved for the faithful and cheerful manner in which she performed all its duties, and for the kind interest which she felt in the welfare of her pupils. Possessed of an amiable and loving disposition, she won the esteem and affection of all:-
"None knew her but to love her,
None named her but to praise."
Endowed with a remarkable degree of energy, she did with her might what her hands found to do. Indeed, it was through over-exertion and too close application to her labors, that she fell a prey to disease. She felt a deep interest in every enterprise which had for its object the elevation of suffering humanity. Her soul was in the various reforms of the age. The cause of the slave was one which lay near her heart, and the cry of distress every where found a response in her tender and sympathizing nature. Numbered in the earth-life with these who love noble deeds, the same love and benevolence, carried with her to the angel-land, will attract her to the bright and pure ones, who associate there for the redemption of the lowly, and elevate the degraded and fallen ones in either sphere.
While her physical system gradually wasted away, her mental energies remained bright and unclouded to the last. After her physician pronounced her recovery impossible, she was asked by a fond and devoted father if she was willing to die; to which she replied in substance as follows:-Father, I have formed many plans for the future, and it is hard to leave them all unexecuted. I would like to live if I could be useful in the world. She did not feel that it was in the plan of the all-wise Providence with reference to his children here, that one at her ago should fall a prey to disease, and leave the world just as she had become fitted for usefulness in it. She believed that our Creator has ordained that, by a wise attention to the laws of life, we should live to be useful to a good old age. She believed that such an experience, in this life, was desirable to better fit us for the duties of the next sphere; but, if she had, through an imperfect knowledge of these laws, or inattention to them, gone beyond her strength, and broken down her physical powers, the fault was not with Hun who bestowed these powers at first, but with her who mistook their capacity of endurance; and she must submit and leave her work here, while she hoped to engage in a nobler work in another sphere.
she was a believer in spiritual intercourse, and felt that she was the recipient, day by day, of the sweet and holy influences, shed from their spirit home, of dear ones gone before. How real is immortal life to a soul resting in the full conviction of the reality of such teachings! What a gift of Heaven is such an assurance! It tears the veil of death in shreds, banishes all fear, and awakens and stimulates the energies of the soul to a vivid perception of the glorious realities of an unending life, an eternal progression.
With a noble fortitude she endured her sufferings, and, also, the trial of parting with friends she so dearly loved. She ever greeted them with a cheerful smile, and with words of affection. Many times she summoned them to her bed-side, to give them the parting blessing, and offer comfort and consolation, assuring them that she was not going far away, and would be often with them, and share with, them their joys and sorrows-and when they, like her, languished
upon beds of sickness, she would be near them, to soothe them by her spirit presence, and gladly meet them when they, too, should pass the borders of the grave. She cheerfully and calmly conversed with her parents with regard to her funeral and burial, expressing a wish that bro. Adin Ballou and Prof. Britton should attend her funeral; which request was cheerfully granted. Only a short time previous to her departure, she requested a friend in sing,
"I hear the angels calling, I must soon be gone,"
in which she joined her sweet but faint voice, so soon to join the melodious strains of Heaven's sweetest minstrels. So tranquilly and peacefully did she bid adieu to parents, brothers, sisters and other attendants, tenderly thanking them all for the many tokens of kindness they had bestowed upon her during her sickness, and bidding them all to be hopeful and happy, that a foretaste of Heaven seemed truly ours-and we were led to exclaim,Oh Grave! where is thy victory? Oh Death! where is thy sting?"
East Princeton, Sept. 22, 1861. S. M.
A. T. FOSS, an Agent of the American A. S. Society,
will speak on The War," at
L. Waterford, Vt. Friday, Oct. 11.
McIndoes Falls, Sat. eve'g, 12, and Sunday,13
Ryegate, Tuesday, 15.
Topsham, Wednes., 16.
Washington, Thursday, 17. Newbury, Friday, 18.
Bradford, Sunday, 20.
Cornish Flat, Friday, 25.
Croydon, N.H, Thursday,  24
E Village, N. H. Thursday, 24.
Brattleboro', Sunday, 27.
Springfield, Tuesday, 29.
Diseases of Women and Children.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., and
Mrs. MARGARET B BROWN, Accoucher,
HAVE opened an office at 274 Washington Street Boston, and will devote special attention to the treatment of the above diseases.
Office Hours, from 10, A. M., to 4, P. M.
Boston, Oct. 4, 1861. 6m.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
From the Now York Independent.
TEY WILL BE DONE.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
"We see not, know not; all our way
Is night; with Thee alone is day.
From out the torrent's troubled drift,
Above the storm our prayer we lift,
Thy will be done!
The flesh may fail, the heart may faint,
But who are we to make complaint,
Or dare to plead in limes like these
The weakness of our love of case?
Thy will be done!
We take with solemn thankfulness
Our burden up, nor ask it less,
And count it joy that even we
May suffer, serve, or die for Thee,
Whose will be done!
Though dim as yet in tint and line,
We trace thy picture's wise design,
And thank Thee that our age supplies
The dark relief of sacrifice.
Thy will be done!
And if, in our unworthiness,
Our sacrificial wine we press,
If from thy ordeal's heated bars
Our feet are seamed with crimson scars,
Thy will be done!
If, for the age to come, this hour
Of trial hath vicarious power,
And, blest by Thee, our present pain
Be Liberty's eternal gain,
Thy will be done!
Strike, Thou, the Master, we Thy keys,
The anthem of the destinies!
The minor of Thy loftier strain,
Oar hearts shall breathe the old refrain,
Thy will be done!
From the National Anti-Slavery Standard.
FREMONT FOREVER!
Fremont has spoken! Wide speeds the word:
"The slaves of rebels are henceforth free men!"
Fremont has spoken! The Gulf has heard;
Her traitors stagger like drunken seamen.
Fremont forever!
The North has heard! and her ancient hills
Toss back the sound from ocean to ocean,
And up from the heart of the people swells
The tidal wave of a grand emotion!
Fremont forever!
Oftener the banker spares his gold;
The face of the lonely wife grows brighter;
The farmer racks not of cheese unsold;
And the soldier grasps his rifle tighter!
Fremont forever!
The thrill of a holy purpose peels
The film of self from their blinded eyes-
Heaven's Angel, LIBERTY, reveals
In the dread War-Angel's thin disguise.
Fremont forever!
Who murmurs now, while all rejoice?
Stamps with his heel on a deed undying?
Lends to the bloodhound's bay his voice?
And stops his cars to the people's crying-
"Fremont forever"?
Oh, fool and blind! the golden morn,
That might your statesman's brow have gilded,
Has passed, and ages yet unborn
Shall stone the tomb your madness builded.
Fremont forever!
Oh, brave young man, whose heart hath leapt
A league beyond its sluggish keeper,
Fear not! nor dream that God has slept
While man has bound his Harvest -Reaper.
Trust that thou still art Edipus,
Our guilty riddle to unravel;
Still the Pathfinder unto us,
Through Rocky Mounts of toil and travail!
Fremont forever!
Boston, Sept. 17, 1861. L. S. N.
The following is copied from the Boston Traveller. We hope its freedom-loving spirit will prove contagious.
A YANKEE SOLDIER'S SONG.
I harkened to the thundering noise,
And wondered what 'twas for, sir;
But when I heard 'em tell our boys,
I started up and swore, sir.
Yankee boys will fight it out!
Yankees brave and handy!
Freedom be our battle-shout!
Yankee doodle dandy!
They said that traitors tore our flag,
Down there in Dixie's land, sir:
Then more I loved the striped rag,
And swore by it to stand, sir.
Yankee boys will fight it out! &c.
I knew them Southern chaps, high bred,
Had called us "mud-sills" here, sir;
If on these sills they try to tread,
I guess 'will cost them dear, sir.
Yankee boys will fight it out! &c.
Down South I marched, rat-tat-a plan,
With heart brim full of pluck, sir;
I held my head up like a man;
A righteous cause brings luck, sir.
Yankee boys will fight it out! &c.
So proud was I of fatherland,
Where humans all are free, sir,
I found it hard to understand
Some things I lived to see, sir.
Yankee boys will fight it out! &c.
To us one day a brown man came,
In Dixie's land a slave, sir,
And pleaded hard, in Freedom's name,
That him we'd try to save, sir.
Yankee boys will fight it not! &c.
Of course we will, our men cried out:
All free beneath this flag, sir!
Then he began, with hearty shout,
To chew the starry rag, sir.
Yankee boys will fight it out! &c.
But, whip in hand, a master came,
And drove that man away, sir:
We felt it was a burning shame,
But could not have our say, sir.
Yankee boys will fight it out! &c.
To us it seems a coward's shirk;
It makes us feel less brave, sir;
We call it mean and "mud-sill" work,
This sending back a slave, sir!
Yankee boys will fight it out! &c.
We did not leave our homes to do
Such dirty jobs as these, sir;
Our hearts within us, warm and true,
It chills and makes 'em freeze, sir.
Yankee boys will fight it out! &c.
The man who works with heart is strong;
And right keeps up the pluck, sir;
We cannot feel so bold for wrong;
We cannot hope for luck, sir.
Yankee boys will fight it out! &c.
We long to have our flag unfurled
To make the whole land free, sir;
For we can proudly face the world,
When we that day shall see, sir.
Yankee boys will fight it out! &c.
O, how well hail our banner then!
Its fame all clear and bright, sir!
When all can feel that they are men,
And all have equal right, sir.
Yankee boys will fight it not!
Yankees brave and handy!
Freedom be our battle-shout!
Yankee doodle dandy!
<c02>
The liberator.
REPLY TO DE. GRANDIN'S INQUIRIES.
DEAR GARRISON:
Your correspondent, D. S. Grandin, an old coadjutor in the cause, calls for proof of certain statements in the communications of David Lee Child, on the contraband doctrine, and the war power of the United States over slavery. The following is the first of the statements which he specifies:-
"Citizens of Free States in the service of the United States, endeavoring to take on board the steamer Star of the West, some of the troops betrayed by the black traitor Twiggs, and afterwards captured in their unarmed state, contrary to capitulation, and their safeguard violated, by the blacker traitor, Van Dorn, were seized by the rebels, and sold at public auction as slaves. These unhappy men-unhappy, I fear, are all who trust this government for protection, except Secessionists and spies-were marched off by their purchasers to life-long servitude in the interior, nobody can tell where, and nobody thus far seems to care! That no circumstance of aggravation and national insult might be wanting, they were carried a thousand miles from Indianola to Montgomery, that they might be put upon the block, and knocked off under the nose of Jeff. Davis!"
Our friend declares that he had never seen a word of this in any paper before, and that the public know nothing of it. He is thus a witness to the truth of the averment that "nobody thus far seems to care."
My authority for the principal fact was the narrative of a number of the crew of the Star of the West, which was published in the Chicago Tribune, and republished on the 13th of June last in the Boston Atlas and Bee. I should be glad to see it reprinted here, if you can spare the space.
FREE SAILORS SOLD INTO SLAVERY.
Ten of the crew of the unfortunate Star of the West, Captain McGowan, which, after her mishap at Charleston harbor, was captured by the rebels at Indianola, Texas, arrived in this city yesterday afternoon, on their way to their homes in New York. Our reporter had an interview with them at the Michigan Southern depot last evening, and found them, as might have been expected, a rough, hardy set of fellows, bronzed from exposure and fatigued by travel, but with the genuine characteristic of the sailor, ready to sail again the same cruise if called upon.
They report that the Star of the West, manned by a crew of forty men all told, with a cargo of provisions, arrived at Indianola, on the Texas coast, on the afternoon of the 17th of April, and anchored off the town, awaiting, as per orders, the arrival of a detachment of federal troops from the northern part of Texas. About one o'clock on the morning of the 18th, the lookout discovered a steamer approaching them, and called the captain. The stranger craft came alongside and hailed them, informing them that they had three hundred and fifty United States troops on board, and wished to transfer them. Captain McGowan suspecting nothing, called up the crew, and employed every facility for transferring about one hundred rebels into his steamer. He did not discover his mistake until the captain of the rebel force established guards in every part of the vessel, hauled down the stars and stripes, and run up the lone star flag of Texas.
The rebels were so elated with their success in capturing an unarmed merchant vessel, that they fairly danced on the decks for joy, but were suddenly checked in their extravagant demonstrations by the gallant captain of the steamer, who intimated that he did not consider the capture of an unarmed steamer with a defenceless crew, by a detachment of troops twice their number, and armed to the teeth, a very courageous performance. The rebels, although intensely enraged, swallowed their feelings, and sneaked off to their guard duties, which were kept up closely during the night.
At daybreak the leader of the rebels summoned the crew of the steamer and gave them their option: to work the steamer to New Orleans or to be thrown into irons. They chose the former, and at sunrise weighed anchor and set sail for New Orleans. Every step of the crew was followed by the bayonet. The sailors performed their duties, ate their meals, took their turns at the wheel, and slept in their berths, with the point of the bayonet in close proximity to them.
At length the steamer reached New Orleans, and was towed up to the levee as a prize, in the presence of thousands of the rebels of that city, who indulged in the same wild and jubilant extravagances which had characterized the rebels on board. They crowded around the craft, demanding that the d-d federal Yankee troops should be led out. Their surprise and mortification may be imagined when the hundred rebels marched out forty unarmed sailors in their blue shirts and tarpaulins. The crowd would not be satisfied until they had carefully examined the vessel, that there were not some of the d-d Yankee troops on board.
A consultation was held by the authorities, and not knowing what to do with the forty, they sent them to the Gulf of Mobile, strongly guarded. The steamer, when they left, was rapidly being converted into a war vessel.
Arrived at Mobile, the forty again witnessed another carnival over their capture. Another consultation was held, and the rebels at Mobile not wanting them, and not knowing what to do with them, sent them, under a strong guard, to Montgomery. At Montgomery another consultation was had. The mob violently clamored that they should hang them. The leaders not feeling warranted in hanging peaceful merchant sailors, summoned them to the State House, and by offers of high wages and other flattering inducements, tried to persuade them to enlist in the rebel navy. They urged as inducements that they had no sailors, and would pay them any sum if they would serve in their navy. The entire crew, with the exception of one coward, gallantly and firmly refused, and demanded that, as they were not in the service of any government, they should have their rights. The leaders, enraged at their ill success, then told them that they must enlist or leave in half an hour. They chose to leave in half an hour, and long before that time they were on their way back to Mobile.
Three of the colored sailors, all free men, were taken by the leaders, put up at auction the same day sold and hurried off into slavery. As soon as they arrived at Montgomery, these unfortunate men were seized, not allowed a word of defence, and hurried off like cattle into the interior, under the tender mercies of the slave driver.
From Mobile the crew left for the North in different directions. Captain McGowan was allowed to go to New York from Montgomery by the eastern route. The ten who arrived here yesterday left New Orleans, whither they went from Mobile, on the 30th, and worked their passage up the river, arriving at Cairo on Sunday night.
During the sail up the river, they were treated like dogs, insulted and jeered at "every landing place, and allowed scarcely enough of provisions to keep them from starving.
At Cairo they reported themselves to Colonel Prentiss, who promptly attended to their wants, and procured for them free passes over the Illinois Central road to Chicago. The crew speak in the highest terms of the Colonel as a gentleman, every inch of him; they were also highly pleased with the reception from "our boys" at Cairo, and give it as their opinion that the rebels will think twice before they attack them.-Chicago Tribune, May 8th, 1861.
The second statement of which your correspondent desires evidence, is the last clause of the thirteenth in the catalogue of Southern crimes, as follows:-
"Repeatedly provoking wars of extermination against those simple and upright peoples by disguising themselves as Indians, murdering whole families of their white neighbors, and then summoning, in well-feigned terror, the ready ruffians of the frontier and the nearest garrisons of the army to the harvest of death."
The grounds of this charge, so far as they are not sufficiently known to need no repetition, are contained in the following note to the pamphlet edition of the communications referred to. This and other notes were designed for publication in the Liberator, but omitted by me on account of the length of the fourth and last part:-
An explanation is due for bringing this charge specially against slaveholders. The reasons are that theirs is the exclusive guilt and infamy of persecuting the Aborigines, as a persuasive to quit their ancient homes and accept banishment to strange lands. Theirs also is the peculiar guilt, failing this persuasive, of plucking them up, in violation of forty treaties, negotiated and ratified with them from the time of Washington down to 1829, and forcibly
<c03>
transplanting them into new and remote regions. The purpose of this unjust and cruel policy was the extension of slave plantations over the fertile "Indian reservations," and the procurement of the most valuable lands at a low or nominal price. The pretest was, that Indians cannot live within the limits of a civilized State.
Massachusetts, old and circumscribed as she is, and none too good in her treatment of Indians, has tribes of them, embracing considerable numbers, still living harmless and unharmed in her bosom, cultivating and enjoying extensive and valuable reservations, and managing their internal affairs in their own way.
It is a striking and characteristic fact, that the first and lost very bloody and disgraceful quarrel of this State with the natives was caused by a drunken and dissolute captain and crew of a Virginia coaster. This man, named Stone, having been fined a hundred pounds and costs in Boston, and banished from the colony on pain of death, departed for home. His evil genius led him to deviate and enter the Connecticut river, where, coming in collision with the Pequots, a proud and powerful nation, ho and his followers, seven in number, were slain.
The Massachusetts magistrates, seriously disquieted by the danger which all were supposed to incur by permitting the death of any white man by the hands of Indians to pass with impunity, undertook to treat as murder that which was probably nothing but an execution, justifiable by Indian law. But the allegations of the Pequots, though they were the only surviving witnesses of the occurrence, were pronounced "false pretences." Hildreth [Hist. U. S. A., vol. 1, p. 238] says-'-The Pequots insisted that the Virginians had been the aggressors, a thing in itself sufficiently probable." Palfrey [Hist. N. E., vol. 1, p. 457] says that the Pequots "protested that the affair was in part accidental, and in part a revenge for ill treatment from Stone; the latter branch of which allegation was thought not unlikely to be true, as Stone had conducted himself ill in Massachusetts, and had gone away under sentence of banishment, with the threat of being put to death if he should return."
The slayers were demanded as murderers, but not given up. This was in 1834. The affair dragged on with mutual irritations and cumulative causes of animosity-the natural increase from the Virginia seed-until it ripened into the deadliest hate, and until war by firebrand and sword, unpitying and unsparing of sex or ago, ensued. The entire nation, as noble, perhaps, as any of their brave and generous race, was swept from the face of the earth, apparently without a hearing. They cannot now have a hearing.
Of crimes committed by whites, disguised as Indians, have heard and read more than thirty years. They have occurred at various points of the frontiers, Northern as well as Southern, though oftenest on the latter. It is but must to add, that our Indian system, Indian quarrels and Indian agencies have been managed exclusively by the Southerners and a few "Northern men of Southern principles," or rather, of no principle, for fifty years. The aim of their policy has been to make them feel that they are "a subject race," to break their spirit, humble their pride, debase their character, and appropriate their mines and lauds.
The white fiend's game of enacting the murderer at the expense of the unhappy natives has been played most in Florida, where peace was often made only to be broken by the incredible depravity of men eager for kidnapping Seminole negroes, and for the restoration of the corrupt and wasteful expenditures of the War Department in that dismal region.
It is difficult to obtain positive testimony to the allegations in the text. From the nature of the case, the facts are known only to the culprits themselves. The following is an extract from a letter dated "Fort Myers, Fa., May 24, 1856," and published in the Boston Telegraph:-
"The Tampa Peninsular of this week contains a regular affidavit of a man or two, who got frightened, and confessed to Capt. Hooker, of the Florida Volunteers and others, that they belonged to a regularly organized band of WHITE MEN, who disguise themselves as Indians, and go about plundering and murdering through the country."
The third and last charge against the traitors, of which evidence is demanded by Dr. Grandin, is the fifteenth in the aforementioned catalogue, as follows:-
"Corrupting and subverting, by fraud and force, the vital prerogative of the elective franchise, and thereby foisting into the highest dignity in the Republic, and, as we have proudly boasted, "the highest upon earth," two false and usurping, to the exclusion of two legally elected Presidents; and because fraud and violence, striking at the ballot-box, could no longer serve their purpose of ruling the nation, resorting to treason and rebellion to ruin it."
I should have supposed that the crimes set forth here were too well known to men on the stage in 1844 and since, to admit of the equivocation, that this may mean the election of Davis and Stephens as President and Vice President, by the conspirators. Of course, this was a violent offence, the highest known to the law, against the United States; and it was probably a fraud upon the seceding States themselves. But this was not the meaning of the text.
An outline of the evidence, with references to more ample details, is given in the following note to the pamphlet edition:
The principle, on which the proof of this deadly outrage upon the Republic and upon the whole human family rests, is this: The number of voters in any community where the right of suffrage exists, bears a certain proportion to the whole population, the proportion being determined by the qualifications required for the enjoyment of the right. Where it is so far universal as to vest in every male citizen, who has arrived at twenty-one years of ago, and is not a lunatic, idiot nor convict, the proportion is, one voter to about four and a half inhabitants. In the New England States, where, in addition to the requisites of ago and sex, the payment of a tax within a certain period, and a previous residence within the election district for a certain term prior to the election, are prescribed-and where, by an exact and rigorous Registration of all qualified voters at an ample time before opening the polls, illegal and fraudulent voting is rendered well nigh impossible-the proportion varies from five to six inhabitants to every voter. In the Presidential election of 1844, very closely contested, the average in all the New England States was one voter to every and six-tenths inhabitants.
In New York, where there was then no Registration, the proportion at the same election was one voter to every four and five-tenths inhabitants, including the free colored disfranchised; in Pennsylvania, one to every five, including the same disfranchised; in Georgia, one to four and seven-tenths, including the free colored non-voters.
In any long-established State, or where the generation of pioneers has grown aged or passed away, the number of voters under any American law can never, in any given election district, exceed one to every four or Jive inhabitants.
In the memorable contest between Henry Clay and James K. Polk in the above-mentioned year, turning on the question of annexing Texas, it was proved, in the Judicial Courts of Louisiana, that steamboats were chartered by the partisans of Polk, took on board all the riff-raff that could be raked together, consisting of aliens, minors, convicts and vagabonds of every description, under the enticement of liquor and pay; and then steamed up and down the Mississippi, landing their pestilent freights to vote at every hustings, which steam power enabled them to reach during the day of election. Witnesses testified on the stand that they voted for the Democratic candidate in two, three, or more counties, in that election, and that the crowds which they accompanied voted in like manner!
The case of Plaquemines, one of the river Counties-commonly called Parishes-of Louisiana, will illustrate the whole matter.
At the three State elections preceding the Presidential of 1844, and at the latter, the votes of that County stood as follows: -
Whig. Dem. Total.
1841 40 250 290
1842 93 179 272
1843 36 310 346
1844 37 1007 1044
A gain of 698 democratic votes, a little over 200 percent., in one year! At that time, the whole white male population of that County was only 803, of whom, according to the census, 315 were minors, leaving only 408 who could by any possibility be legal voters, even if the qualification of twenty-one years of age had been the only one required; but it was not. The Constitution of that State requires one year's residence in the County, and the payment of a State tax within six months previous to election day.
It is a loathsome task to stir such mortal putrescence! John Slidell was the chief political engineer of that steamboat fleet, with its ladings of corruption and death-he that could not interfere to save the life of a fellow Senator, because he was not on speaking terms with him! he who is now an open traitor, and said to be destined by his confederates to proceed soon on an itinerant mission!
The illegal and fraudulent part of Mr. Polk's vote in the County of Plaquemines alone, say 650, at least, fell but little short of his majority over Mr. Clay in the whole of Louisiana; and with less than one-twelfth as much fraud in any one out of forty-three other Counties, would give him the six electoral votes of that State, where Henry Clay was absolutely adored.
"An eagle, towering in his pride of place,
Was by a mousing owl hawked at and killed."
New York, Pennsylvania and Georgia, all deemed doubtful States, and therefore fields fit for the fertilizer, corruption, presented, in the results of those districts, where the slave party was in a majority, and appointed the judges of elections, similar proofs of illegal and fraudulent voting. Having no Registration, and no check lists, slave partisans and office-seekers admitted to the ballot whom they pleased.
It was discovered and demonstrated, upon the full official returns of the votes of those States, that in many of the districts above described, the vote was so swelled by the increased slave-democratic majorities, that the ratio of voters to population rose to one for about every three inhabitants! The facts may all be found in the New York Tribune of that day, and some of them in the Whig Almanac of 1845.
Polk's majorities in the States above mentioned were: -
New York, 5106, in an aggregate of 535,882 votes.
Pennsylvania, 6332, " " " 331,876 "
Georgia, 2147, " " " 86,247, "
Louisiana, 693, " " " 26,865 "
Mr. Buchanan was elected, or rather accomplished an usurpation, by a repetition of the same corruption, applied 
<c04>
as before to doubtful States. Thus, in Illinois, Indiana and Pennsylvania, his majorities were won by notorious and audacious fraud and violence, brought to bear upon the ballot-box. Ono fact is decisive. It is known that he was lost without Pennsylvania; it is known that he carried the State by only 750 majority, and there were issued in and from the city of Philadelphia, about 6000 false and forged naturalization papers, to make voters there and in Reading and other cities of the State. D. L. C.
LIMITS OF PRESIDENTIAL POWER,
Has the President a right to enslave persons legally and constitutionally declared to be free?
ELKHART, (Indiana,) Sunday, Sept 22, 1861.
DEAR GARRISON-:
The contest deepens. Every day this war continues deepens and extends the anti-slavery sentiment, and the conviction that slavery is the cause and abolition the only cure of our national troubles.
Are all the slaves of all the rebels free in Missouri? free, absolutely and unconditionally? made so by the act of Major General Fremont? Fremont is the military ruler of Missouri. By virtue of the power vested in him by the Constitution as military commander of Missouri, he put the State under martial law. This he had a legal right to do. He had a legal, constitutional right to adopt any measures which, in his view, were essential to secure victory to his arms, and bring security to life and property in the State. As the most speedy, certain and constitutional way of ending the blood and carnage of the civil war, he gave liberty to the 25,000 slaves claimed by rebels in that State. Had he a legal, constitutional right to do it? Nobody doubts it, under the war power, whenever, in his view, that was necessary, to crush rebellion, and give triumph to justice and loyalty. He issued the decree; he gave the law-as he had the moral and legal right to do-freeing all the slaves of all the rebels, whether in the field or elsewhere. By law, by constitutional and positive law, those 25,000 slaves are free.
Has the President of the United States a right to enslave these freemen? Has Lincoln, authorized by the law of Congress, or by the Constitution, the power to reduce to chattel slavery 25,000 men, women and children who are free by the law of God and man? For the law of man, as well as the law of God, had pronounced them free. Fremont had, obedient to the voice of God, and to the behests of the Constitution, (giving him the power, as a military chieftain,) broken the fetters of every slave of every rebel in that State, and rescued these human chattels from the horrors of their condition-as a military necessity-to put down rebellion, and to save the State. There is scarcely a human heart or head in all the North that does not see in this act of justice and constitutional law, on the part of Fremont, the certain end of rebellion and civil war in Missouri. "Whoever shall reduce those 25,000 freemen to slavery is a kidnapper, a man-stealer, before human law as well as divine, as really as if he had taken 25,000 of the sons and daughters of the old Bay State, and made them slaves.
Has the President a right, a legal and constitutional right, to reduce the free men and women of Massachusetts to slavery, for any cause, or under any emergency? Has he a right, as President, to enslave the citizens of all or a part of them, of Boston, New York and Philadelphia, as a military necessity? Not one will dare pretend it. Yet he has assumed the power, and "cheerfully," as he says, assumed the responsibility of consigning to the hell of slavery (most of them whiter than himself) 25,000 free men, women and children of Missouri, who, by the Constitution and laws he is sworn to administer, are entitled to liberty as really as he is.
Will the Republican party-will the loyal, liberty loving, Constitution and law-abiding people of the North, allow the President of their choice-in defiance of the Constitution and laws which he is sworn to support-to engage in the business of enslaving human beings? the very things for which the pirates of the South are now fighting. They begun the war, solely, to secure to themselves the right to enslave men and women. Is the President, is the North, fighting for the same piratical right? If not, why does the President join them in reducing men and women to chattels?
But-patience! patience!! PATIENCE!!! "Wait a little longer." The signs are unmistakable, that the President must, at no distant day, and before the war can end, make the Proclamation of Fremont national, as the only means of "securing the blessings of liberty " to the nation and the continent. SLAVERY OR THE REPUBLIC MUST DIE. So say all who are now seeking the destruction of the government to sustain slavery. Let the North speed to the conclusion, that it they would save the government, THEY MUST ABOLISH SLAVERY. Fremont has begun the work of saving freedom and free institutions. Who shall hinder him? 
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
THE RIGHTS OF WOMAN IN OHIO.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
I wish to give your readers a brief history of the progress and present position of the Woman's Rights movement in Ohio.
About the year 1850, a Woman's Rights Association was formed, and some publications were circulated, showing the inequality and injustice of many of the laws of Ohio in regard to woman, and petitions to the General Assembly, asking redress, were circulated. In 1854, a memorial in behalf of woman's rights in respect to property and the exercise of the elective franchise was presented to the Senate of Ohio by Mrs. Caroline M. Severance. This memorial, after setting forth the grievances sanctioned by the laws as then existing, asked redress in the following particulars:-
1st. That marriage shall not destroy the legal individuality of woman.
2. That the husband shall not have power to control the personal liberty of the wife.
3d. That the husband may not have power to bind or apprentice the children without consent of the wife.
4th. That the wife may sue and be sued independent of the husband.
5th. That the wife may maintain, in her own name and right, an action for injury done to her person, reputation and property.
6th. That property acquired during marriage shall be owned equally by husband and wife.
7th. That separation by divorce shall entitle the party not in fault to the care and custody of the children, and to half the property of which the parties shall be possessed at the time.
8th. That the wife, upon the death of the husband, shall be entitled to the care of the children, and to all the property acquired during marriage.
9th. That there shall be no taxation without representation.
10th. That women shall have the right to engage in any laudable pursuit. [By the laws of Ohio, women are excluded from the practice of law, and probably also from some other lucrative and proper pursuits.]
11th. That women may have the right to sit on juries.
12th. That women may enjoy the elective franchise, and the right to hold offices of trust and profit under government.
An examination of these particulars in which redress was sought shows the nature of the disabilities to which woman was at that time subject by law. Most of these disabilities involved the liability and frequent exposure to great wrongs for which there was no legal redress. For instance, any father, however unfitted for such a prerogative, might bind out his minor son or daughter to any service, however unsuitable, and to any person, however unfitted for such a trust, without the consent of the wife and mother, and against her most earnest and just objections. No wife or minor daughter could maintain an action for injury to her person or character, however gross and atrocious. The husband or father, however imbecile or mercenary, had the sole power to prosecute, or compromise the injury, and to appropriate whatever
<c05>
damages might be obtained. In case of divorce, though decreed in consequence of the most flagrant wrong of the husband, he was still entitled to the custody of the children, and the woman could claim only such share of the property as the court should decree in the shape of alimony. At the death of the husband, the widow was permitted the guardianship of her children, the males till fourteen years of age, and the females till twelve; after which age, the law required them to choose guardians, or have them appointed. But even this limited right of the widow to control her children might be taken from her by the written will of her husband, and to which her infant, though unborn at the time of his death, was subject. Her right in the estate, the result of their joint industry, or perhaps wholly of her own, was limited to the decree of one third of the real estate, if any, and half the personal estate, not exceeding $400, and a few trivial articles of housekeeping, the enumeration of which, (including six knives and forks, six cups and saucers, six plates, &c. &c.) looks like a lampoon on legislation; and then pauper perquisites were allowed to the widow only so long as she should live with and provide for her children.
A provision particularly derogatory to the just rights of woman, and often involving much hardship, was that requiring widows to take out letters of administration to settle the estate of the deceased husband. This was an expensive process, and when the estate was of small value, or much encumbered, often consumed what would otherwise be the support of the bereaved family. This proceeding is as unnecessary, and as unjustly required of the widow, as would be the same proceeding enforced upon the husband at the death of his wife. If woman were allowed the same right as the husband, no such proceeding would be required.
The foregoing memorial was not followed by any action of the State Legislature till 1857, when a law was passed restraining the husband from selling, without the consent of his wife, such personal property as was by law exempt from sale upon execution. Previous to the passage of this law, the husband might sell the last article of furniture from the house, and even the clothes from his wife's person. The same act also empowered a deserted wife, or the wife of a husband incapacitated by intemperance or other cause from providing for his family, to make contracts for her own labor, and that of her minor children, and sue for and collect their earnings.
By an act of the same year, a former law giving to the widow of a childless husband the use of all the real estate acquired, and the use of one third of all obtained by inheritance, was so altered as to give the fee simple of the acquired estate, and the use of all the estate of inheritance, to the widow.
These acts were small steps in the right direction, and showed a disposition on the part of the Legislature to ameliorate the unjust restrictions upon woman's rights. But, in 1860, a bill was framed by Thomas M. Key, and by him urged to a final passage, materially diminishing the already too limited rights of the widow. This Thomas M. Key is familiarly known as Judge Key. He has lately been appointed to the rank and pay of a Colonel under Gen. McClellan, and his commission is dated back so as to secure pay and emoluments from August 19, 1860, as a reward, it is said, for his services as a civilian in "Western Virginia, the most conspicuous of which was his passing sentence of slavery upon some fugitives who had found their way into the camp, a most gross and despotic usurpation of authority for which he could plead no law and no necessity, and for which he should receive the execration of every friend of justice and humanity. Judge Key has contrived, by plausible professions and some cheap exhibitions of liberal feeling, to gain a reputation, with a few generous-minded persons, as a friend of reform, especially in the matter of woman's rights, but his influence has always been sinister, and his action injurious to the cause. Previous to 1860, the widow of a man dying in testate, and leaving no children, inherited his whole acquired estate, and the use during her life of inherited estate, or, if she chose not to accept a will left by the husband, her portion would be the same as if he had died in testate. By the act of 1860, known as Judge Key's bill, the widow must submit to the will of her deceased husband, however unjust, or be turned off with the miserable pittance to which she would be entitled by law, had her husband died leaving children, viz., the spinning wheels, looms, family Bible, school books and other miserable provisions already referred to. It is said that Judge Key's motive, in using extraordinary efforts for the passage of this law, was, to meet a particular case of personal interest. Whatever his motive, his act was certainly a mean one.
In 1861, Mrs. J. Elizabeth Jones, Mrs. Cutler and Mrs. Gage addressed a committee of the Legislature, in behalf of the legal rights of women, and especially the right of woman to manage her own property and control her earnings. Judge Key shortly afterward introduced a bill, apparently favorable to the movement, but so contrived that, so far as it effected any important change, it was only for the worse! An examination of Judge Key's law of 1861, by the side of the laws previously existing, is calculated to let in new light upon the mysteries of legislation,-if double-dealing jugglery is really a department of that sublime art. Judge Key's bill, professing to be framed for the security of woman's rights, actually steals away two of the most important rights granted by previous laws, and gives nothing valuable in return, though it makes the false pretence of doing so by reenacting the provisions of laws already existing, which it repeals for that purpose! A law of 1854, already noticed, prohibited husbands from selling personal property exempt from execution, except with consent of the wife. This law protected from utter destitution the wives of intemperate and spendthrift husbands. Judge Key's bill repeals this wise and humane provision, and authorizes the brutal and drunken tyrant to sell the last shred of decency or morsel of existence from his suffering family! The law pretends to give to woman the rents of real estate belonging to them at marriage, or coming to them by gift or inheritance; but a clause of the bill limits this clear right to only such as receive their inheritance or gift after the passage of the law, and gives no remedy for the wrong and robbery already in operation. These are the only important effects of the bill, and the only credit Judge Key deserves is that of deceiving those who trusted in him. The report of Mrs. J. Elizabeth Jones gives a more favorable view of the results of the woman's rights movement, but it will be found, on close inspection, that hitherto nothing has been gained but experience, and that the essential rights of woman are about as far as ever from being acknowledged by the laws of Ohio. DANIEL MANN.
WHO IS RESPONSIBLE?
Dr. Adams-author of "A South-Side View "-is reported to have said in a sermon which he preached on the occasion of the late National Fast, (see Journal of the 27th,) "Whoever shall be responsible for the destruction of this American Union will have a heavy reckoning with the human race."
"While the Government is being convulsed as it has never been before, and while there are many indications of its speedy downfall, it becomes a question of vital importance-WHO IS RESPONSIBLE for this sad state of things?
The wise man has long since said: "The curse causeless shall not come." See Prov. XXVI. 2. We have long felt that the Church has been the "chief of sinners" in bringing our country into her present condition, and, hence, we are gratified to discover that our view of this subject-which, by many, has been considered "infidel"-has recently been fully indorsed by some of her greatest lights, as will be seen by the following, of which we ask a careful consideration.
Dr. FRANCIS WAYLAND, of Providence, R. L, in "An Appeal to the Disciples of Christ of every Denomination, in reference to the approaching day of prayer,"-which has just been published in tract form 
<c06>
by the American Tract Society at Boston -uses the following language:-
"We have been guilty of the greatest moral recklessness in the choice of the officers of government. The right of suffrage can never be properly exercised without the consciousness of a solemn responsibility to God. In choosing our rulers we are under moral obligation to select men of intelligence and virtue and we act wickedly if we violate this obligation. But of the millions who annually vote, who think of this? Without regard to the ability, intelligence or moral character to the candidate, we vote at the instigation of party leaders, and merely to accomplish the purposes of party. Hence the dearest interests of our country and the world are wantonly sacrificed by committing them to manifestly wicked and incompetent men."
Again he says:-
"Unless the character of the Church be such as by its practical exemplification of Christ's precepts, to condemn the world, it is a church only in name, and he light of the world is so far extinguished. But what is the fact? By what, except outward forms, is the church in many cases to be distinguished from the world? Are there not in many of our churches some whose well-known character is a disgrace to their profession? Are not the places of amusement so frequented by professors of religion as to leave the impression that amusement is with them an end of living? Go to the assemblies, w here now do congregate the utterly frivolous and gay, and there you find the lowly, self-denying Jesus largely represented by his professed disciples. Observe the customs of business, the maxims to trade, the modes of accumulation, the carelessness about truth, and the eagerness to over reach, and who of the disciples of Christ are heard entering their protests against all or any of this iniquity? 
Let as go into our houses of worship, and what do we see and hear? In buildings of immense expense, adorned with every superfluity of luxury, with a style of music which the world recognizes as its own, fashion rioting in childish extravagance,-what do you hear that alarms the conscience, or sanctifies the heart? We exclude the poor, and make the worship of God a means of intensifying the detestable spirit of caste and social exclusiveness. Would any man, whose knowledge of religion was derived solely from the New Testament, suppose that these persons were disciples of Christ, or that this was intended for the worship of Jesus of Nazareth? 
Let us rise from this slough of practical atheism in which we are floundering. Let us compare our conduct as individuals, and as a nation with the revealed law of God. We cannot do this without being convinced that we are sinners exceedingly. We are such especially, for we have been blessed with abundant spiritual light, and every possible material and intellectual advantage. Of us it may be emphatically said, 'They knew their duty, but they did it not.' We have not liked to retain God in our Knowledge, and have acted as if there were no God, and no other moral law than each man chooses to frame for himself. W e who profess to obey Cod, and to be disciples of his Son Jesus Christ, come under his most solemn reproof.
In conclusion-after speaking of the duty and manner of prayer-he says:-
"And while we thus pray for ourselves, we must never forget that we shall not be heard, unless we put from us every feeling of malice, or vindictiveness, or uncharitable ness. We must pray for our enemies as we pray for ourselves. Let us ask that God would enlighten their minds, that he would grant them true repentance, and fill their hearts with love to him and to us, who would cheerfully receive them to our hearts as brethren, if they would render it possible. We must pray for 'them that are in bonds,' our unhappy brethren.
But if all this will be our duty on the 26th of September, it is our duty at this moment. Let us then make haste to return to God, and, with an humble and contrite heart, ask of him to remove this chastisement from us. Let us do it as individuals and as a nation, as ministers and people, and 'God, even our God, will bless us.'"
Let this faithful testimony against the corruptions of the Church, by one of her ablest exponents and most popular teachers, be carefully pondered by those who have branded us as infidels for saying no more severe things of her, for the last twenty-five years, and then say,-if Dr. Wayland is right,-whether we have not been right in our estimate of the Church, and the Church wrong in its estimate of us.
But we have another valuable testimony to the correctness of our position, in our estimate of the Church as the chief cause of our national derelictions and troubles, in the following sentiments, uttered by Rev. EDWARD N. KIRK, D. D., in the great Union" prayer meeting, in Park Street Church, on the morning of Fast-day. He said, alluding to slavery:-
"This great evil which is upon us might have been avoided if you, my brethren, and I, had been what we ought to have been. What reason we hate for humbling ourselves before God! IF THE CHURCH WOULD ONLY RISE AND DO HER DUTY IS RELATION TO THIS SUBJECT, HOW SOON SHOULD WE HAVE PEACE!"
Speaking of the Constitution, he said-
"We have nothing to do, as Christians, with the political views of that instrument, but only with the moral view of what it involves. Let us not evince greater love for a white than a black skin. We have met to pray and talk for the slave as well as the white man."
When the reader shall have finished this communication, let him examine, carefully, 2d Timothy, iii. 1 to 5,-Rev. 3: 14 to 18,-and Ezekiel 33,1 to 6,-ALL SPOKEN OF THE CHURCH, -and he will not tail to perceive that the Bible, as well as her ablest ministers, recognized the Church as the cause of the world's troubles, for which God holds her responsible. May she hear Him saying to her in the great events which are causing "distress of nations," and "men's hearts to fail them for fear, and for looking after fee things which are coming on the earth"-"Behold, I stand at the door, (of the Church.-Rev 3: 20,) and knock! If any man (in the Church) hear my voice and open the door, I will sup with him, and he with me." That the Lord may bless every effort of her faithful ministers to make her as "terrible as in army with banners" to wicked men, of every class in the community, and that she may become "eyes to the blind," and "ears to the deaf," and the savior of the world, is the prayer of her sincere well-wisher.
Boston, Sept. 29, 1861. JUSTITIA.
THE GENIUS AND ENERGY OF FREMONT.
Referring to the eminent services of Gen. Fremont, the St. Louis Democrat of the 16th ult says.
"He reached our city a few weeks ago, to find the army composed largely of three-months volunteers, whose term of service had nearly expired and who, for causes which may have been unavoidable, but were not the less to be regretted and removed, had become exceeding dissatisfied. These troops were to be paid off, and another army raised, in the face of the wide-spread complaining of the three-months' men, and of the gloom which the disaster at Manassas had diffused over the country, while the finances of the Government were at a low ebb. and the energy and temporary success of the rebels were adding to their numbers thousands whose timid treason urged them to make haste to be on the winning side. And yet the genius and energy of Gen. Fremont have triumphed over all obstacles, and secured for us an army of soldiers, with all the muniments of war, that may proudly challenge comparison in number, equipment and discipline, with any body of troops that were ever mastered into the service of any government, in the same space of time. The call of Gen. Fremont, as though there were a spell connected with his name, has aroused the patriotism of the hardy freedom of the West, and they have enrolled themselves under the banner of the Union by thousands, and tens of thousands, and are only eager to have an opportunity to meet and scatter the murderous hordes of the secession banditti. We can see and feel that, under such a leader, Missouri will soon be delivered from the polluting tread of traitors. Let us, then, stand by the man who seems raised up for the terrible crisis that is upon us. Let the breath of complaint be hushed, or utterly consumed by the glow of an unselfish patriotism. Let jealousies bickerings and heartburn alike be buried in oblivion. Let politics and parties vanish, but let Whig and Democrat and Republican vie with each other in devotion to the Union, and in sustaining and honoring the man who will lead us on to victory over the advocates and abettors of this infernal rebellion.
There is the true ring in language of this sort, and it seems to be the tone universally of the Western press. Fremont's name seems indeed to be a name to conjure with, and the change must be very great ere the common people will be persuaded that he acts from any selfish or base motive, or is moved by a rash and hasty judgment,-N.Y. Tribune.
