THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221, WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO.19.BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1683.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
A TRUE PICTURE OF ABOLITION
BY REV. PRESIDENT LORD, D. D. OF DARTMOUTH COLLEGE.
[concluded.]
Great errors do not obtain currency and become effect, but as they are permitted to have reference to respectable authority. Unhappily for the country, Abolitionism acquired that advantage. For it was an illusion that glared, at the same time, upon the benevolent seekers and the infatuated dreamers of a common salvation, and captivated, for a time, some whom it could not absolutely seduce or hopelessly destroy. It was so as when, under a similar temptation in the mother country, some such men as Edmund Burke and Robert Hall were borne on the deceitful current of false opinions till the roar of the tumbling cataract awoke them, and they were hardly saved by springing into the eddies, or clinging to the rocks. Forgetful of the lessons of history and revelation, they were slow to believe that a wisdom which boasted such great things of a superior light and a heavenly charity could be, after all, shallow and delusive. They sympathized, generously, or benevolently, with afflicted humanity, and the painted dream of universal emancipation which played before their excited fancies seemed a realization of what belongs only to an age in the dark, unrevealed futurity of Providence, to which we have yet to pass amidst scenes more terrible than any of the antecedent revolutions through which Jesus Christ has been advancing to his throne of judgment and of glory. So here; a few like Adams and Channing, to say nothing of distinguished living men, by we know not what secret political or philosophic bias, what vein of morbid sentiment, what blurred ethical or theological vision, by words whose meaning they did not measure, by reasonings inconsistent with some of their acknowledged principles, and unworthy of their intellect and their fame, gave encouragement, if not patronage, to the dangerous idolatry.
Abolitionism became an institution, organic and vital-body and soul-a working power, representative of a new type of moral and social wisdom, improved, comprehensive, philosophical, and destined to prevail. As its gaudy sophistry took its natural, popular effect, it assumed to be arrogant, insulting, and encroaching. It was envious at God's appointed orders-the family, the State, the Church-and scrupled not to assail their blood-cemented foundations. It labelled the Constitution as "a league with death and a covenant with hell." It set up its propaganda, assembled its conventions, and sent abroad its agents. It became a subtle disputant, a cunning innovator, a daring reformer, a fiery agitator, a virulent declaimer, a malignant denouncer, an implacable persecutor. Gaining confidence as it acquired ascendency over the simple, the curious, the fearful, the imaginative, the sentimental, the undisciplined, the passionate, it aspired to popular control and revolutionary distinction. But to that end it must become religious. It was ready for the occasion. It appealed, accordingly, to the moral scene now jostled from its polarity. "It appealed to Scripture, now twisted by improved versions, arbitrary criticisms, and fantastic commentaries, from its literal, direct, and scientific meanings, till it was made as subservient and obscure as a Delphic oracle-the very Scripture which it had before denounced as hostile to its ideas, or had disparaged as unworthy of competition with its higher law. It even clothed itself in the robes of sanctity, and kept its Sabbaths. It assumed control, extensively, of the religious press. It ascended the platform and the pulpit. It figured at anniversaries. It dispensed, ex cathedra, the oracles of the new divinity, and imprecated the wrath of heaven upon all who refused fealty and homage. To the same end, also, it must be political. It affected the well-being of the State. It studied intrigue and finesse. It became an expert. It mastered all the chicane of wires, caucusses, and conventions. It calculated its forces. It disciplined its ranks. It found the balance of power, and then sold itself to the progressive party. The price was the government of the country. The object was the dissolution of the Union, and then the introduction of its New Jerusalem-a returning Messiah-a Church and State Melchisedec-king and priest-impersonated in an "Independent" or a "Tribune." We have seen with what a Shylock savageness it has insisted on the bond. We have seen how tamely the constituted keeper of our liberties has consented to the sacrifice.
Such is the moral record of Abolitionism, brought down to the date of the President's proclamations. It has not been sufficiently considered. It has been imperfectly understood. Hence our confusions. Wise and learned civilians have left it too much out of their reckoning of our public difficulties and dangers, because it is moral, and therefore not on the line of their professional pursuits. But that is to be false to fact, dishonorable to history, and dangerous to the Church and State. It is to heal the hurt of the daughter of the people slightly, and perpetuate controversy and war. The moral question which divides us is supreme. There can be now no sound philosophy, no comprehensive judgment where it is not so installed, and all judgment will be unjust with out it. Abolitionism stands out, historically, the active, practical cause of all our troubles. With out it, other existing causes would have been of no effect. It was manifestly so when it began to figure in the halls of Congress. It has been so in all our subsequent discussions, which have filled the land with strife. It was more manifestly so in its alliance with miscalculating politicians in the Fremont campaign, and more decisively in their demonstrations at Chicago. It was so not less remarkably in its appropriation of religious men, and the conventions of equally miscalculating representatives of the churches. Many of these good and patriotic citizens, lay and clerical, meant not what they did. Their eyes were holden. We blame them not for bad intentions, but a bad mistake. On the stormy sea of politics, and in the clouds of speculation and romance, they had lost their reckoning. They were blinded by old prejudices of sect and party. They beeded not those great men who died uttering the voices of remonstrance and of warning. They perceived not that true conservatism had been obliged by the new idolatry to change its residence; that party names were no longer significant of things; and that our issues must be changed. They understood not that American liberty had lost its balance; that they who should thenceforth follow its mimic watch-cry would, without a miracle, fall into confusions, and probably open the way for a bloody despotism that would lord it over the heritage of God. They had not studied that subtle power-a power of the air- which, by its apparent subserviency, actually ruled them, and still claims to be their master. It has, indeed, its hold upon them. It insists ruthlessly upon the bond. It will have it, for its pressure bears along the rulers of the people, and with it, the life-
<c02>
Blood of the Church and State, if another Daniel come not to judgment, or if Faneuil Hall introduce not an era of deliverance, and reverse the judgment of Altoona and the capital.
So we speak, for so we make good our case. Abolitionism is at fault. It is false and wrong. It destroys the ancient landmarks. It obliterates the old paths. It puts its heel on constitutional relations. It sunders what God has united, and unites what God has sundered. It would subvert the government of the country, which is of God, and "whoso resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God"- all the worse for affecting so to keep it. And it is madness, though there is a method in it. What for should we commit this wrong? What for should we violate our plighted faith? What for should we reject the dictates of religion, the usages of civilized and Christian life, the claims of humanity, the providential enlargement of superior races, and doom, as we necessarily must, an inferior, imbecile, and dependent race, which God has committed to our trust, to a condition worse than slavery-to a lingering, miserable, and hopeless death? What for should we affect to change the spots of the leopard, or the skin of the Ethiopian? What for to equalize quantities that God has made judicially unequal, for the better conservation of the sinful world, and the safer distribution of its selfish forces, till its probation shall naturally end? To undertake what is impossible is absurd. To force an absurdity where such great interests are at stake, is to violate the constitution of the universe, the happiness of man, and the honor of the Creator. To do it at a cost of blood which fills the land with mourning, and of untold millions, if not of gold, yet of promises to pay it, which could be redeemed only by the bloody sweat of an abused and suffering people, is an evil passing all the powers of computation. We are bound to look at these things, not technically, not politically, not speculatively, but morally and practically as they are. We are bound to protest against them, and against the administration of the government, if need be, for the sake of the government itself; not forcibly, but by free speech and free votes, and an appeal to him who deals not with images, but realities, and "will render to every man according to his work."
But what of the Secessionists? They belong to another category. Their question is referable to a different test. One thing at a time. Yet, though Abolition be wrong, Secession is not therefore right. One extreme may not be held to justify another. In some morbid states of the body politic, even a natural remedy may be worse than the disease. But that is not here the question. That question takes us to a different reckoning-of technical definitions, of legal subtleties, of special pleadings, of speculative theories, of political expedients, of financial calculations-a labyrinth where we are soon lost without a moral clew. We leave that to those whom it more especially concerns. We simply commend to them not to leave out of their reckoning the moral government of God, for now the issue between the contending parties is taken up to the court of heaven. The God of battles must decide between them. Or, if there be an earthly arbiter, it is alone the people. But they are better casuists than civilians, and their judgment, after all, will be mainly determined by the moral sense. God will ultimately decide, not after the forms of law, but through the conscience of the people. Our main concern, therefore, is to keep our own hands clean, and our conscience clear. When we put ourselves right, our adversaries will be likely to correct their wrong. Then the healing, restoring influence will descend, and union, peace and happiness again be the portion of the people, and the inheritance of their children. To persist in any wrong is vain. L.

MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON AT THE COOPER INSTITUTE.
Somebody has said that a woman's name should appear in print but twice-when she is married, and when she dies. Miss Anna E. Dickinson, of Philadelphia, is evidently of the contrary opinion, as likewise are Henry Ward Beecher and Senator Morgan, who countenanced a female of that name, night before last, in indecencies of speech which would have disgraced a pot-house brawler of the other sex. Gov. Buckingham was greatly assisted in his Republican majorities by the stump speeches of Miss Dickinson, and the male Loyal Leaguers of New York gathered together in the Cooper Institute to be instructed in loyalty by this glib-tongued and fresh-faced woman. On the whole, it must be admitted that she did no injustice to her theme or to her audience. She was the right thing in the right place. The audience was quite worthy of the speaker, judging by its cheers; the speaker quite worthy of her audience, judging by the sentiments which she emitted. These were, as might have been expected, the coarse ribaldry of men uttered with the volubility of a woman, the thousand times refuted slanders of campaign orators reasserted with feminine effrontery, the hack arguments of male politicians reiterated in tones an octave higher, the falsehoods of the War Committee set off with the sneers of a virago.
She disclosed ethnological leanings-"the country could only be saved by the negro." What salt is to bacon, the negro would be to the decaying State. Being a woman unsexed, she was in favor of inciting insurrections: "When we are fighting the devil," says Miss Dickinson, "I am glad to hear that an insurrection has broken out in hell, "and the Rev. Mr. Beecher and Senator Morgan upon the platform, and the Loyal Leaguers on the benches, broke out in "tremendous applause." The consummation invoked with such glib profanity means nothing, or it means a hellish riot of lust and destruction. It is a woman who would be glad of it; it is the "Loyal Leaguers" who would be glad of it, and who applaud a woman when she prays for such a fate to come upon Southern women, matron and maid. "She was cheered to the echo," says the Tribune, "and her humane and patriotic sentiments made a good impression."
Mirrors, it has been said, are unlike women, inasmuch as they reflect without speaking, while women are apt to speak without reflecting; but Miss Dickinson in speaking mirrored her audience. Divested of the grace of her sex, as they are of the humanity of theirs, stripped of the gentleness and charity and pure-mindedness of woman, as they of the dignity and sobriety and wisdom of men, she unsexed and they without sense, the exhibition was one which no woman of refinement, and no man of good sense, could witness without blushing for their kind. It is impossible to take a more charitable view of the matter than this. Shall we say that some thousand men with beards assembled to hear a person without a beard, pour forth a stream of foolish loquacity? But even parrots are not held guiltless when they blaspheme. Their necks are wrung in the interest of domestic morality. And when a woman with the same measure of moral responsibility rattles on with such odious and inhuman sentiments, she can expect little less immunity.-N. Y. World (Copperhead).
<c03>
Selections.
PATRIOTISM IN THE NEW YORK EAST CONFERENCE.
A correspondent of Zion's Herald gives the following graphic account of the proceedings of the Conference, just closed at Brooklyn, N. Y.:-
The New York East Conference assembled again on Monday evening, having given an opportunity to those of its members who were citizens of Connecticut to cast their votes. By this means, the Republican majority was increased about eighty, for every preacher is a loyalist. At the session on Monday evening, a Committee was appointed to provide for administering the oath of allegiance to the Conference. At the opening on Tuesday morning, they reported their arrangements, and about 10 o'clock, Judge Betts of the United States District Court, entered, accompanied by Major-General Wool. They were invited to take seats in the altar. The report of the Committee on the State of the Country was immediately called for, and was given. Of course, it was full of patriotic expressions of firm support of the policy and course of the Administration. Rev. Dr. Crooks made the first speech in its favor, and he seemed, if possible, to heap still higher encomiums upon the wisdom and success of our efforts thus far. Dr. Nadall then spoke. He was born in the South, and all his natural relations were there now. Said he, "If you divide section wise, I am of the other party; but if you divide Unionwise, and religionwise, and Godwise, I am with you, heart and hand." This rebellion he hoped soon to hear the last of. He thought it would be like the sister of the little boy, who, being asked how old she was when she died, replied, "She wasn't no old, Sir, she died a-borning." He was interrupted by frequent applause. Mr. Inskip, a returned army chaplain, followed him. He said that Methodist ministers could fight as well as talk. For himself, he claimed no credit. His place had been in the rear on an advance, and in the front on a retreat, and he had carefully kept his position, but there was one minister whom he knew that deserved to be mentioned, Capt. Peletiah Ward. He had left his charge and taken care of a company, and was in action at the first battle of Bull Run. His right arm was disabled, but he took his station under a tree, and, with a revolver in his left hand, "blazed away." Soon there was no one to carry the colors of the regiment. Of the color guard, seven were dead, and the remaining three wounded. Captain "Pelly" grasped the flag in his left hand, and, waving it over his head, shouted, "Come on, boys, come on!" A Minie ball entered his side, and he fell dead. Let no one hereafter say that Methodist ministers do not love their country, and are not ready to fight for it. The house by this time was crowded in pews, aisles, and galleries. The ladies were all crying outright, and many old men were wiping their eyes dry, when Mr. Inskip sat down. The resolutions were immediately passed by a unanimous rising vote. Judge Betts then proceeded to administer the oath to them in a body. They stood up, and held up their right hands, and the Secretary read the form, and the Judge's, "Do you solemnly swear this?" was responded to by a universal "I do." A paper with the oath at the top was prepared for their signatures. Major-General Wool was then called upon for a few remarks, and immediately complied. He was greeted with applause, which, upon every reference to his services in the war, was renewed. He spoke of his letter to Gen. Cass in the commencement of the war, in which he pointed out the very course which events have since taken, and he concluded by saying that he had no doubt but the cause would soon triumph. When he concluded, Hon. Moses F. Odell, a Sunday School Superintendent in Brooklyn, and a member of the Congressional Committee on the Conduct of the War, which has lately reported, was introduced. He began by saying that the Methodist Church had reason to be proud of its representation in the army. He had but a few hours before been told in the Executive mansion by the President himself, that the Methodist had given more men to this war than any other denomination; and it pleased him more to hear this than anything else he had ever heard there. During the session of Congress, he went one evening to a meeting held in the neighborhood of one of the hospitals for the wounded soldiers. He was in company with Gov. Buckingham. At the mention of that name, the crowd no longer restrained themselves, but peal followed peal of applause during the next few moments.
When it became again calm, he went on. They came to the place of meeting. It was a house built temporarily of boards, and in it were collected some six hundred soldiers-some of them maimed, some suffering from disease which had followed them from the swamps of the Chickahominy. The chaplain gave out a hymn. Some of them had hymn-books, and they tried to sing, but it didn't go very well. At last, some one shouted out, "Let's sing something that we all know!" "And," said he," what do you suppose they struck up? Why, it was the old war-song of Methodism-
'On Jordan's stormy banks I stand-
and they sung it with a will. I've heard singing before, but never such singing as that. I looked to see the roof go. The Governor wept, and I shouted, and we had a glorious time." He told another incident. He was on a transport on the Pamunkey river after the battle of Fair-Oaks, and the wounded were being brought on board. A man came to him on deck, and asked him to come and speak to a man that was dying. He went, and found the man lying in the cabin with sixty others. He was wounded through the lungs, and was fast sinking. Mr. Odell knelt beside him, and the soldier asked him to pray with him. He prayed, and be then asked him to sing. "What shall I sing?" "Sing that tune," the wounded man answered, "that suits my case exactly-
'Come, ye sinners, poor and needy.'
I could not refuse his request, (said the Congressman,) although my voice was not in trim for singing, and I commenced. From all sides of the room voices joined in with me, and we had a regular Methodist prayer meeting there in the very midst of war and death." Mr. Odell concluded with a prophecy of a speedy victory to our armies. The audience was in the highest state of enthusiasm. Tears rolled down the cheeks of the Judge, whose calling does not often give such evidence of emotion, and the General found means to express his pleasure. A minister proposed that they rise, and sing the doxology. Few of those present ever heard the majesty of Old Hundred rolled off with such volume and feeling as then. All hearts were moved, and all voices joined in the chorus of praise.
It is probable that a proclamation will soon be issued at Washington that will have the effect of putting captured blacks on the footing of prisoners of war. There should be no delay about it.
<c04>
MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON.
From the Concord (N. H.) Independent Democrat of March 26th, we copy the following:-
"Miss Dickinson spoke in the Universalist church in this city, on Friday evening last. The church was crowded to its fullest capacity, and many were compelled to stand during the lecture. Her subject was "Plain Talk," and as far as that was concerned, there could be no mistake. The drift of her argument was in favor of woman's rights, and she handled the subject in a masterly manner, and spoke with as much power as she did in her speeches during the campaign. Yet the subject was one in which many did not become so interested as they do in a campaign speech. The advocates of woman's rights meet with much opposition, and that opposition comes more from the women themselves, than from the men. Miss Dickinson argued her subject well, and very eloquently, and threw out many valuable suggestions which are worthy of the consideration of all fair-minded men and women."
Anna E. Dickinson's labors in Connectient were evidently, very highly appreciated by the friends of freedom there. In, Hartford, several gentlemen united in presenting her with an elegant watch and chain; and when she visited Colt's Armory, she was presented with a beautiful little revolver! The Evening Post relates an incident of her visit to Middletown:-
"One evening she spoke at Middletown, before an audience of over two thousand. The Copperheads endeavored in every possible way to break up the meeting, turning off the gas, and raising the cry of 'fire,' ringing bells, etc. When the gas was turned off, the unmoved speaker said, 'I read my Bible. I read of the Prince of Darkness, and, judging from the present display, some of his children are present! I read natural history, too. I read of a creature that loves caves and dens and holes in the earth, dank and dark places-and I suppose, from the last fact, that some of them are in this hall-Copperheads, I believe they are called.' On the platform behind Miss Dickinson sat Mr. Jenckes of Rhode Island, the Republican member of Congress, who had been elected on Wednesday by an overwhelming majority. As the annoying bell continued to ring, the speaker turned and said: 'I have been wondering why that bell was ringing. I suddenly bethink me. They are rejoicing over the glorious victory in our sister State of Rhode Island, and showing due respect to the man, elected by over two thousand majority, who honors us by his presence tonight.' The audience, electrified, rose to its feet, and cheered again and again for Rhode Island. The cries of fire did not disturb the speaker in the least."
We learn that when Miss Dickinson spoke at Meriden, Ct., a few days since, an extra train was run from Hartford to accommodate those who desired to hear her.-Anti-Slavery Standard.
MISS DICKINSON IN HARTFORD.
Hartford for once has been astonished. With some curiosity to hear what a woman could say about politics, people went last night to Touro Hall. The speaker, Miss Anna E. Dickinson, of Philadelphia, was almost unknown to most who went, except by a vague rumor-unheralded, except that just at night her positive coming was announced in the Press. Yet the Hall, which was comfortably filled at the beginning of the address, was packed as we never saw it as the evening went on. And the audience, which began to listen in a quiet, half-critical manner, soon lost control of itself under the witchery of such a spell as a Hartford audience was never under before.
The person who produced this unequalled effect is a young woman, hardly turned twenty, who advanced upon the platform in a quiet manner, a figure slight, yet compact, with the brow and eye of Evangeline, if to the sad forethought we add the fire and courage of genius, and a' manner singularly graceful and still commanding. She began calmly to speak, with the perfect self-possession of one sure of her foothold, in a voice of great clearness and melody, with an enunciation perfectly distinct, and a pronunciation of the test vowels which marks the highest refinement of cultivation.
She spoke rapidly, her ideas evidently outrunning even her lightning-like utterance, memory and imagination both crowding her. We shall attempt no hint even of her lecture. It was at once a rapid, masterly sketch of the war in its inception, continuance, and prospective end, exhibiting a knowledge and careful estimate of men and measures which constantly astonished her listeners. And as she went on mingling argument, invective, pathos, sareasm, irresistible appeal, we felt that she had the passion of the South and the brain of the North on fire with inspiration. It was Portia making a statement, it was a Pythia prophesying; it was better than either, an American woman, cultivated, trained, endowed, devoted to the noblest cause since the Christian era began.
Do we exaggerate? Every one who heard her will say that what we have written above is cold and inadequate. In certain powers as a speaker, we have never heard her excelled. Only one man, whom we have heard, George Thompson, at all equals her in the ability to carry a climax success fully to the dizzy heights where born orators alone walk with step firm and eye serene. Her peroration we have never heard equalled. With figure dilating, face impassioned, eye flashing, she poured forth that wonderful illustration and appeal, and the audience, breathless, almost translated, hung upon her words, and, when her voice ceased, but slowly regained their self-possession, and broke forth into cheering and the most extravagant demonstrations of delight, which continued several minutes. Then the stage was speedily crowded with those who sought to express their gratitude and pleasure, and she suffered a perfect ovation of congratulations.
Miss Dickinson came here from the campaign in New Hampshire, where she spoke twenty nights, and she will speak in this State until our election. If every voter could hear her, there would be no doubt of the general expression of opinion which we heard last night-this woman is sent as from on high to save the State.
We had almost forgotten to mention that Miss Dickinson paid her respects to a cowardly and scurrilous attack upon her by the editor of the traitor sheet of this city. The attack was not worth her notice, but it gave the audience an opportunity to testify their appreciation of the dirty journal whose editor she so mercilessly handled.-Hartford Press.
MISS DICKINSON BEFORE THE PARKERITES:-The lively Boston correspondent of the Springfield Republican writes as follows:-
We have several good things in the rain,-afternoon concerts, artists receptions, pretty pictures by Bellows, sublime ones by Bierstadt, and Miss Anna Dickinson, a fitting climax to things good! I heard her on Sunday, at the Melodeon, in the rain, when she addressed the 28th Congregational Society,
<c05>
(Theodore Parker's.) This "Fraternity," as it names itself, is in bad repute in our midst-called fanatical, expelled from the brotherhood of churches. I asked a respectable Bostonian to accompany me. "I go among the 28th Congregational Society! Excuse me, my dear. I will go on a Sunday to see Tom Thumb, Morris Brothers, Pell & Trowbridge's minstrels, most anywhere else to please you-but don't ask me to risk my reputation among that set!" So I went alone, and found the hall, aisles, galleries, every inch of standing-room full, with a strange crowd; intense, vigorous, thoughtful, rather than cultivated; men and women with decided opinions; a good many women wore glasses, had cotton umbrellas, and looked strong-minded. One of these gave me a seat. I thank her.
There was a green curtain across the stage, which threw the speaker's face into charming relief, like a pink rose among green leaves. I don't mean Garrison's, but the lady's. That arch-abolitionist was speaking as I entered, one or two others being on the platform, among them the inevitable Judge Russell. I have been into six or eight meetings of a morning in anniversary week, and found Judge Russell on the platform at each. Mr. Garrison read some hymns, which were sung; and then with evident satisfaction he read what Ezekiel prophesied regarding our day-how the North land should rise against the South, and subdue it; how false prophets should "see visions of peace for her, and there is no peace, saith the Lord God." "And I sought for a man among them, that should make up the hedge, and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it: but I found none." The pink rose against the curtain smiled.
It was April 19th, sacred anniversary of the bloodshed at Baltimore, and Miss Dickinson commenced by pertinent allusion to the fact; then she summoned up our concessions and wrongs, till all hearts throbbed with indignation; our losses,-the line of graves dividing North and South, till all eyes glistened with tears;-our strength, our causes of hope and mirth, till all lips parted in laughter. You have heard her in Springfield, and need not be told how logical, picturesque, thrilling is her speech,-how her eyes flash, beam, and tremble into tears-how Cassandra-like, with strong voice, she utters her messages of woe; and anon, as Juliet, sinks into tenderness, pathos, music. How fine her gestures are! Did you see her, with three waves of her pretty hand, hang a rebel? It was an admirable piece of acting. She seemed to me like the best type of Young America -not strong-minded, only strong-hearted; thrilled with loyalty and sense of wrong,-modest, earnest, genuine-full of womanly nervousness, prettiness and caprice; and yet firm as a sybil. Heaven send that she may be, and we shall not spoil her with our praise.
Here is a Joan-of-Arc, as good as she of France, a woman made by the occasion, and who will sink with it possibly. She said nothing new, only spoke with the spirit that makes all things new.
By their fruits ye shall know them; said a Massachusetts judge, to-day, "If ever such events were accomplished by human agency, that girl saved Connecticut and New Hampshire to the Union." Miss Dickinson was formly employed at the mint in Philadelphia. When about seventeen, in a public meeting, listening to some impertinent remarks concerning woman, she sprang to her feet and defended her sex so eloquently as to attract the attention of Lucretia Mott. Then came culture, recognition, notoriety, applause. Why do they not make Miss Dickinson the next President? Has any man, thus far, so well filled the "gap" in the national hedge? Let us nominate her, Republican?
MISS DICKINSON AT THE COOPER INSTITUTE.-
The crowd at the Cooper Institute last evening must be truly called immense, no other word being adequate to the emergency. The attraction was an address by Miss Anna E. Dickinson, of Philadelphia, upon the subject of "The Day-the Cause." Every seat in the body of the hall and on the platform was occupied long before eight o'clock, and when that hour arrived, the passage-ways, every corner of the outskirting space, all the door-ways into the lobby, and no small portion of the lobby itself, were packed with an eager throng. Nearly one-half of the dense audience were ladies. Miss Dickinson was introduced by the Rev. H. W. Beecher, with a few general remarks, and at once took a firm hold of her hearers, attracting them by her personal appearance, the tones of her voice, the matter and manner of her speech.
She is of the medium height, slight in form, graceful in movement; her head, well poised, is adorned with full and heavy dark hair, displaying to advantage a pleasant face, which has the signs of nervous force and vigorous mental life. In manner she is unembarrassed, without a shade of boldness; her gesticulation is simple, drawing to itself no remark her voice is of wonderful power, penetrating rather than loud, as clear as the tone of metal, and yet with a reed-like softness. Her vocabulary is simple and in no instance can there be seen a straining after effective expressions, yet her skill in using the ordinary stores of our daily language is so great, that with a single phrase she presents a picture, and delivers a poem in a sentence.
Miss Dickinson shows in her oratorical method the feminine peculiarities which lead her sex to prefer results to preliminaries, the sharply defined success of conclusions to the regularly progressing course of previous argument. Her lecture was consequently very effective to the ear, and difficult to report with justice to the speaker. She defined the contest with the South as the struggle between liberty and slavery in the broadest sense of the words, extending to the moral, mental and social world and illustrating her position with rapid allusions to the political history of the last ten years. She then drew a variety of comparisons between the loyalty of the two parties at the North, and in answer to the question what sort of generals had each given to the country, made some hits of great force at many well-known officers, and paid a tribute of praise to others.
It was in this part of her address that the brightness of her wit and the power of condensed expression already alluded to was seen most clearly. A single stroke of the pencil placed not only a name, but a character, distinctly before the audience, who took quickly, and fully enjoyed every point. The enrolment act, the threats of the Northwest to compromise for themselves, and leave New England out in the cold, and the present splendid revival of patriotic confidence in the North, were treated with surprising power. The applause which burst from the audience at almost every sentence was more hearty and enthusiastic than even in the excited political gatherings of an election season, and was, moreover, applause born of the deepest and best feelings of loyalty. At the conclusion of the lecture, which came to a close with a truly beautiful peroration, the Hutchinson family sang one of their best pieces, and then, by request, followed it with the John Brown song, in the chorus of which the audience joined with a thrilling effect-N. Y. Evening Post. 
<c06>
ANNA E. DICKINSON. Those who have prejudices against women who speak in public, ought not to hear Miss Anna E. Dickinson, of Philadelphia, if they mean to keep those prejudices. She has a right to speak in public!
She has that to say on great subjects which people wish to hear. She says it so eloquently that they who hear her once, desire most of all to hear her again. On Tuesday evening, Miss Dickinson spoke in Cooper Institute, to an audience that taxed the utmost capacity of that hall. It was necessary to close the doors and refuse to sell tickets long before the hour appointed. Her subject was "The Day-the Cause." We wish that speech might be uttered in every town and neighborhood in the land! The audience were supremely possessed by the power of this gifted woman. They laughed and wept till tears and laughter were cheap.
Miss Dickinson is not a woman speaking like a man. She is a woman. She thinks and feels like a woman. And she proves beyond all controversy that there are elements of truth, and phases of public affairs, important to be known, that can be given from no other stand-point than the heart of a true woman.-New York Independent.
Miss Dickinson was introduced by Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, who said: The time has at length arrived for opening this meeting. I am but the pre-face; and, if I can judge from my own experience, nothing is more tiresome than a long preface before a good book. We are assembled this evening as American citizens, to listen to the discourse of an American woman. There are none that have a greater interest in these questions now pending than American women, and where God has given them both the heart and the gift to utter their thoughts, and with the gift and feeling, has also imparted a wish to do it, nothing more can be asked. In attempting, they prove that they are called to speak, and speak worthily on this great theme. It is my pleasure to-night to present to you one, though young, yet no younger than many who have been inspired and called of God to witness for purity, and for truth, and for religion in public affairs-one who, in good earnest conflict before one and another community in the various States of the Union, has achieved signal success. I know not what your sympathies may be now. I think I may say certainly, that not long will it be before your smiles and your cheers will take from her every lingering of hesitation, and make her feel, for the time, that she never was more at home among loving, enthusiastic friends, than she is in standing here, in the midst of this hard old city of New York. I now have the pleasure of introducing to you Miss Anna E. Dickinson, of Philadelphia.
Miss Dickinson was received with tumultuous applause, the subsidence of which she modestly awaited. She is of petite figure, somewhat roundly built, with dark hair and eyes, finely chiseled nose and chin, and an ensemble of firmness singularly combined with winning grace. She is a decided brunette, with a power of expression in her visual organs not uncommon in the passionate beauties of the land of figs and brigands. Her declamation is almost perfect-so perfect that it is nearly monotonous. Every word is spoken distinctly, and every point made with telling force. Few men could vocally fill the room better, and yet her voice loses none of its feminine attractiveness, so perfectly does she master the Demosthenean art, that whether it be in sharp, caustic, stinging, bitter, sarcastic, withering denunciation, the thrilling picture of battle scenes, the story of some deed of charity, the record of some Christian act, or the patriotic apotheosis of liberty, she finds not only words and symbols, and tropes and imagery, but a powerful, effective, impresssive delivery, which makes her eloquence complete. Her force is not only in her surprising concentration of logical argument, of striking illustrations, of telling denunciation, of overwhelming ridicule, but in the extraordinary declamatory perfectness with which all are put forth. She sways the audience from the first moment of her electric utterance down to the last syllable of the ten thousand words which she must have spoken in one short hour. She is a walking encyclopedia of the events of the war, with all the pages open to you at the glance. She heaps history, fact, proverb, warning, story, appeal and exhortation in convincing array, sweeping all before her in an avalanche of intellectual force. She has her hearers alternately laughing, crying, cheering, applauding and listening with breathless suspense. "The Charge of the Light Brigade," as a battle picture, must fall into insignificance before her vivid and life-like description of the capture of Fort Donelson. No reporter's pencil is dexterous enough to follow the magical rapidity of her vocalization.-New York Times.
There was a most enthusiastic audience at the Cooper Institute, last evening, to hear the eloquent Miss Dickinson. Many hundreds were unable to obtain admittance, but those who were fortunate enough to obtain a seat, or a standee even, were delighted and electrified by the charm of her speech. She has the skill to please her auditors with wit, humor, pathos, argument, anecdote, history and philosophy, and the power to control them by that influence which exists in the voice, thought, manner and presence of those who are truly eloquent. She was cheered to the echo, and her humane and patriotic sentiments made a good impression.-New York Tribune.
PHILADELPHIA, April 24, 1863.
MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON:-
DEAR MADAM,-Having heard with pleasure of the success that has attended your patriotic labors in New England and New York, and desiring to testify our high appreciation of your services, we beg you to designate an early evening on which you will deliver an address in the Academy of Music of this your native city, and remain yours, very respectfully,
J. Hubley Ashton, Henry C. Carey,
Edward P. Mitchell, Wm. D. Kelley,
James M. Seoval, Wm. H. Kern,
Benj. R. Brewster, Ferd. J. Dreer,
Louis A. Godey, Thomas Birch
Henry C. Townsend, Aubrey H. Smith,
George Trott, S. E. Slaymaker,
Frederick Fraley, Cadwalader Biddle,
John W. Forney, Evan Randolph,
Stephen Colwell, George H. Boker,
Wm. D. Lewis, Charles Gilpin,
M. Russell Thayer, Morton McMichael,
James L. Claghorn, C. A. Walborn,
Charles Gibbons, C. H. Needles,
Leonard Myers, Henry C. Howell
PHILADELPHIA, April 25th, 1863. 
HENRY C. CAREY, WM.D. KRLLEY, &c.-Gentlemen:-I thank you for your generous invitation, and would designate MONDAY EVENING, May 4th, as the time. My subject-THE DAY AND THE CAUSE.
Respectfully,
ANNA E. DICKINSON.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof".
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERND WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with, slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it but a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
COMPLIMENTARY TO MISS DICKINSON.
[Copy of a letter to a gentleman in New York.]
OFFICE REPUBLICAN STATE CENTRAL COMMITTEE, <illegible>, HARTFORD, Conn., 15th April, 1863.
DEAR SIR:-I desire to say a few words to you in behalf of Miss Anna E. Dickinson, of Philadelphia, who has been speaking in Connecticut during the political campaign which has just closed so triumphantly for the cause of truth and justice.
Prejudiced against her at the start, we had great misgivings as to the propriety of inviting her to take a part in our campaign. She had not spoken ten minutes before all prejudices were, dispelled; thirty minutes, and not a man could be found who would admit that be ever had any prejudices; sixty minutes, and she held fifteen hundred people breathless with admiration and astonishment; two hours, and she had raised her entire audience to a pitch of enthusiasm which was perfectly irresistible. She is really a wonderful woman, and you ought to invite her to speak in New York. Her voice is clear, and of sufficient power for any audience you can get, and yet not masculine. She speaks rapidly, but her enunciation is so complete and perfect that not a word is lost.
Possessing a remarkably logical and argumentative mind, she is not wanting, nevertheless in that brilliancy of thought and expression which gives life and zest to a public speaker.
With a fund of facts and information which would be a fortune for an editor or a politician, she makes her own mark, and needs no endorsement after she has once spoken.
I trust you will not deny yourself the pleasure of hearing the most eloquent woman of the century in the largest hall you can command in New York.
Yours, very truly,
J. W. BATTERSOX, Chairman
To the Loyal National League of Union Citizens, New York.
GENTLEMEN:-We recommend to you, with the greatest confidence. Miss Anna E. Dickinson, of Philadelphia, as a speaker on the political and moral questions involved in the present war, and are sure that it would promote the interests of our cause if you should invite her to address the people of your city. She has elicited the greatest enthusiasm, and produced the most marked effect wherever she has spoken. She is a young woman, but little over twenty, refined and highly cultivated, and speaks with great vigor and maturity of thought, and with an impassioned eloquence rarely equaled.
HORACE BUSHNELL, CALVIN DAY,
T. BELKNAP, JOHN L. BUNCE,
WM. W. ELLSWORTH, HENRY C. DEMING,
E. H. OWEN, HENRY A. PERKINS.
Hartfort, Ct., April 14th, 1863.
Thursday was the rainiest day of the season, and the evening altogether the most uncomfortable and unfortunate for any public gathering that there has been for at least six months. But in spite of the storm and mud which culminated at the hour of assemblage, at least 500 ladies and gentlemen ventured out to see and hear Miss Anna E. Dickinson. If the wondrous fascination and powerful oratory of this gifted young lady had been fully understood, the elements would have combined in vain to rob her of a great audience. As it was, she did not seem disconcerted at all, but rather surprised and pleased that so many were present. Mayor Alexander escorted her upon the stage, and introduced her to the audience, when, without needless preface or and introduction, she engaged at once upon her theme of the country and the war. She had not pronounced a dozen words before the entire sympathy and interest of the audience were secured. Her easy, confident manner, jaunty and yet womanly and decided look, clear and resonant enunciation, with the perfect periods and unflinching expression, made a great and instantaneous impression. As she passed from a statement of the nature of the contest as between slavery and freedom, to a discussion of the arguments advanced by the peace men of the North, the attention of all became fixed upon the earnest, soul-glowing face, and genuine and enthusiastic applause greeted her continually.
It would be impossible to give our readers a just idea of the power of Miss Dickinson to make an impression upon an audience. There are few speakers that can engross the attention so entirely. Along with the regret at the small audience, is a universal desire to have her visit us again, if possible, and we have the pleasure of stating that there is some probability that she will be able to do so some time in May.-Springfield Republican, April 16th.

SPEECH OF GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
AT A PUBLIC MEETING IS COVENTRY, (ENG.) APRIL 2.
GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., rose, and was received with such a storm of cheers, hisses, groans, and shouts, that it was some time before he could get a hearing at all; and even after order had been in some degree restored, the interruptions were so frequent that it was with the utmost difficulty the reporters could catch what, was said. Sometimes the uproar rose to which a pitch that three or four minutes elapsed without their being able to catch a single word. As he proceeded, however, the interruptions became less and less frequent, until at the close of his speech, it was quite clear there was a large majority in favor of his views. Mr. Thompson said:
Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen,-I will endeavor to compress the remarks which I have to make into the smallest possible compass, and will address you with the most perfect calmness and good humor. For thirty years, at intervals, I have had the privilege of addressing public assemblies at Coventry, and the principles I avowed are the same which I now advocate. I will venture to say there is not an unfriendly voice in this assembly, who knows what the principles of my life have been. (Hisses and confusion.) If there be any here to-night who have come to assail me, they can have no other motive except some inducement which has been furnished them beyond these walls, to come here and suppress this discussion. (Uproar.) No Englishman, who is worthy of the name, and who is not a disgrace to his humanity, will ever oppose a man before he has heard him. (Hisses and groans.) How can you hiss and try to groan me down, when at present you cannot know what I am about to say? (Cheers followed by uproar.) If you have been influenced by that foul and malignant slander which has been uttered here by this so-called Reverend libeler, I can only tell you that I defy him, and those whose degraded mouthpiece he has been, to prove a single assertion he has uttered. (Cheery, groans, and great confusion.) He has dared to brand me as a mercenary-to say I left England to advocate abolition in America for the sake of gain. I tell him he lies in his throat. (Great applause and uproar.)
I am not asking your kind attention for a party purpose. The words I shall address to you to-night are not those of party men. During the last quarter of a century, my public life has been identified with the great struggle for human freedom going on in America. It was the greatest honor of my life, during a period which has been alluded to tonight, that when I might have won distinction and wealth in the legal profession at home, I took my life in my hands, and, without receiving one penny or a crust of bread from any man, I went to America to endeavor to arouse our brethren there to strike off the shackles of their bondmen, as they had been struck off in the British dominions. (Cheers and groans.) I have labored with the abolitionists of America in their own country; I have corresponded with them from these shores; and I am here to give the most direct, emphatic and absolute denial to the shameless falsehood promulgated against the-that they have ever, during their career as an anti-slavery party, disseminated one single sentiment tending to raise the hand of a slave against his master. (Cheers.) Never, until this unhappy war broke out, and a conflict took place between two great political parties-never was a movement conducted with more moderation, or in a more peaceable and Christian manner, (cheers and hisses,) and if the man who has promulgated this wholesale charge docs not produce his evidences before a Coventry audience, he ought never to be tolerated again. (Loud cheers.) What wonder, after the specimens we have had from his lips to-night of his temper and regard for truth, that the great and good man with whom he sought to converse in America, and who, perhaps, knew him better than I do,-for I was unaware of his existence until this evening,-should facilitate his progress to his door, and tell him never to enter his house again?(Cheers and load laughter.)
You are asked, to-night, to do two things. On the one hand to express sympathy with as many of the people in the Northern" States of America as are in favor of the abolition of negro slavery, and on the other hand you are asked to express your deep de-
<c02>
testation of the attempt now being made to bring into the Commonwealth of nations a doctrine that God made one race to be the slave of another Now the question comes, is such an attempt being made? Are you asked to recognize a Government based upon the darkened minds and crushed souls of a whole race of human beings? You are asked by the Southern Confederacy," you are asked by certain journals in this country that have espoused the cause of the South, you are asked by the amendment which has been read to you to night, which I shall preserve as a curiosity, and never look upon without mingled feelings of pity and contempt for the author. (Cheers and hisses.) Working men of Coventry, I am to-night what I ever have been, not less the hater of oppression wherever it may exist. (Cheers.) Those of you who know me know that the gold is not accumulated which could bribe me to advocate an unjust cause, (Loud Cheers. Mr. Atkins here created a disturbance, and said something we could not catch.) Gentlemen, I find its of no use denying the charges brought against me by the mover of the amendment; the creature is at his dirty work again, coining fresh ones. (Loud cheers and confusion.) There is one unhappy class of men who, judging of others by their own degraded natures, can never believe in a man doing, even a good deed, or advocating a good cause, without being paid for it. They think their own low motives are the motives of every one. (Cheers.) The next time this slanderer attempts to bring charges against any man, I would advise him to look beyond himself. (Tremendous cheering.) Working men of Coventry, I did not misjudge you: I knew that you would not allow a man to be basely and baselessly maligned, and not give him the opportunity of replying.
The speaker then wont on, at great length, to show the causes of the present struggle in America, and the objects the leaders of the rebellion had in view. He said the degradation of the negro race was only part of the scheme of degradation which the Southern States intended to carry out. They proposed that every man that labored should be the property of the man who employed him-that was the doctrine preached by them. He had a letter from a leading man in Kentucky, who said the first act of the Confederacy, when it became firmly established, would be to disfranchise all the mean whites as they are called. (A voice-"I don't believe it.") A gentleman had said he did not believe it-then he did not believe the South-and the misfortune in this country was, that the public were willfully misled, because, they did not believe the Southern leaders themselves.(Cheers.) The writer of the letter he referred to was Mr. Calhoun. He (Mr. Calhoun) laid down the doctrine in 1836, that the employer should be the sole representative of the labor and capital; that, he said, and said most truly, would put an end to all ground of disagreement respecting the rights of labor.
They had heard something that night about the high tariffs in America. He would not defend a tariff of any kind-everybody knew his sentiments upon that subject; but let it be remembered as an historical fact, that in every tariff passed, save only the Morrill tariff, a majority of the Southern members voted-in favor of them. (Loud cheers.) Among the reasons assigned by Southern men for secession from the North, never had a tariff been alluded to-(cheers)-no secession document alluded to it, nor was it mentioned in the Southern platform. He knew it was the fashion in England here to speak of the quarrel as originating in a disagreement respecting tariff's, but in England only. It was also the fashion here, for such men to say they sympathized with the slave, and desired to see him emancipated. Well, if they sympathized with the slave, they would sympathize with the party who wished to set him free. (Cheers.) Among the Republican party in America was every man in that country who really sympathized with the slave, and desired his emancipation. A hundred times had Lincoln said he was an abolitionist in his heart-over and over again had he declared that his sole reason for not attempting to carry out abolition in the loyal States was, because he would not violate his oath to the Constitution. They must always, in discussing American politics, remember that an American was a citizen as well as a man. As a man, he might share the feelings of most Englishmen with regard to the negro, and desire his freedom; but as a citizen, his action was necessarily limited by the provisions of the Constitution of 1788, which he had taken an oath to defend. That Constitution provided that slavery should exist in certain States, and therefore he could not, without violating his oath, take measures for the accomplishment of the immediate and forcible emancipation of the slaves in the loyal States. He could only leave it to the legitimate action of Congress. But if slavery could not be abolished, it could be prevented from spreading further. Therefore they (the Republican party in America) took their stand upon the declaration-hitherto had slavery gone, but it should go no further. (Cheers.) The platform of the other party was, "The continuation of slavery in every portion of the territories; that the negro was an inferior race, and every man who had a drop of negro blood in his veins was by right the servant of the white man." (Cries of "Shame.")
There was a great deal said on this side the water about the present being a war of independence. It was a great battle of ideas-a struggle between the two principles of human freedom and human slavery. (Cries of "No, no.") What was the use of crying no, no? They might as well go out, and no, no to the moon, and see if they could darken her visage by so doing. (Loud cheers.) How silly it was to cry no, no, when the very friends they served said yes, yes! He had before him a pamphlet written by the Hon. L. W. Spratt, of South Carolina, a man of great influence in the South. In it he laid it down clear and distinct, that the war originated in the idea of freedom in the North, and slavery in the South. The. speaker then quoted a passage from Mr. Spratt's book in confirmation of his statement, and continued-Can there be any hesitancy now on the part of Englishmen as to the origin of the war, and the side they ought to take in the struggle?
Mr. ATKINS-There is.
Mr. THOMPSON-Not out of bedlam. (Loud laughter.) He (Mr. Thompson) would ask that great assembly, would they sympathize with slavery? (Loud cries of "No, no.") If any one. assumed to do so. let the fetters be shaken in his own face drag his wife from his arms, deflower his daughter before his eyes, and he would soon become, as great an abolitionist as George Thompson himself. (Loud cheers.) Many had been induced to give their sympathies with the South, because they had the prestige of victory. But let them look at the matter us it stood on the 13th of April, 1861: the President could not enforce the authority of the. State over a single square yard of the Southern States. Now, this anti-slavery Governor, elected by anti-slavery men, had recovered over 47,000 square miles of territory, and brought back to obedience a population of more than a million souls. (Cheers.) There was a part of South Carolina in the occupation of the Federal army; Maryland; part, and the best part of Virginia; Kentucky; a large part of Louisiana, Western Florida, and the Peninsula of Florida, all recovered to the Federals. He thanked God for having raised up such a man as Abraham Lincoln to rule over 20,000,000 of men at such a crisis. When the Americans wanted an honest man for the Presidential Chair, they lifted up Abraham Lincoln. (Loud cheers.) In his (the speaker's) wildest dreams of what was to be accomplished in America, in this generation, he had never anticipated that so much could have been achieved for freedom, as had come to pass within the last three years. Three years ago, the American flag protected whatever cargo a ship might carry, for the right of search was denied to British cruisers-and the meeting must remember that that was when the Government of America was under the Southern influence. Now, Mr. Lincoln had granted the right of search of all American vessels. Under the old American Government, the Rationality of Hayti was not recognized, and not even so much as a petty Consul was allowed for the protection of its subjects in American seaports. Now he read of the President receiving the black Representative at Washington. (Cheers) Many other great and good measures had been passed during the Lincoln administration; but all had been crowned by his granting emancipation to three million negroes held to bondage in the revolted States. The American Union and Emancipation now went band in hand together-now, for the first time since the commencement of the Union, all men were equal. The Attorney-General, at Washington, had given a decision Which affirmed that the naturalized African in the States was a citizen, and entitled to all the privileges of a citizen. (Loud cheers.) On these grounds, he asked the meeting to give its support to the Government which had done, and was prepared to do, so much for freedom. (Cheers and a few hisses.)
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1863.
TWENTY-NONTH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Ninth Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the Church of the Puritans. (Rev. Dr. Cheever's) in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 12th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M. Addresses are expected from Rev. J. R. W. SLOANE, (Covenanter,) ROBERT PURVIS, THEODORE D. WELD, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
The Society will hold another public meeting in the evening, in the Cooper Institute, commencing at hall past 7 o'clock. Among the speakers on the occasion will be THEODORE TILTON and WENDELL PHILLIPS. The "Hutchinson Family" will also be present.
The Business meetings of the Society will be held in the Lecture Room of the Church of the Puritans, on Tuesday, at 3 1/2, P. M., and on Wednesday, at 10, A. M.
In behalf of the Executive Committee, WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Secretaries.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.

THE REV. DR. LORD, AGAIN.
The remainder of the article originally published in the Boston Courier by this calumniator of the humane and good, and ally of Satan and Slavery, entitled "A True Picture of Abolitionism," may be found on our first page. This "Picture" is as destitute of truth and candor as the pit is of holiness and bliss. Nothing can be more perverse than its reasoning, of more unjust than its insinuations, or more empty than its platitudes, or more false than its accusations. The writer of it is manifestly demented, not least respecting the subject upon which he attempts to treat will such oracular emphasis. The light that is in him is darkness; and how great is that darkness!
An esteemed friend, in another State, in the following extract from his letter, expresses the feeling which Dr. Lord's tirade has universally excited:-
"What an infamous article is that of Rev. Dr Lord, which you present in the last number of the Liberator! It caps the climax for satanic impiety! New England leads the way in good works, but it would be hard to find the equal of Dr. Lord's proslavery diabolism out of New England. He has for many years seemed vile enough for the most Southern latitude; but now, when emancipation sentiment is becoming more general, and earnestly professed by General Butler, and such as he, such sentiments from a Rev. 'copperhead' Doctor of Divinity seem outlandish, and without excuse."
Our friend GERRIT SMITH, in a private note just received, exclaims-
"What an abominable thing from Dr. Lord's pen in your Refuge of Oppression column! I much fear that a country which breeds men of this type is lost."
Fortunately, the article under consideration carries its own antidote with its bane. But, certainly, it is equally startling and humiliating to reflect that the author of it is allowed to be the President of one of our New England colleges. The fact will assuredly prove detrimental to the reputation and prosperity of old Dartmouth.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT-A COLOXED DIVISION. It is stated in the New York Tribune of Monday last, that at the conclusion of the regular services in the church of the Puritans on Sunday evening, Dr. Gloster, a colored gentleman, was introduced for the purpose of making a statement relative to the project of raising 10,000 colored troops in the Northern States, to be sent into the field under the command of Major Gen. Fremont. He said that he had-received from the President of the United States the assurance that if 10,000 colored soldiers were raised, they would be accepted, and that Gen. Fremont would be assigned to the command. He stated also, that he had seen Gen. Fremont, and received from him a promise that he was willing to accept such a command. Subsequently a meeting was organized, Edward Gilbert presiding, at which the following named gentlemen were elected a committee to make all necessary arrangements for any future movement in behalf of the raising of the 10,000 colored soldiers: Edward Gilbert, Dexter Fairbank, Col. James Fairman, Lewis Francis. The meeting then adjourned.
MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON. We have grouped together, on our first page, some of the numerous flattering testimonials which this gifted young lady has recently elicited from the press, and from distinguished professional gentlemen (among them Rev. Dr Bushnell) and prominent citizens, in various places, in regard to her ability, eloquence, and magnetic power as a public speaker, dealing with the most momentous question of the age, and carrying conviction as well as exciting enthusiasm wherever she is heard. She is fairly entitled to whatever she wins in this manner; and we trust that a career which opens with such unexampled brilliancy will be nobly sustained to the end. May her own good sense and self-respect render harmless those plaudits which few, even of mature age, are able to receive without detriment, and which should only serve to deepen the sense of personal responsibility and to stimulate to yet nobler efforts.
A DISCOURSE FOR THE TIMES. It will be seen that our entire fourth page is occupied with the admirable Discourse on "The Birth of the Nation," delivered before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, in this city, on Sunday, 26th ult., by SAMUEL JOHNSON, Minister of the Free Church at Lynn. It was listened to with deep interest and high satisfaction by a most appreciative audience, and will well repay a thorough and careful perusal by our readers. To accommodate our space, we are obliged to omit a portion of it; but The Commonwealth, of Friday last, publishes it without any abridgment.
ARREST OF VALLANDIGHAM BY GEN. BURNSIDE. A Columbus, Ohio, correspondent of the Chicago Tribune says that Vallandigham recently made a speech there, in which he denounced Gen. Burnside's order, and said that the court-martials being held at Cincinnati were illegal, and that he would resist them. Vallandigham was to speak at Mt. Vernon, a little town in the backwoods-of Ohio, the next day, and Gen. Burnside sent up a portion of his staff in citizens' dress to report him. Later intelligence states that Vallandigham was arrested at his residence at Dayton, Ohio, on Tuesday morning, by a detachment of soldiers, who went from Cincinnati in a special train Monday night. The soldiers were obliged to batter down two or three doors in his house before they could reach his room and take him. His friends then rang the fire-bells, and called out the people, when an attempt was made to rescue him, but failed. He was brought to Cincinnati. In revenge, a mob of copperheads proceeded to the office of the Dayton Journal, completely gutted the building, set it on fire, and burned it to the ground, together with a number of adjoining buildings!
THOMAS SIMS. Our paper goes to, press too early to allow; us to give even a brief sketch of the proceedings at the public meeting held in the Tremont Temple, on Wednesday evening, to welcome the returned bondman of 1851 as the freedman of 1863, Thomas Sims, to hear a narrative of his experiences at the South since he was delivered up to his master, and to listen to speeches appropriate to the occasion. Of course, it was a meeting of the deepest interest.
NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION. The thirtieth NEW ENGLAND Anti-Slavery CONVENTION will be held in Boston, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, May 28th and 29th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M., of Thursday. Particulars hereafter.
<c04>
WOMAN AND THE WAR.
That this war is destined to solve many questions besides that of the capacity of the negro for freedom and self-sustenance, only superficial thinkers can doubt. The interests of humanity are so closely linked, that one class cannot achieve its rights, without lifting others into theirs. Reforms, like the sciences, are always kindred: they intertwine. Pro-slavery opponents, with stupid gravity, have been accustomed to designate the Abolitionists as a party of isms-meaning the term as a reproach. With as much wit might Agassiz and his scientific associates be styled a party of its, because, following one science as a specialty, they have been obliged to acquaint themselves with others. As geology compels a knowledge of botany and zoology, so no anti slavery man can fitly, comprehend his work till he has mastered the collateral social questions.
The agitation of the negro's rights, and the discussion of the rights of woman, have from the beginning gone band in hand. What natural alliance could be closer? The advocates of each have been forced to occupy common ground, because the claims of both the negro and woman are based upon the same general principles, and the success of one necessitates the progress of the other.
We welcome, therefore, as the dawn of a new and better era, the enlarged scope of influence and power this war is opening to woman. Everywhere the nation  summons her to its aid. Heretofore, it has denied her a capacity beyond that of the domestic circle; her assertion of the right of franchise has been met by the sneering accusation of mental inferiority; the kitchen and the nursery have been declared the confines of her natural sphere. But, thanks to this searching war,
"The old is crumbling down-the times are changing,
And from the ruins blooms a fairer life."
The ancient bugbears regarding women are being fast exploded. With the record of their heroic devotion in the camps and hospitals, among the wounded and the dying, amid scenes loathsome and terrible who will hereafter dare to utter the puerile objection to their voting, that the atmosphere of the ward room is unfit for their delicate nerves? Is it unwomanly to cast a ballot in a mixed assembly, and yet womanly to act as nurse in a hospital filled with rough men, fresh from that school of vice, a camp?
We have been led into these reflections by reading of the remarkable success which is attending the career of Miss ANNA E. DICKINSON. Her case, at present, is unique; but we venture to prophesy that it is but the genesis of a new revelation, which American polities is destined to receive. Called in an hour of need to New Hampshire and Connecticut, to assist in stemming the tide of domestic treason which threatened to overwhelm republicanism, it is said that the salvation of both States is largely due to her. Recognizing these substantial services, New York next welcomed her with an immense, enthusiastic audience at Cooper Institute; and, on Monday evening last, invited by the influential citizens of Philadelphia, she lectured upon the war in the great Academy of Music.
Hereafter, when women come to the State Legislatures with their petitions for suffrage,-as they will be sure to do,-with what consistency can Republican legislators deny this sacred right? The old, false plea of woman's inability to comprehend political questions will avail nothing now; for here is one,-not singular in her understanding or intelligence, only exceptional in her power of speaking eloquently the thoughts which are familiar with thousands of her sex,-whom party lenders have besought to instruct the mass of voters in their political and moral duties. Yet she, who may almost be said to have created Governors and Legislatures, is herself deprived of the privilege of a vote, which the most ignorant foreigner that walks our streets is allowed.
The history of the war is full of incidents, in which heroic woman is the central figure. They will not be forgotten. Mrs. Stowe, by the magic of her pen, draws to us the moral sentiment of England. Mrs. Gage manages with ability a plantation of South Carolina freedmen, and finds time, besides, to educate Northern public sentiment by her large-hearted and philanthropic utterances through the press. Mrs. Stanton sends her own boy to battle, and magnanimously rallies with a clarion-call the women of the country to the defence of that government in which they are denied participation and voice. Gail Hamilton, by her brilliant and forcible appeals, is a constant inspiration to loyal men. And in the department of the South, in the confidence and service of the commanding General, lives a colored woman, the scars of former slavery upon her, whose value as a Union scout is highly prized.
When, one day, presenting herself at the bar of public justice, woman shall claim that, by the example of such as these, she has earned the right to a voice in that government which her sacrifices and labors have helped so much to save, what man that believes in a republic based on intelligence and equal rights will dare answer nay?-W. L. G., JR.

SECESH "IN COVENTRY."
A public meeting was held in St. Mary's Hall, in Coventry, Eng., on Thursday evening, the 2d ult., "to sympathize with the emancipation policy of the present Government of the Federal States of America, and express disapprobation of a rebellion, the professed object of which is the establishment of a nationality based on slavery." The large hall was densely crowded in every part; only a few ladies were present. Before the time for commencing the meeting, (eight o'clock,) it became pretty evident that a "row" was brewing, as a number of dirty blackguards, well liquored for the occasion, were posted in different parts of the hall, and kept shouting and stamping their feet, as though practising for the coming event. The Rev. T. Atkins, who seemed to be their oracle, had taken a seat on the platform in front. In consequence of not being able to procure a cab at the railway station, the chairman, C. H. Bracebridge, Esq., of Atherstone hall, was a few minutes behind, and about seven minutes past eight Mr. Atkins, who had an amendment to move, and who seemed nervous lest he should not have the opportunity of doing so, rose and proposed to the meeting that after waiting a short time longer, if no one else appeared to address them, he would move his amendment in the form of a resolution.. This suggestion was received with rapturous applause by the noisy portion of the meeting. About a quarter past eight, however, C. H. Bracebridge, Esq., George Thompson, Esq., Councilor Hickling, Messrs. C. Bray, John Cash, and T. Wyles, made their appearance upon the platform, amid a perfect storm of groans and hisses, which were replied to by loud cheers, which lasted for several minutes. Among the audience, near the platform, were the Rev. W. L. Clay, the Rev. E. H. Delf, Dr. Brown, Messrs. A. Startin, (Exhall,) J. Burdett, (Allesley,) W. Franklin, A. Atkins, N. Hill, Ransford, &c., &c.
The Coventry Herald and Observer occupies several of its columns with a report of the proceedings, which, throughout, were characterized by rowdy interruptions similar to those which were made at Anti-Slavery meetings in this country in other days. How it happens that the brutal "secesh" element is so rampant in Coventry particularly, we are not informed; but we know of no more appropriate place to which it deserves to be sent. After the Chairman and other gentlemen had attempted in vain to obtain a quiet hearing, and the Rev. (!) T. Atkins had aired his scurrilous vocabulary, to the gratification of his drunken backers, basely charging George Thompson, Esq., with having gone to America from mercenary considerations, Mr. Thompson took the platform, and delivered the scathing speech we have given in preceding columns. The result of the meeting was, the adoption, by acclamation, of an Address to President Lincoln, signed on behalf of the people of Coventry, assuring him of their highest admiration, and their most earnest and heartfelt sympathy and approval. We shall try to find room for it, and for more of the proceedings, in another number.
<c05>
LETTER FROM HENRY O. WRIGHT.
The Union as it was and as it is-Arming Negroes-Confidence in the Government-The Heart of the People. 
NORWICH, (N.Y.) April 28, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON-I lectured last Sunday in Madison county; am now in Chenango county, and on my way to Binghampton, in Broome county. Shall work my way along to Scranton, in Penn., and thence to Trenton, New Brunswick and Elizabethtown, in N. J., and to New York by the 12th of May, to be at the Anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society. I have spent the past four weeks in lecturing and talking, in Delaware, Otsego, Madison, and Chenango counties in New York, and Luzerne, in Pennsylvania. I have mingled extensively, in public and private, with all classes of society, and with people of all shades of opinions in politics and religion. I was in different parts of Central New York and Northern Pennsylvania, eight months ago; and you may rest assured there is a marked and wide difference between the general feeling among the people now, and then. It is different in the following items:-
As to the Cause of the War.-I scarcely meet any body now who does not admit slavery to be the cause, and sole cause, of the evils that are upon us. Last year, the responsibility was cists upon the Abolitionists. Now, even the Copperhead Democrats in this region admit that but for slavery, the war had never existed.
As to the Cure.-Last fall, inflamed and besotted by Seymour, Wood & Co., multitudes insisted that the only cure was to hang the Abolitionists and the Negroes. Now, Abolition is coming to be recognized by all as the only cure. The dose has been hard to swallow; but all classes are taking it-and feeling all the better for it.
The Proclamation.-Loud and furious were the imprecations against it and the President last fall. Now, the very people who were then most furious against it are in for it, with a will, and regret that it did not make a clean work of slavery in all the slave States. The course pursued in Maryland, in Western Virginia, in Missouri, and by some in Louisiana and Tennessee, is rapidly bringing all in this region to the same approval of that act.
The Abolition of Slavery.-Every where, from all classes, in public meetings, in coaches, cars and parlors, I hear the opinion expressed, that the result of the war, inaugurated By the kidnappers solely to sustain slavery, must be its entire abolition throughout the nation. And, generally, the people wish it may be so. Every where the hope is expressed that the war may never end but with the death of slavery.
The Union as it was.-Last fall, opposition to the restoration of the Union, as it was, was made the great war-cry of the Seymourites against the Republicans. Now, I scarcely hear one pleading for the Union as it was. All, or nearly all whom I meet, do not expect nor wish the restoration of the Union as it was; but they wish it may be restored without slavery. I believe it is coming to be a settled conviction among the masses, that to restore the Union as it was, as the handmaid and tool of the Slave Power, would be to entail on our children a civil war, more savage and murderous than the present. God grant the Union may never be restored as it was, and thus again become a covenant with death and an agreement with hell!
Arming the Negro.-Opposition to this is fast dying out. It was the rallying-cry of the Copperhead Democrats last fall. That the Administration was for using the Negro to fight the battles of the Republic against slavery and rebellion, was the one argument that curried the sympathizers with treason into power. The change is really wonderful. Not a voice, scarcely, o I hear, in this region, raised against it now. Rather than be damned as a nation, the people are willing to be saved by the Negro. As the Republic feels itself sinking in an ocean of blood, it calls out to the outcast, outraged and enslaved negro-"Save, or I perish!" What a testimony in favor of the despised, insulted and branded Negro it will be, in the future, that he forgot and forgave the wrongs inflicted on him, and came forward and encountered mutilation and death to save his deadliest enemy; for to the Negro this Republic has been his most bloody and inhuman foe ever since it had an existence. Now, God has so ordered that his proudest, most insolent, cruel and murderous enemy is obliged to call upon the scorned and down-trodden victims of its brutality to save them. What an opportunity is offered for the Negro to return good for evil, on a large scale-to heap coals of fire on the heads of his enemies, and earn for himself a name and a fame, forever loved and honored, on the records of this world!
Confidence in the Government.-What a change in this! Eight months ago, by the Copperhead Democrats, the impression was widely diffused that the Government was on the eve of bankruptcy. The masses, in this region, and in the State generally, began to despair of its stability and perpetuity, and of its capacity to meet its liabilities. Now, among the farmers, mechanics, merchants, and all classes, the inquiry is after Government stocks. Those who have fifty, one hundred, or five hundred dollars to put out at interest, are anxious to invest it in United States stocks. I really believe that nine-tenths of the farmers and mechanics of New York and Pennsylvania had now rather invest their surplus funds in "these stocks than in any other in the nation. Judging from the reports, I should think that the capitalists of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, and the cities of the West, were of the same opinion. Not a dollar nor a dime in specie do I see in my experience. The postal currency answers nil purposes of fractional exchanges, and the "legal tenders," as they are called, answer all purposes from one to five dollars. Shin-plasters have quite disappeared from all this region. Nothing else was here last fall in the shape of money. Every body, Copperheads and all, are anxious to get United States money in exchange for their produce and their labor. Confidence in the Government seems to be complete among the people: and Salmon P. Chase is coming to be the Man of the Republic. God grant that this confidence may be respected by the Administration, and lead it to bring about a speedy peace, by the utter extinction of Slavery, and the Rebellion that grows out of it! It has or is rapidly getting the entire heart of the people, as no Administration before has ever had it. The produce of the farm, the workshop and the factory never, commanded better prices and a readier sale; and it is attributed, mainly, to the wise and steady measures of the Government in its financial matters. The laboring people, wherever I go, are in good heart, cheerful and confident, Copperheads and all, as to business affairs. All are preparing for a great summer's work in the dairy, in the field, and in the shop. But one item is wanting, ie., laborers. But women will work on farms, this season, as never before. The one animating power is-THE FEELING THAT THE DAYS OF SLAVERY AND TREASON ARE NUMBERED, AND WILL SOON BE FINISHED. Such is the spirit that meets me. Is it so with you, in the dear old Bay State?
Never before did so dread responsibilities rest upon the Abolitionists, the old tried friends of the Slave and of Liberty, as now. Not so much as Abolitionists-for Abolition is a foregone conclusion as the resale of this war. No power can slay this consummation, so long and so earnestly labored for by us. But, lour millions of men and women, just rising from the sepulchre of slavery, are to be provided for, body and I soul; and that, too, in States now destitute of the means to supply either. The work is a great one-second only to Abolition. May God raise up men and women, young and energetic, who shall be able to do this work! What can the National Convention of Women do to aid in it? What can the American Anti-Slavery Society But the great work must and will be done. The Abolitionists will, I trust, soon see the end of their labors-so far as American slavery is concerned. Let all now come up to the work of redeeming the freed; men from the physical,
<c06>
intellectual, domestic, social and moral degradation a which slavery has left him.
Yours,
HENRY C, WRIGHT.
P. S. In remarking on the change in regard <illegible>the stability of the Government, I forgot to <illegible> most significant fact, i.e., that the people all one this region, and throughout this State and Pennsylvania, are withdrawing their funds from the savings' Bank, to invest them in Government Stocks. In this State, within a few month, eight or ten million of dollars, have been thus taken from Savings <illegible> is still going on. I take this from an official Report at Savings Banks, just published. To show the <illegible> condition of the laboring classes, the following are in point There were, at the commencement of this year, seventy-eight and one-half millions in the Savings Banks, due the depositors. Over thirty nine million were deposited during last year, and only twenty eight millions withdrawn, and this mainly to <illegible> United States Stocks.

THE NATIONAL FAST.
SPRINGFIELD, (Vt ) May <illegible>
MR. EDITOR-Allow me to tell you how the national fast day, April 30th, passed off in <illegible> It has been the practice of the Methodists and Congregationalists to interchange, on fast and thanksgiving days, and hold meetings at each house alternately It fell to the lot of the Methodists, yesterday, A new minister was expected, but failed to arrive and a neither the old minister nor the Congregationalists was prepared, we had no sermon. But, after singing and prayer, both made remarks about repentance of our national sins, w with little reference as to what those <illegible> were, and still less as to any sympathy for those miner able outcasts who have so long and so patiently suffered from our national injustice, until God has sent his judgments upon us. Next in order was a prayer by Deacon Davison, a very worthy man, (Congregationalist,) who thanked the Lord most cordially that he had put it into the head of the President to <illegible> the Proclamation. Then came Deacon Lewis, who made a strong abolition speech, enough to do the heart good. And last and least of all was my humble self. I seized the opportunity to remind the ministers and the audience, that this national fast, like the one preceding it, was sheer hypocrisy; that the nation did not mean to repent, and let the oppressed go freely that there were not twenty abolitionists in town <illegible> principle; that even now, with all these dire <illegible> upon us, there was not a church in town that would open its doors for an anti-slavery lecture, and one at least, had denied the poor boon of giving a notice of an and-slavery lecture else where. It happened very opportunely, that those who were thus implicated were present to hear, and justify themselves if they could; but when I took my seat, the benediction closed the scene.
JESSE STEDMAN.

"PINNER'S AMBULANCE KITCHEN,"
GENERAL HEAD QUARTERS STATE OF NEW YORK ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE, ALBANY, April 20, 1863.
His Excellency Horatio Seymour, Governor of the State of New York:
GOVERNOR,-The undersigned, having been appointed by Your Excellency a Commission to witness a trial and report on the merits of a locomotive <illegible> Kitchen, recently invented and patented by <illegible> Pinner, of New York city, have the honor to <illegible> to Your Excellency the following report:-
That they have this day witnessed the trial of locomotive cooking apparatus called "Pinner's <illegible> Kitchen"; that they found it to work well for all practical army cooking purposes; that they were pleased with the simplicity and compactness of a construction; and that, in their judgment, from military, sanitary, humanitarian and economical point of view, our armies would greatly gain by the general introduction of this invention. The undersigned further beg leave to name the following as the chief merits of said invention, to wit:
1. One of Pinner's Ambulance Kitchens might to the ordinary army cooking for 500 men, and two of them might, therefore, suffice for all the cooking purposes of a regiment of ordinary strength.
2. On occasion of battle, when the immediate relief of the wounded is an object, one such kitchen kept a cooking all day long, and preparing what is called stock soup, or stock coffee, could probably issue <illegible> coffee or soup to 3,000 men in ten hours.
3. Pinner's Ambulance Kitchen would also prove the means of saving many lives, and greatly lessen the sufferings of the wounded before they could be removed from the battle-field, and at a time when, a consequence of excitement, excessive fatigue, shock of wound, and often lack of food, complete exhaustion threatens death. In nearly all cases, such as Ambulance Kitchen could be hauled to the vicinity of the battle-field, and hot food in pails, stimulants, medicines, and surgical instruments all transported in this kitchen, could then easily he carried to the wounded.
4. The same speedy relief could be brought to <illegible>| and wounded men in field hospitals, by hauling <illegible> Ambulance Kitchen from one hospital to another cooking while traveling.
5. Before sending troops into action, or whiles temporarily withdrawing them from the field, hot food could be issued to them from such kitchen. Troops would thus become much more effective than <illegible> and the prostrating effects of wounds would also be lessened.
6. While troops are marching, their accompanying Ambulance Kitchen could cook for them, and while resting occasionally, hot food could be issued. In rainy or cold weather, or when troops are reaching camp late at night, such ever-ready supply of hot food must prove particularly beneficial.
7. The great nuisance at straggling on the march in quest of food would be diminished, if not altogether prevented, by the introduction of such Ambulance Kitchens. Men inclined to roam in quest of food would be apt to follow such travelling kitchens and men falling sick on the road would thus also have a chance of speedy relief.
8. Pickets stationed in localities where the screening of fire is an object, and who heretofore have had to subsist on cold rations, regardless of weather, could be supplied with hot food from such travelling kitchens. 9. From the ever-ready baking oven, forming part of this Ambulance Kitchen, fresh bread could be issued much oftener to the troops than has been possible under the present system. To sick and wounded in particular, this would be a relief
10. The cooking apparatus in Pinner's Ambulance Kitchen (which can easily he taken in to or out of the wagon carrying it would answer very well as a substitute for all other camp or hospital cooking utensils (excepting those in very large permanent hospitals.) and thus the often occurring loss and waste of such utensils would be prevented 
11. A more uniform, wholesome and economics mode of cooking for the army would be encouraged and obtained by the use of such Ambulance Kitchens.
Four horses for each such Ambulance Kitchen would suffice in the field. The tables carried in these kitchens could be used for surgical or dining purposes, and each such Ambulance Kitchen would also be able to carry four wounded men conveniently from the field.
For officers' messes, sutlers' restaurants or backeries for exploring or surveying expeditions, overland emigration and probably prospecting in mining districts these Ambulance Kitchens could be used to great advantage. In a pecuniary point of view, the general introduction of Pinner's Ambulance Kitchen into the armies of the United States would prove an immediate and large saving to the Government Twenty men per regiment, now superficially employed it cooking, as well as. large quantities of fuel, provision and cooking utensils, could be saved, and the health comfort and efficiency of our armies would be promoted besides.
We, therefore, cheerfully recommended to the Government the adoption and general introduction Pinner's Ambulance Kitchen.
Most respectfully submitted 
JOHN T. SPRAGUE.
Major First Infantry, U. S. A., and Brigadier-<illegible> and Adjutant General State of New York.
J. V. P. QUACKENBUSH,
Brigadier-General and Surgeon General State of New York.
S.V. TALCOTT,
Brigadier-General and Quartermaster-General States of New York.
I have examined the Locomotive cooking Apparatus, and concur in the opinion expressed in the with report.
HORATIO SEYMOUR,
Governor State of New York
Capt. PINNER, last week, exhibited his admirably contrived "Kitchen Ambulance" to the citizens of Boston, on the Common and Change and obtained the warmest approval. It is truly a <illegible> humane, ingenious, and important invention; and to Government owes it to the brave men whom it sermons to the battle-field to bring it into immediate service in the army. It will pay for its cost many time.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE CONNECTICUT AND SHENANDOAH.
A TALE OF TO-DAY.
CHAPTER XII.
HISTORY-BLOSSOMS.
Ever the orange tree of human events stands with its buds, its blossoms, its crudely green and its ripened fruits. Significant in the unresting procession of the whole is the unfolding of a single leaf, the dropping of a single petal; each minute golden globule of pollen in the tiny anthers is vital with momentous possibilities, and its ripening or failure to ripen is not accident or chance, but obedience or disobedience to organic, constructive, ever-operating laws; nay, more disobedience here severs or distorts a link in the perfect chain, as entirely as disobedience on the part of one of those immense golden globules, the shining seed-dust of ever-changing but never exhausted creation, swinging in its azure anther among the blossoms of the Infinite Life-tree.
Ah, immortal-mortal! Hast thou weighed in this all-testing, equally-testing balance the worth of those words of thine-the wayside seed which becomes the futures fruit, whether they will decree it or not? Yet farther-hast thou weighed thus the pollen of thought which goes to construct the words dropping for good or evil from thy lips? Weighed thus the worth of thy deeds, which are furrowing with fertility the wide fields of humanity; or willfully or wantonly indurating them into hopeless sterility; or mixing their gases for the production of noxious and poisonous growths? I sit alone in my chamber. Not so! That thought which I am thinking, that feeling which I am cherishing, is an active ally of Satan or of seraphs. Oat from those meditations, or that musing or brooding, goes a positive contribution to the moral forces of the universe, or to the forces of evil. Isolate a soul! Impossible! You cannot isolate a seed, even; or a grain of that dust of which seeds are made.
Answer, then, to thyself, O man-the natural, the preternatural, the supernatural-the triune link with all forces! Hast thou weighed thus the worth of thy solitude, of thy society, to the interests of the world? We have a favorite essayist and rhetor, rather than orator, who, when he has let fall one of those inspirations which come of heart to heart communion with infinite verities, has a way of directing his glance into space, for an instant, with a listening look, as if he paused for the echo of that thought or sentiment from the halls of the Unseen, who give him audience at the same time with the visible. Careful imitators are particularly warned against all attempts at copying that. As a part of his utterance, it is inexpressibly charming, because it is, so unconsciously, a part of it; as a mere manner, it would be an entire failure. Yet the passing movement has momentous suggestion in it for all. Listen to thine own fast-falling words, O speaker, whoever thou art; to thy thick-coming fancies, O muser! Do their echoes come bounding back from the applauding immortals, joyous with beatific vitality, or have they fallen, like the spent leaves of autumn, into kindred dust and mire-their mission obstruction, or decomposition into <illegible> and poisoning exhalations <illegible> Put the period of a Presidential campaign to such a test! Is space vocal with the swift passage of resonant verities and speeding responses, or is there a return on earth of the carboniferous era?
The summer and autumn of the year which dates the commencement of this tale of To-Day were marked by striking events in the history of the two great antagonistic forces, Freedom and Slavery. They seemed, for a time, to have changed continents for the theatres of their successes. In the south of Europe, the Gibraltar of Italy had loosened its bolts and bars at the summons of Freedom, given through the flaming inspiration of Garibaldi. Voltorno follows Melazzo, and the invincible, legitimate sprit of the nineteenth century demands the Key of Sicily, in the name of Universal Liberty. Garaglione succeeds Capua, and the morning flush of hope for Humanity lights up the beautiful Bay of Naples, and streams far athwart the midland sea.
Meantime, in the Northern America-in that part of it whose illumination the stars of heaven are brought down to symbolize; whose lofty aspirations and indomitable enterprise find their type in the bird which has its nest securely lodged in the tallest mountain peak, and whose gaze turns not back from the full noon day sun-at the vauntingly claimed focus of all these rays of celestial power; here, in this favored Boston of ours, the soi-disant weight of influence crowds Faneuil Hall with silent, servile acquiescence, if not audible approval, while an advocate for Slavery, his soul black with treason, his heart hollow with ingratitude to the most beneficent government, as a whole, that earthly traitors ever plotted against, makes his argument and appeal, and, by the manner of their reception, bears away that aid and comfort for rebels, in the way of sympathy and encouragement, which nerves will and arm to begin the strife that menaces all that is dear to the Christian patriot in the present, and desirable in the future. Nor this alone. A citizen of Boston-of high-toned Massachusetts-whose intellect has ripened richly in the best culture her almost limitless resources could furnish; whose brow, for halt a century, has been successively encircled with the freshest and most unfading bays in her gift to bestow; whose name has been a prestige for all that is aesthetic and dignified-permits that so honored name to be associated with the unsanctified cognomen of a slaveholding assassin of free institutions-the very institutions that have nurtured and crowned him-in a compact for a four years sovereignty of a free people!
Am I told that the elite of Boston and the scholar of Massachusetts could not know that they were listening to and in complicity with rebels and traitors? I answer-and who shall gainsay me?-these were but added steps in the long, cowardly pathway of Compromise, which has emboldened a few to resolve that their sectional, local iniquity shall become national, or there shall be no nation. No, they did not see, because they would not see; yet none the less were they in conflict with Liberty and its sublime European champion. Garibaldi. He says, in language wholly free from ambiguity-I pull down these despotisms to let in the light and air of Freedom. They speak as unmistakably-We aim to destroy the temple of Freedom, and in its place rear the flimsy palaces and filthy pens of despotism. Thus wrought, at the same period, the Italian adventurer and the acknowledged representatives of the highest civilization of the present-the blossoms of history each side the Atlantic; the unimagined fruits of both, this generation may yet gather.
And so with torchlight and bonfire and shouting and declamation-ay, and with less laudable adjuncts; with recklessness and debauchery and perjury-the great crisis hour was heralded. Where June flowers and birds had made the day bright with beauty and vocal with song, the October nights giared and resounded with blinding and deafening demonstration; by the sea-shore, up the hill-tops, along the river-valleys, and, most of all, in the great city thoroughfares. Again was the spirit poured out without measure. What spirit?
The Rev. Hugh Berkeley preached his second sermon to the parishioners of the late Mr. Horton at this period. My readers are, by this time, sufficiently acquainted with his character and views to form an idea of what his utterance would be on such an occasion, without an abstract from me. Nor did his more personal associations with the place fail of imparting an added element of potency to his treatment of the sublime theme-Speak the truth in love. His analysis of the power, purpose and obligations of speech; his answer to the momentous question, What is truth? his testimony to the courage, frankness, force and fervor which a comprehensive and enlightened love infuses into the spoken word, were all that the profoundest needs and grandest aspirations of genuine patriotism could demand.
It was observed that neither Deacon Sleeper nor
The Rev. Mr. Shippin, of Worcester, recently gave a sermon on this text almost equal to Mr. Berkeleys!
<c02>
his colleague occupied their accustomed seats in the broad-aisle during the day. A form and voice were also wanting in the choir; the bright, effervescing face, slightly subdued, perhaps, was still there; beside it one hardly as expressive, yet strongly resembling it in feature and tone-a year more youthful, and with a voice as bird-like; the minister did not fail to recognize, as his eyes again glanced over the choral performers, the younger sister of Edgar Horton. The brother regarded them intently, too, when the congregation faced the choir; an emotion of pleasure lighted his fine face as the likeness to each other struck him more forcibly than ever before; but the remembrance of his dream, that June night, came shadowy and icy over his spirit-the glow faded from cheek and eye, a sorrowing, shivering sigh escaped him, and his regards were fixed upon the hymn through the remainder of the performance. Effie felt the inspiration drop from her song, she knew not why, and the notes grew feeble and tremulous; she was glad when the hymn was ended, and she at liberty to sit down in the shelter of the very pillar that had so often screened dear cousin Clara from observation.
What was the matter with you, Effie, in the second hymn? asked Emma, affectionately, as the two girls walked away from the church, attended by Edgar.
O, nothing. Emmie-I don't think I like that tune. The hurried, confused manner drew the attention of the brother; he glanced suddenly at the glowing face-the eyes, raised for an instant instinctively to his, dropped as instantly, while a deeper coloring overspread cheek and brow.
Emma, if our friend will do us the favor of coming to tea with you after service this afternoon, we will practise some of those melodies. They are new, and may improve on acquaintance."
O, do, Effie-will you? That, would be so nice- say you will, dear Effie.
I will ask Auntie."
"And Im sure she'll say yes; then you will, of course, for Mr. Berkeley's  coming too, isn't he, Edgar? How splendid!"
No, dear, he takes tea with the Misses Kent. Very likely, your Aunts will be invited to meet him, Effie; indeed, I think I heard the invitation given in the porch. So you see you will be left alone with your birds and the kitten. Can't we attract you from these?
The manner of this was very kind-Emmie felt it with a strange flutter of pleasure; and said so sweetly, and looked so pretty when she said it-I will ask Auntie, Mr. Horton."
"Let me ask her, Effie, shall I? The young gentleman found assent in the drooping brown eyes, and quickening his pace as the girls chatted, slowly following, he overtook the Misses Williams just in time to open the gate for them. His face expressed his success, when, having gallantly seen the ladies into the cottage, he rejoined the loitering girls. Emma was just saying in reply to some remark of Effies-
O, Mamma is at Springfield on a short visit. Henrietta doesn't like Mr. Berkeley-how strange, isnt it? But she likes you, Effie, very much. Just imagine-Nettie says it is wrong to listen to such preaching on Sunday. Why, Effie, I loved papa so much-he was such a dear, good papa-so good to everybody-I wish you could have known him. But, Effie, dear," lowering her voice, I didnt like to hear him preach; his sermons didnt seem to mean anything. It seemed as if he thought all the sinners in the world were away off in foreign countries among the pagans. He never prayed for the slaves, nor for the poor drunkards; never condemned slavery nor intemperance, nor any of the sins we see about us every day; but he was so kind and good. Sometimes Edgar would talk very strong about these evils-just as he feels, you know-just as you and I feel, only we can't talk like him. Father would hush him, and tell him to cherish a more Christian spirit, and not judge others. Then Edgar would say he didn't see what was the use in having churches, if people were not made any better for them. And mamma said it was respectable-that the world was growing better, slowly; every thing couldn't be done at once; each one must mend one. And papa said, yes, we must teach by our lives-by example-and not excite people to discontent and angry feelings; that only made Christianity unpopular, and repelled people from it. 
"O, Effie, I shall never forget how grandly Edgar looked, and how deep and rich his voice sounded! Mr. Berkeley made me think of it to-day, when he stood right up and said, so respectful and so earnest, Father, forgive me, but I must speak. It is such views as yours that repel people from Christianity-that make infidels. What should you think of the physician, who, because he felt well himself, should refuse to administer medicines, or advise regimen for the sick, on the ground that it would stir up their systems uncomfortably-it was enough for them to observe him? Or, during a period of scarcity, if a favored few should call to the starving many, Come, and sec us take food-the process is very simple-why do you remain hungry?' I clapped my hands; I couldn't help it; and mamma sent me to my own room. And, as I went, I heard her say to my dear, splendid Edgar, that such talk was vitiating my mind, and by and by I should be as untractable as he. O, Effie, I love him so much! He is so noble and true, and we have so much sympathy! 
The approach of the subject of these warm-hearted eulogiums naturally brought them to a close. A few steps found Effie at the cottage gate, where the promise was given to go home with Emma from afternoon service. A vague sense of great joy and love of Emma Horton made sunshine in Effie Lesters spirit-made melody on her lips, through the remainder of the day.
How charming she is, Edgar! exclaimed his sister, as they walked on their way.
Yes, darling, with a sigh that didnt harmonize with the rest, just the friend for my sweet sister. Shall I tell you what passage of Scripture always comes to my mind when I see you together?
What is it, Edgar-about David and Jonathan? with an arch smile, as she looked up in his face.
The pure in heart see God-he answered solemnly. Young as you are, you have no difficulty in comprehending His will and purposes on questions that puzzle and baffle the so called wisdom of the world. How simple is abstract truth to the mind undisturbed and unclogged by its own bickering machinery!
It is not difficult to divine the subject of conversation in the circle assembled at the Misses Kent. Edgar Horton had been invited to join them, but distrusted, as yet, his power of self-control in the presence of one whom he regarded as a successful competitor for the prize he did not yet feel resigned to surrender. Separately he would discuss with the different parties those topics which were opening a new field of action. The enfranchisement, in some way, of Huldah and Harry, was the most important among these. Adela was slowly gaining strength in her new place of refuge, but still in a precarious state of health. Mr. Berkeley had not yet sought to see her, as Dr. Welford feared the results of so great excitement, and he feared being dogged, and her retirement discovered. When the physician should pronounce her equal to a journey across the line into Canada, he would be her guide and protector thither. The deliverance of her brother and sister was especially difficult to effect, as any offer of purchase, through whatever agency made, would be at once attributed to Mr. Berkeley, and, consequently, refused. No plans for flight could be made available, they being guarded with sleepless vigilance by their exasperated master. But in a letter to Adela, the only one he had written her since her resurrection, for so it seemed to him, he had craved as a boon that he might undertake this duty-a duty, he said, which he owed to suffering kindred as well as a righteous cause. In a verbal reply through one of her faithful lady friends, she accepted, gratefully, this tender of service, and besought him to use the still inadequate sum she had laid by from the proceeds of her work at the mill. 
Late into that autumn evening, the friends of free-
<c03>
dom and the helpers of the oppressed discussed measures for the accomplishment of this object. Before they separated, they were joined by Edgar Horton, on his way to the Cottage with Effle. With such motives, such hearts, intellects and wills, there is no room for doubt that whatever was humanly possible would be attempted, and that the divine blessing would follow, in some way, efforts so genuine.

GAAND EMANCIPATION-CELEBRATION 
Of the Emancipation of the National Capital. 
The anniversary of the signing of the act for the emancipation of the slaves of the District of Columbia was celebrated Thursday evening. April 16, by a demonstration in the Fifteenth Street Presbyterian Church, Washington City, D. C. This church is well known as the aristocratic colored church of the District, with cushioned seats, carpeted aisles, gold lettered pews, marble-topped pulpit-stand, handsome chandeliers, a fair organ, and a choir of no little celebrity. Caucasians, hurring away from the jarring discords of their own church-choirs, sometimes pause at the doors of the Fifteenth Street church to hear the rich swell and fine harmonies of Grant's choir, or the delicate grace of Boston's voluntaries. It is a well-dressed congregation. Nowhere have we seen finer bonnets than here, last night. Altogether, the gathering and style of celebration was very different from that at the contraband camp, New Year's night, addressed by rude speakers of the John de Baptis" stripe. With a single exception, last night, when a colored speaker used the scarcely defensible figure of representing slavery as a dragon, scattering lava throughout the land," the speaking, both in matter and manner, was quite as good, if not better, than that which usually prevails at demonstrations" amongst white folks.
On the platform were seated John F. Cook, who presided, T. H. C. Hinton of New York, artist, Rev. Mr. Shelton of Cincinnati, J. E. Green of Detroit, Mich., J. Willis Manard, poet, W. E. Matthews of Baltimore, Rev. Mr. Turner, (white,) late chaplain of the Fourth Pennsylvania Cavalry, who is here on business relating to recruiting colored soldiers. Among the audience we noticed Rev. S. P. Hill, Dr. Breed, J. D. Harris, (colored,) of the Haytian Bureau of Emigration, in uniform.
The appearance of a colored man in the room wearing the gold-leaf epaulettes of a Major, was also the occasion of much applause and gratulation with the assembly. The individual thus distinguished was Dr. A. T. Augusta, who received a Surgeon's commission last week from the Secretary of War. He is a native of Virginia, and graduated at Trinity College, Toronto, Canada.
The demonstration was under the management of Mrs. Keckley, President of the Ladies' Contraband Relief Association, S. J. Datcher, William Slade, and others of note amongst the colored people of the District.
About 8 o'clock, the meeting was called to order by John F. Cook, (son of the well-known colored preacher,) who introduced Rev. Mr. Shelton, (colored,) of Cincinnati, who offered up a prayer, in which blessings were invoked on the members of Congress who passed the decree abolishing slavery, and on the President, for the measures he had taken to liberate the slaves of the Country.
Mr. THOS. H. C. HINTON, of New York, was the first speaker. On the 16th of April, 1862, a law was promulgated making liberty paramount to slavery at the seat of the national jurisprudence of the country. President Lincoln made the law secure by his approval, (applause,) and that people who had heretofore been kept under the iron heel of oppression, stood forth, clothed in liberty. In this act, right conquered might. (Applause.) Slavery, which had been maintained by a legion of political devils, regardless of the tears and entreaties of mother, wife or children, was partially done away with. The people now left the dark picture of the past, and beheld a gleam of liberty. The country was no longer under an incubus, and with a massive blow the hydra-headed monster was felled to death. Notice this dear baby of the country, this political pet of the South, this cherubim of the F. F. V. s, and we cannot do better than to look at it as it has developed itself. 
Let any one, even to-day, have but a drop of African blood in his veins, and let him or her pass or approach one of the slaveocrats, and the first word you hear from them is, Hello, nigger!" Any man or woman, if of African descent, is thus subject continually to vituperation. There is no redress when thus assaulted, unless you redress yourselves, and take the law into your own hands. And the law is simply for the white man, and not for the-black. Again, if an African seeks accommodation in a street railroad car, he is told by the conductor, We don't accommodate niggers in this car," and this is one of the features of slavery as it exists in our midst. If this is the case to-day, what was it before the issue of the Emancipation Proclamation? Must we not, then, do all in our power to conquer this great prejudice, and to destroy this fiery dragon that is scattering its devastating lava about our land? The colored man loved liberty. It was the gift of the great and good God, and it was intended as the path in which all should walk. If it shall appear, in the course of human events, that there is a prospect of a higher development of the colored race, they must endeavor to meet the event by making themselves better. Whose hand was it that had struck the death blow to slavery but that of Abraham Lincoln? (Applause.) They (the colored people) rejoiced with a loud voice, and hailed with joy his advent among them. (Applause.) May his path be strewn with peace and prosperity, (applause,) and may the nation look upon him as the repairer of the breach, and the restorer of the national paths! (Applause.)
J. WILLIS MENARD (colored poet), was next introduced. One year ago to-day, he said, the sun of slavery sunk down into its native hell, (applause,) and buried in its fall the clash of devilish chains, (renewed applause,) and the capital of the nation ceased to be the great workshop of fetters and chains for the negro. The colored people leaped from the condition of brutes to the broad and lasting platform of humanity. (Applause.) By emancipation, thousands had been thrown upon them, (the colored people,) and they must choose for them. They must plan for them, and teach them the great lessons of man and woman, and husband and wife. They (the free colored people) had a work of humanity to perform, and action! action! action! was called for. (Applause.) The negro race are a part of the people of this great country, but have always been looked upon in degradation. The most lucrative avocations were almost wholly reserved as a dignified reward to those of the fairer complexion. Yet with all this-with hands bound, and with the heel of tyranny upon them-the colored race have been taunted with inferiority, and told to show their statesmen, their learned men, and their jurists. We see the poor, miserable African, way back in the dim twilight of ages; and when the grass was yet wet with the dews of creation's morn, that race was unrivalled in literature, art and science. (Applause.) We see with pain the loss of these arts now; but notwithstanding this, the Africans have been the teachers of the world in civilization and the arts. (Applause.) He proceeded to compare the Egyptians (claimed by him as their ancestors) to the Britons-not at all to the advantage of the latter. When carried to Greece and Rome as slaves, the Britons proved too stupid to make even good servants (laughter); and from that boasted race descended Abraham Lincoln. (Great laughter.)
The claims of suffering humanity will find a response in every human heart, and a spirit of benevolence was now being diffused over our blood-stained land. He (the speaker) believed Abraham Lincoln was commissioned from Heaven as the great engineer to carry out the great work. (Applause.) Of all the Presidents, and notwithstanding the glories that cluster around the name of Washington, the name of Abraham Lincoln would be heard in thunder tones
<c04>
in ages yet to come (Loud applause.) The contrabands were in the midst of the colored race. But they should not be called contrabands." They were men and brethren. They were not free, nor were the other colored people. The colored race must carve out its own destiny. They are men, and must venture, as do the whites. (Cries of That's so.") Many of the negroes have prejudices against emigration. 
The speaker then referred to the divisions upon the questions of abolition and colonization. The first had given them Fred. Douglass, (applause,) McCune Smith, and the other lesser stars that revolve around him. The other had given them two great nationalities. (Applause.) When men became educated, the darkness of slavery must retreat. For two hundred and fifty years, there had been no quietude between the races. The Americans were jealous of their liberty, and man, wherever he was in the ascendancy, was disposed to be semi-despotic.
The speaker then congratulated the audience on the fact that, for the first time in the history of this country, epaulettes were seen on the shoulders of a black man. (Tremendous applause.) [The presence of Dr. Augusta, in full surgeon's uniform, called out this remark.] Could he only see a major-general's epaulettes on a black man, he would cease to be an emigrationist. (Laughter and applause.)
The speaker concluded by reciting the following poem, which he had prepared for the occasion:-
ONE YEAR AGO TO-DAY. 
Dedicated to the Emancipated Slaves of the District of Columbia.
Almighty God! we praise thy name
For having heard us pray; 
For having freed us from our chains,
One year ago to-day.
We thank thee, for thy arm has stayed
Foul despotism's sway, 
And made Columbia's District free,
One year ago to-day.
Give us the power to withstand
Oppression's baneful fray; 
That right may triumph as it did,
One year ago to-day. 
Give liberty to millions yet 
'Neath despotism's sway, 
That they may praise thee as we did, 
One year ago to-day.
0! guide us safely through this storm;
Bless Lincoln's gentle sway, 
And then we'll ever praise thee, as
One year ago to-day.
The recital of this poem elicited great applause. 
The next speaker introduced was J. E. GREEN, (colored,) of Michigan, who said that the American Revolution was an important epoch in the world's history; not only having its effect on the whites, but upon the blacks. He alluded to the blacks helping to fight for our liberties, and referred to William C. Nell, a colored citizen of Boston, in whose history of Colored American Patriots" was sketched Crispus Attucks, a black man who fell at the head of a band of citizens in the Boston Massacre-himself the first martyr. Colored blood was spilt at Bunker Hill, and the bones of the blacks repose there with the whites. In Rhode Island a regiment of blacks was raised, and in Connecticut a large battalion who fought bravely throughout the war, but owing to the prejudices of the whites, their deeds have been covered up.
He alluded to a speech made by Charles Pinckney, of South Carolina, in which he admitted that, during the war of the Revolution, colored men fought bravely with the whites. The victory at New Orleans was won by blacks as well as whites, who were highly complimented by Gen. Jackson. He contended that patriotism was more deeply rooted in the blacks than in the whites. They pour out their blood for those who do not regard them as fellow-men.
He then referred to the progress made in liberating slaves in different portions of the earth. In Chili, every child born after October 10th, 1811, was declared free. In Colombia every slave bearing arms was emancipated July 19, 1821, and provisions were made for the emancipation of the remainder, amounting to 280,000. In Mexico, September 15, 1829, instant and unconditional freedom was given every slave. At the Cape of Good Hope, 30,000 Hottentots were freed in 1823. In all these places without any unhappy results. The slaves in the British West Indies, amounting to 800,000, were liberated; and in 1848, slavery throughout the British dominions was abolished, by which 12,000,000 in the East Indies were liberated.
On the 1st of January, 1863, the President's proclamation declared free 435,132 in Alabama, 111,104 in Arkansas, 61,753 in Florida, 462,232 in Georgia, 436,696 in Mississippi, 402,541 in South Carolina, 180,682 in Texas, which amounts to 2,090,140; and in Louisiana, excepting New Orleans, 318,531; in North Carolina, excepting Beaufort, 331,081; Tennessee, excepting loyal portions, 275,785; Virginia, excepting West Virginia, 440,897; making a total of 3,456,424 who were declared free by the proclamation.
Russia had emancipated 7,000,000 slaves. In our country, extending from one ocean to another, with 3,000,000 square miles, heretofore there was not a place in which a fugitive could be safe.
WILLIAM E. MATHEWS, (colored,) was then introduced. He said it was a custom old as antiquity for men to come together to celebrate great events. The Jews celebrated the Passover; England the birthday of her Queen. All the great powers of the earth, including Hayti and Liberia, (applause,) have a day peculiarly their own. The white Americans celebrate the Fourth of July. But it is an unhappy fact that the colored people of the United States had no day to celebrate. Thank God, another and a better day has at last dawned, (applause,) and this evening the colored people meet under circumstances never before known. The names of Wilson and Lovejoy would be handed down to posterity with blessings. (Applause.)
The speaker hoped the 16th day of April would ever be a day of rejoicing in this District. (Applause.) Let the rejoicing swell the tide until all in the United States meet in one grand celebration, (applause,) and when the colored man shall stand on one grand platform of universal right. (Applause.) He liked these anniversaries. They inspired them with a manhood they did not feel on other occasions. (Applause.)
The colored people should celebrate the birthdays of their great men-the birthday of Hannibal, who crossed the Alps, and compelled the Romans to cringe at his feet (applause); of Toussaint L'Ouverture, (applause,) who worked successfully the greater than mathematical problem, that they who would be free must first strike the blow. (Applause.) He (L'Ouverture) had turned Hayti from a hell of slavery to a paradise of freedom (applause); and America had been forced to recognize her nationality, and to-day we have a black man (applause) representing her here. He would, like also to see celebrated the birthday of; Benjamin Bannaker, the negro astronomer, who first gave an almanac to Maryland, Virginia and the District. (Applause.) Who were the early fathers of religion? Who put the light to the torch of Christianity, which has continued to burn brightly, but St. Cyprian, Augustine, and others of their race? He would like to see their memories celebrated. (Applause.) He could name a great many more, both of, ancient and modern days, but so long as history, does its duty, the names of these men will never be forgotten. Let us, then, believe that this is the beginning of a better time for the race. In conclusion, this speaker also recited a poem of his own composition, appropriate to the occasion. 
Other speakers followed, Francis Taverns, (colored,) Dr. Breed, Judge Day, and others, but for whose remarks we have not space to-day. 
The affair concluded with some musical exercises in the basement of the church. Vive l' America," and several pieces, including the John Brown Song," were sung during the evening by Misses Margaret Brown, M. Cookley, L. Starr, and F. Fisher, and Messrs. T. S. Boston and W.F. Landle, with much effect. 
The Dumas Literary Association celebrated the event by a public meeting the next evening.
<c05>
A BLOODY CONTEST IN VIRGINIA.
A terrible contest took place in Virginia on Saturday and Sunday last, resulting in a substantial triumph to the army of General Hooker.
On Saturday, General Hooker sent a force, under General Sickles, to attack the rebels in the rear, and this movement promised to be a success, when the rebel General Jackson, at the head of a large force, attacked, and, for the moment, overwhelmed the corps of Gen. Howard-one division, that assigned to Gen. Devens, giving way in confusion. The rebels took from the <illegible> Dutchmen, as the Times' correspondent styles them, 12 pieces of cannon. The Germans fled past Gen. Hooker's headquarters in a panic, many of the members of Hooker's staff, with pistols and sabres vainly endeavored to stay their flight.
What made this retreat most disastrous was the fact that Gen. Sickles had, by a branch road, pierced the enemy's centre and penetrated for a mile, cut them in twain and secured the key to victory, when the turning of Howard's position obliged him to retreat, bringing off 400 rebel prisoners. The artillery conflict continued until midnight, fiercely.
At the command of General Hooker, the division of General Berry advanced to the assistance of General Howard, and after a desperate fight, in which the loss of life was very heavy, succeeded in checking the advance of the rebels, and in driving them back with severe loss.
The Federal army then entrenched themselves, when the rebel General, with an utter disregard of the slaughter which followed, repeatedly hurled his men against these entrenchments, but was beaten back with great loss, on Sunday.
On our side many lives have been lost, including one General, Berry, and, it is stated, as many as twenty Colonels killed. The number of wounded is also very large. The officers say the dead and wounded rebels covered the ground in heaps, the rebels literally throwing themselves upon the muzzles of our guns. Gen. Mott's brigade made fifteen distinct charges, and captured seven stands of rebel colors. The 7th New Jersey, Col. Francis, alone captured four stands of colors, and 500 prisoners.
A letter from Falmouth, dated Sunday, 10 P. M., states that Gen. Sedgwick attacked the heights of Fredericksburg, and gallantly carried them by storm, capturing the 16th and 18th rebel Mississippi regiments, one company of the famous Washington artillery, of New Orleans, and part of Alexander's artillery -in all, eight guns and over 1000 prisoners.
The storming force was Gen. Pratt's Light Division, aided by Gen. Gibbons, who actually planted the stars and stripes over the rebel works before the latter had ceased firing upon our charging column.
Our loss is considerable. Gen. Sedgwick afterward engaged the rebels and drove them back, and at 6 P. M., Sunday, had advanced to the brick church, four and a half miles out on the plank road towards Chancellorsville. 
Here we had a severe engagement with each rebel division, reinforced by Lee, but repulsed them, sending to the rear another batch of prisoners.
The following are some of the killed and wounded: Major-General Berry, killed; Gen. Devens, severely, in foot; Col. Potter, 12th New Hampshire, in thigh; Lieut. Col. Cogswell, 2d Mass., arm; Capt. Grafton, 2d Mass., leg; Lieut. Fitzgerald, 2d Mass., killed; Major Joel Haycock, 6th Maine, killed; Capt. Young, 6th Maine, killed; Capt. Holmes, 20th Mass., wounded; Capt. Murphy, 20th Mass., wounded; Sergt. Bixby, 20th Mass., wounded; Capt. Rand, 1st Mass., killed; Col. Johns, (?) 7th Mass., wounded.
The battle of Sunday was renewed on Monday morning. The enemy appeared to have forces equal in number to our own, and his successive attacks were made with a desperate spirit.
The destruction of the railroad over the Massaponax and Mattapony creeks, south of Fredericksburg, has certainly been accomplished, and the road to Richmond is thus cut off from the enemy.
Eight hundred prisoners, including one entire regiment-the 23d Georgia-were brought to Washington this morning, and marched down Pennsylvania Avenue to the Old Capitol prison. Their appearance was the subject of universal comment and remark. They were well and comfortably clad, and not one looked as though he had not had enough to eat. Two officers-Major Gen. Evans, of South Carolina, and a Brigadier General whose name was not learned-were prominent in the number. Major Gen. Evans was the rebel General commanding at Leesburg during the Ball's Bluff battle. Gen. Fitzhugh Lee is also taken.
NEW YORK, May 6. The Herald has issued an extra, stating that the rebels having been reinforced, after a frightful slaughter repossessed the Heights of Fredericksburg. Gen. Sedgwick, being unable to hold his position, extricated himself by recrossing the river, which was done in safety between midnight and two o'clock Sunday morning. 
The slaughter of the enemy is represented to be without parallel in the history of warfare, considering the numbers engaged, whole brigades being actually wiped out. The attacking column was Longstreet's, lately arrived from the vicinity of Suffolk, which, together with other reinforcements, amount to from 40,000 to 60,000 men which the rebels have received.
The Washington Republican, of Tuesday evening, says General Hooker on Monday succeeded in accomplishing several very important movements, one of which forced Lee's whole army back more than two miles, inflicting upon the rebels great loss in killed, wounded and captured. Several charges were led by Gen. Hooker himself in person. 
Gen. Hooker is said to have taken several thousand prisoners. We have got the best of the rebels, but are not out of the woods.
Gen. Sigel is reported to have assumed the command of his old corps, with which he has attacked Stonewall Jackson, and driven him for two miles.
EXCITEMENT IN BALTIMORE-A NEGRO MAJOR HAS HIS STRAPS TORN OFF. An excitement of the liveliest character transpired yesterday, caused by an attack upon Alexander Augusta, a negro major in the service of the United States. He was first observed in a car at the President street depot, en route North, being dressed in full uniform. There naturally was a great commotion to look upon the first negro officer that passed through our city. A police officer, finding that trouble would ensue if the negro did not remove his straps, advised him to obtain another seat, and hide his rank. He instantly replied, I do not claim anything but what my rank and position entitle me to." In a moment afterwards, a rush was made for him, and his shoulder straps cut off. At one time it was thought that he would have been killed, so excited was the crowd. A guard of soldiers, then on duty at the depot, were compelled to go to the assistance of Augusta, and ordered the crowd to fall back, which order was complied with, but not without great reluctance. The soldiers, finding that if the negro remained in the car he would be killed, conducted him to the office of Colonel Fish. On the way hither, a crowd of several hundred persons followed them, and when near Fayette street, a young man, who proved to be Charles Hancock, late conductor on the city railway, was arrested and locked up in the Central police station-house to await the action of Colonel Fish. Augusta was kept in the office until near one o'clock, when he was taken to the depot, an officer and a large number of government detectives accompanying him. On the corner of Pratt street and Central Market space, a young man, named James Dunn, sprang at the negro, and dealt him a powerful blow in the face, causing a copious flow of blood. Augusta, fearing that he would be killed, started to run into a house near by. but a lady who was standing in the doorway slammed the door to, and refused to let him enter the house. The large crowd which had been following, him now began to cry out kill him," hang him," &c., and it was only by the officers displaying their revolvers that the crowd could be prevented from doing further violence to the unfortunate negro. Dunn was arrested, and is now in the Central police station. After the above demonstration, Augusta reached the depot, and without further molestation departed North. -Baltimore Clipper, May 2d.
FEARFUL LOSS OF STEAMER ANGLO SAXON. The steamship Anglo-Saxon, from Liverpool April 16th,for Quebec, (or Portland, in case the St. Lawrence was not open,) was wrecked about noon, On Monday, 27th ult., about four miles east of Cape Race. There was a dense fog and heavy sea at the time. The deck broke up in about an hour after she struck. She had 360 passengers, and a crew of 84-total, 444. Of this number, 237 lives were lost. Those who were saved, escaped in life-boats and on rafts and spars, from which they were taken by steamers sent for their rescue. All the mails were lost.
The Anglo-Saxon was an iron-propeller steamship of 1764 tons, built in 1855, and owned in Liverpool by the Canadian Steamship Company. She had five water-tight bulkheads, and was barque-rigged. 
The Canadian Steamship Line has been singularly unfortunate, the Anglo-Saxon being the fifth steamer lost since its establishment. The first steamer lost was the Canadian, which was wrecked upon the pillars below Quebec, in June, 1858. The Indian went ashore at Maria Joseph, on the eastern end of Nova Scotia, Nov. 21, 1859, and became a total wreck, with a loss of 34 lives. The Hungarian was wrecked on a rock near Cape Sable, Feb. 19, 1860, and all on board, 205 in number, perished. The Canadian, No. 2, struck on a sunken iceberg, near the Straits of Belle Isle, June 4, 1861, and went down, by which 30 lives were lost.
The Trustees of Rev. Henry Ward Beechers church, at a regular meeting, recently, resolved that Mr. Beecher be granted a leave of absence for four months from the first of June, and that his expenses during a trip to, in and from Europe, be defrayed by the Society. The Trustees then proceeded to the parsonage, and informed Mr. <illegible> of their determination. The offer was accepted.
<c06>
CALL FOR A MEETING OF THE LOYAL WOMEN OF THE NATION. 
In this crisis of our Country's destiny, it is the duty of every citizen to consider the peculiar blessings of a republican form of government, and decide what sacrifice of wealth and life are demanded for its <illegible> and preservation.
The policy of the war, our whole future life, depends on a universal, clearly defined idea of the end proposed, and the immense advantages to be secured to ourselves and all mankind, by its accomplishment.
No mere party or sectional cry, no technicalities of Constitution or military law, no mottoes of craft or policy are big enough to touch the great heart, of a nation in the midst of revolution. A grand idea, such as freedom or justice, is needful to kindle and sustain the fires of a high enthusiasm.
At this hour, the best word and work of every man and woman are imperatively demanded. To man, by common consent, is assigned the forum, camp and field. What is woman's legitimate work, and how she may best accomplish it, is worthy our earnest counsel one with another.
We have heard many complaints of the lack of enthusiasm among Northern Women; but, when a mother lays her son on the altar of her country, she asks an object equal to the sacrifice. In nursing the sick and wounded, knitting socks, scraping lint, and making jellies, the bravest and best may weary if the thoughts mount not in faith to something beyond and above it all. Work is worship only when a noble purpose fills the soul.
Woman is equally interested and responsible with man in the final settlement of this problem of self-government; therefore let none stand idle spectators now. When every hour is big with destiny, and each delay but complicates our difficulties, it is high time for the daughters of the revolution, in solemn council, to unseal the last will and testament of the Fathers, lay hold of their birthright of freedom, and keep it a sacred trust for all coming generations.
To this end, we ask the loyal Women of the Nation to meet in New York, on THURSADY, the 14th of May next. 
Let the Women of every State be largely represented, both by person and by letter.
There will be two sessions-The first at 10 o'clock, A.M., at the Church of the Puritans, (Dr. Cheever's,) admittance free-The second at the Cooper Institute-at half past 7 o'clock, P. M., admittance 25 cents.
On behalf of the Woman's Central Committee,
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
N. B.-Communications relative to and for the meeting should be addressed to SUSAN B. ANTHONY, 48 Beckman Street, New York.
YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS.
The Religious Society of Progressive Friends will hold its Eleventh Yearly Meeting at Longwood, Chester County, Pa., commencing on Fifth-day (Thursday), the 4th of Sixth month (June), 1863, at 10 o'clock, A. M., and continuing two or three days.
Oliver Johnson, Mary Lundy Barnard,
Jennie K. Smith, Theodore Tilton,
William Barnard, Hannah Cox, 
Mary P. Wilson, Sarah M. Barnard,
Maria Agnew, Edwin H. coates, 
Henry M. Smith, Susanna P. Chambers,
Dinah Mendenhall, Allen Agnew,
Alfred H. Love, Annie M. Stambach, M. D.
INFIDEL CONVENTION.
The Infidel Association of America will hold its Annual Convention on the day and evening of WEDNESDAY, May 27th, 1863, at Mercantile Hall, Summer Street, Boston, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M. Friends of the cause are respectfully invited to attend. Good speakers are expected.
Per order of the Executive Central Committee,
J. M. BECKET, Sec'y.
Boston, May 1, 1863.
E. H. HEY WOOD will speak in STERLING, Sunday, May 10th, at half past 1 and 5 o'clock, P. M. Also at QUINCY, Sunday, May 17th, at 2 P. M., and half past 6 o'clock in the evening.
AARON M. POWELL will speak at NEW ROCHELLE, N. Y., on Sunday, May 10th.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
MARRIED-In this city, April 23d, by Rev. Dr. Neale, Mr. WILLIAM HENSON and Mrs. CHLOE GREEN.

IN PREPARATION.
SPEECHES AND LECTURES
BY
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
THIS work is already in the hands of the printers, and will be issued shortly. It will be gotten up in the BEST STYLE of American workmanship-from the Cambridge University press; printed on fine tinted paper; bound in rich maroon vellum; and illustrated with a striking likeness of Mr. Phillips on steel, by H. W. Smith. It will be in crown octavo, of at least 500 pages. Price $2. Sent by mail prepaid, to any part of the United States, for the retail price. Agents wanted in every State. Terms liberal. Address for Circular,
JAMES REDPATH, PUBLISHER,
may1-4t 221 Washington Street, Boston.
Regular College for Young Women.
Chartered by the State of Pennsylvania, with full University powers, including authority to grant Diplomas and confer Degrees. 
J. Warrenne Sunderland, A. M., LL. D., President.
THE College is LIBERAL in its character, and conducted upon principles in harmony with the spirit of this practical and progressive age.
The daughters of New England, who thirst for higher mental development, and a more liberal and thorough education, than are attainable at most of our Fashionable Female Seminaries," are invited to avail themselves of the 
advantages of the 
PENN FEMALE COLLEGE,
at FREELAND, Montgomery Co., Pa., near Philadelphia.
The Institution is amply provided with able Teachers, and all needful facilities for imparting a thorough and complete education in all the useful and ornamental branches of learning. The location is easy of access, healthy, and delightful. The expenses are very moderate. 
Send for a circular, containing full particulars. Address as above. april 10-2m

LINCOLN AND OTHER PEACH TREES,
OF VERY SUPERIOR AND NEW KINDS.
FOR SALE, at the nursery of WILLIAM KENRICK, in NEWTON, Mass., a variety of Peach Trees, chiefly of the new and most superior hardy kinds. Price, 25 cents each, and $22.50 where 100 are ordered. Also, the following new, very extraordinary, and extra kinds, at 35 cents each:-
1st, LINCOLN; which eclipsed all others at the annual exhibition of the Massachusetts Horticultural Society, as "Hill's Lemon": very large, beautiful, deep crimson and yellow, and excellent. The tree is strong, productive and hardy. September.
2d, SARGENT'S NONPAREIL; a splendid red <illegible>: very large; covered almost all over with deep crimson; beautiful-of superior excellence-the tree handsome wood deep red-hardy. September.
N. B.-Where 100 trees are ordered, a liberal propertion of these two extra kinds will be put in, at the lowest rates named.
Nectarines, 35 cents. Lewis' or Boston, Stanwick of Persia, Cambridge. Surpassing kind.
Grapes. Allen's White Hybrid, Diana, Concord, Union Village, &c.
Strawberries, Blackberries, currants, Raspberries, &c.
All orders promptly executed, and trees delivered in <illegible> free of cost for transportation. Descriptive catalogues furnished to all who apply. Apply. to
WILLIAM KENRICK, NEWTON, MASS., 
Or orders left with JOSEPH BRECK & SON, store No. 50 and 51 North Market Street, Boston, will receive the same attention. april 24-3t
MAGIC CURE FOR CORNS
in five minutes, without pain, by Dr. N. KENNISON'S improved <illegible> <illegible> only at his rooms, No. 21 TEMPLE PLACE rear of 307 Washington Street, Boston. All troubles of the <illegible> treated on scientific principles april10-6T

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE NEW BIRTH OF THE NATION.
A DISCOURSE
Before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, Boston, Sunday, April 26,1863, by SAMUEL JOHNSON, Minister of the Free Church at Lynn.
From the edge of a continent were stripped the sediments of all geologic ages, that the Mayflower Pilgrim might plant his foot on the bare core of the globe. It was no vain omen. This man was God's radical, set free to face the naked Ideal of a State, and to build his New England on Essential Justice. His children cannot escape the consequence. It is their destiny to go straight to the root of every problem, and reach down to central rock. Vain for them to daub their walls with un-tempered mortar, or to cherish a lie till it divides the house against itself.
Appealing from the commandments of men, we assumed the rights of a divine citizenship; we cannot repudiate its duties. Our hospitality to such leaven as the Declaration of Independence cannot stop at halfway. The principle that stands written in the charter must have free course in the life. It is an instinct not to be stifled in the child, a logic not to be refused by the nation.
We are tried this day, not by the tests that try a monarchy, nor by those of an oligarchy, nor by those of "a fierce Athenian democracy," but by those transcendent ones that befit our affirmation of Inalienable Rights.
We first of peoples dared face this Mount of God. Shall not the Law of success and failure be proclaimed to us with sterner emphasis than to any other heretofore? Mind alone cannot save a nation-nor any zeal for nationality-nor any sacrifice of money or of men. Not trade, nor treasure, nor the laws, nor the flag, are its securities; but these identified with its best conscience.
A people is saved when its patriotism is great enough to fulfil the duties involved in the theory of its Government, and not before. Patriotic men hasten, in this emergency, to renew their vows of unconditional loyalty to the Government. Let them not forget, nor fear to say, that if this does not mean unconditional loyalty to the Declaration of Independence, it is no better than treason. There is no other peril in our path than that the supporter of the Union should forget that a Greater than the Union is here, and constitutes all its value The scheme of the Northern traitor is choked by the Southern madman he would aid. But the loyalist who is expecting these woes to end before the principle of inalienable rights, in heart and spirit, is applied from Niagara to the Gulf, is preparing for us fiercer judgments after Charleston shall have become a loyal city, and Mason and Davis shall have gone to their place.
When the Abolitionist insisted on sinking politics in a moral issue, he but affirmed that rectitude is common sense and the foundation of the globe; and that the full grown Yankee was not strong enough to get his own feet away from the safe place where his Pilgrim Fathers planted them. His terrible diagnosis and prophecy rested on an intuition of our substantial sanity and health. The civil war is but the second revolution which fulfils the first; that we are held inevitably to this second grand step in the process of Liberty proves that our nationality is of God. "Strife," said Heraclitus, "is the father of all things-he who rails at discord speaks ill of nature." Christianity knows that war is Barbarism; but Christianity cannot forget that the blow it strikes at man's nobler nature elicits its immortal fire. And its sole function this day is to demonstrate the sovereignty of moral forces over material and brutal ones. Have any of us failed to perceive it?
The war began with a victory of Barbarism. The South defeated us when it forced us to accept its choice of weapons for the inevitable conflict, in place of those nobler persuasions and commands, inherent in our civilization, but which trade and politics, press and pulpit, had obstinately refused to apply. Two years of suicidal warfare on that basis alone have served to undeceive us. And the war has resolved itself into this one question, whether there is left moral power enough to interfere and elevate the indispensable Sword into a Saviour.
That Emancipation proved a. military necessity means that Civilization, not Barbarism, is even in war the final appeal. The question of jurisdiction on the battle-field is settled in favor of the light against the night.
Thirteen hundred thousand bayonets in the hands of men as brave as ever fought have had to call to their aid a Christianity competent to conquer the prejudice against the negro; and the Sword, dripping with precious blood, bears witness at last that there is no strength but to be just-no life but in saving life. Force bends the knee to Moral Power. Again, after fifteen centuries, the armed Constantine must lift the standard of the Cross.
Of all men on earth, it was least possible that the Anglo-American should escape this necessity of shaping the Life to the Idea, which is Nationality. Yet even he had arrived at one of those ebb tides of the higher and spring floods of the lower faculties; unprincipled energies- insatiable avidities; the statesmen of the first revolution an extinct class; politics based on atheism and the bestializing of man;-political life, pure moral suicide! The Union as it was!-what a machine for working up villany into organized conspiracy! The Constitution as it was interpreted,-what a covert for crime! Every bale and hogshead that enriched us bought of the Devil with drops of the soul's life; the old heroism became traditional; subservience chronic and normal; until our imperious masters naturally concluded that the race of fawning slaves they spurned might be deprived of political rights which seemed already reduced to a name, and their elected rulers set aside by armed usurpation, not by their consent only, but with their open aid.
The World's Idealists of Progress, who had launched upon its free deeps, had actually turned their Constitution into a "false bottom" to their political thought and moral belief, so fixed that it, seemed the very foundation of mind; so that they could scarcely be driven to wage this war in the interest of Liberty for fear of disturbing its compromises, or permit a convulsion which threatened instant death to force out its false bottom, and show Eternal Justice in its deeps. Yet all the while there was no scruple about violating it for party purposes. It was like the fetish which the savage worships when his desires are granted, and beats when they are not.
We were living by the Tongue; talk our court of last appeal-we did not get beyond it in Church or State. No sacred name that was not a party catchword, a husk, a Sodom-apple; frothy declamation and delirious boasting to the disgust and amusement of the world: till the habit of putting great names to little things had so demoralized words that for the truly great action there were no terms left which had not been so trailed in base adulation, that it was a shame to be accosted with them. Plain truth fell on the ear like unseasoned food on an over-stimulated palate; and reformers exhausted the powers of moral denunciation to produce the sensation of a pin's thrust in the hide of prejudice. It was like Thor burying his hammer, which could shiver iron at a blow, in the flesh of the giant, to call out only the drowsy, half-uttered query, whether a fly had lighted on his face.
And religion and ethics had come to be full of idle words-grand old meanings faded out of creeds-no new experiences put into them; their feeble vitality shown in the shallow revival; their degeneracy in the carnal hysterics of the camp meeting; God a tradition of violated Law-a God of dead Hebrews, not of living Americans-punishing Korah, Dathan, and Abiram for revolt against Moses three thousand years ago, but leaving Fill-more, Webster, and Douglas to destroy liberty at Washington as no concern of His. Had not the time come for new lessons in the solemnities of life?
The Age of Deeds has been heralded by many reforms-but the war with Slavery first touched the quick. It begins an athlete training which cannot; relax its tasks till men and women stand majestic in the moulds which eighteen Christian centuries have prepared for their latest
<c02>
child. We are indeed yet on the threshold, paying fearful price in working off the taints of that counterfeit time-political formulas and traditions, military red tape and boastful talk. Every demon rends us as he goes. Every false bottom clings as God wrenches it out, and tears away with it ten thousand dear lives. Doubtless we have fallen on days of great duties and little men. Doubtless we are bound to prove the systems that have debased us and the men who are bred of these systems, civil and military, to the bitter dregs. Doubtless the men of deeds yet stand and wait. Doubtless Abraham Lincoln represents the average of the popular mind instead of leading it; while it is a leader we most need. I know it is the necessity of such a work as lifting a whole people to a higher level, that they should go no faster than they can go earnestly and as a whole. It is their safety also, that no man be strong enough to wield perverted sway. Yet even thus it makes a vast moral difference whether a people, half converted to a duty that admits no delay, are looking to a weak prudential Thomas or an inspired Paul. It must be an immortal cause which can outlive a policy that thrice demoralized an awakening public conscience by the repudiation of Fremont, then of Hunter, then of Phelps; that retained in command of our armies, through a year of exhausting disaster and shame, an officer in highest repute with every secession sympathiser in the nation; and still withholds the posts of public service from men like Butler and Hamilton, who are brave enough to confess themselves converted to a sterner loyalty to Freedom than the rest.
But how fine are these first fruits of popular regeneration-courage, sacrifice, zeal; a million volunteers on battle-fields, and ten million loving hearts ministering to their needs; this elasticity of hope; this stability of credit and social order through tests which prove them impregnable; this discovery that the moral uses of wealth are more indispensable than the material; this solidarity of sympathy created by common perils; this recognition that the solvency of each lies in the solvency of Government, and that bank, factory, farms are no longer personal investments, but dependencies on the public weal. There is no limitation but is shattered-no narrow interest but is rebuked. No life aloof; our private felicities in the forward steps of the nation-our griefs, the defeats and backslidings that cloud the whole land-our pride, the defenders of the Nation-our precious dead, the Nation's treasures: on the battle-field no infidel but the coward; at home no heretic but the cold heart that beats not for Fatherland; our Sunday service the binding of wounds. No more sentimentalism and vagary -no putting words for substance endurable longer-only thought like a sword, swift, sure, trenchant. What a literature is preparing! How many lives are poems, how many homes are tragedies! What a Fate-Tragedy is this whole History, outshining the Greek in its revelation of Eternal Justice!
What Education! We look forward a whole generation, and can see not one step in its work but will be as incompatible with self-indulgence and dream as this war is to-day-which will not call for heroes and martyrs-which will not sift pretences and try souls, and open great manly and womanly spheres as this does. God's plants are century plants, and generations wait for their bloom. These years we live in are the flowering time of the Democratic Idea; and the rich fruits come speedily.
We are held to the American doctrine that what the free mind sees, the free hand shall execute; that the Ideal and Practical do not dwell apart, but in one. We call a right or duty Utopian, and while the gigantic, imperilled interests would trample its fanatic under foot, behold it is a practical necessity! The prophet is no longer in advance of his age-it sweeps by the laggard. The end of Slavery seemed to him a long way off; but see what two years of war have done!
We have had experience that the forces of anarchy and dissolution cannot go beyond a certain point, without striking against conservative limits in the nature of civilization. There is a certain amount of moral salt requisite for preserving society. He whose schemes go to the point of destroying that, is crushed out in common sanity and common sense. Fernando Wood wants to abolish the Government. He begins with beating in the doors of the State legislative chamber, and posting shoulder-strikers around the representatives of the people. The effect is to offend his own party, and put Gov. Seymour, for the dignity of his office and State, on the side of law and order. The traitors of the West called on its population to cut off New England. It was to bid them cut off the top of their brain and the tap-root of their blood. It was to call to civil war, and the overturn of every State government in the West. This diabolical animus was worthy the men who ran through the legislature of Illinois a bill to lash the bare back of any negro man, woman, or child who should enter the State. Well might it end in the confusion of the wretches who devised it, and in breaking down whatever else they have devised. When executive authority in our large cities becomes mob rule and rum rule, a return to social decency becomes compulsory. Congress tolerated Border State dictation till the question was whether that should end or the Nation; then cast it off. When the mismanagement of the army threatens the dissolution of the State, Hooker at last goes to its head, and treason is purged from its staff. Slavery was the fetish of the American people till it annulled the laws, flung the ballot-box on the hurricane of war in Kansas, broke the very staff of compromise on which the poor Nation was hobbling. When at last Buchanan, Floyd and the rest, mined the earth under us, stole our arms, locked the doors and applied the torch, the astonished Nation sprang to its feet, and saved itself in such decisive wise as it will again bring to bear, if Northern treason ever reaches the point of firing its Sumter gun. The Knight of the Golden Circle has but to come out of the dark. He will find this time an army to deal with as well as a government. When Slavery tried the stiletto of the political assassin, a Hand turned it back to her own bosom. When she summoned the cannon of revolution, it recoiled and exploded, bursting the fetters of the Slave. The conspirator against society is hurried into swift confession of his fell intent; which confession is suicide. This has saved us again and again, and will continue to save us, till earth and air are wholly disinfected.
As the poison pushes to the surface, so does the pure blood. Character cannot hide from justice at such a time, nor be hid unjustly. Sumner goes back to the Senate. McClellan retires from command, though the whole opposition stands at his back. Banks sinks a factitious Anti-Slavery reputation, and Butler proves that a true Democratic feeling underlay his had politics. Burnside can make defeat respectable-and it is worth many of these bitter tears the nation sheds, to treasure up the sweet, immortal words of Mitchell to the Port Royal freedmen, and remember how he lived and died. There is always in a revolution some inevitable man, whom all the powers that be try to put down, but whom the logic of events brings up again and again, till the purpose of the struggle centres in his person. And when in this crisis of ours, you see one who was the first in peace to plant the flag on the summit of the continent, and the first in war to plant it on the summit of political justice, and is now the only man who can effectually rally to it those on whom the solution of this ordeal by battle hangs, the man who stands to the slave for a Messiah, and whose tread would shake the South,-you will be slow to believe that such a Destiny is to be thwarted, or the nation to fall for lack of due justice to one so manifestly set for her deliverance. It is not we who put a man in the focus of events. It is not in our power to put him out of it.
A force is measured by the resistance it overcomes. The history of this war is a type of the insignificance of a whole nation's will before a current of beneficent Fate. I explain.it as a series of persistent efforts to move in a ruinous direction, in which the reaction of every failure throws it a degree nearer the line of saving right. Every step toward that Universal Liberty which is our salvation has been the immediate and direct result of disaster; wrung by it from reluctant hands -as can easily be shown by dates. That shameful
<c03>
inaction of a whole winter before sixty thousand insurgents at Manassas, which discouraged the nation and gave the rebels the precious time they have used so well, compelled first the Proposition for Compensated Emancipation in March 1802, then Emancipation in the District, the 19th of April of the new Revolution. On the 19th of May, Hunter's Proclamation was annulled. Then came, at the end of June, those terrible disasters before Richmond. They compelled the Confiscation Bill on the 17th 
of July, and the Prohibition of Slavery in the Territories. When, the President wrote Mr. Greeley, (Aug. 22d,) he had not yet recognized that the rebellion sprang from Slavery, nor that only the death of that institution could end it; and Congress adjourned without urging the great measure the crisis demanded. On this blindness, prejudice and fear, burst the defeat of Pope, the raid into Maryland, the surrender of Harper's Ferry, the botchwork at Antietam; those bitter cups commended to the country by military jealousy, incompetence, treason and inaction, brought us, not a week after Antietam, the Prospective Emancipation of September 22d. Democratic victories and the waning patience of the country compelled the removal of McClellan, and favor to the noble experiment of Hunter. The folly of a Message clinging to the old policy of bribing Slavery and postponing freedom in the Border States till the next century, was rebuked by the defeat at Fredericksburg, and the Proclamation of January followed. I am not proving disaster desirable; I am pleading for the recognition of that necessity of perfect justice, which even disaster enforces.
It would not be pleasant to detail how we have been scourged into life; but the significance of the fact no man has a right to hide. We have no right to ignore those overruling contrivances with which this struggle is charged through and through. It is this which has kept us elastic through such depressing experiences as never fell to a people before. Every sinking of the heart has led to some sense of fresh and unexpected gain, and it has been impossible to despond.
The year 1862 opened with the proclamation of the great duty at Washington from the lips of Cheever, Emerson, Greeley, Phillips. How did it end? With the Amen of the Government and the Nation. 
In March, Wendell Phillips called on the President to use the War Power against the cause of the Rebellion. In September, that thunderbolt of justice flies from his hesitating hand. In those twelve months of 1862, the Constitution was new-born. A year ago, it protected the slaveholder from all attack. It was a close-fitting heavy armor, which weighed down Liberty and Progress to the earth, so that they could no more walk nor strike than Froissart's knights could run, or a tortoise fly. Suddenly came insurrection, and like a hoop binding irreconcilable foes, it burst asunder. Inoperative as a law at the South, in the hands of the Government it was utterly useless as a means of suppressing the Rebellion. Out of its ruins as a civil and political Instrument suddenly springs forth a newForce which melts it into an ethereal flame, darting death-shafts at Slavery whichever way it turns, and lifting Liberty and Progress on fiery wings. That force is the unsuspected War Power;-a William Lloyd Garrison inside the Constitution! Driven to its last refuge of war, Slavery has started within that instrument which was its sole safeguard, a Power, always implied there, but never before practically allowable, to sweep it away forever. The Fathers left one spot unguarded-God planted just there an Angel in the Shadow.
The War Power to abolish Slavery does not seem to have been contemplated by the Framers, though detected in the Constitution by the keen eye of Patrick Henry, at that time the most intuitive mind in the nation. It lay unobserved in the foundations of Constitutional government on which they built, whether implied in the terms "public defence" and "general welfare,"-referred by some merely to the power to lay taxes,-or not. It lay in the right of eminent domain by which such a government may appropriate private property when essential to public well-being. It lay in the right to confiscate the property of those who levy war against it within or without. It lay in the right of the Commander-in-Chief to judge of military necessities; in the right of any general to proclaim martial law; since "by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its institutions swept by the board when martial law is declared." It lay in the right to call every loyal subject to arms, and save him from serving rebels. It lay in the fact that the Constitution, having given authority to government to make war, has placed no limit to war powers, which are therefore to be decided by the law of nations as between belligerents; and that this authorizes the emancipation of the enemy's slaves is proved by the unquestioned practice of England, France, Spain, and the South American Republics. If there be no such power, and our strict constructionists for the benefit of Slavery are to be followed, then the Constitution has not only no power to save the State when an assassin is at its throat, but is even the fetter which binds its hands and feet that he may not be prevented from slaying it. If there be no such power, then all government is a farce; and the lawyer whose business is to entangle Liberty in the meshes of legal sophistry, is the fit guardian of a free State. The moral skeletons who rattle and shriek at the prospect of the emancipation of a race, seem not to have flesh and blood enough to know that we are in the midst of a terrible war, and have a country to save. But the People know that the law of the land is not made for their destruction, and that if the Constitution is to be saved, it must be put on the side of the Nation, not of its assassins. They will know how to estimate that zeal for the Constitution, which hastens to denounce as an infraction every effort made for its protection against deadly peril, while it looks leniently upon rebels who have trampled every provision of it under their feet. They will understand the virtue of those political blind guides, who strain out a gnat of Loyalty, and swallow a camel of Secession!
Will it be believed by the historian that there were men who, at such a moment, imagined that everything was to go back where it was, and who still kept crying, "The Union and the Constitution as they were"-as if this agony of blood and tears was a phantasm without purpose, and we were to awake some fine morning to rub our eyes and find ourselves comfortably in last night's bed, with only the headache of a troubled dream-and that -these men professed to be thinkers, philosophers, Christians-the only practical statesmen in the land! 
Let every man be practical enough to see that nothing can be hereafter in this nation as it was. This is no dream. It is progress, stern and real. Society is casting off its slough. God's magnetism is separating the living from the dead.
The Union may mean war for many years; it will never more mean Slavery. The Constitution will never more yield a refuge to Slavery. Legislation will never more be Satan's raid-ground. It is claimed as Humanity's Homestead-God's Eminent Domain. Let judges burn their bad glosses-let statesmen prepare for the new interpretations and the new oaths.
It is expected by some that President Lincoln will retract his Proclamation. Read it. Three million slaves are "henceforth and forever free. I invoke the considerate judgment of mankind, and the favor of Almighty God." Show me the President, who will dare to face the world, his country, and his God, with the retractation of those words upon his lips! I will not insult the present Executive by the supposition of such an act. "The Supreme Court is to declare it unconstitutional." It is a question whether the jurisdiction of, the Supreme Court applies to these ultimate resorts of self-defence, judged imperative by the legitimate Commander in time of war. Should the Supreme Court interpose to forbid his application of martial law in the enemy's country, or his calling out the military for defence-could it constitutionally be heard? But even if the Supreme Court could wipe out the War Power from the Constitution, could it retract an already consummated act like this, by calling it unconstitutional? Can it remand freemen into Slavery? Many of these freedmen have served in our army-have paid us for their charter. Can we take back that charter now? To say the act is not consummated because
<c04>
the mass of those it frees are still in possession of the masters, and that therefore a compromise may rescind it, is to forget that in the eye of the Government of the nation it is consummated, and by its laws they are free. Neither can any rebel state be allowed to return, except on condition of coming under the full supremacy of those laws.
The nation understood that Proclamation to be in good faith. The slave so understood it. The world so understood it. Is it in the Constitution to make that solemn transaction void? Or, practically, is the Constitution to be made a stench in the air of the Nineteenth Century, just as God has purified it with this atonement of blood? Or, more practically, is not the arming of the negroes their guarantee against reenslavement; and is not their arming an inevitable necessity? Whether we succeed or fail, in the Union or out of the Union, the negro believes himself free. He can never be brought back into the old sense of friendlessness and abasement. To-day's dream of emancipation is the mightiest thrill that ever went through the veins of this believing, impassioned race. It can never more be stilled. Thomas Sims reappears in Boston, as the symbol of an imperishable Freedom, to point the confession of a Nation that her whole power cannot make that Freedom void.
The day of formula-worship is dead. Constitutional law has ceased to mean terms, glosses, precedents, special pleadings. It is to mean the Sacredness of Man-nor is this war to end till it does mean so. No man or men of us can end it by any compromise before then.
See what one year has done. The Fathers said, "It shall take the consent of three fourths of the States to put any more freedom into that Compromise with Slavery, or to bring any more out of it." God struck it in the middle. Half those States went one way, half the other. Out of the gulf of battle between them, the Constitution arose, all Freedom! Its regeneration unites all loyal men at last, even the most radical, in common support of the National Covenant, and identifies the Lower with the Higher Law. How differently the Abolitionist now regards it! He has not changed. It comes over to him, and restores him his rights as a citizen. One year of war did this.
Certain liberties were suspended- slightly indeed, considering the crisis-Habeas Corpus and some rights of locomotion; some license was checked in the press-and elsewhere. It was to hint to us the total loss of political and civil rights we are saved from. It was to teach us how much better it is that the best charters should know how to yield for a moment to the need of liberty, than that they should perish utterly while remaining as dead formula, under Despotic Will.Our Freedom has proved itself elastic and adaptive: no dead machinery-but a living Force of self-government and growth.
I do not fear that these necessary constraints will go far enough to reconcile the people to a state of martial law, or to any form of perverted sway. I see rather in the patience which endures such needful sacrifices of a moment the undying resolve to save the State. "The history of the freest peoples," says Montesquieu, "teaches me that there are cases when it is necessary to put a veil over Liberty for a moment, as one hides the statues of the gods." The thought is a grand one. As when these statues are covered, the inward longing of the people would be deepened by the outward loss-so we shall cling to these rights the more devoutly for their temporary eclipse. Are we on trial of our power of self-government, and can we not recover our self-command when these short perturbations are past?
I do not know a cooler piece of audacity than the clamor we hear some persons raising, that Free Speech is in danger, because they are not permitted to aid and comfort the public enemy in the -interest of an institution which vows the death of Free Speech, and is built upon the denial of it. Forsooth, they "cannot criticise the Government"! No, it is not criticism of the Government that they are forbidden-it is Treason! There is no true loyalist who will give up his right to criticise the Government; none who has done all his duty when he supports it. There is no true loyalist who will not urge it forward on the track it has entered, and rebuke its timidity and its delay. Do not tell us there is to be no criticism of leaders, military or civil, to whose hands are committed the lives of our brave ones. Padlocks are not forging for any true lips now!
Emancipation has begun-let us see what it means. We have been in the Pass of God's Mountains-closing in upon us till they drove us straight down the narrow way that leads out into this Great Light. Human Power usually measures the work done, here only the resistance to the doing. In Abraham Lincoln, the American people backed slowly into this highway, with face set stiffly towards the fleshpots of Kentucky. But here we are, and what does it mean?
Our civilization cannot spare the Negro, and save itself when it frees and arms him. He was prime producer of its wealth as now of its safety, and simply takes the fruit of his toil. Last New Year's day, he said, "The telegraph is mine." All other properties of the citizen must follow-not by right of his manhood only, but because he helped produce them, while forbidden to share them-and now labor exacts its dues. Without him those properties are lost; unless he is taught to use them, they are lost. The gigantic swindle of an eighty years' Feudalism is a failure, and ends in the compulsory payment of labor dues. Rebellion teaches the ethical truism, that it is the slave, not the master, we must pay.
The Guinea Negro lays his hand on the proudest Saxon civilization, and says, "This is mine also." God has thrown on his side, the lowliest against the most scornful, every law of nature, every interest of civilization. And the Aristocracy of Wealth is glad to acknowledge the draft; and the Aristocracy of Talent to concede the right; and the Aristocracy of Race to accept the fact that He hath made of one blood all the families of the Earth.
To-day begins liquidation, and pays the first instalment of our vast arrears, thus acknowledging the debt. To all good men a white day!
I think God made the Negro so eminently religious, so tender-hearted towards Him, that He might thereby unseal a splendid justification of religious trust. For He in whom the slave has never ceased to confide, is He whom alone he has to thank for the Freedom which approaches, or has come already.
Do you wonder that when emancipation was proclaimed in the West Indies, eight hundred thousand child-like souls fell on their knees in one rapture of thanksgiving? Their experience had taught them to distrust man; their nature forced them to trust God. Their only trust that, and it had not deceived. They received their freedom, we are told, as "a second baptism." So it was here. To the slave there is no other friend but God. Do you wonder at the piety of his wild sad songs? The names of a Wilberforce, a Garrison, a Sumner do not mean to him what they do to you. He has known the Government, until now, only as a power that deceived him. He is not yet sure of us. Why should he be? Six years, ago, he hoped in Fremont. The stake and branding-iron came, but not the deliverer. He trusted in Lincoln. He met Sherman, Buell, McClellan, Halleck. He trusted in the great Yankee army. He met scorn and abuse. What a mystery it was-a host descending in wrath on his oppressors, yet when most needing him, refusing him justice, despising his aid! But there was One in whom his faith wavered not. Every gunboat that went up those Southern rivers found him waiting with his little bundle, trusting that this was the long-expected messenger of the Lord. If we could have passed through that blighted land last Christmas eve, we should have heard the whispers of dusky groups, everywhere in the twilight, murmuring their advent faith, and looking far into the North for signs of the coming Christ. No insurrections in all this war. Was it because there were no more Nat Turners or Denmark Veseys in that fanatical and fearless race of working men and women, out of whom have come the heroes of the last thirty years of American history, following the North Star to Freedom? It was because they knew their hour was at hand, and waited till. God should convert the North to Justice. The Negro comprehends his position better than we think. He knows that only thunderbolts
<c05>
have made the Northman his friend; that we are glorifying ourselves as sole workers, even while appealing to him for aid. Perhaps his self-respect is enlarged a little, also, by the spectacle of our follies and delays. It is but the advantage his weakness needs. The discipline which humbles us, must exalt him, bringing us nearer to one level, before we proud Saxons can be turned into initiators of Democracy and Civilization.
Some hare wondered and complained that the slaves did not rise and aid us. I confess I have looked at the matter somewhat otherwise.
The captive Hebrews went back from exile in peace. But they bore the tradition of a more stupendous Aid-of an awful flight, the sea divided for their fathers, the pursuing tyrant engulfed in its return. But here is something sublinier. The slave has stood in this war as in the hollow of God's hand; as in the still spot in the centre of a tornado; as bid in the rock while the tempest passed by. So shrined apart, he saw his oppressors on both sides wage a war that must end in his deliverance. A Hand was on his head and under his feet, and he waited.
The revenges of divine power, more than our invading armies, have been forcing Slavery to self-destruction. Louder than ever are the blasts of their trumpets to-day. The dumb and spoiled, for whose sake they came, have sat apart through this conflict, behind their awful shadow, holding that cup of sacrifice which has the blessing of God.
Apart, until now. But the shelter is withdrawn. They are called, like other races, to earn their liberties on the battle-field. They will seize the privilege, as fast as it is fairly offered them. But do we call it fairly offered, so long as no colored man can arrive at promotion? And you who are so quick to find them unappreciative of it, have you considered that the offer is itself but an added drop of injustice on our part? Earn their liberties, and for your sakes! Might they not point to the anguish of these hundred years borne for your sake, and ask you, "Is not this enough?" And yet they do not. I have heard it asked, why have not the Canadian negroes joined our new colored regiments? Have they then such reason to love or to trust this nation? Was that terror-stricken exodus the other day from Detroit, an argument to allure them to immigration and enlistment? Do we think these men have no memories, and no common sense? Proclaim Universal Emancipation, and then see what they will do!
But there are men who do not wish to see all this, and who only hate the abolitionist the more because the slave is freed.
To despise the necessity of the hour because it takes the side of the lowly, is no sign of wisdom and no credit to character. It is time to be done with flippant sarcasms on the negro, and take serious thought about him.
Who is this, taken from under our feet, and put in the midst of us, first to judge, and then to save us? It is he of whom Jesus said, "What ye do to this least of my brethren, ye do to me."
The Christ of American civilization is the Slave. By his sufferings,-as the buffeted, scourged, crucified for a century; by his exaltation,-as the rejected stone become the head of the corner, in another sense from that of the scoffers at Richmond; by his redeeming blood,-as the wounded for our transgressions, by whose stripes we are healed; by the gospel of love and sacrifice in which he has schooled this generation; by the Eternal Laws he has brought into light; by the Church that has been founded on his Cross; by the Communion of all good men in his blood. More than this. What is American Christianity? The Church has been apostate; the poor Slave Hut has believed. Does that prove Slavery good? No more than the heart of Jesus proved those Scribes and Pharisees righteous, whose wrath taught it to bear and forgive. The slave is the heir of the Beatitudes-promises yet to be fulfilled: the poor in spirit, whose is the kingdom of heaven; the mourner that shall be comforted; the meek who shall inherit the earth; the hungering after righteousness, who shall be filled; the merciful who shall obtain mercy; the pure in heart-if any of us are; the persecuted, whose reward is great in heaven. May he not come yet to be the peacemaker, the ender of these strifes? Nay, must he not, in one way or another?
He brings us a form of Christianity little known among us,-patience, forgiveness, elasticity of heart, unconquerable hope, and childlike trust. He claims our arts, our sciences, our love. Not in vain placed here, amidst Saxon pride and recklessness; for, tamed by trouble, these are to take his yoke, and learn of him. What heart will not greet him, that is not stone?
The rebel Master is that wild beast of civilization, which must be chained or exterminated. He brings indolence, contempt of labor, lust of sway, endless cunning, boundless ambition, incurable meanness and dishonesty, perfidious towards God and man. He brings us the same Australian ferocity he brought the slave.
There are men who still insist that this race will be exterminated. What! four millions, vital with such industrial and moral forces as these! Others insist the white will never work beside the black. He will do it sooner than starve. He will do it for the golden chances. These wiseacres will have it there is nothing but indolence in this world. First, "the negroes will not work if they are free," next, "the whites will not work beside them." Nevertheless, it was a wise book which said to all men, "In the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat thy bread." They were sure, too, the negroes would not fight. As Bunker Hill, Red Bank and New Orleans before, so Arkansas, the St. Mary's, Jacksonville and Pascagoula now refute the charge. They are equally sure these same negroes will massacre their masters, if encouraged to do so by; he crime of Emancipation. You see men whose cheeks are paler with horror of insurrection than ever they were with indignation at oppression; they who never troubled their souls about the thumbserew or the bloody paddle, now shudder at the strong arm of the freeman enforcing his rights. Their sympathetic pangs are for the master who rebels against civilized government, not for the slave who revolts against barbarous license and lust. But events, so far, allow them no more credit as prop hets than they deserve as men. What a crushing comment on their insinuations of St. Domingo horrors is the orderly and soldierly self-command of our colored troops, contrasted with the wanton burning of Pensacola and Jacksonville by white regiments, and the still more cruel destruction of the dwellings and the property of the freedmen at Hilton Head!
In one word, let me indicate the pith of the whole matter. The hatred and contempt of the negro, prevalent in the North, is more hateful and cruel than Slavery itself; it is worthy to receive, and it surely does receive, the scorn of the slaveholder. It is not only a mean prejudice, refusing every opportunity of self-improvement and self-justification to an unfortunate race: it is a barbarism instinct with the spirit of hell. From Detroit down to Hilton Head, and so round to New Orleans, it is guilty of atrocities which make us seriously doubt whether we are worth saving. This wicked imagination about the negro has cost us already hundreds of thousands of lives, and hundreds of millions of money. It alone stands between us and the suppression of this rebellion to-day-because it stands between us and that universal emancipation which would bring all Europe over to us with enthusiasm, and that vigorous arming of the blacks at the South by generals whom they know and can trust, which would be a more terrible monitor to the rebels than all the Ironsides that recoiled before the walls of Sumter.
That wicked imagination, that iniquitous prejudice is the root of these bloody harvests-and they will not cease to redden this land South and North, till it is extirpated. To that extent goes the probe of this revolution-to the very root of Slavery, which this prejudice is. We shall be pulverized finer than the dust of the Simoom, if necessary, to reach and expel that virus of sin. We shall deceive ourselves if we expect to come out of this furnace while Massachusetts keeps the word "nigger" in her vocabulary, or Illinois lashes colored women, or refuses her citizenship to an innocent and industrious race. Look to it, you who think yourselves loyal, but keep in your hearts that sub-
<c06>
tle contempt or hate. You may call it an organic ineradicable prejudice. God has stamped it as counterfeit, in his world to be accepted no longer. You cherish it to the lengthening of this day of blood.
An obstinate skepticism queries at every corner, "Will the Proclamation do any good?" The answer to that question is in another:- Does it mean Emancipation?
The birth of a people is in its first great Act of Justice. Our Nationality never existed till today; because only to-day do we begin to create homogeneons institutions throughout the country. Union never existed till now; it was a Severance and Civil Strife we called Union. The Proclamation announced that we had a State, and not the broken fragments of one, since it pointed to three million citizens where nationality had been repudiated and so closed the chasm of North and South regenerates the National Covenant, and puts the official oath by the side of marriage vows and good men's prayers. It makes law gospel and end the demoralizing strife between Religion and Politics. It invokes the Divine Blessing by acceptable worship. It humanizes and civilizes us; and in its promises, Mercy and Peace approach each other. 
In what it initiates, it adds a new and finer virtue to the national character, and outruns our past. The grace of Plymouth Rock was Faith; that of the Declaration of Independence for ourselves and our posterity was Hope; that of Emancipation of the slave is Charity. And the greatest of these is Charity. 
The War of the Revolution brought Independence. The war of Emancipation brings Liberty. Independence is freedom from external tyranny; Liberty from internal. Independence is self-government; Liberty is God's government. The demand of the one is that a nation shall do as it wills; that of the other that it shall do as it ought. The victory of Independence is political; that of Liberty is moral and spiritual. To pass from the first to the second is the glory of a people. Our Declaration of Independence involved in its very terms Emancipation. But it took nearly a century to make it thereby a fact of Liberty.
Hitherto, the American people have been constantly inflicting wrong; henceforth they are as constantly to redress it. Down to 1863, it was the function of our statesmanship to apologize for the slavery of the African. Henceforth it will be its splendid task to protect his liberties, and, in his, our own. Once before we had the terrible education of war. The first entailed on us a guilty bond; the second cancels it in making the Constitution covenant of mercy. The Proclamation begins, to let in the Inspirations of Conscience and the Enthusiasms of Brotherhood. It takes out of our Ethics those scandalous reservations which made them shuffling, shame-faced, and hypocritical. Men will dare look each other in the face, and talk of Justice. Abstractions will not put polite society to flight. It will be possible to reason from the primal data of the moral consciousness as one can in all other civilized countries, without being voted a traitor, a madman, an idiot or a bore. Sermons begin to be manlier, and fetch up somewhat bolder inferences from the Christian postulates. Paul begins to turn into the liberator of Onesimus and a Southside ministry to deny, and perhaps to doubt, that it ever went South at all.
The school-books will eject the doughface speech, and insert the denunciation of Slavery. They will drop their eulogies of the Union-destroying Compromise, and honor the apostles of Freedom in the press, in the pulpit, and on the field. A fountain of pollution is closing up. A throned lie is falling, before which our statesmen crept; a Satanic queen is deposed, for whose favor our parties fought Negrophobia will work out of our blood, as out of our laws, as this race approves itself in battle, in recognized arts and uses of life. The air we all breathe will be purer, manners sweeter, laws more dignified, when the bayonet and cannon, by obedience to justice, shall have won a noble peace. And the reproach of this People before the nations will be taken away.
Earth and Heaven are quick with moral propulsions, and whichever side puts itself right with the meaning of the hour triumphs. Rebel earnestness more than makes up for rebel disloyalty; but it cannot make up for rebel revolt against the fact, that the whole war is simply God's claim exacted on behalf of the slave. When we meet them of that ground, we conquer. It is as impertinent to ask what good the Proclamation will do, as to ask what good it will do to draw out the sheep from the goats on the Judgment Day.
The identity of Policy with Justice was never so manifest before. From the beginning, this was the Policy of Victory-the declining of it only the Policy of Party, of Prejudice, of Infidelity to the Nation. Has not everything else miscarried till the very stones in the Temple of our Fathers called out for this? The very first step in it has given us the noble heart of Anti-Slavery England. I call her Anti-Slavery, for she is so. Had we been as much so as she is trying to believe us on the strength of the Proclamation, she would have been ours from the beginning. Say to the Government, We demand that you bring to an end all these annoyances and perils from beyond sea; that you show yourselves in earnest in that first step, by taking the second and give the British people a chance to deal properly with Palmerston, the snobs of the Times newspaper, and the "290" pirates of the Mersey. It is in your hands to determine whether they can do it or not. They will be glad to do it if you will let them. But beware how you cheat the hope they are reposing in you!
Until we do take that step, how can they gain-say the common sense of Lord John Russell-that a proclamation which frees where we have no control, and keeps enslaved where we have control, that puts the runaway negro under Government protection in one place, and the runaway negro under Government ban in another, has in it no assertion of an Anti-Slavery principle, and should not satisfy Anti-Slavery men? How can you or I gainsay it?
Universal Emancipation is as much a military necessity as partial, and more. And Fremont is as much needed at the head of a Southern army to-day, as a Proclamation was needed last January: simply because he is the only man who can make it bear military fruits.
Let me ask any one who resists Universal Emancipation to notice the fact that this is the century in which Freedom flowers for the Slave. From 1808 to 1822 the Slave Trade abolished in Europe and America; from 1833 to 1833 1838 British Emancipation in the West Indies; in 1843 in the East Indies; in 1846 Swedish Emancipation; in 1847 in Tunis; in 1848 in the French Colonies in 1836 in the Portuguese; in 1860 in the Dutch. In 1861 it begins in Russia; in 1862 in these States.
Will you vote down, or sneer down, or fight down the business of the century? I counsel you to recall your Reason and your Religion.
What, think you, is this lightning that shines from the East to the West? It is not Alexander of Russia, it is not Abraham Lincoln, that spans two Continents in a single impulse, and unites a Despotism and a Republic in one necessity of Justice! It is He who rolls the globe on its axis and makes the morning leap from continent to continent and sea to sea. 
It is one of those great moments in history when Man on the Cross rules and regenerates-when National Peril opens out into World Redemption With what speed the seals are opened, the dawn reddens into day! Blessed are the generations, who stand illumined by the lessons of this time and called to its tasks-to end a barbarous war by the Emancipation of a Race-to purity Democracy and put Autocracy and Aristocracy to shame to crown old theories of the dignity of Labor with the enactment of positive justice to Labor-to remove every obstacle to the development of the Laws yet unknown, which govern the distribution and relation of races -to foreclose Intervention against us by putting the masses of Europe on our side to proclaim the Year of Jubilee, and fulfil the Promises of Ages. Open wide the Gates of the Republic to this King of Glory, this Lord of Hosts! It is He that knocketh-and the Pillars of the Earth are moved at His coming.
For this admirable Discourse, unabridged see "The Commonwealth" of May 1st.
