THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS Three dollars per annum, in advance. 
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisement inserted on reasonable terms. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz;-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 36. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1752.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
SEDITIOUS COPPERHEAD UTTERANCES.
Resolutions adopted by the New York Democratic Copperhead Convention recently held at Syracuse: 
Resolved, That if in the platform and candidates of the Chicago Convention, the now pervading peace sentiments of the country shall be disregarded, and that body shall place another war candidate and platform before the people, making a third party of this character entering the canvass for the Presidency, there will be no real issue to decide at that election. Each party, and each declaration of policy and principles, will be alike on the fundamental question of the day, viz: shall it be peace or shall it be war? Therefore we enjoin upon that convention the folly of aiming to retain a portion of those who are already war “pledged. The candidates who are already nominated represent all who cling to the war and it is sound policy to gather together, under one banner, all who entertain the opposite sentiment, and are in favor of restoring the country to its former condition of prosperity and happiness, only to be obtained by the election of a Peace President, pledged to the support of a Peace policy. 
Resolved, That we offer our solemn protest against the usurpation and lawless despotism of the present Administration as subversive to the Constitution and destructive to the liberties of the people. It has denied to sovereign States all constitutional rights and there by absolved them from all allegiance. It has trampled down a nation that it may install a military despotism upon the ruins of constitutional liberty. It has and is still waging a bloody and relentless war for the avowed purpose of exterminating eight millions of freemen from the homes of their fathers, and blotting from the American cancellation one half of the States of the Union. It has sought to arouse and enlist the most wicked and malignant passions, reckless of all ends if it but subvert the existing Government and immolate American citizens. It has struck down freedom of speech and of the press. It has stripped from the American citizens his panoply, and consigned him to the bastile without process of law, without charge, and without the opportunity of trial. It has, by military power, violently suppressed the freedom of ballot, and dictated elections at the point of the bayonet. .It has annulled every constitutional guarantee for the protection of the citizen, and subjected him to an irresponsible tyranny of military violence.
Resolved, That to the end that such wrongs may be redressed and evils removed, and the liberties of the people under the Constitution re-established, that a free canvass and a free and unrestricted election is not only a means of preserving these essential rights, but is the very end for which government itself is instituted, and must be preserved at all hazards; and we warn this Administration to desist its encroachments upon the rights and liberties of the citizens of our State, and resolve that we will not tolerate the rule of martial law, of military interference with elections, or any more arbitrary arrests of our citizens; to the maintenance of which we pledge our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor.
Resolved, That the reply of President Lincoln to Messrs. Clay and Holcombe, that any propositions looking to the establishment of peace on the basis of the integrity of the whole Union must, as a condition precedent, be also accompanied by the entire abolition of slavery before they can be entertained, is an official avowal that the object of the; war is not for the restoration of the Union, but the destruction of slavery in the Southern States or permanent separation, and furnishes unmistakable evidence that the party now in power have deluded the people into the granting of unlimited means and money for the purpose of preserving the Union, which they have used and are still using for the base end of overthrowing State institutions, advancing party interests, and establishing them in permanent <illegible> power. 
Resolved, That it is our bounden duty, and will be our glorious privilege, to hold in lasting recollection those fearless men who, in the national councils, in the press, or in popular assemblies-while violating no law of the land, but in defence of imperiled liberty have stood up for the people's rights and declared for peace. We shall not fail to remember those glorious men who, imprisoned in bastiles, driven into exile, subjected to gross indignities, or suffering injuries, reproaches, or the loss of liberty or property. And the Democratic party hereby solemnly pledges its faith and honor that all such persons and their families, should their own lives be sacrificed, shall be distinctly remembered and abundantly rewarded and honored in due time. And we now most distinctly announce that such sacrifices, in defence of imperiled public liberties in this eventful crisis, will first of all be considered in the day, which we trust is not distant, when the great democratic party shall be reinvested with the reins of National Government.
Resolutions adopted by the Maine Copperhead Convention, recently held at Bangor:
Resolved, That the Democratic party is, and ever has been, the true Union party of the country. Under its conservative principles and enlightened policy, the United States have hitherto been preserved in concord and in strength; our territory, has been extended, our resources developed, our wealth increased, the rights of the States and people maintained, public peace and domestic tranquility secured ,and the respect of the world for our free government established; and, God helping us, this Union we will maintain intact, and hand it down as a priceless heritage to our posterity. 
Resolved, That the existing fratricidal and calamitous war is the result of the political ascendancy in power of fanatical and factious extremists; that the deliberate invasion by the national administration of the rights of the States, the elective franchise, the freedom of speech and of the press, and the personal security of the citizen, and its avowed purpose to prosecute this war for the abolition of savory, or until that institution shall be abandoned, exhibits a policy at once unconstitutional and revolutionary, and in direct violation of the most solemn pledges of the President when he entered upon the duties of his office, and of the unanimous voice of Congress, when it resolved that this war was not waged in any spirit of oppression, or for the purpose of conquest or subjugation, or for overthrowing or interfering with the rights or established institutions of the states, but to defend and maintain the supremacy of the Constitution, and to preserve the Union with all the dignity, equality and rights of the several States unimpaired; and when these objects are attained, the war ought to cease.
Resolved, That the only ground of hope for the preservation of the Union, under the Constitution, and of maintaining the rights of the people and of
<c02 
the States, and of securing an honorable peace, is by expelling from power the present corrupt, imbecile and revolutionary administration, and substituting in its place an administration which will conduct the government according to the requirements of the Constitution, and protect all parties in the full enjoyment of their constitutional rights, privileges and immunities. 
Resolved, That the administration, by its corruption and imbecility, has shown itself incapable of a successful prosecution of the war, and from its levity, tergiversations and bad faith, is manifestly incapable of negotiating an honorable peace.
Resolved, That we stand where the Democracy have always stood, in favor of the Constitution and of the rights of the States and the people, and of the entire Union, in all its integrity, and of an honorable peace at the earliest practicable moment. 

Selections.
"“DOWN IN TENNESSEE.”BY EDMUND KIRKE.
This work comprises an account in considerable detail of a visit made by the author to the Army of the Cumberland, soon after the battle of Stone River, with personal reminiscences of the many gallant and famous men then connected with that army, and a narrative of the singular events which led to the recent visit of Messrs. Gilmore and Jaquess to Richmond. The account of that visit, and of the interview with Jefferson Davis, which was its chief feature, contained in the last chapters of the volume, has already been given to the public in the Atlantic Monthly, and widely copied by the newspaper press. But there are some statements in regard to the previous expedition of Colonel Jaquess alone within the rebel lines, which have not been published elsewhere, and which will be found of interest. It appears that the permission for the Colonel to be absent from his command and to enter the enemy's country was obtained in a personal interview of the author of this work with President Lincoln, which is thus described:-
Grant had then "watered his horse in the Mississippi." Vicksburg was beleaguered, but Pendleton was inside of it with twenty-five thousand men, and Johnston outside of it with thirty thousand. Grant had only thirty thousand. Reinforcements had not then reached him. Might he not be crushed before they arrived? 
The President was very anxious. He showed none of his usual humor and vivacity. Despatch after despatch came in from the War Department, and he opened them, glanced at their signatures, and then, laying them down unread, said: " Only from Hooker;" or, "Only from Burnside;" or, "Only from Rosecrans. Nothing from Grant yet? Why don't we bear from Grant?"
If the life of his own son had been quivering in the balance at Vicksburg, he could not have shown more anxiety. I had not voted for him. I had not admired or even supported him; but that night I regretted that I had not, for what 1 saw satisfied me that there is not a drop in Abraham Lincoln's veins that does not beat for his country, 
It was hard to get him to the subject, but at last I did do it; and then he told me, in a clear, direct way, the terms he would give the Rebels. A portion of these terms have since been included in the Amnesty Proclamation; the rest I do not feel at liberty to make public. They are all, however, embodied in a few of his words: 
"The country will do everything for safety- nothing for revenge." 
If Washington ever uttered a grander or a nobler sentence than that, I have not read it. 
Finally, he said: 
"You can write what I say to General Rosecrans, and he  can communicate as much of it as he thinks best to Colonel Jaquess; but the Colonel must not understand that he has these terms from me. We want peace, but we can make no overtures to the Rebels. They already know that the country would welcome them back, and treat them generously and magnanimously." 
It was nearly twelve o'clock when I rose to go. As I did so, he said:
“Don't go yet. I shall stay here until I get something from Grant."
The next morning I wrote to Rosecrans, and within ten days, Colonel Jaquess started for the South. At Baltimore he reported to General Schenck, who forwarded him on to Fortress Monroe. After arriving there he explained his business to General Dix, and he, after much delay, allowed him to smuggle himself on board a flag-of-truce boat going to the Rebel lines. He was in his uniform, but the rebel officer who met our flag said to him: 
“Go where you please, and stay as long as you like."
Any one can see the great risk he ran. He had no credentials; nothing to show who he was, or why he came; and there were ten chances to one that he would be taken as a spy. But what was that to him? He was about his Master's work, and his trust in the Master, which "whoever runs may read" in his face, carried him safely through. 
He went to Petersburg, and there they came to him. As Nicodemas came to the great Peace-Makers, so the rebel leaders came to him, by night. Disguised, and under false names, they sought him to ask the way to peace. 
"Lay down your arms, go back to your allegiance, and the country will deal kindly and generously by you," he said to all of them.
From all he had the same answer:
"We are tired of the war. We are willing to give up slavery. We know it is gone; but so long as our Government holds out, we must stand by it. We cannot betray it and each other."
And this is now the sentiment of the Southern people, and of a vast number of the Southern leaders.
He remained at Petersburg several weeks, and then returned to Baltimore. From there he wrote to the President, but received no answer. He waited there a long time; but, no answer coming, finally returned to his regiment. Then he wrote me, stating the result of his visit, and saying he wanted to go again, with liberty to see Jeff. Davis. [Other leaders he had seen, but Davis he had not seen.] This letter came just as I was setting out on a long journey; and, naturally concluding that if he had not answered Jaquess, he would not answer me, I did not write to the President. Thus the fair rested till I returned from my journey. Then I went to Washington, and, calling on Mr. Lincoln, asked him why he had not answered Jaquess.
"I never received his letter," was the unexpected reply.
“Well, it's not too late. Those people are ripe for peace now. I know that from many of them.
<c03>
Let Jaquess go again. There is no telling what he may accomplish." 
The President turned about on his chair, and on a small card wrote the following:
" To whom it may concern: 
"The bearer, Colonel James F. Jaquess, Seventy-third Illinois, has leave of absence until further orders. A. LINCOLN."
In a few weeks Jaquess joined me in Baltimore,.
The following statements in regard to a projected general servile insurrection in the summer of 1863, and why the plans of its originators were not fulfilled, is contained in an earlier chapter of" Down in Tennessee," and is well worthy of notice:- 
One day, as I was sitting alone with Rosecrans, an Aide handed him a letter. He opened it, ceased doing half a dozen other things, and became at once! absorbed in its contents. He re-read it, and then, handing it to me, said: " Read that. Tell me what you think of it." I read it. Its outside indicated it had come from " over Jordan," and had " a hard road to travel," but its inside startled me. It was written in a round, unpractised hand, and though badly spelled, showed its author familiar with good Southern English. Its date was May 18th, 1863, and it began thus:
"GENERAL:—A plan has been adopted for a simultaneous movement or rising to sever the rebel communications throughout the whole South, which is now disclosed to some general in each military department in the Secesh States, in order that they may act in concert, and thus insure us success.
" The plan is for the blacks to make a concerted and simultaneous rising, on the night of the first of August next, over the whole States in rebellion. To arm themselves with any and every kind of weapon that may come to hand, and commence operations by burning all railroad and county bridges, tearing up all railroad tracks, and cutting and destroying telegraph wires,—and when this is done, take to the woods, the swamps, or the mountains, whence they may emerge, as occasions may offer, for provisions or for further depredations. No blood is to be shed except in self-defence.
" The corn will be in roasting ear about the first of August, and upon this, and by foraging on the farms by night, we can subsist. Concerted movement 
at the time named would be successful, and the rebellion be brought suddenly to an end."
The letter went on with some details which I cannot repeat, and ended thus:
" The plan will be simultaneous over the whole South, and yet few of all engaged will know its whole extent. Please write'1' and 'approved,' and send by the bearer, that we may know you are with us.
" Be assured, General, that a copy of this letter has been sent to every military department in the rebel States, that the. time of the movement may thus be general over the entire South."
I was re-reading the letter when the General again said: " What do you think of it? "
"It would end the rebellion. It taps the great negro organization, of which I speak in' Among the Pines,' and cooperated with by our forces would certainly succeed, but-the South would run with blood."
" Innocent blood! Women and children!”
"Yes, women and children. If you let the blacks loose, they will rush into carnage like horses into a burning barn. St. Domingo will be multiplied by a million."
" But he says no blood is to be shed except in self-defence."
" He says so, and the leaders may mean so, but they cannot restrain the rabble. Every slave has some real or fancied wrong, and he would take such a time to avenge it."
" Well, I must talk with Garfield. Come, go with me."
"We crossed the street to Garfield's lodgings, and found him bolstered up in bed, quite sick with a fever. The General sat down at the foot of his bed, and handed him the letter. Garfield read it over carefully, and then laying it down, said:
"It will never do, General. We don't want to whip by such means. If the slaves, of their own accord, rise and assert their original right to themselves, that will be their own affair; but we can have no complicity with them without outraging the moral sense of the civilized world."
"I knew you'd say so; but he speaks of other department commanders-may they not come into it?"
"Yes, they may, and that should be looked to. Send this letter to	, and let him head off' the movement.'"
It was not thought prudent to intrust the letter to the mails; nor with the railway, infested with guerillas, was it a safe document to carry about the person. A short shrift and a long rope might have been the consequence of its being found on a traveller. So, ripping open the top of my boot, I stowed it snugly away in the lining, and took it North. On the 4th of June, following, Garfield wrote me that he had just heard from the writer of the letter; that five out of our nine department commanders had come into the project, and, subsequently, that another general had also promised it his support. 
But I can say no more. All the world knows that the insurrection did not take, place. The outbreaks in September, among the blacks of Georgia and Alabama, were only parts of the plan, the work of subordinate leaders, who, maddened at the miscarriage of the grand scheme, determined to carry out their own share of the programme at all hazards. It was a gigantic project, and the trains were all laid, the matches all lighted, and two centuries of cruel wrong were about to be avenged in a night, when a white man said to the negro: "You will slaughter friends and enemies. You will wade knee deep in innocent blood; God cannot be with you in midnight massacre!" A white man said that, and the uplifted torch fell from the negro's hand, and saying, "I will "bide my time; I will leave vengeance to God," he went back to his toil and his stripes. 
HOW PEACE MAY BE ATTAINED.
The opposition press are pursuing a very disingenuous course with regard to the peace question. Assiduously endeavoring to inoculate the public mind with the belief that an honorable peace is now attainable, they utterly ignore the unanimous expressions of rebel sentiment to the contrary. Thus the Courier, reviewing Mr. Gilmore's statement of his interview with Jeff. Davis, says:
"What we learn from it is simply that Mr. Davis will not negotiate on the basis of emancipation, or the surrender of State independence, to a numerical majority of individuals or States, however great. We shall yet see, perhaps, that when the government of the North is ready for union, without subjugation, that the South is ready to meet us." 
But Mr. Davis himself bold no such position. He 
<c04>
made light of confiscation and amnesty, treating them as of no consequence in the settlement of peace and declaring that the war
- Must go on till the last man of this generation falls in his tracks, and his children seize his musket and fight his battles, unless you acknowledge our right to self-government. We are not fighting for slavery. We are fighting for independence and that or extermination we will have."
Here is the evidence of a plain perversion by the Courier of the position of Mr. Davis, and of a dishonest attempt to make it appear that he would meet the North in negotiations for a restored Union. 
The uniform testimony of the rebel leaders and the rebel organs of opinion is, that, so far as they are concerned, peace is only attainable by an acknowledgment of their independence. So said Commissioner Ould to Mr. Gilmore and Col. Jaquess. So repeated Secretary Benjamin, and so emphatically reiterated Jeff. Davis. Here is the expressed opinion of the Richmond Enquirer. If this is not sufficiently emphatic to convince any Northern man who hopes for peace by compromise, then he would not be convinced by one risen from the dead:
" Save on our own terms, we can accept no peace whatever, and must fight till doomsday rather than yield an iota of them, and our terms are:
Recognition by the enemy of the independence of the Confederate States. 
Withdrawal of the Yankee forces from every foot of Confederate ground, including Kentucky and Missouri.
Withdrawal of the Yankee soldiers from Maryland until that State shall decide by a free vote whether she shall remain in the old Union or ask admission into the Confederacy. 
Consent on the part of the Federal government to give up to the Confederacy its proportion of the navy as it stood at the time of secession, or to pay for the same. 
Yielding up all pretensions on the part of the Federal government to that portion of the old Territories which lies west of the Confederate States.
An equitable settlement on the basis of our absolute independence and equal rights of all accounts of the public debt and public lands, and the advantages accruing from foreign treaties." 
These provisions the Enquirer says comprise "the minimum of what we must require before we lay down our arms," and hints at other demands to be enforced if they can destroy and scatter our armies, as "to enforce and collect treasure for our reimbursement out of the wealthy cities in the enemies' country," &c. The Enquirer says, and says truly, " it is all or nothing. This Confederacy or the Yankee nation, one or the other, goes down, down to perdition.." 
The sooner our people fully realize that this is a life and death struggle, the quicker will this rebellion be ended. But we to the country if we heed the syren cry of an armistice and peace! Like the fabled song of the Lurly, it will woo the ship of state to destruction.-Boston Journal.

VINDICATION OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN 
Against the Charges Contained in the Wade and 
Davis Circular.
To the Editor of the Philadelphia Press:
SIR: With no little surprise I have read an address headed "To the supporters of the Government," purporting to have been signed by B. F. Wade, as Chairman of the Senate " Committee on Rebellious States," and H. Winter Davis as Chairman of the House committee on the same subject, animadverting with great severity upon the action of President Lincoln, in reference to the bill passed by Congress at the close of its last session, to provide for the readmission or organization of States in rebellion. It was sent to the President for his approval within less than an hour before the sine die adjournment. He did not sign it, and gave the reason why, in the form of a public proclamation, inviting a careful consideration of its provisions by the entire people of the nation. This act is characterized, by the two gentlemen before named, as a most dangerous usurpation of power not granted by the Constitution. It seems not to have occurred to them that, whilst they were charging upon the Executive an assumption of power not granted, they themselves, in their very questionable mode, to say the least of it, of supporting the Government, were assuming a power which did not belong to them. To their names are fixed their respective legislative titles, although in no sense can their address be regarded as a legislative act. Why attempt to give it seemingly the weight of official authority, when no more importance can be ascribed to it than would belong to the act of any other two private individuals of equal intelligence and standing in the community? Congress had adjourned. As members of the respective committees, their functions were suspended for the time being, and what they did was extra legislative, to every intent and purpose. The semi-official condemnation of the President's act, in withholding his name from the bill, was a clear transcendence of authority, or abuse of official position. But what was the act thus extra-legislatively denounced as 
a usurpation? The bill involved the solution of some of the most difficult questions which were ever presented for the consideration of an American statesman. 
How the so called seceded States were to be restored to their original position in the Government, after all their acts of treason and blood-stained rebellion committed against it, is a question which has perplexed the minds of the best men of the nation. Various are the opinions of public men upon the point itself, and still more various are they as to the time and circumstances appropriate for its discussion. Many say, put down the rebellion, compel a submission to the Government, and then, and not till then, discuss the status of the States in rebellion; then determine in what way, and upon what terms, they shall resume their original relation to the Government. The rebellion has proved to be a most gigantic one, inaugurated and prosecuted by the slaveholders of the South with two objects in view, the accomplishment of either of which would satisfy their fiendish ambition first, a dissolution of the Union, with a recognition of their so-called Confederate Government, founded upon slavery as its chief corner-stone; or, second, an extension of their slave Government over the whole territory embraced within the limits of the Union. It was apparent to all men who were conversant with the history of the country, and free from the influence of party prejudice, that the great battle was between slave and free government. Slavery had commenced the rebellion which had developed itself in open acts of war against the Government more than two months before Mr. Lincoln's accession to power. He found that Government crippled in all the elements essential to a vigorous resistance of the aggressive force brought to bear against it. All its working powers had been directly or indirectly under the control of Southern men who were in the interests of slavery. It became obvious to all who sincerely desired to crush the rebellion, that the only effectual way of accomplishing it was to strike at slavery itself as the root and cause of it; but it had for so

<c05>
many years controlled the politics of the nation and through that instrumentality had so moulded the opinions of politicians, North and South, that it was difficult to adopt any measures of hostility to it which would not meet with great opposition. The progress of the rebellion thus far has effectually illustrated this. Environed by difficulties on every hand, the President, as Commander-in-Chief of the army and navy, cautiously according to the progressing steps of public opinion, adopted a policy, as a military measure modified in the light of developing circumstances and happening events, having for its object the crippling of the rebels in their greatest source of strength. It will be understood that reference is here made to the emancipation policy, into the details of which it is not proposed to go, as to do so would necessarily swell this article to a great length. Suffice it to say that it is difficult to see how there can be a difference of opinion as to its justice and wisdom. Some of the best Union men thought the President too slow in the adoption of this policy, and not vigorous enough in practically enforcing it; and, if the course of legislation in Congress, in reference to the rebellion, and of prominent men active in that legislation, be correctly remembered, Senator B. F. Wade, of Ohio, and Representative H. Winter Davis, of Maryland, were amongst the number. The President was not ultra enough in his anti-slavery proclivities. His blows at the black monster in rebellion were not dealt with sufficient rapidity and strength. The instrument in the Government of wielding the war powers granted by the Constitution was too lenient in their enforcement, too merciful in his dealings with those who had been speeding on the rebellion by direct or indirect means. In short, the complaint, with this class of friends, was that the President was too fearful of transcending the powers conferred upon him by the Constitution. The emancipation policy, as a whole, was to strike a death-blow to the institution of slavery, as the cause and vital element of the rebellion; and one feature of that policy was to call into action on the side of the Government the dormant powers of the slave, by appeals to the instincts which govern the whole human family when the proper chords are touched; to make slavery the author of its own destruction, by turning in strength against its own life. Its purpose was to call the slave from the agricultural pursuits of his rebel master, where he was producing the means of subsisting rebel armies, and to induce him to employ the power which the God of Nature had given him in behalf of his owon freedom. The several emancipation proclamations embodied a distinct military policy, striking at that root of the rebellion; and whilst there could be no question as to the military power of the Government, under the Constitution, being ample to sever the relation between a slave and his master in rebellion, a great many able men entertain the opinion that the Government of the United States, while its Constitution remains unchanged, has no power, by an act of simple legislation, to dissolve the relation between master and slave in any of the States. The writer is not one of those who entertain this opinion. He believes that the Constitution gives plenary power to remove, by legislation, any overshadowing evil affecting thetbe welfare of the entire people as a nation; but he is free to admit that this view is in conflict with the opinions of perhaps a majority of the people. He affirms that neither of the clauses commonly relied upon to establish a guarantee of inviolability of slave property admits of such a construction. But a discussion of that topic is foreign to the point in issue here. In the state of public opinion indicated, the bill in question is passed by the two Houses of Congress, and sent to the President for his approval almost in the last moments of the session. In that bill is found a section, of which the following is a copy:
"SEC.12. And be it further enacted That all persons held to involuntary servitude or labor in the States aforesaid are hereby emancipated and discharged there from, and they and their posterity shall be forever free. And if any such persons or their posterity shall be restrained of liberty, under pretence of any claim to such service or labor, the courts of the United States shall, on habeas corpus, discharge them."
Here is no discrimination between the loyal and disloyal. The relation of master and slave is blotted out of existence as to all persons, loyal or rebel, by a single stroke of legislation; and the effect would be to abandon the war policy of emancipation, wielded as a military function, and to assume this new ground, the correctness of which would be doubted by many of the friends of the President, and denied by all of his opponents. There were some other sections in the bill of very doubtful propriety. They are, however, too long to introduce here and discuss. But was there not enough in it to admonish the President of the necessity of taking time for mature deliberation, and did he not adopt the very means of making that deliberation profitable? If what he did was an act of usurpation, then have many acts of usurpation, of similar character, been committed by several of his illustrious predecessors. On the 6th of November, 1812, Mr. Madison sent a special message to Congress, in the following words, which explain themselves:-
"To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:
The bill entitled  An act supplementary to the acts heretofore passed on the subject of a uniform rule of naturalization,' which passed the two Houses at the last session of Congress, having appeared to me liable to abuse by aliens having no real purpose of effectuating a naturalization, and, therefore, has not! been signed; and having been presented at an hour too near the close of the session to be returned with objections for reconsideration, the bill failed to become a law. I recommend that provision be now made in favor of aliens entitled to the contemplated benefit, under such regulations as will prevent advantage being taken of it for improper purposes." 
In the sixth annual message of President Jackson, dated the 2d December, 1834, be said: "I have not been able to satisfy myself that the bill entitled ‘An act to improve the navigation of the Wabash river, ‘which was sent to me at the close of your last session, ought to pass, and I have, therefore, withheld from if my approval, and now return it to the Senate, the body in which it originated." In the second annual message of the same President, dated the 7th December, 1830, he said: " Almost at the moment of the adjournment of your last session, two bills, the one entitled An act for making appropriations for building light-houses, light-boats, beacons and monuments, placing buoys, and for improving harbors and directing surveys, and the other, An act to authorize a subscription for stock in the Louisville and Portland Canal Company,' were submitted for my approval. It was not possible, within the time allowed me before the dose of the session, to give these bills the consideration which was due to their character and importance, and I was compelled to retain them for that purpose. I now avail myself of this early opportunity to return them to the Houses in which they respectively originated, with the reasons which, after mature deliberation, compel me to withhold my approval.

<C06>
In 1832, two bills were passed and sent to President Jackson for his approval three days before the adjournment of Congress. One, denominated the " harbor bill," and the other providing for the repayment to the respective States of all interest actually paid for moneys borrowed by them on account of the Federal Government, and expended in the service of the United States. These bills were retained by the President without any formal veto, and thus defeated. Again, in 1833 the same President (Jackson) sent a message to the Senate of the United States, dated the 4th December, 1833, vetoing Mr. Clay's land bill, passed at the close of the previous session. The following is a copy of the first paragraph of that message:-

“To the Senate of the United States:
At the close of the last session of Congress, I received from that body a bill entitled ' An act to appropriate, for a limited time, the proceeds of the sales of the public lands of the United States, and for granting lands to certain States.' The brief period then remaining before the rising of Congress, and the extreme pressure of official duties, unavoidable on such occasions, did not leave me sufficient time for that full consideration of the subject which was due to its great importance. Subsequent consideration and reflection have, however, confirmed the objections to the bill which presented themselves to my mind upon its first perusal, and have satisfied me that it ought not to become a law. I felt myself, therefore, constrained to withhold from it my approval, and now return it to the Senate, in which it originated, with the reasons on which my dissent is founded."
But I now refer to the disposition made by the same President, on the 2nd of March, 1837, of a bill described in a paper, of which the following is a copy, viz:-
“Reasons of the President for retaining the bill designating and limiting the funds receivable for the revenue of the United States:-

WASHINGTON, March 3, 1837,
1/4 before 12, P. M.
The bill from the Senate entitled ' An act designating and limiting the funds receivable for the revenues of the United States,' came to my hands yesterday, at 2 o'clock, P. M. On perusing it, I found its provisions so complex and uncertain that I deemed it necessary to obtain the opinion of the Attorney General of the United States on several important questions touching its constructions and effect before I could decide on the disposition to be made of it. The Attorney General took up the subject immediately, and his reply was reported to me this day at 5 o'clock, P. M. As this officer, after a careful and laborious examination of the bill, and a distinct expression of his opinion on the points proposed to him, still came to the conclusion that the construction of the bill, should it become a law, would be a subject of much perplexity and doubt, (a view of the bill entirely coincident with my own,) and as I cannot think it proper, in a matter of such vital interest, and of such constant application, to approve a bill so liable to diversity of interpretation, and more especially, as I have not had time, amid the duties constantly pressing on me, to give the subject that deliberate consideration which its importance demands, I am constrained to retain the bill without acting definitely thereon: and to the end that my reasons for this step may be fully understood, I shall cause this paper, with the opinion of the Attorney General and the bill in question, to be deposited in the Department of State. 
ANDREW JACKSON."
President Lincoln's proclamation is an act similar to the act of President Jackson as above delineated by himself. The bill passed by the recent Congress has not been definitively acted on by him. What may be his definitive disposition of it when Congress again meets, is yet to be determined. He has invited a consideration of its provisions by the people. Wherein does his usurpation consist? Is it in his retention of the bill, without having up to this time signed it? Or does the usurpation lie in the invitation given to the people to aid him in the consideration of its provisions? If his be usurpation, it is usurpation in the mildest form ever yet conceived of. 
It is apprehended, however, that the usurpation intended to be charged is supposed to be found in the conclusion of the proclamation, where it says:-: —
" And while I am also unprepared to declare that the free State Constitutions and Governments already adopted and installed in Arkansas and Louisiana shall be set aside and held for nought, thereby repelling and discouraging the loyal citizens, who have set up the same, as to further effort, or to declare a constitutional competency in Congress to abolish slavery in the States, but am at the same time sincerely hoping and expecting that a constitutional amendment abolishing slavery throughout the nation may be adopted; nevertheless, I am fully satisfied with the system for restoration contained in the bill as one very proper plan for the loyal people of any State choosing to adopt it, and that I am, and at all times shall be, prepared to give the Executive aid and assistance to any such people so soon as the military resistance to the United States shall have been suppressed in any such State, and the people thereof shall have sufficiently returned to their obedience to the Constitution and the laws of the United States, in which cases Military Governors will be appointed, with directions to proceed according to the bill.
The idea of the learned gentlemen seems to have been that the President had proclaimed to the nation that he would give the bill the efficacy of a law, in his own way, although he had not given it the Executive approval required by the Constitution. In other words, that he would enforce it or not, according to the dictates of his own will. Mr. Lincoln is too good a lawyer to have ever entertained such a view of the elements of a valid act of Congress, or of his power in executing the law. Any one who is disposed to treat him fairly cannot doubt that his meaning was, that until an act should be passed by the representatives of the nation such as he could feel " prepared," as a part of the lawmaking power, to approve, he would adopt the system outlined in the bill which had been sent to him, which he was not then prepared to sanction,) and make it a guide for the military governments necessary to be established in the absence of organized loyal civil ones. It must be remembered that the Executive Department is an independent branch of the lawmaking power, and is bound under the obligations of its official oath to have its conscience and its judgment satisfied before it appends its official signature to a bill, no matter how maturely it may have been considered by the Senate and House of Representatives Upon a review, then, of the whole ground: (the time of the passage of the bill, within the last hour of the session; the character of its provisions; the still apparent Struggle of the rebellion, justifying an honest doubt, at least, whether the legislation embodied in it was not premature; and the precedents cited of acts of former Presidents of parallel character;) the charges of Executive usurpation, so injudiciously and some unprofitably made, have not a shadow of foundation to rest upon. If they had come from acknowledged enemies, no vindication would have been necessary; but they come front professed friends of the Government! Is this a time for assaults of this character to come from such a quarter? They may assist in the destruction of the Union, hot cannot in the slightest degree contribute to its preservation 
I am, respectfully, yours, J. G. M.

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
”I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the commander of the army, POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, civil, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERRED WITH, from, a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, hardened with, slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a was power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of indirection. Congress has power to <illegible> carry on the war, and must carry it on, according to the MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE GREAT ISSUE.
Extract from a Discourse on Morals in America, delivered in the Unitarian Church, Albany, N. Y., July 3, 1864, by CHARLES G. AMES.
I proceed to speak of slavery as of other moral diseases under whose infection the nation's virtue suffers. Our apologies only sink us deeper in the mire. Do we assert the negro's degraded and inferior condition? So much the meaner appears the bullying tyranny of a more advanced race. Do we say the South alone is responsible? So much the less excusable is our voluntary complicity. Do we attempt to show that slavery is a divine institution? We only display to mankind how inhuman and devilish are our notions of divinity. Do we declare it is a difficult subject to deal with? So much the more earnestly should we have sought for wisdom, instead of taking counsel only of our prejudices. True, slavery can be defended: do you know of any abomination which cannot? “If slavery is not sin, nothing is sin," says our Chief Magistrate; and you would agree with him if you were the victim, even though the master were as much your superior as you claim to be above the negro.
It is a question of right; and such questions compel their own settlement. Even under the present stress, and with many encouragements to do right, we seek to avoid that settlement by unmanly evasions. The public sentiment which supports the warpolicy of emancipating and arming the blacks is shame-faced and reluctant. It wants to abolish, but fears to be called “abolitionist." Certainly, nothing but military necessity could justify federal interference with local institutions, (as men construe the Constitution.) but since that necessity exists, why should not a Christian people rejoice to right a wrong? Why not rejoice that Providence thus commissions us to open prison-doors and break the fetters of the innocent? Why not rejoice that the war carries liberty to the slaves, just as we rejoice in the social regeneration it promises to the poor whites? Ah! if we rejoice, the grog-shops will taunt us as “negro-lovers," and we can bear anything but that!-it is equivalent to being suspected of “good will to men," or even of sympathy with the Universal Father! We prefer to disgrace ourselves by disclaiming sympathy with our colored countrymen, while we ask them to die in our defence!
"First pure, then peaceable." These hideous blotches of secession and treason are but the surface outbreak of a dire disease. God save the Republic from that quackery of statesmanship which seeks to drive the loathsome virus back into the blood, in order to restore the original status of the wretched patient! Peace is the gift of God, not of the Devil: let us beware at whose hands we seek it. No wise counsels come from the evil inspirations of prejudice and hate.
Whether the negro can rise or not it a question which will settle itself when we cease to keep him down, and when he shall be made secure in the enjoyment of those means of culture and progress which are found very necessary to the elevation of white men. Till then, silence will be a crime. Untimely, foolish and wicked words may be spoken on this as on every other subject; and I cannot justify many things which are said and done by anti-slavery men, any more than I can justify all the acts of our patriot fathers during the revolution. To err is human; and there are wrongs on the right side; but there can be no innocent silence so long as there is a slave. If there has been a fanatical opposition to slavery, so much the more cursed be slavery! for “oppression maketh a wise man mad; " and such madness is better than indifference.
I speak not as a friend of the negro only, but as a friend of MAN-as one of the race, profoundly convinced that justice is good for us all-as a Christian freeman, asking no privileges, and willing to share none, to which I would not welcome all mankind. God give me grace to be despised along with the humblest who share our nature, if despised one must be for acknowledging relationship to the least of all God's children. In truth, there is a thousand fold more need to save the white man from the guilt of being an oppressor, than to save the black man from the wrong of being oppressed. The more we treat him as if he were a brute, the more like brutes do we ourselves become. Thus the pro-slavery spirit of the North has lowered the tone of our whole morality. How could there be any genuine love of the Good, where there was so much hatred and contempt? Righteousness alone exalts; hatred proves itself to be murder. Already has negro hatred cost us half a million lives! Do not tell me all this woe is chargeable to anti-slavery men; liberty is as good as slavery, any day; and all the room in this world must not be claimed for Wrong.
Through the elasticity of the American negro's nature, and the helping Mercy which works everywhere, he stands here on a higher plane than the pagans of his ancestral home; but it is by no good will of ours, and even in spite of our selfish, persistent efforts to prevent it. I recognize and rejoice in the numerous exceptions; and yet cannot retract the charge. To-day, while a hundred black regiments stand willingly in the face of death, magnanimously forgiving and forgetting the wrong we have done them-their hearts throbbing with loyalty to the flag, and with the great hope that all the generations of their children will drink the fulness of that cup of liberty which they can but taste-the very air of these Free States shudders with the blasphemous curses of a hundred thousand white freemen, who would willingly re-enslave or butcher these black Unionists, in the vain hope to coax the rebel masters back to the hypocritical pretence of allegiance!
When this prolific curse has been removed; when we are ourselves emancipated from the love and practice of injustice; when the controlling spirit of the people shall mould all institutions with wise reference to the welfare of all classes;-then shall we be a nation exalted in righteousness. There will be no more rebellions, and no fear of invasions. If righteousness is a “breast-plate" to the individual man, then a righteous nation may be declared ironclad and impregnable.
We shall never outshine the ostentatious splendor of ancient nations; it is not for us to repeat the pyramids of Egypt, the hanging-gardens of Babylon, or the gorgeous palaces of Persepolis and Rome; but how much more glorious will be the picture of a wide land, covered with the happy homes of competence and content, where intelligence and virtue crown all the people as princes and potentates! Let us accept it as the appointed mission of our dear country to give the world an example of what the human race may become by “love to God and the neighbor"-“to teach the nations how to live”-to illustrate, on a continental scale, how perfect a type and how noble a style of manhood can be produced by freedom and righteousness! Not by freedom alone, though shielded by wisest laws and bravest hearts; but by freedom joined with righteousness-loyalty to the eternal law-without which freedom soon becomes a monstrous mockery. If we deem freedom in danger, we are justly alarmed: let us be still more afraid of wrong. Whatever lowers the moral standard of the people, that is the public enemy; whoever lowers it, he is the traitor! Only Christian faith and Christian works can save us. Uncompromising fidelity to the light God gives is Christian faith; doing the right thing-doing whatever ought to be done in any case-is Christian work.
We fight on the Lord's side only as we stand firm for all that is right against all that is wrong. Whether in the great conflict which now shakes the continent, or in that less noisy and less visible struggle which everywhere rages between the good and evil elements of American life, let us take care that we betray no trust, and leave no interest of public welfare or private virtue to suffer through our shortcomings. In single-hearted, pious patriotism, through victory and defeat, “let us have faith that right makes might; and, in that faith, let us, to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it."
"By all for which the Martyrs bore their agony and shame,
By all the holy words of truth with which the Prophets came,
By the Future which awaits us, by all the hopes which cast
Their faint and trembling beams across the blackness of the Past,
And by the awful name of Him who for earth's freedom died-
O ye people! O my brothers! let us choose the righteous side."
A few weeks ago, Lord Brougham, earnestly denouncing the conduct of Spain in breaking her engagements to suppress the slave trade in her West India possessions, quoted official documents to prove that the importation of slaves into Cuba had enormously increased for some years past. As many as between 80,000 and 40,000 of these unhappy negroes are now annually brought from Africa, and sold into slavery in that island.
<c02>
INTERESTING CORRESPONDENCE.
BOSTON, August 20, 1864.
General Fremont.-Sir: You must be aware of the wide and growing dissatisfaction, in the Republican ranks, with the Presidential nomination at Baltimore; and you may have seen notices of a movement, just commenced, to unite the thorough and earnest friends of a vigorous prosecution of the war in a new convention, which shall represent the patriotism of all parties.
To facilitate that movement, it is emphatically advisable that the candidates nominated at Cleveland and Baltimore should withdraw, and leave the field entirely free for such a united effort. Permit us, sir, to ask whether, in case Mr. Lincoln will withdraw, you will do so, and join your fellow-citizens in this attempt to place the Administration on a basis broad as the patriotism of the country and as its needs.
(Signed)
GEORGE L. STEARNS,
S. R. URBINO,
JAMES M. STONE,
ELIZUR WRIGHT,
EDWARD HABICH,
SAM'L G. HOWE.
NAHANT, August 25, 1864.
Gentlemen:-I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 20th, addressed to me in New York.
If your letter were in effect an appeal only to my own sentiments in favor of a reunion of parties, I should not hesitate to renounce any personal views, but would be entirely ready to defer to the public opinion which your names represent.
But the conditions are no longer the same as when I expressed my readiness to retire in the event of a contingency which might have occurred at Baltimore. Having now definitely accepted the Cleveland nomination, I have not the right to act independently of the truly patriotic and earnest party who conferred that honor upon me. In any event, it would be necessary first to consult with them.
It might, besides, have only the effect still further to unsettle the public mind, and defeat the object you have in view, if we should disorganize before first proceeding to organize something better.
To this end I suggest that a direct effort be made to obtain an immediate understanding between the supporters of the Baltimore and Cleveland nominations, in order that the friends of both may coalesce and unite upon an early day for holding such a convention as you propose. I am satisfied that I do not assume too much in saying that my friends will unite heartily in such a movement.
A really popular Convention, upon a broad and liberal basis, so that it could be regarded as a convocation in mass of the people, and not the work of politicians, would command public confidence. Such a Convention, acting in the large and liberal spirit in which it was called, without consideration of persons or political cliques, and without reference to bygone situations, rising to the level of the occasion and taking the conditions of the country as they present themselves to-day, could safely be trusted to propose such a policy and name such a man as should, and undoubtedly would, receive the cordial and united support of the patriotic masses of the people. To the great body of these, so far as my information allows me to form any opinion, I think that the following propositions would be acceptable:
1. Respect for the practical liberty and the constitutional rights and dignity of the citizen.
2. The maintenance of the dignity of the United States in their relations to foreign powers.
3. The re-establishment of the Union ; by peace if it is possible; by war if the employment of peaceful measures cannot be made to succeed.
Much has been said of late about peace, and you will therefore excuse me if I say here what I understand by it. For me, peace signifies the integral re-establishment of the Union, without slavery; because slavery is the source of all our political dissensions, and because the institution of itself is condemned by the enlightened and liberal spirit of the age. These are to me the essential conditions of peace. If it is practicable to attain this result, it would not be paying too dearly for it-taking also into consideration the material strength which the South has been permitted to acquire by the conduct of the war-to make concessions upon some points of secondary importance, such as that of paying an indemnity for their slaves to those who have remained in a sort of neutral condition during the unhappy war which has convulsed the country. To terminate this we are now expending life and money; it would certainly be a gain to reduce it simply to a question of money.
If in spite of all these efforts to spare the South humiliation or losses of capital likely to be too severely felt, the political chiefs who direct the South persist in war, then the policy of the Convention should be to pronounce in that case for war with all the force and energy of the nation. For peace, upon any terms, and merely because it is peace-a peace recognizing a North and a South-would not bring about a stable equilibrium. It would only prepare the way for new struggles, and for a condition of disastrous anarchy.
The paramount question is the Union. By peace, if it can be had on honorable and right terms-by war, if the political leaders who are directing the South insist upon war.
The situation of our country is unquestionably critical. It demands the devotion and patriotism of all men who really love their country, and it is one of those moments when all personal aspirations should vanish in the face of the great questions of principle and national existence which are at stake.
Thanking you, gentlemen, for the evidence which your letter gives me of your confidence in my disposition to do everything in my power for the interests of the country,
I am, very truly yours,
J. C. FREMONT.
FOREIGN EFFECT OF OUR EMANCIPATION POLICY.
The Post endeavors to show-or rather affirms without any showing-that the adoption of the emancipation policy on the part of our Government has lost it strength among the people of Europe. It says:
“When they see us losing sight of the objects for which alone the war is justifiable, and making it a pretext to destroy slavery-when they see the Administration willing to sacrifice blood and treasured in frightful profusion in order to do away with an institution which it cannot constitutionally meddle with-they must naturally think that we are overstepping the bounds of justice, and endeavoring to make our might subjugate the right of our opponents."
Now, it is notorious to every fair-minded man who has followed the course of public opinion in Europe since our war broke out, that one prominent charge for a long time brought against our government there was, that it did not openly commit itself to the cause of emancipation. Mr. Beecher endeavored to combat this idea in all his speeches in England, to do away with the prejudice arising from Mr. Lincoln's issuing his emancipation proclamation so late, and to maintain the earnestness of the North on this subject. The proofs that our enemies abroad took precisely the opposite ground alleged by the Post, and blamed our government because it did not make war on slavery, are innumerable, but we shall cite a few.
We call Mr. Gladstone, in the most hostile speech he has made against us. He said:
“No doubt, if we could say that this was a contest of slavery and freedom, there is not a man within the length and breadth of this room-there is, perhaps, hardly a man in all England-who would for a moment hesitate on the side he should take. (Hear, hear)."
He then made the following striking remark, which bears precisely upon the point:
“Indeed, there are those among us who think-and I confess for one I have shared the apprehension-that if in the course of the vicissitudes of the war, the Southern States of America should send an embassy to Washington, and should say: 'Very well, we are willing to lay down our arms on one condition: we are ready to renew the compact; we are ready to make it perpetual, and attach to it every security and guaranty you can imagine for holding us fast; but upon one condition-that you shall assure us there shall be no interference with our domestic institution'-Ah! gentlemen, we have had a fear that that application, if it were made, would receive a very favorable reply. (Cheers)."
Mr. Gladstone fears that our Government might be tempted to let slavery live. But we call Mr. Horsman, M. P., whose speech was particularly commended by the London Times and other friends of the rebels as an accurate expression of English feeling. In his speech to his constituents, before
<c03>
the emancipation policy was adopted, he objects to the course of our Government as follows: 
"The partisans of the North say it is a war for the abolition of slavery. Well, what evidence is there of that? President Lincoln denies it in toto, and says he would be no party to a war for the abolition of slavery. The official members of the Cabinet have all repeated the same denial. The North has declared that, if successful in the war, it would not abolish slavery. It has gone further, and offered to make every concession and give every security for the perpetuation of slavery, if the South will continue in the Union."
Here a British opponent of our cause stigmatizes that very course which the Post says we ought to return to, in order to make friends abroad. And he goes into the matter at length, and advocates secession because “the fugitive slave law and all the powers of the North are (were then) devoted to the maintenance of slavery.”
We call Judge Halliburton, M. P., a most determined enemy of the North, which, he says, “not-withstanding all the cant and hypocrisy it has exhibited, is not for the emancipation of the negro."
We call Messrs. Mason and Slidell, who endeavored to convince the people of England that our Government was not committed to emancipation, and that the rebellion was not on that account. But the list of witnesses is interminable. The case is clear, indeed, to every impartial observer. The adoption of the emancipation policy manifestly strengthened us abroad-not among the aristocracy, but with the people, the masses, the business men, from whom the ruling public opinion emanates. This has just been apparent in the effect of the President's dispatch to the Niagara Falls commissioners, which the secession organs abroad very carefully suppress, so far as it is in their power. Our safety against European intermeddling consists in resolutely adhering to the emancipation policy at all hazards.-Boston Journal.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 2,1864.
REVIEW.
THE WRONG OF SLAVERY; the Right of Emancipation, and the Future of the African Race in the United States. By Robert Dale Owen. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott & Co.
In March, 1863, the United States Secretary of War appointed a Commission to examine and report upon the condition of the recently emancipated freed-men. The gentlemen selected for this important duty were-the Hon. Robert Dale Owen, of Indiana; Col. James McKaye, of New York; and Dr. S. G. Howe, of Boston. The result of the joint investigations of this Commission have been embodied in a Report prepared by Mr. Owen, as Chairman of the Commission, and in two supplementary Reports-one by Col. McKaye, the other by Dr. Howe. The volume before us has its origin in the labors performed by these Commissioners, and the author has fully availed himself of the materials supplied by his able colleagues.
Mr. Owen has divided his work into three parts. In the First Part, under the head of “Slavery," he has traced that system from its inception in this hemisphere, through its progress and development down to the existing period. The narrative is painfully interesting, comprising, as it does, the history of the extermination of the mild, hospitable and submissive race that once inhabited the West India Islands; the substitution of African for Indian slaves; a description of the various modes by which captives for the slave market were obtained in Africa; the dismal features of the middle passage, with its horrors and frightful mortality; the distribution, throughout America, of the cargoes of unhappy victims so obtained and transported, and the circumstances connected with their slavery in the various transatlantic countries over which they were scattered. We earnestly recommend this portion of the book to the thoughtful perusal of every student of the subject of negro slavery. He who will read, and ponder while he reads, the first hundred pages of this condensed and authentic record of crime and guilt-stretching through the last three centuries of the Christian era-will rise from the task a wiser and a sadder man. He will learn that, though during those centuries fifteen millions and a half of the unoffending and helpless children of Africa were landed in this hemisphere, and sold into slavery, yet, in 1860, the number of negroes and their descendants in the Western World was only eleven millions and a half-a retrogression of numbers at a ratio which, had it spread over the habitable earth, would have extinguished in a few centuries all human existence! The Second Part of Mr. Owen's work is devoted to the subject of “Emancipation," with exclusive reference to the present circumstances of this country. It treats the question as one of international law; in its relation to the Constitution of the United States; in connection with the political status of the insurrectionary States, and in its bearing on the position and claims of the loyal States; arriving at the conclusion that, as to the claims to service or labor by persons of African descent held by inhabitants of insurrectionary States, or by disloyal inhabitants of other States, it is lawful to confiscate and cancel them without compensation; while as to such claims held by loyal men in non-insurrectionary States, it is legal to take them, making just compensation. In the Third Part, the author confines himself to a consideration of “The Future of the African Race in the United States.” This we regard as the most valuable section of the book; containing, as it does, satisfactory answers to the various objections raised to the emancipation of the colored race upon this continent, as well as the most convincing evidence of the capacity and fitness of the negro for freedom, and for the exercise of the rights of citizenship.
This summary of the contents of the volume before us will suffice to show its comprehensiveness, its completeness, and its adaptation to the wants of the present hour. Besides a touching history of the wrongs perpetrated upon a defenceless portion of the human family, through ten generations, by professedly Christian nations, it contains a clear exposition of the legal and constitutional aspects of slavery, as it now exists within the limits of this country. It shows the connection of slavery with the Constitution; how far that instrument admits, and how far it abstains from admitting, the existence of such a system; further, the character of what is termed slave-property; the right of emancipation in the revolted States; the right of emancipation in the loyal States; the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in the premises; the effect of the President's Proclamation, as well upon the slave States within the Union military lines, as upon slaves still in the enemy's hands; and the force of that Proclamation both during the war and when the war shall have terminated.
In addition, the author, having traced the connection of the white and colored races upon this continent in the past, and having set forth the duty of the stronger towards the weaker race in the present, has looked forward and inquired, how far these races are likely, when both shall be free, to live together in the future. Whether the emancipated race will be unwilling or unable to support itself. Whether the admixture of the races, when both shall be equally free, is probable or desirable. Whether, without admixture, the reciprocal social influence of the races on each other promises good or evil. What are the chances that the existing prejudice of race will diminish, and ultimately disappear. Whether, finally, in the event of the colored race outliving the prejudice which has hitherto depressed it, and becoming in all respects, touching the law, equal with the white race, there is any thing in the prospect to excite regret or inspire apprehension. On these interesting and important points, Mr. Owen has brought to bear the powers of a calm and philosophic mind, aided by a vast amount of evidence carefully and implicitly collected, and deliberately analyzed and digested. We shall, hereafter, take occasion to refer both
<c04>
to his facts and his arguments, and shall place before our readers the conclusions to which they have brought him. In the meanwhile, we shall indulge the hope expressed by the author, that the book he has so opportunely placed before the public “may be employed to arouse the listless, to encourage the desponding, and to strengthen our country's cause"; and we will add, the cause of justice and humanity throughout the world.
LOYALTY-MUTINY
Some one has lately written a sketch of the prominent Loyalists in our Revolutionary war. Loyalty is a creditable thing. Loyalist is a respectable name. The men of the North at the present day (except the copperheads) are loyalists; the men of the South, on the contrary, are rebels. This well-sounding name produced so favorable an impression on my mind, that it was not until the second thought that I became conscious that the Loyalists of the Revolution were the people whom we call Tories.
It is one of the tricks of power to apply honorable names to the persons, parties and movements favorable, and opprobrious names to the persons, parties and movements unfavorable to itself; and the people readily use the phrases thus manufactured for them. To prevent our minds from getting befogged by this influence of custom, it is needful occasionally to apply square and compass, and compare the matter in question with the absolute right.
The party in Massachusetts which opposed the revolution of 1776 were truly loyalists, adhering to the government under which they had always lived. Why do we apply to them, instead of this respectable name, an opprobrious one? It is, is it not, because they vindicated and upheld their government in its unjust as well as in its just proceedings. They supported power at the expense of right. Their maintenance of the government was a sacrifice of the welfare of the people.
Does any such consideration interfere with our loyalty? Does not our Administration legitimately and justly claim the right of governing? Is not the rebellion utterly groundless, unjustifiable and wicked? And are we not authorized by right, and bound in duty, to support the government in opposing the rebellion?-to be on the side of the government, and to give it our countenance and support in every way, until the rebellion is defeated? It is precisely here that a distinction needs to be made.
Half a dozen of the Administrations preceding that of Abraham Lincoln, though chosen as legitimately as his, though constituting, as thoroughly as his, the rightful government of the nation, have been steadily, actively and rightfully opposed by the Abolitionists. Why were they opposed? Because, although they were the persons rightfully and legitimately appointed to govern, they chose to govern in an unjust manner. They willingly turned their power against the rights and welfare of the slave. It seemed to us that justice to the slave required active demonstration against this tyranny, and we made it, disregarding the opprobrious names that have been freely showered upon us by partisans of those authorities. Has the present Administration ceased to be implicated in guilt of this sort? Right (undoubtedly) in its opposition to the rebels, is it also right in its attitude toward our clients, the slaves, the freedmen, the colored people of the United States? This is the question.
If a citizen contracts with another citizen, or with the Government, to perform a certain service on condition of certain terms of payment, the persistent neglect (and still more the persistent refusal) of the employer to fulfil those terms of payment is held, is it not, to vacate and annul the specified obligation. The person thus wronged, after more or less patient waiting for his wages, may rightfully, may he not, seek employment elsewhere; and his demand for the hire thus fraudulently withheld from him will stand good against the delinquent employer, will it not, until it is paid; and equally, injustice, whether that delinquent employer be a private person or the Government.
But people in power sometimes-yes, even oftener than sometimes-choose to disregard justice. They sometimes refuse to pay the stipulated wages to their laborers. This is bad enough. But they sometimes refuse to let the unpaid laborer go to find remunerative employment elsewhere. Even this is not the worst. They sometimes kill the laborer for the bare act of standing on his rights, and holding himself free from a contract thus systematically violated by the other party!
But this would be robbery and murder, would it not? No doubt. But men in power have a different way of stating these things, and have invented a different phraseology to suit such cases. And, unfortunately, their phraseology so generally passes unquestioned in the community, that the vicious character of their acts often passes unnoticed.
When the contracting parties are, on the one hand a Government, pledging itself to pay thirteen dollars a month, and on the other, a soldier, agreeing in consideration of such payment to do military service, the case comes under the new phraseology just hinted at. For, on the side of the oppressors there is power. In this case, the man who, after enduring month after month the refusal of his employer to pay him the stipulated wages, proclaims that the contract is annulled, and that he will serve no longer under such conditions, is called “a mutineer," and reported as such by the people and the newspapers who mention him. And the act of killing him for standing thus upon his rights, and doing his part towards the claim of equitable treatment for his people, is called “the punishment of mutiny," and is reported as such by the men and the newspapers that mention it.
But ought men who value justice to accept and to echo such a phraseology as this? Above all, ought Abolitionists, who have so long demanded justice for the colored man even when that claim brought them in conflict with the Government, to let these pitiful official technicalities hoodwink them or over-awe them? When the black man is right and the Government is wrong, are we to refrain from saying so because red tape labels the right “Mutiny," and perpetrates the wrong through some regular official machinery? Nay, more. Are we, in consideration of these circumstances, to change our accustomed allegiance to justice, and pass from championship of the oppressed to apology for the oppressor?
Since the Anti-Slavery movement began, my feelings have never received so great a shock as on seeing the cold-blooded killing of William Walker by the United States Government mentioned, by the pen of an Abolitionist, as “the case of the mutinous black sergeant."
Are we to cease looking at that case on its merits, or to refrain from speaking of it according to its merits, because this same Government of the United States chooses to stamp just and manly conduct as “mutiny," or because it happens to be right in its relation to another transaction, the rebellion, and to another party, the rebels? Does our relation as citizens to the Government require us, does our duty as friends to the blacks permit us, to vindicate such an act as the killing of William Walker, or even to pass it by with the amount of consent which silence implies?
To me it seems that our duty to the people of color, and to the Government, requires, in this case, the very same action, namely; strong, united, persistent protest, by all who love justice and hate tyranny, against the enormous wickedness committed by President Lincoln in giving his official sanction to the shooting of William Walker. How else is an Executive to be taught, who declares that his official action has been, is, and is to be entirely independent of considerations of justice and humanity? He pays, still, some respect to the expressed will of the people. Let, then, so many of the people as agree in reprobating open and gross injustice speak their minds upon Walker's case.-C.K.W.
The Editor of the Liberator will be absent from his post for the next two or three weeks, on a visit to western New York.
<c05>
LETTER FROM JOHN G. WHITTIER. 
AMESBURY, 29 8th mo., 1864.
MY DEAR FRIEND:
I see so much in the Liberator to approve of, that it really gives me pain to meet with anything which seems of a contrary character. And I am sure thee will pardon the frankness of an old friend if I mention that I have read with regret, in the selected matter of the paper, extracts from partisan journals severely denunciatory of Gen. Fremont, impeaching his character and motives. As a mere matter of policy, such denunciations are not needed in support of the Baltimore nomination. If Lincoln cannot be voted for without disparaging and sacrificing Fremont, his election is entirely hopeless. Gen. Fremont has enjoyed a wide popularity as the chosen leader of the well-nigh successful effort in 1856 to place the Government on the side of freedom. His name and reputation are dear to thousands. They may regard as an error of judgment his position as a candidate, and at the same time do justice to his motives as a loyal man. He was one of the first to offer his life and services in the present great struggle for Union and Liberty; and I know that thou wilt agree with me, that the course of the Administration in regard to him constitutes one of those passages which the best friends of the President find most difficult to explain or justify; and although at a time like this, when event crowds upon event, and hopes, fears and disappointments pass over us like waves in daily alternation, it is not wise to dwell upon past errors, or to cherish resentments and prejudices, nothing is more certain than that the loyal heart of the country remembers the joy awakened by the Freedom Proclamation in Missouri, and the pain and doubt and misgiving which followed its revocation and the recal of its author.
Under the circumstances, the great body of those who voted for Fremont in 1856 will vote for President Lincoln this Fall. But they still cherish kindly feelings towards their old standard bearer; they believe in his integrity; they are proud of his genius and his history. And for myself, looking over the country in this hour of her extremest need, it does not appear to me that we are so rich in examples of eminent patriotism and ability that we can afford to cast off such a man as John C. Fremont.
Believe me, very truly, thy friend,
JOHN G. WHITTIER.
REMARKS. Our friend Whittier may feel perfectly assured that it is far from our intention or wish to do any injustice to Gen. Fremont in our columns, or to forget the noble service he tried to render the cause of emancipation in Missouri. But no man ever lost admiring and enthusiastic friends more rapidly than he has done within the last six months. We have done no more than to show, by the extracts we have made from journals till somewhat recently disposed warmly to applaud his course, how great is the change thus wrought in popular feeling in regard to him; and if some of the criticisms are sharp and caustic, even to severe denunciation and rebuke, we think the temper and tone of his letter accepting his preposterous nomination at Cleveland, and the marked encouragement given to the Fremont movement, as such, by the seditious Copperheads throughout the North, justify their utterance in a solemn crisis like this. Fremont has cast himself off by his distracting course.
STILL MORE ENCOURAGING WORDS.
SOUTHBORO', August 26, 1864.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,-I wish in one word to express my sorrow at the intimation, in a recent Liberator, of its possible discontinuance. For one, I should submit cheerfully to have it reduced to half its present size, or even smaller still if necessary, rather than have it stop. Indeed, I think it would improve even the Liberator to have it reduced to the extent of the suppression of the ill-natured and ill-mannered letters of subscribers who feel called upon to stop their paper on account of the course which its Editor feels in duty bound to pursue.
Every man, it is true, has a right to stop his paper with or without reason. This is one thing. Assailing and abusing its Editor is quite another. I think well of the “Refuge of Oppression" as a department; but this abuse outside of the Refuge is disgusting in the extreme. It ought to cease.
As to these new pledged admirers of Mr. Fremont, I, too, have invested somewhat in him. I once voted for him as President of the United States; and, until the publication of that letter of acceptance, held him as one of the chiefs which the country had in reserve against any time of need. But that letter, and the gathering sympathies of everything traitorous north of the bloody line, are unmistakable.
When I listened to severe rebukes from the Anti-Slavery platform for voting for Fremont in ‘56, I kept silent. It was not done without some distrust, and I said-“Let the righteous smite me; it shall be an excellent oil." Then Fremont stood for everything free, and onward, and noble in politics. Everything proslavery, slave-hunting, mobocratic, was arrayed against him. How is it now? Surely, the old saying that “poverty and politics bring one to strange bed-fellows," never before had so pungent an application as now. The contrast rises to the ludicrous. Indeed, I cannot believe that any of our old friends can stay in such company. Faulty as Mr. Lincoln may have been, the flowering out of events, circumstances, or angels, or some other heavenly messengers, must carry everything loyal on the day of election to Abraham's bosom.
It matters not who is brought forward at Chicago. What man, possessed of a spark of loyalty, can trust the men put forth at that Convention? The men holding it are hardly a single step removed from treason. Indeed, it is probable that one of the delegates will attend the Convention with the rope fairly about his neck. What if such a gathering should put forward my old Chief, and what if he should accept the nomination? Are any of the men who rebuked me from the Anti-Slavery platform for voting for Fremont in ‘56, going to vote for him in company with Vallandigham and Seymour, and Wood and Rynders, &c., &c., in opposition to Abraham Lincoln? I do not believe it.
Yours for the land we love,
D. S. WHITNEY.
EVERESTFVILLE, Aug. 28, 1864.
DEAR GARRISON-I am surprised that any old organized Abolitionist should exhibit such a spirit of intolerance and darkness of vision as are manifested in the letters of R. T. Buck of Worcester, G. W. Simonds, of Roxbury, and Benjamin Emerson of Haverhill, in stopping their subscriptions to the Liberator. And for what? Is it because the Liberator has abandoned the claims of a million of slaves not yet made free by the President's Proclamation? No. Is it because the Liberator is not, as it ever has been, open in its columns to the honest, earnest, and candid criticisms of any true friend of immediate emancipation touching the coming great Presidential contest, or any other question relating to the salvation and elevation of the colored race? I presume not. No complaints of that sort are made. But it is because you prefer, under all the critical exigencies of the country at present, the re-election of President Lincoln to that of any other man whom the friends of the Union, and of the total annihilation of the cause of all our woes, could with any reason hope to elect. Now I concede the right, on general grounds, to subscribe for or stop any paper; but for any one to stop the Liberator because its editor cannot see the comparative claims of different candidates for the Presidency as he sees them, evinces a spirit of intolerance that would, if it had the power, utterly demolish the glorious old pioneer press. Shall Abolitionists cherish such a narrow, bigoted, persecuting spirit as this toward each other, when we justly condemn it in others? Certainly, the present is no time for us to indulge in hypercritical comments upon each other. Only that we all mean well in every effort for the
<c06>
overthrow and total annihilation of slavery in this country.
My deliberate judgment has been, from the commencement of the discussion, that, in the main, as between yourself and those differing with you, the calm, impartial, unimpassioned record of the historian will say you were right. I thought much of Fremont till since the Cleveland Convention and his letter, accepting the nomination. In either, I have no confidence now. I think Fremont has revealed himself too ambitious to be trusted. I fear he is or was hoping to go to the White House round through the Copperhead Convention at Chicago. But, be these Presidential questions as they may, our erring friends ought each to come back again with a double subscription to the Liberator. When it ceases to advocate immediate emancipation, as the imperative duty of every God-defying slaveholder in the country and world, and the right of the humblest and weakest slave, then, and not till then, will I say, “Stop my paper." When the Liberator becomes a mere partisan paper in the interest of any man or set of men, to the neglect of urging the deliverance of the lost slave, and the right of that slave to become President of the country that has hitherto enslaved him, then I will say, “Stop my paper”-not till then. I said, Emerson & Co. ought to come back with a double subscription. But I fear they will not. How hard it is for a man to say to his opponent, “You were right, and I was wrong!" It requires rare manhood to do it.
I herewith inclose $3. Please send the Liberator to Amos Miller of Westminster, Mass., one year. Keep spreading the light, “for all that, and for all that."
Yours, till the last shackle drops from the last slave, whether longer or shorter,
J. T. EVERETT.
PRINCETON, Aug. 30, 1864.
MR. GARRISON-However Abolitionists may differ as to political policies inside the war, or the morality and expediency of the war itself, the wish must be unanimous that the Liberator be strengthened to preach the old gospel until every slave is free. I inclose five dollars, only regretting my inability just now to make it more-not on my subscrption, but to help alleviate the pecuniary burdens incident to the crisis. E. H. HEYWOOD.
WAYLAND, Aug. 26th, 1864.
FRIEND GARRISON,-Mr. Child and I send you $20 toward the support of the Liberator. I have never known the time when the clear, unwavering tone of your trumpet could be spared from the moral combat; and, certainly, at this time it is peculiarly needed.
Few things have surprised and offended me more than the remarks concerning the Liberator in the Commonwealth. Common courtesy required that one, who is himself a “neophyte," should have spoken in a tone more respectful toward an old pioneer of the cause like yourself; a pioneer true and faithful at all times, and as steadfast to the cause of Freedom now, as in the brave skirmishing of former years.
How any candid person can look upon the Liberator as a “Campaign Sheet" is more than I can understand. Men and measures connected with the great question of Emancipation must unavoidably be discussed by Abolitionists; and if some attack Lincoln immeasurably, and give their reasons therefor, shall not others be at liberty to defend him measurably, giving their reasons therefore? You have stated your reasons with moderation and candor, and if any doubt your being actuated solely by a pure regard for the interests of Freedom, we certainly are not among the number.
Yours, with true respect and affection,
L. MARIA CHILD.
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XV.
NEW YORK, Aug. 25, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The burden of the hour is “peace." As you may hear, of a still night, a premonitory hum of town clocks ere Trinity or the City Hall strikes the true time, so the air palpitates with anticipations of the stroke at Chicago on Monday next. “Edmund Kirke's" account of his visit to the heart of rebeldom has gone everywhere since its appearance in The Atlantic. It does not appear that the self-constituted ambassadors of the Northern people were equal to a debate with the leaders of the rebellion, and except for a few entertaining details of personages and places, the narrative would be of little interest and less value. Mr. Gilmore and his companion discovered, what they need not have gone so far to seek, that the terms of Jefferson Davis are victory or death. The unauthorized suggestion of an arrangement on this basis: “Peace, with Union, Emancipation, no Confiscation, and Universal Amnesty," made no impression upon the President-desperado of the Confederacy, nor altered his determination, already expressed, to have independence or extermination. In his individual case, at least, the nation will not linger in awarding the latter alternative; and if his deluded followers link their destiny with his, they will not assuredly obtain what it was the prime and sole object of the war to achieve.
The palaver of the commissioners in their intercourse with the arch-traitor is fairly sickening, and smacks too much of the old time flunkeyism. “We are both Christian men, Mr. Davis," says the Chaplain in one instance; and the appeal to a common service of the Savior is frequent throughout the conversation. The implication that one who is foul with the slaughter of myriads would be acknowledged by the Master himself as his servant, is bald <illegible>, and one pictures Mephistophiles, as in the prologue to Faust, exclaiming:
"Furwahr! er dient euch auf besondre Weise."
"Indeed! he serves you in a curious fashion."
Scarcely is Mr. Davis declared a follower of the Lamb-a title which he meekly accepts—than he alleges: "I desire peace as much as you do. I deplore bloodshed as much as you do. I feel that not one drop of the blood shed in this war is on my hands. I can look up to my God and say this. I tried all in my power to avert this war. I saw it coming, and for twelve years I worked night and day to prevent it, but I could not... We are not fighting for slavery." And to each and all of these allegations, Justice, like Mademoiselle in Bleak House, answers curtly: "Lie!" Mr. Gilmore had already informed the public, that, with all his faults, he believed Jeff. Davis a man of truth; yet this statement was <illegible> after an interview characterised by such monstrous mendacity, and on the eve of its reproduction in print!
As if any additional evidence were needed to prove the man the most unscrupulous liar in history, from the inception of the rebellion to the present moment! For one admission, however, let us thank him, veracious as well as candid. Read and ponder it, all who mean that the Republic shall live; all who have thought the war on our part a violation of the principle of self-government; all who remember the Constitutional provision for determining the will of the people. Here it is:
"We seceded to rid ourselves of the RULE OF THE MAJORITY."
The mass meeting at Syracuse, with an eye to "peace" and the Chicago platform, was distinguished by such twin cherries on one stalk as Vallandigham and Fernando Wood, and the former announced that "there is now but one question before the country—war or peace." One of the resolutions echoed his words: "The fundamental question of the day is, Shall it be peace, or shall it be war?" Yes, that is the veritable issue; but the peace which is there meant is relentless war, and that which is there styled war is the only possible peace. There is reason in the babbling and the clamor for peace which now abound. Four years of warfare have shown that the South can be conquered by force of arms, and that the date of the event is alone uncertain. Various indications have inspired a popular belief in the
SEPTEMBER 2.
THE LIBERATOR.
143
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
practical termination of the struggle during the present year. A solid reason for the collapse of the rebellion within this limit is the utter hopelessness of its success if the loyal North cannot be divided, and a reasonable President elected in November. Mr. Lincoln may be slow, but if he has done so much in the green wood, what will he not accomplish in the dry? And if he even be succeeded by one more by one more resolute? This is the reflection which knits the brows of the Southern conspirators, and nerves their Northern albes to attempt a revolution in the loyal territory. Mark the expectation of the Canadian exile, ”that the [Chicago] candidate will be committed to a suspension of hostilities and a Convention of the States," in other words, the surrender of the victorious to the perishing cause. Mark the re-affirmation of the right of secession in the resolution denouncing the Administration because ”it has denied to sovereign States all constitutional rights, and thereby absolved them from all <illegible>“ Mark, finally, the transparent hypocrisy of the supporters of despotism who claim that a ”free canvass and a free and unrestricted election," such as were never known under the rule of slavery, “must be preserved at all hazards." The ”peaceful” intonation of the concluding phrase is matched by these; ”We warn this Administration to desist from its encroachments upon the rights and liberties of the citizens of our State, and resolve that we will not tolerate the rule of martial law, of military interference with elections, or any more arbitrary arrests of our citizens, to the maintenance of which we pledge our lives, our fortunes, and-our sacred honor"!
Chicago will have shaped the future ere this writing is in type. Looking over the whole field of devilish intrigue, of which that city is to be the central point next week, one is forced to believe, -with a shudder, it may be, and with sudden or confirmed distrust in the applicability of the republican theory to a commercial metropolis, that New York contains in itself the hopes of the rebellion, and that the shadow on the Chicago dial will be cast by that red demon, laid but not annihilated, who stalked in blood and flames amid these streets a year ago last month. Here are the headquarters of the rebellion, and here will be witnessed its triumph or its overthrow.
M. DU PAYS.
A SCRAP OF EXPERIENCE IN EASTERN VIRGINIA.
FRIEND GARRISON:
I left Grand Haven, Michigan, April 26, 1864, and after fifty-two hours' ride reached Boston. After visiting a few  friends, I called on Gov. Andrew, who readily gave me a letter of introduction and commendation to Gen. Butler, then at Fortress Monroe. My main object in going there was to devote myself to the aid of the newly emancipated slaves in that part of the country in their industrial pursuits, having had previous experience in that work.
When I reached New York, I learned that Gen. Butler had already left Fortress Monroe with an expedition up the James river, and had issued an order that no civilians should be allowed transit within the lines of his command. I waited some time, thinking the order might be withdrawn or modified; but got somewhat restless after waiting nearly three weeks, and started on, accompanied by two female teachers from the American Missionary Commission. At Baltimore, I succeeded, by dint of exertions and the force of my letter from Gov. Andrew to Gen. Butler, is getting transportation to Fortress Monroe, where I presented my letters to Col. J. B. Kinsman, in <illegible> of the freedmen in Eastern Virginia, who sent his Secretary with me to Norfolk, where I was introduced to a subordinate Superintendent, who gave me a letter to another subordinate, requesting him to furnish me with a situation on a government farm in that district. By him, in turn, I was furnished with a military pass, and a note to an overseer upon three government farms from twelve to sixteen miles east of Norfolk; but he had all the aid he needed from detailed soldiers on the premises. I passed on, therefore, to a number of the government farms both east and south of Norfolk for some distance, without finding a suitable opening. I slept several nights under the roof of ex-Governor Wise's house, a part of which was then occupied by three schools. Had I been there three years sooner, he would doubtless have been anxious to furnish me with a neck-tie, as he was John Brown at Harper's Ferry. But then he was not there, and instead, the songs of freedom were shouted out between the white teeth of the little blacks daily. After waiting, by request, in suspense and an expense, for three weeks, I received an official order to go directly to a certain farm, and act with the overseer on the place. On arriving there, I saw the overseer  putting his musket in shooting order. I naturally inquired if there was game about there, and was told that there were some d-d niggers that be would like to shoot. I soon saw there had been some trouble on the place, and that the man whom I was sent there to "act with" was a rough customer, of the copperhead type, and that disorder was the order of the day-because the man who had been put there to govern the place was not able to govern himself, much less others. After giving close attention to the disturbed elements for a few days, matters settled down rather quietly, and when I left, the colored people expressed many regrets.

OVERSEERSHIP.
Men wearing the United States uniform, who can openly and exultingly boast of their brutality towards those they have in charge, females not excepted, are not the best guardians for the simple and defenceless, whom grinding oppression has had for long years <illegible> its iron heel. Nearly all the farms in that district have on them detailed soldiers for overseers, who <illegible> much better suited with that position than they would be now near the Confederate capital, among the <illegible> bullets and bursting shells. Many of these overseers are young men, never having had much turning experience, and as little sympathy for the ”d-d niggers," by their own admission. Yet there are those among them who treat those under them commendably. A simple change from a Southern to a Northern overseer is no proof that the condition of the underling is better. Northern masters and overseers are often the most exacting and avaricious. <illegible> withstanding the free use of the lash is not allowed, yet there are various other modes of punishment and nature at hand.

PROFIT AND LOSS.
Pecuniarily, the government farms in that section are, to a great extent, pauper farms. It is doubtful if my of them pay very near the cost of carrying them us. The one at which I stayed for a time would not probably half pay the expenses. Yet it is better that these homeless people be spread out over the farms that left in idleness, without doing anything towards their support; for but few of the resident, oath-bound citizens have the means and disposition to furnish men  with remunerative employment, and many of them cannot sustain themselves at the present time of high prices, &c.
Most of the able-bodied men and many of the women are employed by the government as soldiers or in some other capacity, leaving but few for farm <illegible> other than the aged, the children, and women uncombered with the infirm and small children, many of whom are orphans.

NUMBER AND RATIONS.
The whole number of names on the books of the <illegible> was 187, drawing 132 full rations. Children under fourteen years draw half rations. About thirty of this number were employed as field hands five-<illegible> of whom were women and children, and a large percentage under eighteen years of age. The soil was hard to work, tools badly worn and awkward. <illegible> weighting from one and a half to two pounds each, with a two inch hole for the eye, and five and a half foot handle, were used by girls of fourteen years. No wonder the crop of 450 acres was far behind the season, nor could all the gross and abusive language of the overseer, with any amount of threats, make it otherwise. The rations were not sufficient for the 
<c02>
work hands, and if not otherwise provided, would be out about the 24th or 25th of the month. For the month of July, the rations served were, each, eighteen pounds corn meal, nine pounds flour, seventeen pounds beef and pork, (two thirds of which was beef, very bony, and all extremely lean,) one pound of beans, two of a salt, one and three-quarters of sugar, three quarters of soap, and one pint of vinegar; no vegetables.

HEALTH. 
Many of those on the place had been down with the small-pox, fifteen had died, and quite a number of others were then sick of various diseases. The place was notorious for its sickly location, surrounded as it it is by swamps, frog-ponds, and forests. It had often changed owners, for that reason. Nearly all the whites (fourteen) who had been stationed on the place since its confiscation, were obliged to leave on account of sickness.
With such associations and surroundings, and with poor provisions, badly prepared, &c., my health gave way, the ague and fever came on, and finding myself rapidly running down, and seeing no sufficient reasons for remaining there longer under existing circumstances, I left, with just strength and life enough, to reach New York, which I did July 29, and there found the most kind and hospitable reception at the hands of our old and true friend, Wm. P. Powell, at No. 2 Dover street, who, with his family, had been made to suffer severely by the fiendish barbarity of a New York mob, for his identity with the colored race. 
Since my return to New York, I have been stopping with a relative at Astoria, L. I., having been principally confined to the house, and much of the time to the bed; but I am now slowly improving, and am in hopes in a few weeks to be able to go to work again, as that is our main dependence for support. A part of my baggage was stolen on my passage, and when I got here, the last dollar had vanished. 

WAGES.
For farm hands, the wages were from five to ten dollars a month, with rations deducted, leaving but a trifle due at pay day, it such a time should come. The men had not been paid anything since last March, and the women not for the last year, but all expressed the hope that they would be paid soon. Most of them had been assisted with clothing by Northern benevolence, through the agency of Lucy and Sarah Chase. These names were household words on all the farms around Norfolk. Many a poor desponding heart has been made to rejoice by the garments which they have dispensed among the really needy and destitute.
The great and immediate want among these people is remunerative employment, good and trusty advisers, who will secure their confidence, and protection in the exercise of their legitimate rights. They need protection from the avariciousness, usurpations and vices of Northern men as well as of Southern men; but give them a fair chance, and, with few exceptions, they will prove themselves self-sustaining. Their little corn and potatoe crops, their gardens, poultry and pigs, and everything they can turn to account, demonstrate that they will take care of themselves as well as any other class with the same conditions.
The Freedmen's Aid Associations and some others have done much to aid and encourage them in their agricultural and industrial pursuits. Their gratitude is never withheld where kindness and favors are honestly bestowed. 

SCHOOLS.
The children acquire the knowledge of reading, spelling, writing, &c., as readily as any other class would under the same circumstances. I visited a number of the schools, both in and out of the city, and was informed by the teachers generally that their pupils were more orderly and attentive to their lessons than white children were of the same age whom they had previously taught. Many of the adults attend school as they have opportunity, either in the daytime or evenings; and it was pleasant to see those who were not regular teachers giving freely their time and attention in assisting them.

RELIGION.
They, as well as others, have their peculiar views of religion. Most of those who make a profession of religion are attached to the Baptist or Methodist denomination, and are at special times very emotional, and susceptible of physiological and magnetic influences. How much the teachings of the Westminster or other similar Catechisms are doing to really enlighten or liberalize their minds is a point, perhaps, not easy to decide. 
We should not expect too much from the present generation. It is not one Proclamation that lifts the life-long chattel to the angelic plane! There must be growth. Much cultivation has to be done. The blacks of this land are now in a transition state. They are just entering the red sea, ”whose surges are of gore." The wilderness is some distance on. The Jubilee is not to be gathered up by the wayside, but to be WON. They are now grasping the musket; that indicates something! They will soon clench the sword, and then it will not be long before they will cut and shoot their way up to the side of Southern chivalry. And then there will be many rounds in the ladder before reaching the top. The highest human elevation is not gained by the use of murderous instruments. 
Had I now the constitution and the years that have passed and left me a wreck, I would be glad to dwell among them and cheer them on to manhood, if nothing more. But, anyhow, I have lived long enough to see the old venerated institution crumbling. Its adhesiveness is passing off. The acid is in motion throughout the whole fabric. Its rumblings may sound horribly to the modern conservative, but in due time it will be a mass of rubbish. Meantime, the Temple of Freedom will go up; and if it shall become visible to the inhabitants of this country, and inquired after in the ”old," it will be enough for this century. JONATHAN WALKER.

REPLY TO M. D. CONWAY. 
34 LISPENARD STREET, NEW YORK, Aug. 26.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-I find in the Liberator of this late, a note from Mr. M. D. Conway, in which he undertakes to explain the occurrence upon which my allusion to him, in a letter to you, was founded. The occurrence as Mr. Conway reports it is substantially correct as far as it goes, but the vital circumstance upon which my charges of jealousy and misrepresentation were based is not alluded to. No one, I am sure, can see in what occurred at the Islington meeting to which Mr. Conway refers, the slightest proof that I said Mr. Lincoln was a negro-hater; and as Mr. Conway says that this was the first and last time that anything passed between him and myself, the inference is that if I did not say, at that meeting, that Mr. Lincoln was a negro-hater, I did not, in Mr. Conway's presence, say it at all. 
And yet Mr. Conway, in about the fourth or fifth letter which he wrote to the Commonwealth from London, makes this report:-"Mr. Lincoln is the most popular man in England. The other night, Sella Martin called him a negro-hater, and the audience received it with disapprobation." Of course, if I thought and said this, I would not defend Mr. Lincoln or his administration; and if the report that I said it were true, the conclusion in the mind of the American reader must be irresistible, that I was doing the cause of the Union and that of my race harm by my public speeches.
In this last note from Mr. Conway, I am not accused of saying, at that meeting—the only place where anything passed between us-that Mr. Lincoln was a negro-hater. So that Mr. Conway virtually confesses that I did not say it. Then the question naturally arises, why did he write to his paper that I did say it? Is not that misrepresentation? As painful as it was for me to give up the friendship of one whom I had learned to respect for his talents and love for his labors, I had no alternative but to do so when, according to his own showing, be recklessly wrote what was not true about me and my labors. 
<c03>
I am very thankful to Mr. Conway for the kind words he was ”publishing" about me in England, when I penned my ”attack” on him; but I should have had a still livelier sense of gratitude, if he had not” published” unkind ones, calculated to do me great damage here at home. Perhaps I was wrong in saying Mr. Conway was jealous of a colored co-laborer; but a man must be very depraved himself, or see a great deal of depravity in another, before he comes to the conclusion that that other, in misrepresenting him, is simply malignant. Mr. Conway, in what he published about me here, left me only these two passions as probable motives; and I chose jealousy rather than malignity. 
One explanation is called for, which, in closing, I will give. Mr. Conway reports as follows:—
"MR. CONWAY. Does Mr. Martin say that William Lloyd Garrison and Wendell Phillips do not treat negroes as equals?
"MR. MARTIN. I do not exculpate anybody or inculpate anybody; but I know what I have said to be true."
This is partly wrong. Mr. Conway was answered the question which he reports himself as having asked in these words:-"This is not the place for personalities." Nothing was said by me about inculpating or exculpating-the words were not used; and the reason why I said that was not the place for personalities was, that I not only thought it rude for a gentleman thus to interrupt me while I was speaking, especially when the interrupter was to follow me with a speech, but I desired to end a colloquy which exhibited this rudeness to enemies, to the damage of the cause which I was trying to defend.
Yours, truly, SELLA MARTIN.
We acknowledge, with great pleasure, the receipt of thirty dollars from Gerrit Smith, of Peterboro’, N. Y., as a donation to the proposed Washington Wilks Testimonial. 

NATIONAL COPPERHEAD CONVENTION. 
NOMINATION OF MCCLELLAN FOR PRESIDENT. 
The mis called ”Democracy” opened their National Convention at Chicago on Monday last, and it is still in session as we go to press. Of course, the traitors and cowards, from all sections, flocked thither as to a carnival. On Tuesday, the platform was laid down, as follows:—
Resolved, That in the future, as in the past, we will adhere with unwavering fidelity to the Union under the Constitution as the only solid foundation of our. strength, security and happiness as a people, and as a framework of government equally conducive to the prosperity of all the Status, both Northern and Southern.
Resolved, That this Convention does explicitly declare as the sense of the American people, that after four years of failure to restore the Union by the experiment of war, during which, under pretence of military necessity, or war power higher than the Constitution, the Constitution has been disregarded in every part, and public liberty and private rights alike trodden down, and the material prosperity of the country essentially impaired. Justice, humanity, liberty and the public welfare demand that immediate efforts be made for a cessation of hostilities with a view to an ultimate Convention of all the States, or other peaceable means, to the end that at the earliest practicable moment peace may be restored on the basis of the Federal Union of the States.
Resolved, That the direct interference of the military authority of the United States in the recent elections held in Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri and Delaware was a shameful violation of the Constitution, and the repetition of such acts will be held as revolutionary, and resisted with all the means and power under our control.
Resolved, That the aim and object of the Democratic party is to preserve the Federal Union and the rights of the States unimpaired, and they hereby declare that they consider the administrative usurpation of extraordinary and dangerous powers not granted by the Constitution, the subversion of civil and military law in States not in insurrection, the arbitrary military arrest, imprisonment, trial and sentence of American citizens in States where the civil law exists in full force, the suppression of the freedom of speech and of the press, the denial of the right of asylum, the open and avowed disregard of State rights, the employment of unusual test oaths and interference with and denial of the right of the people to bear arms, as calculated to prevent the restoration of the Union and perpetuation of a government deriving its just powers from the consent of the governed.
Resolved, That the shameful disregard by the Administration of its duty in respect to our fellow-citizens who now and long have been prisoners of war in a suffering condition deserves the severest reprobation on the score alike of public and common humanity.
Resolved, That the sympathy of the Democratic party is heartily and earnestly extended to the soldiers of our army, who are and have been in the field under the flag of our country; and. in the event of our attaining power, they will receive all the care, protection, regard and kindness that the brave soldiers of the Republic have so nobly earned.
A stormy and acrimonious debate occurred on the question of nominations, in which the most bitter and violent personalities were uttered; but on Wednesday, the Convention voted to proceed to ballot for a candidate for President, and Gen. GEORGE B. MCCLELLAN was nominated on the first ballot, receiving 2021/2 votes out of the 226 cast. The rest were thrown for Thomas H. Seymour, of Connecticut. George H. Pendleton, of Ohio, was unanimously nominated for the Vice Presidency, on the second ballot.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON. Not a few of our readers are familiar with the name of William Lloyd Garrison, a man of brave heart, and imbued with the spirit of a boundless humanity. Mr. Garrison has, through a long life, been the most devoted advocate of the slave to be found in the New World. To this end he has cheerfully submitted to every species of self-sacrifice, loss of substance, and loss of character with the mass of his countrymen. Roused to something approaching a Divine fury at the American churches, whom he deemed, and for many a day justly deemed, ”the chief bulwark of American slavery," he frequently gave way to excesses both in thought and in expression. For this it has frequently been our lot to censure him; but we have seen reason very materially to change our views. By his extravagance and violence, he brought the masses up to the line of duty; and now he rejoices in all that he has been enabled to do and to suffer for the advancement of the cause of humanity. We know not among all the millions of the Federal States, that there is one man whose report is more reliable touching the progress that things have of late been making. Assuredly, he is not the man to gloss, to exaggerate, or to use honied accents when treating of that ”sum of all villanies," slavery! In a letter to Professor Newman, of London, Mr. Garrison has summed up the items, or rather a portion of them, which constitute grounds of philanthropic triumph.-British Banner, edited by Rev. Dr. Campbell.
UNION CENTRAL COMMITTEE. The regular meeting of this body was held at their headquarters, corner Broadway and Twenty-third street, New York, last week, a large delegation being present. In the absence of Mr. Darling, President of the Committee, Mr. Hugh Gardner, Vice-President, occupied the chair. The following preamble and resolutions in regard to Messrs. Davis and Wade were unanimously adopted:—
Whereas, we are on the eve of a most important Presidential election, the result of which must gravely influence the destinies of the Republic, thus rendering it necessary that the entire strength of the Union party should be brought to bear against the enemies of the country, whether such enemies are in arms in the field, or unarmed at home; and
Whereas, there is danger of our strength being divided and frittered away by differences of opinion, not on vital points, as to men and measures, which divisions and differences must inure to the advantage of our political opponents (who are the enemies of the government); and
Whereas, there has recently appeared in the public papers a manifesto, over, the names of Messrs. Wade and Davis, members of Congress, the tendency of which is to bring our Chief Magistrate into disrepute by weakening the confidence of the people in his administration of public affairs, and thereby jeopardizing his reelection to the office for which he has been nominated; therefore be it.
Resolved, by this Union Central Committee of the City and County of New York, That we earnestly deprecate the publication of said manifesto, and condemn the spirit which seems to have prompted its preparation and publication.
Resolved, That we also condemn the practice of those Union men who use their official, social and party position to bring into disrepute the regularly-nominated candidates of the party.
Resolved, That our faith in the judgment and patriotism of the President of the United States is unshaken, and we hereby renew our pledge to do all in our power to insure his reelection.
Resolved, That copies of these resolutions, properly attested by the officers of the Committee, be transmitted to the President, and to Messrs. Wade and Davis.
<c04>

COPPERHEAD CONSPIRACIES.
An Indianapolis letter in the Cincinnati Gazette says:—
Some time since, copies of the ritual of the O. A. K. were found in the office of D. W. Voorhees, of Terre Haute, which naturally led to the inference that they were the property of D. Voorhees. He has made a denial to Col. R. W. Thompson and to Gen. Carrington, which occasioned the following reply:—
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., Aug. 16, 1864.
Hon. D. W. Voorhees, Member U. S. Congress, Terre Haute, Ind.:
I have received from you a copy of your letter to Col. R. W. Thompson, Provost Marshal, and his reply. The following laconic note accompanies them:
’General Carrington-As you published this falsehood in the newspapers, I shall expect you to correct it, as Colonel Thompson has done. D. W. VOORHEES.’
The assumption in the above is groundless. Your name is not mentioned by me in my reports, neither have I published anything about you whatever.
You insist upon my answering your note to Colonel Thompson. The points yon make are—
1st. 'That the office in which it is said these papers were found had not been occupied by you or by any one connected with you, or been in any way under your control, since last November.’
2d. You ‘desire to ascertain whether the circumstances connected with the discovery of those papers in that office led to the supposition that you placed them there, or was even aware of their existence?’
You desire this, 'that the people may know the truth,’ and ‘not that you attach any particular importance to the documents.'
The papers referred to are one hundred and twelve copies of the Ritual of the. O. A. K., a treasonable order, aiming to overturn the government of the United States, of which you are a member.
The gentlemen who found ’these papers' told me they were found in your office.
The following are ’some of the circumstances' that led me to suppose they were correct in the supposition:
Your law, library, and office furniture were in the office where ‘these papers' were found.
You had declined renomination for Congress, and the office was reported as not for rent as late as April, 1864.
The Ritual had been issued in the autumn of 1863. Your Congressional documents were in the office where ‘these papers' were found. 
Your speeches, up to March, of your entire Congressional career, with the ‘John Brown' speech, were in the office where ‘these papers' were found.
The correspondence of Senator Wall, of New Jersey, under his frank, endorsing a proposition to furnish you with twenty thousand stand of Garibaldi rifles, just imported, ‘for which he could vouch,' was in the office where ‘these papers' were found.
The correspondence of C. L. Vallandigham, from Windsor, C. W., assuring you 'our people will fight,' and that ‘he is ready,' and fixing a point on ‘the Lima road' at 'which to meet you,' was in the office where ’these papers' were found.
The correspondence of Joseph Ristine, Auditor of State, declaring that he ‘would like to see all Democrats unite in a bold and open resistance to all attempts to keep ours a united people by force of steel,' and that 'this was a war against the democracy, and our only hope was the successful resistance of the South,' was in the office where ‘these papers' were found. 
The correspondence of E. C. Hibben, who assures you that ‘the democracy are fast stiffening up when this war is to be openly declared as being waged for the purpose of freeing the negro,' ‘which will arouse another section of the country to arms,' and declaring ’that Lincoln bayonets are shouldered for cold-blooded murder,' was in the office where 'these papers' were found.
The correspondence of J. Hardest, who 'wants yon to have that hundred thousand men ready, as we do not know how soon we may need them,' was in the office where this ritual was found.
The correspondence of J. J. Bingham, who asks you 'if you think the South has resources enough to keep the Union forces at bay,' and says that 'you must have sources of information which he has not,' was in the office where ‘these papers' were found.
The correspondence of John G. Davis, informing you that a certain New York journal ‘is wonderfully exercised about secret anti war movements, and tremble in their boots in view of the terrible reaction which is sure to await them,' was in the office where ‘these papers' were found.
The correspondence of W. S. Walker, who ‘keeps out of the way because they are trying to arrest him for officiating in secret societies, inclosing the oath of the K. G. C's prior to that of the O. A. K., was in the office where ‘these papers' were found.
The petition of C. L. Vallandigham, D. W. Voorhees and Benjamin Wood, in favor of two republics and a united South, was in the office where ‘these papers' were found.
The correspondence of Campbell, who says the ‘democracy were not afraid to let their purposes out to daylight;' but that 'now it is deemed best to work in secret, and asking your consent,' were in the office where ‘these papers' were found.
The correspondence of E. Etheridge, clerk of the House of Representatives, giving official notice that ‘your credentials as members of the thirty-eighth Congress have been received and filed in the proper office,' and for you ‘to come on,' was in the office where ‘these papers' were found.
The correspondence of George H. Pendleton, which states that Etheridge's plan to organize Congress, viz.,'to elect himself clerk and Cox as speaker,' 'though he (Pendleton) will not facilitate the renomination of any man as clerk whose programme is for his defeat as speaker' 'suggesting to you to have it whispered in the ear of Etheridge to reciprocate favors and opposition,' and do this authoritatively, but not as from him, &c., was in the office where ‘these papers’ were found.
The correspondence of J. McDonald, who had an interview with Perkins, 'in one of his (Perkins's) lucid intervals,' with regard to 'the discovery of the Northwest passage' by Perkins, for which he claimed the credit, etc., was in the office where ‘these papers' were found.
And so of B. W. Hanna, who wants a good place in the regular army, and so of Hannegan, and so of W. J. Pierce, who 'will show the beasts that Lincoln has turned out to be a monster in 1864;' and so of Bigger and Devlin and Dodd, &c., whose said correspondence was in the office where ‘these papers' were found. 
These are some of ‘the circumstances' that led me to believe that ‘these papers,' the ritual of the O. A. K., were found in your office.
I looked upon these circumstances as a plain juror might be supposed to do, and not as a statesman, and innocently supposed that such papers as these, if spared from the fire, would be in the possession of the owner, and that the office of the owner would be the place where these papers would be found.
And yet, with Colonel Thompson, I cheerfully accept your denial, and so respond as you request, ‘that the people may know the truth.'
Your well-wisher,
HENRY B. CARRINGTON."

COPPERHEAD PLOTTING IN INDIANA. 
The Indianapolis Journal states that Gov. Morton of Indiana, on Saturday, received a letter from a gentleman in an eastern county, conveying the information that the Copperheads of Indiana had ordered and paid for 80,000 revolvers, with forty-two boxes fixed ammunition, to be distributed among the antagonists to our government, for the purpose of controlling the Presidential election. Names and places were given, and the Governor at once set the police to work on the matter. The result of their investigation was, that the Provost Marshal of Indianapolis and his assistants made a descent on the printing and book- binding establishment of H. H. Dodd & Co., on Saturday night, where they found thirty-two boxes such as were described in the letter. After the boxes were opened, their contents were found to consist of 400 large navy revolvers, and 135,000 rounds of fixed ammunition for the same arm. Among the captures made at the same place were the Great Seal of the Order of the ”Sons of Liberty," the official list of the members of the order at this place, and several hundred printed copies of the Ritual; also a large amount of correspondence of an important character, which may be given to the public at the proper time. Some letters were recently found and seized in the office of Daniel W. Voorhees, member of Congress from Indiana, implicating him in a negotiation for the purchase of a large number of rifles. One of them is as follows:
"LONG BRANCH, Aug. 21,1863.
MY DEAR SIR: I enclose you two letters from a man by the name of Carr in reference to arms. A letter directed to him simply Philadelphia will reach him. I can vouch for the excellent quality and great efficiency of the rifles.
Yours in haste, JAMES W. WALL."
Envelope endorsed:
[Free.]
JAMES W. WALL, U. S. S.
Hon. Daniel Voorhees, Terre Haute, Indiana.
Another letter was from Carr to Wall (who, it will be remembered, is a noted Copperhead of New Jersey,) describing the character of the arms, which are of foreign manufacture, 20,000 in number, and are offered at $14 each, in bond.
The Indianapolis Journal thus comments on these developments:
"The people will begin to understand now how much these unmitigated scoundrels desire peace. Thirty thousand navy revolvers, with ammunition enough for an army, coupled with the negotiations of Mr. Voorhees for the purchase of twenty thousand Garibaldi rifles, would indicate that there is a good deal of the disposition of the tiger hid under their sheepskin garb of peace. When we look at the large sum of money which the amount of arms and ammunition 
<c05>
named in this letter must cost, the question presents itself of the ways and means. The pistols alone would cost close on to one million of dollars at manufacturers' prices, and the twenty thousand rifles, without the import duties, would cost $280,000. Of course no such sums are provided by the. members of the order in this State, but there have been some Peace Commissioners prowling along the Canada border for several weeks. John C. Walker, and other peace men of Indiana, have been visiting them. 
Some months since, the Confederate Government borrowed fifteen million dollars in Europe, for which they issued cotton bonds, and every blockade-runner carries out cotton to repay the loan. The object of the loan was, primarily, to purchase a navy in European ports, including the celebrated rams. That speculation having failed by the refusal of the governments of England and France to permit the rams to depart, and they having been sold to other persons, the peace commissioners are in funds, and they could not make an investment more to the advantage of their master than to purchase arms and ammunition for northern traitors, and to pay northern demagogues liberally for shrieking peace, free speech and liberty."

UNION PRISONERS MURDERED BY THE BARBARIANS.
NEW YORK, Aug. 25. A Memphis dispatch to the Herald states that there were over 8000 troops there when the rebels dashed in last Sunday. They captured portions of Washburne's and Hurlburt's staffs 
CAIRO, Aug. 24. The Memphis Bulletin says Forrest's force was nine regiments and four guns, half of which entered the city, the remainder stopping outside to prevent their retreat from being cut off. The rebels captured 250 prisoners, mostly 100 days men, many of whom escaped, and many were murdered. The rebels shot several sick soldiers in the hospital and captured many others. All the prisoners unable to keep up were shot.
A correspondent with the Fifth Army Corps gives the following description of the field of battle on the Weldon railroad on the day after Sunday's struggle:
"No battle-field, covering such limited territory, can be cited in this war where evidences of a terrible struggle and desperate carnage have been more marked and fearful. The dead lay as they had fallen, not singly and scattering, but in heaps, in some places two three deep. This is no fiction-it is the tragedy of war-the closing scene of a day's dreadful drama, a grand tableau of the dead. Dead horses, broken caissons, swords, muskets and all the dread paraphernalia of battle, gave the finishing touch to the picture. Those who took a view of the field-and I find on conversing with rebel wounded and prisoners brought in late last evening that they give the same figures-now estimate the enemy's losses on Sunday at from four to five thousand. Parties from our side have been busy all day burying our own and the enemy's dead. There are many rebel dead still on the field unburied."
NEW YORK, Aug. 26. Richmond papers state that Gen. Saunders was killed and Gen. Lamar mortally wounded, and Generals Barton, Finnegan and Hennegan also wounded in the action of the 21st. They also acknowledge a heavy loss of officers and men, but claim to have taken 3000 prisoners. Our losses in the 5th corps were, killed, 17 officers and 132 men; wounded, 74 officers and 784 men; missing, 98 officers and 2853 men.
The casualties in the 9th corps were about 300, making a total loss of 4255 since the 19th.
Many of the missing will probably turn up. Craw-ford's division was the heaviest loser, being about 2000, mostly prisoners.
Petersburg papers of the 21st consider the Lynchburg railroad in great danger, and the Sentinel says, ”That avenue gone, Richmond is really besieged."
THE REBEL RAM TENNESSEE. The letters from officers of Com. Farragut's fleet represent the rebel ram Tennessee, captured in Mobile Bay, as a far more efficient vessel than any of our iron clads. She is much faster, was armed with only eight seven-inch rifle guns, yet inflicted great slaughter upon our fleet. Our whole fleet engaged her-thirteen heavy vessels, carrying 500 guns—and though several of them ran upon her at full speed, inflicted no serious injury upon her, while the concussion injured some of our vessels greatly. Over 200 shots struck her, and the only injury was from the 15 inch shot of the monitor Chickasaw, which struck the only vulnerable spot, where: the rudder chain had been inadvertently left insufficiently protected. But for this she would have inflicted much greater injury upon our fleet. Had the rudder chains been led aft below the deck, they would not have been damaged.
CAPTURE OF A CELEBRATED BLOCKADE-RUNNER. 
On the 54th ultimo, latitude 34 deg.11 min. north, longitude 76 deg. 20 min. west, the United States gunboat Gettysburg, assisted by the gunboats Keystone State and Massachusetts, captured the Anglo-rebel steamer Lilian, loaded with 650 bales of cotton, from Wilmington bound to Bermuda. She was hove to, after an exciting chase by the three steamers, by a shot from the Gettysburg, which struck and penetrated her starboard bow below the water line. The. Lilian has formerly been commanded by the notorious pirate Maffitt, and he is still supposed to be in command, and no doubt will be recognized by some of his old classmates when the vessel arrives at Beaufort. N. C., where she was ordered to stop on her way to Boston. The Lilian is a new English steamer of great speed, built in 1864, and of splendid model, and will make a valuable addition to our navy.
Very few who visit the Southern part of the city but are attracted by the neat and very tasteful appearance exhibited by the camp of the 14th U. S. Colored Infantry. It is a pattern of comfort and tasteful display in all its surroundings. The men comprising this regiment have become thoroughly proficient in all their military evolutions, and in the discipline attached to military life. In company with a friend, who had served several years in the regular army, we visited the vicinity the other evening as the regiment was on dress parade. Our friend observed that in all his military experience, he had never witnessed such complete precision in drill, or a better appreciation of soldierly duties, than was manifested on this occasion. A very creditable feature with the greater part of the men is the eager anxiety manifested for elementary educational books, and the desire to acquire knowledge. The Christian Commission, with its characteristic zeal in every good work, furnishes books and all facilities for acquiring knowledge, free of expense. Chattanooga Gazette.
A correspondent of the New York Independent, writing from Norfolk, Va., says: ”Within the last three months, Maj.-Gen. B. F. Butler has decided that colored members of Baptist churches in Eastern Virginia and North Carolina shall be considered members indeed, and, so long as the present military rule exists, they shall be entitled to and protected in the exercise of all church rights and privileges whatever enjoyed by the white members of said churches: and if the white members will not submit to this order of things, they may quietly retire, and leave the colored members in the exclusive use and enjoyment of all church property and privileges."
The Washington correspondent of the Daily Advertiser telegraphs a synopsis of the contents of the Richmond Examiner, of Tuesday last, as follows:
The editor says that at this particular moment, ”nothing we can think of would produce so fine a moral effect in the North as another advance of Early into Pennsylvania, and the burning of York, Lancaster and Harrisburg. Such a movement would act as a sedative to their war spirit, and would make sure the adoption of a noble peace platform by the Chicago Convention, and the election of a peace President. There is no other conceivable course in which we can help on the blessed cause of peace."
The paper claims that 4174 prisoners reached Richmond on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday. The privates were sent to Belle Isle, and the officers, one hundred in number, among whom was Brig. Gen. Hayes, of Massachusetts, to the Libby Prison.
THE RADICAL DEMOCRACY. The existence of the Radical Democracy, whose candidate for the Presidency is General Fremont, has, it will now be confessed, been entirely overlooked by the constituency of the Chicago Convention. General Fremont, in spite of the frequent appeals of the New Nation, is not even thought of by the enthusiastic admirers of McClellan and Vallandigham; and so fails the badly, considered, movement for uniting the opposition to President Lincoln upon an Abolitionist war candidate. This exposes the real issue before the country, which is not a question between Mr. Lincoln and General Fremont, or General McClellan, but one between Abraham Lincoln and Jefferson Davis.
OUR PRISONERS AT THE SOUTH. A (correspondence took place, some weeks ago, between the Federal officers, prisoners of war at Charleston, S. C., and Major-General Sam. Jones, commanding the rebel army in that department, concerning the treatment of the former, showing that since their arrival in Charleston, on Sunday, June 12, and for several days thereafter, they received an amount of food barely sufficient to support life, less in quantity, far inferior in quality and preparation to that doled out usually to the worst felons or the poorest beggar, including no bread whatever, and furnished in a disgusting condition.
<c06>
NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.
The seventeenth Annual Term will commence Nov. 2, 1864, and continue seventeen weeks. Tuition fee for the courses of the six Professors and the Demonstrator, $65-free to students needing aid, wherever residing. For particulars, address the subscriber, at the College, No. 30, Canton street, Boston.
3w SAM'L GREGORY, M. D., Secretary.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in West Wrentham, Sunday, Sept., 4th, at half-past 10, A. M., and 1, P. M.
Subjects: ”Overcome Evil with Good"-"The War wrong in Principle and a mistaken Policy."

Portrait of Mr. Garrison.
JOHNSTON'S Crayon Portrait of Mr. Garrison is on exhibition at the store of Williams & Everett, 234 Washington street, and elicits warm approval. It will be lithographed by Mr. Johnston, and published early in September. Price $1.50 per copy.
C. H. BRAINARD.
Subscriptions received by R, F.WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street. July 29.

WEST NEWTON 
English and Classical School.
THE next term will begin Sept. 7, 1864. For particulars, inquire of N. S. ALLEN,
Aug. 19. West Newton.

MISS H. M. PARKHURST'S
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL 
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
NEWBURG, N. Y.
The Fall Term will commence on Wednesday, Sept. 21. Aug. 26-2W

Proclamation of Freedom.
FINE Photographs, 18 by 13 inches, of Paine's Pen-and-Ink Drawing of the Emancipation Proclamation, handsomely illustrated. The original was donated to the Brooklyn Sanitary Fair, and by a subscription of $500 presented to the President of the United States. A single copy sent by mail on receipt of $3.00 A liberal discount allowed to dealers or canvassers. It is a beautiful and artistic work.
Canvassers wanted for every section of the country.
Copy-right secured. Apply to 
ROWLAND JOHNSON,
54 Beaver st., New York, 119 Market st., Phila. August 19.
THE HUMAN VOICE indicative of character; Physiology of the Voice-bass, barytone, tenor, contralto, soprane; Male and Female Voices-what causes the difference? How to Cultivate the Voice; Stammering.
CLIMATE AND THE RACES-Northerners and Southerners compared; organic difference; quality, hardness, softness, fineness, coarseness; Carbon-its transformations; Natural Development; Pauper Children; Thieves Photographed; Right Position in Sleep; Vanity, Self-Praise; New Views of Physiognomy; The Face; Signs of Character; Love of the Eyes-in PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL, Aug. No., 20 ets., or $2 a year. Newsmen have it.
FOWLER & WELLS, 389 Broadway, N. Y.
July 29. 2w

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co's, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co's, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of 
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
n the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro' Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell's Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30-ly

The True Temperance Platform.
BY R. T. TRALL, M. D.
THE best and most scientific temperance document ever published.
The errors of Temperance Reformers and the medical profession, and the effects of alcohol on plants, animals and man, are here for the first time plainly pointed out.
Price, per mail-paper, 60 cents; cloth, 85 cents.
MILLER & BROWNING,
15 Leight Street, New York.
July 15. 3m

MASON & HAMLIN'S 
CABINET ORGANS.
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family 
MAY HAVE 
A GOOD ORGAN
AT a very moderate cost-$85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.
THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher's Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakosch, etc: in brief, more than, two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston,
7 Mereer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26 6m
POETRY.
ON SHAKSPEARE.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
[The following excellent poem, written by John A. Willis, was read at the celebration of the Shakespeare Tercentenary in St. Louis. We are not familiar with the name of the author, but the production shows that he is a poet of no mean abilities.
The great die not!  They err who call it Death,
When lieth low the wise and godlike head!
The great die not; they, only, truly live,
And we, the living, are the only dead!
Growing too great for burdening bonds of flesh,
And too refined for food of mortal breath,
The emancipated soul but takes one step
Onward tow'rd God-and men do call it Death!
So! that wise Master of the human heart,
Sweet Bard of Avon! Poet- !- Painter !-Sage!–
Passed, death–born, into truer life-and we,
To-night, by centuries, count his age!
By centuries-still is he as young as when
His lips let fall wise words in honeyed rhyme;
And centuries more shall wrinkle not his brow;
The immortal moek the palsying touch of Time!
And not alone lives he among us still:
Those forms born of his pregnant brain are here!
Who has not laughed with lusty rotund Jack?
Who has not wept with poor dethroned Lear?
"Macbeth still murders sleeps!" as when before
His tranced eyes the airy dagger bled;
Richard still “wades through slaughter to a throne,"
To trip and fall in blood himself had shed!
The youthful Dane, madman most wise indeed,
With well-laid plan still frights the fratricide,
Whose trembling limbs and smiting knees reveal
That which his tongue had long been taught to hide!
The pained ghost stalks ‘fore our startled gaze,
Beckoning with bony hand from ghastly shroud;
And good Polonius still, with feeble eye,
Doth see whole herds of camels in the cloud!
Othello, crazed with “trifles light as air,"
Still bends above his sleeping love at night—
While his great passion shakes him as a reed—
"Puts out the light, and then, puts out the light!"
And who is this with scales and whetted steel,
Who stalks among us now with clutching hands,
And shaggy brows, and cunning gleaming eyes,—
The cruel Jew, who still his bond demands.
Yes! they all live—-and he shall ever live,
This greatest limner of the human heart,
Whose cunning hand did draw men as they are,
And of all passions map the lasting chart!
His fame rests not on any crumbling tongue—
Language may change, and princes, thrones and powers;
But unchanged still shall be the human heart,
And the same passions be forever ours!
THE BRIDGE OF CLOUD.
BY HENRY W. LONGFELLOW.
Burn, O evening hearth, and waken
Pleasant visions, as of old!
Though the house by winds be shaken,
Safe I keep this room of gold!
Ah! no longer wizard Fancy
Builds its castles in the air,
Luring me by necromancy
Up the never–-ending stair!
But, instead, it builds me bridges
Over many a dark ravine,
Where beneath the gusty ridges
Cataracts dash and roar unseen.
And I cross them, little heeding
Blast of wind or torrent's roar,
As I follow the receding
Footsteps that have gone before.
Nought avails the cry of pain,
Nought avails the imploring gesture,
When I touch the flying vesture,
'Tis the gray robe of the rain.
Baffled I return, and, leaning
O'er the parapet of cloud,
Watch the mist that intervening
Wraps the valley in its shroud.
And the sounds of life ascending
Faintly, vaguely, meet the car,
Murmur of bells and voices blending
With the rush of waters near.
Well I know what there lies hidden,
Every tower and town and farm,
And again the land forbidden
Reassumes its vanished charm.
Well I know the secret places,
And the nests in hedge and tree;
At what doors are friendly faces,
In what heart a thought of me.
Through the mist and darkness sinking,
Blown by wind and beaten by shower,
Down I fling the thought I'm thinking,
Down I toss this Alpine flower.
-Atlantic Monthly for September.
A PRAYER.
I ask not wealth, but power to take
And use whate'er I have aright;
Not years, but wisdom that shall make
My life a profit and delight.
I ask not that for me the plan
Of good and ill be set aside;
But that the common lot of man
Be nobly borne and glorified.
I know I may not always keep
My steps in places green and sweet,
Nor find the pathway of the deep
A path of safety for my feet;
But pray that when the tempest's breath
Shall fiercely sweep my way about,
I make not shipwreck of my faith,
In the unbuttoned sea of doubt;
And that, though it be mine to know
How hard the stoniest pillow seems,
Good angels still may come and go
On the bright ladder of my dreams.
I do not ask for love below,
That friends shall never be estranged,
But for the power of loving, so
My soul may keep its youth unchanged.
And though wide lands or cruel seas
Hold me from dearest ones apart.
Still may all sweet capacities
Be fountains, open in my heart!
Youth, Joy, Wealth—-Fate, I give thee these;
Leave Faith and Hope till life is past;
And leave my heart's best impulses
Fresh and unfailing to the last.
For these, I think, of all good things,
Most precious, out of heaven above;
And that the power of loving brings
The fullest recompense of love.
MOTHER.
No earthly friend can fill a mother's place,
When the dear one is with us here no more;
No smiles so sweet, so loving to the core,
As those which beamed upon that faithful face,
Reflecting every meek, angelic grace;
No words so kind, so potent to restore
Joy to the soul, where sadness ruled before,
As hers, who held us in her warm embrace;
But when the vesture visible to sight
Has worn away, to set the spirit free,
Then we behold those looks of love and light
In fadeless lines impressed on memory,
And feel that but one mother e'er is given
To guard us here below, or guide the way to Heaven.
Leave no unguarded place,
No weakness of the soul;
Take every virtue, every grace,
And consecrate the whole.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR
THE PEACE PARTY--ITS RELATIONS TO SLAVERY AND THE REBELLION.
LOCKPORT, III., Aug. 20,1864.
W. L. GARRISON:
MY FRIEND,-I have lectured twice in this vicinity, on the Republic and the Rebellion, and the Peace Party and its relations to slavery and the civil war. What has been the one uniform howl of the slave mongers and their allies ever since you began the war of ideas, in earnest, against slavery? ”Peace! Peace!” “Yield to the demands of the Slave Power”! “Compromise!" “Don't resist! “Give to the kidnappers, the women-whippers and baby-pedlers all they ask!"  “Be still!" “Keep Quiet!" “Put up your swords!" “Let the man stealers have the whole North, and enslave the entire laboring millions of the land, rather than have a civil war!" This has been the howl of the Peace Party of the North for thirty years.  Their object has been to give the entire North, bound hand and foot, into the bloody hands of slave-breeders. This same Peace Party plundered Mexico of thirty thousand square miles of free earth, and plunged the nation into a war, all to sustain and perpetuate slavery. This same Peace Party burned, plundered, and murdered the peaceful citizens of Kansas to make that a Slave State.  Who enacted the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850? The Peace Democracy.  Who made the Dred Scott decision? The Peace Democracy. Who split the Democratic party at Charleston to favor the election of Lincoln, in order to give slaveholders an occasion to secede? The Peace Democracy.  Who took eight States out of the Union, formed the slave-traders' Confederacy, stole all the forts, arsenals, post-offices, and dock-yards of the South, and organized and equipped thirty thousand troops to take Washington before Lincoln came into office? The Peace Democracy. Who sought to assassinate Lincoln, and prevent his inauguration? The Peace Democracy. Who have been engaged in planning and preparing for this bloody war to destroy the Republic, and erect a slave empire on its ruins, for thirty-five years? The Peace Democracy. Who have labored and are now laboring to create a civil war in the North to aid the rebellion? The Peace Democracy.  To whom do the slave-trading traitors look for victory? To the Peace Democracy of the North. ”Burn, plunder, devastate and murder wherever a friend of the Administration dares show his head! ” Who adopt this as their party watchword? The Peace Democracy.  Who are encouraging and assisting and fitting out pirates to prey upon the commerce of the United States?  Who rejoice in the defeats and disasters of the Federal armies?  Who opposed the repeal of the fugitive slave laws, and the constitutional prohibition of slavery?  Who refuse to vote money to reward the soldiers who are periling life and limb to save the Republic?  The Peace Democracy.  Who originated and enacted that bloody tragedy of riot, arson, plunder and murder in New York city one year ago?  The Peace Democracy. Who to-day are seeking to excite riot, plunder and murder in the towns and cities of the great North-West?  The Peace Democracy.  The party is the same which for thirty years has sought to consign the North to the hell of slavery. True, at the beginning of the rebellion, all that was manly and true to freedom and free institutions left the foul conspirators w hen they opened fire on Sumter, and began the war of bullets to subjugate the North to slavery; but who repudiated Douglas, Cass, Morton, Yates, Dickinson, Butler, Boutwell, Forney, and a host of leading Northern Democrats, because they refused to be traitors in support of slavery? The Peace Democracy.
These were the people who in the recent National Convention of Spiritualists in Chicago tried by threats and every means to bully and browbeat that Convention into silence respecting slavery and the rebellion. And silence is all the traitors, North and South, want. They only wish to be let alone, that they may, without resistance, subjugate the entire nation and continent to slavery and slave labor, blot out the Republic cemented by the blood, watered by the tears, and consecrated by the prayers of our fathers and mothers, from the record of the world. To all who oppose their murderous designs, they cry,” Peace!  Peace! Let us alone!”  To the rioting, plundering, murdering and slave-mongering traitors they say, ”War! war to the knife, and the knife to the hilt!”  On the Peace Democracy rest the blood, murder, anguish and horror of this civil war against freedom and for slavery.  The Peace Democracy of the North are identified with the slave-breeding traitors of the South.  The latter depend upon the former for triumph in their efforts to abolish freedom and establish slavery over the nation and continent.
The Peace Democracy are maturing their plans daily and hourly.  They are holding meetings in many places in this State and in Indiana to organize, to arm, and to resist by blood and anarchy the election of Lincoln, and to compel the North to submit to the demands of the slave-mongers.  They openly declare that the triumph of slavery over all the nation and the continent is preferable to the reelection of Lincoln, or the election of any man who favors the policy of emancipation.  In their speeches and resolutions, they reiterate the peace platform of Jeff Davis and Co., as put forth in the Richmond Enquirer.  The Enquirer says:—
  "Save on our own terms, we can accept no peace whatever, and must fight till doomsday rather than yield one iota of them “.  “The North must yield all-the South nothing.  “We shall make no peace till we are in a position not only to demand and exact, but also to enforce and collect treasures for our own reimbursement out of the wealthy cities of the North. In other words, we shall make no peace till we have destroyed and scattered their armies, and BROKEN  UP THEIR GOVERNMENT.  When we have done that, we ought not only to extort from the North our own full terms, and ample acknowledgment of their wrong, but also full indemnity for the trouble and expense caused to us by their crime."  “Once more we say, it is all or nothing.  This Confederacy or the Yankee nation, one or the other, must go down-down to perdition.  One or the other must forfeit its national existence, and lie at the mercy of its mortal enemy.”  “As surely as we triumph, so surely will we make the North pay our war debt, though we wring it out of their hearts.
Such are the terms of peace to which the Peace Democracy are arming and organizing to subjugate the North.  They assert this, and use the very language of the above extracts in their speeches and resolutions.  They say ”the North shall pay the war debt of the South "-" shall give up its national existence ”—" shall place itself at the mercy of its deadly foe ”-" shall yield all, and the South nothing.”  They declare that this is what they mean by peace-the enslavement of all made free by Proclamation, by Act of Congress, and by enlistment into the service of the United States; the abandonment of all the schools for the education of freedmen; the repeal of all Acts of Congress in relation to the abolition of slavery in the District and the Territories, and in relation to the abolition of the inter-State slave trade, and the fugitive- slave laws, the recognition of equal rights for the negro in the Federal courts, and of the nationality of Hayti and Liberia.  All this the Peace Democracy are now demanding in behalf of the kidnapping traitors, in order to conciliate them and induce them to return to the Union, and once more give supremacy to the slaveholding, slave -hunting Democracy.  In a word, ”PEACE," in the mouths of the Peace Democracy, as is shown by their speeches and resolutions, means the abolition of freedom and free institutions, and the complete triumph of slavery and slave institutions over the nation and continent—-the death of the Republic, based on justice and liberty, and the life of the Confederacy, whose corner-stone is slavery.  Shall Jesus, (the Republic,) the Messiah of freedom to earth's toiling millions, or the man-stealing, woman-whipping Barabbas be crucified? The Peace Democracy cry out, ”Release Barabbas! Crucify Jesus!"
<c03>
And this is the one issue before the Peace Convention which is to meet in. Chicago in one week; and that Convention, no matter in what language its spirit and intentions may be expressed, means to inaugurate a civil war in the North, unless the North will consent to release the modern national Barabbas, (the Confederacy,) and crucify the national Messiah,  (the American Republic.)  Their sole and single object is, led on by Vallandigham, Wood, Seymour & Co., to consign this nation and continent to the absolute, uncontrolled and irresponsible dominion of slavery, in order that the Democratic party may once more, in conjunction with man-stealers and pirates, rule the land, and make it a huge barracoon, whose staple article of trade shall be, the bodies and souls of men and women. HENRY C: WRIGHT.
MISMANAGEMENT.
A soldier, some time since, in one of our regiments, was elevated to the rank of sergeant. While in conversation, one evening, with some brother officers in the camp, his name was loudly and repeatedly called, from a little distance. As he took no notice of the summons, a friend called his attention to it; but he quietly kept his place, saying-"It's only some of those d——d privates.”
The point which I wish to have noticed in this little incident is, that soldiers whose leader habitually treated them and spoke of them in this manner would feel no great enthusiasm in following him into battle, or in obeying any of his orders.  Our sergeant showed on this small scale, as thoroughly as if he had been Generalissimo, the absence of one important qualification for military leadership. The skilful commander will form, in some manner, an attachment, a feeling of affection or attraction between his soldiers and himself, bringing this bond of interest in aid of such enthusiasm as they may feel for their country or their cause.  Looking at war, and the various details of administration which it includes, as means towards an end, it is exceedingly important to establish a union of feeling and interest between all the members and all the allies of the body united in waging it.  So far as the establishment or invigoration of this feeling is neglected by a military leader, so far an element of power is wasted, and the probability of success diminished.
If President Lincoln should habitually treat soldiers as an inferior class in the community-if he (like the sergeant,) should habitually speak of them as mere privates, a class to which no consideration need be paid, on the score of either justice, or kindness, or policy, a set of people who need be noticed by the Administration in no other way than by commanding and compelling their service when the State needs it-he would act unwisely, would he not?  To say nothing of other ill conditions, mental and moral, which such conduct would disclose in the President, he would at least, would he not, throw away one immense advantage towards the overthrow of the rebellion?  He would lose that inspiration which hearty enthusiasm gives to human action.  He would lose the vast momentum which any work receives from a combination of mutual sympathy, duty and interest in those who are laboring for it.  He would show himself, so far, unfit for the office of Commander-in-Chief while the nation is engaged in war.  And if his language or his action should habitually treat with disparagement or contumely that class from which our armies are recruited, the mass of the population of the United States, this would prove his unfitness ever to bear rule in a Democratic nation.
But towards one class of our soldiers, and the population which supplies them, the colored people of this country, the President's attitude has been strikingly cold and hard, unsympathetic, discourteous and unjust.  And this attitude, copied as it is by a large proportion of our white officers and soldiers, has operated in such a manner, and to such an extent, as manifestly to have postponed the overthrow of the rebellion.
The population in question, four millions and a half in number, might easily supply four hundred thousand able-bodied soldiers.  And it has been in the power of the Executive, ever since this war commenced, not only to create that number of colored soldiers, but to make them the most effective portion of our force against the enemy.  Yes, the most effective; since the situation of these people enabled the Government to offer them higher inducements to enter the service, and to act zealously and vigorously in it, than could be given to any other class of soldiers.
By a single address to these colored people, such as the President might have made, justly, rightly, advantageously and constitutionally, any day since the war commenced, calling them to the Nation's side as men whom she would thenceforth recognize as free and equal, urging their cooperation alike as soldiers and as citizens against the common enemy, and pledging to them the protection of the army and the nation in a simultaneous movement against the rebels, the most effective blow possible, both physical and moral, would have been struck against those rebels; paralyzing their efforts, filling their whole region with the terror which their oppressions have deserved, keeping their soldiers at home for self-defence, and thus preventing their concentration in armies for the defence of the rebellion, and even disposing the slaveholders, in districts where the slaves were most numerous, to favor their quiet departure to our side as the least of two evils.
These great advantages-transferring an immense force from the side of the rebels to that of the nation, obstructing the movements of the enemy in every direction, and ultimately putting four hundred thousand ardent and zealous soldiers into the army without that enormous interference with our home industries which the existing system involves-might have been obtained, and obtained at far less pecuniary expense than by the existing system.
After a year of war, the business of recruiting slackened, and was obliged to be stimulated by bounties, State and National; then repeated drafts were ordered to supply the deficiency; and these processes, the offer of large bounties, and the enforcement of an extensive draft upon an unwilling population, are still going on.  If these were the only means by which soldiers could be raised for the nation's defence, nobody would complain.  But through all these years, hundreds of thousands of willing men, heartily desirous to become soldiers of the United States, living in the very region where the war is waged, acquainted with the country and with the enemy's resources, accustomed to the Southern climate, and more vitally interested in the success of our arms than even the white soldiers, have been standing apart, rejected and unused; nay, worse! have been left under the compulsion of doing military service for the enemy!
Well, all this was bad enough; but of late an element of weakness and folly has been added to that above described. The very men in Louisiana who would rejoice to volunteer as United States soldiers, if the customary treatment and welcome of soldiers were offered them, are now forcibly drafted into the army, treated as movable property, and subjected to the indignity of being driven up by their employers to the custody of the Provost-Marshal, and being driven by his guards  to the recruiting rendezvous.  Here is the order to this effect, just issued by Gen. Banks in New Orleans:-
HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF, 
NEW ORLEANS, Aug. 2,1864.
GENERAL ORDERS, No. 106.  In pursuance of Paragraph II, General Orders No. 29, Headquarters Military Division of West Mississippi, all able-bodied men of color, between the ages of 18 and 40 years, will be enlisted for the military service of the United States, under the direction of the Superintendent of Recruiting Service for United States Colored Troops.
The several Parish Provost-Marshals will be furnished by the Superintendent of Negro Labor with lists of the employers and the number of men to be taken from each, taking as a basis the registers on file at this office. The above Provost- Marshals will cause the men thus designated to be produced at their respective offices, at such times as may be hereafter indicated, and will deliver them to the properly authorized recruiting officers, to be forwarded, under
<c04>
proper escort, to the recruiting rendezvous at New Orleans.
If the object were to disgust soldiers with the service, could any means more effectual be devised? For this Government, even while fighting against slaveholders, to use the slaveholders' methods of violence and contumely against the colored people, is bad and foolish enough; but the very height of folly and perversity seems to be reached when a policy is deliberately chosen which makes reluctant soldiers, unwilling subjects, degraded and dissatisfied allies, out of those who might, by just and fair treatment, be inspired with the highest energies of enthusiastic patriotism in our behalf.  Yet this is the policy which President' Lincoln chooses, and which he is now executing by Gen. Banks in Louisiana.-C. K. W.
SHALL THE NATION LIVE?
LOCKPORT, (Will Co.) III., Aug. 22, 1864. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON: 
DEAR FRIEND,-As a friend of the slave, I have watched with anxious eyes and palpitating heart the action of the Government during the rebellion.  I have also watched as anxiously your course, and that of many others of our great co-workers in the cause of the slave.  I have felt many, very many times the necessity of criticising the action of the Administration for its shortcomings, but have ever been willing and ready to give it credit for every advance step it has taken.
The question before us to-day is the condition of the nation, and our duty in this" its great trial hour.  We must first settle this question-Shall the nation live?  The liberty of the slave depends on the life of the nation.  The hopes of this and the next generation will be crushed or realized in the issue of the struggle, and the friends of freedom have no strength to waste on side issues. The damning spirit of the opposition is manifest everywhere, and nowhere of late has it been more manifest than in the United States Convention of Spiritualists at Chicago.  When the resolutions on the state of the nation came before that body, treason was rampant, and the clique led by Judge Carter and Amanda Spence, who could prate of the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man, ranged themselves on the side of the enslavers of men and the traitors to their country.  These tools of slavery cry ”Peace! Peace!” and all they mean is the supremacy of slavery and the triumph of Jeff. Davis.  The same spirit animates the whole Copperhead Democracy; and can we, as lovers of human rights, and as the long-tried friends of the slave, have any sympathy with this class, or do aught, directly or indirectly, to strengthen this element? God forbid!  Would we save the Government, we must all put our shoulders to the wheel, and his or her vision must be more than dim that does not see clearly that at present we need our united strength to conquer and overcome the desperate foe.
Let us rally, then, to the side of the nation! Let us work heartily and hopefully for the salvation of our beloved country! And he or she amongst us shall be best and noblest, who, forgetting all petty personal issues, or pride of former opinions, shall remember nothing but the old love of the cause of the slave, and the present demands of the hour.  If we work in unison, we can conquer; if we are divided, treason may be triumphant. Let us have again, as at the commencement of the struggle, the silver tones and clarion ring of Phillips on the only side and in the only position that can possibly help the slave and defeat the traitors.
Yours for the Government,
GEORGE LYNN.
THE COLORED TROOPS AT PETERSBURG.
CAMP 6TH REGT. U. S. COLORED TROOPS, 
Near Point of Rocks, Aug. 8, 1864.   
Editors Independent Democrat:-It is not often that the desire to be famous so overpowers me as to make me” write for the papers," but looking over the New York Herald of Saturday, August 6th, I saw an anonymous communication, headed: ”A Military Spectator's Statement of the Causes of the Failure of the Assault”-giving an account of the assault so notoriously garbled and misrepresented that I cannot pass over it in silence.  I will premise by saying that I do not belong to General Ferrero's colored division or the Ninth Carps d' Armes.  The article begins:-
"To the Editors of the Herald:-I will endeavor to give you the real version of the late failure before Petersburg."
He goes on to relate at length the strategic movements of the Second Army Corps and Sheridan's Cavalry, for two or three days previous to the assault, and I presume tells something that might be recognized by the participants in those movements.  He then goes on to state:—"
"On the 29th of July, the Second (Regular) Division of the Fifth Corps received orders about ten o'clock.  This division (four thousand eight hundred strong) being in reserve, was ordered to strike camp, and be in the cut of the Petersburg and Suffolk Railroad at three o'clock in the morning; that the mine on Burnside's front would be fired at half-past three o'clock, and to hold themselves in readiness to charge after Burnside and the Eighteenth Corps."
All this may be true, but I quote it, as I shall have occasion to notice it hereafter. 
But the point of his communication comes when, soon after, he goes on to say:—"
"As soon as the mine was blown up, which engulphed seven companies of the rebels and four cannon, the niggers and white men were to charge.  But another unfortunate delay took place. Five minutes' delay took place in marching up after the mine had gone up. The reason was THE COWARDICE OP THE NIGGERS. The brigade in advance, which was composed entirely of niggers, laid down their arms, and refused to charge.”
Now, the above is a malicious perversion of facts, which is the most polite way I know of telling the writer that he talks just as I do when I lie. For instance: instead of ”five minutes' delay," more than an hour was supposed to elapse in artillery firing upon the already demoralized enemy, thereby giving them time to collect and reassure their badly frightened men. Again, not a negro was in the front line. Gen. Ledlie's division, of the Ninth Corps d'Armes, had the advance. Three brigades of white troops compose the division.  Next came Gen. Ferrero's division of colored troops in the second line.  Gen. Ledlie's men took the first line, and instead of rushing on to the second, they stopped and went to digging up the cannon from the demolished fort.  After more than an hour's delay, they formed and stormed the second line; but the rebels had formed also, and our men were driven back in disorder. Then, after veteran white troops were driven back, the colored division was ordered up to take their places, and of course were driven back, not disorganized, for they charged a second time, and were driven back a second time with a terrible loss.  But another quotation from our ”Military Spectator."  He says":-
"The second brigade of niggers (three thousand five hundred strong) marched over them, followed by a brigade of white troops, one thousand two hundred strong.”
After telling how they planted their colors in the second line, he comes out in flourishing capitals, and says:-”
"THREE HUNDRED REBELS ROUT THREE THOUSAND NIGGERS.  When they reached the second line, a mere squad of three hundred rebels made their appearance, and the niggers, without firing a shot, by shoving to the left, pushed the one thousand two hundred white men on their left into the mine, and then turned tail and run away until they got clear back into our lines. These three hundred men drove back twice these one thousand two hundred-first, by themselves, and then when they came down rein, forced.  For these one thousand two hundred there was no retreat; their position was in the rear of the rebel main line, so that the rebels were between them and us." 
Now I propose to contradict the above ”by detail," as we say in the army.  First and foremost, no colored man has been known to ”run without firing a shot."  One reason why they are not so good pickets as white men is, that unless very well drilled and disciplined, they will fire at every poor bush, tree or stump within rifle charge.  Again, it is absurd to state that a brigade will stop, while
<c05>
under fire, to crowd another brigade into a hole by a flank movement, as ”Military Spectator” writes was done in this case. Again, I wish to know how the negroes got” clear back into our lines," if the ”rebel main line” was between our men and them? If the ”rebel main line” was between the white soldiers and our lines, how did the negroes get away?  As I believe his grammar is as bad as mine, I just wish to ask where those twelve hundred found ”twice those three hundred," and which side ”came up” after it was reinforced.
"Military Spectator" writes as though the two brigades of colored troops and one brigade of white troops were all that were engaged, when it is well known that Burnside had four divisions, of three brigades each, engaged, and our losses amounted to over five thousand. He writes that it” was all over by 12 o'clock," but the fact is that the final charge of the rebels was not made until after two o'clock, P. M.
I have already contradicted the most of his mis-statements, and now I want to show up a little of his military learning.
Had he been a military man, he would not have spoken of the mine as going to be” fired," or” blown up"; he would have said ”sprung." Instead of the mine being blown up, the fort suffered that catastrophe. Again, no fort” on” Burnside's front was blown up; but a fort some distance in Burnside's front.  These are little things, I know, but they tell which is the military man.
I think I have written almost enough on this subject to show how false and malicious these charges are, and now will tell who I am, as I am well known, particularly to many of your readers. I enlisted the 29th of April, 1861, and have been connected with the army ever since. I was with the 2d N. H. until the 23d of September, 1863, when I was discharged to enter the Sixth Regiment Colored Troops.  I have seen the negroes in camp, in the field, on the march, and in a severe fight; and my opinion that they will make good soldiers is formed from actual experience in the field.
Begging your pardon for troubling you so much, I remain, your obedient servant,
ENOCH F. JACKMAN,
1st Lieut. 6th U. S. C. T.
GEN. SHERMAN'S LETTER.
Gen. W. T. Sherman is an officer for whose military ability we cherish very great respect, and of whose unqualified devotion to the Union we never entertained a doubt.  There are few soldiers who have done better service in the field than he, or whose opinions on matters touching the war are entitled to be more carefully considered. At the same time, he is well known to be a man capable of crotchets, and if wrong-headed at all likely to be extremely so.  
His letter on Recruiting in the rebellious States will serve as an instance.  Its fundamental idea is to crush the Rebellion in the most thorough and expeditious manner; yet the letter can have no other effect than to throw obstacles in the path he wishes to tread.
We do not controvert his opinion as to the practicability of recruiting in North-Western Georgia.  He ought to know, and we presume does know, better than any body else about that.  But when he extends his criticisms to cover the whole field, there are others who are in a position to judge more accurately than Gen. Sherman.  His main objections resolve themselves into two: 1, That the law hinders enlistments, and 2, That negroes are better fitted for teamsters than for soldiers.  It so happens that on each of these points General Sherman is neither familiar with the facts, nor able to testify as an expert to matters of opinion.
There is no evidence that the law has hindered recruiting.  No effort has been made to operate under it, except by Massachusetts, the Governors of other States being hostile or apathetic.  Can Gen. Sherman say it has obstructed enlistments in Massachusetts?  It is but a few days since that State sent 5,000 men to the war, who had been raised, armed, equipped, and drilled in twenty-five days.  These men came forward in response neither to a draft nor a call, but were tendered to the Government by Gov. Andrew-all which was subsequently to the passage of the law of which Gen. Sherman complains, and was accomplished simultaneously with the efforts to secure recruits in the rebellious States.  Nor were these 5,000 men required to fill any deficiency then existing, for it is on record in the Bureau at Washington, that before this last enlistment, on  the first  of June, 1864, Massachusetts had furnished 5,000 soldiers in excess of all calls to that date-and this without counting her 30,000 or 40,000 seamen and marines.  A State that has done that much for the Union can bear with equanimity the implied reproaches of Gen. Sherman, and can treat with contempt the lavish abuse of Copperhead journals.
II. Gen. Sherman does not read the newspapers, or he would long ere this have learned that Negroes do make good soldiers, and have abundantly, heroically vindicated their right to stand by the. side of their white comrades. Milliken's Bend, Port Hudson, Wagner, Olustee, Petersburg, have settled the question whether Negroes will fight. As those memorable actions happened not to occur under Gen. Sherman's eye, they seem not to have attracted his notice, but the public knows the facts.  Gen. Sherman, if he knew them, we make no doubt, would share in the general opinion of Negro courage and military capacity.  Testified to by such officers as Gen. Seymour and Gen. W. F. Smith, both West Pointers and both Pro-Slavery men, the facts would pass muster even with the Commander of the Military Division of the Mississippi.
Again, Gen. Sherman forgets that the negroes find in their military service a transitional stage from Slavery to uncontrolled freedom of inestimable value to them.  The army has been deemed a good school of discipline even for white men.  To the black, with his uneducated instincts, with a new future before him, with new habits to be acquired, with the knowledge of obedience to other restraints than the lash needing to be implanted in him, its lessons can never be so appropriate as to-day, and never more indispensable to his welfare and that of the Republic of which he is to become a citizen.  He will acquire more than education; he will acquire the means of starting again in life, and of building up a secure support for his family.  The bounty and pay, amounting to three or four hundred dollars at least, by the time he leaves the service will have given him a homestead and made him independent of that public charity which, for so many thousands of blacks hurled into a free existence, the essential conditions of which they but faintly understood, has been necessarily called upon. For his sake and ours, were but his just rights as a soldier secured to him, we have all reason to desire that the negro should find his way out of Slavery even through the smoke of battle, and if need be by years of toilsome service in the armies of the Union.  Gen. Sherman's opinion to the contrary is due to a narrowness of view for which partly his circumstances in the field, and partly his voluntary isolation from ordinary means of intelligence, are responsible.-N. Y. Tribune.
A PERILOUS TRIP.
RUNNING THE RAPIDS OF THE ST. LAWRENCE IN A SKIFF.
The Prescott (Canada) Telegraph has the following account of a hazardous exploit:
"During the latter part of July, two men, named Violet Jones, of the Fusileer Guards, and Robert Welch, of Mr. Barker's exchange office, Prescott, left here on a trip to Montreal, intending to run the rapids of the St. Lawrence.  They started in a lapstreak skiff, twenty-one feet long, three feet six inches beam, and carried with them two pairs of oars, a sail and a tent, with the necessary cooking apparatus, &c., for camp life. They succeeded in running the Gallops, Rapid du Plat, and the north channel of the Long Sault as far as the point, the same evening.  Being afraid to venture the remainder of the channel, they carried their boat and traps across the island to the head of the South Channel, but the darkness was so intense that they considered' discretion the better part of valor,' and they camped on the island all night. The following morning they’ packed up their duds,' and made another and this time successful attempt, accompanied by the cheers of about twenty people who had congregated upon the shore.  The peril of the undertaking will be better understood when we state that the swells washed over the boat, half filling it with water, one of which struck the man at the oars (Welch) in the face, almost depriving him of his breath.  They then ran to Hogansburg, where they laid over a day.
"Next morning the Coteau Rapids were passed in beautiful style, and they soon reached the Cedars, ’the most splendid rapid of the whole lot to run.'
<C06>
The Slit Rock nearly finished our adventures. Being unacquainted with the channel, they took the north shore, and when only about one hundred yards off, in a very swift current, they saw ahead of them a fall of about seven feet.  By hard pulling and good steering, however, they succeeded in making the ’Old Lock,’ on the north side, when an car broke, fortunately just as they were within reach of the lock. They here struck an eddy and went back to the head, when a passing raft pointed out the channel, and amid some good swells, they descended the rapids in safety.
"Then came the Cascades.  Here they were advised by a gentleman whom they met not to attempt to run them, as the Cascades had never been run by anything smaller than a batteau, and he was sure they would be drowned. Notwithstanding this they determined to proceed, and were anxiously watched in their perilous journey by the gentleman above spoken of.  The first pitch was passed safely; at the second, however, the boat went down, and strock-whether the bottom or a rock they could not, of course, say.  She, however, raised, they supposed by the force of the current, although filled with water, and was carried about thirty yards to a friendly rock.  The moment they struck still water, the boat sunk. The rock before spoken of, however, was near, and, though small, here they bailed out their boat and prepared to start again.  Mounted on this lonely rock, they took a view of the 'situation,’ being anxiously desirous to 'change their base,' but no assistance could there reach them, and nolens volens, they had to take to their boat again.  A point ahead was selected, and they determined if the boat should swamp in the rapids ahead, they would stick to her as long as she was kept up by the current and their lustily-plied oars, and then abandoning her, swim for the point.
"Although badly tossed, however, she still kept up, and, about half filled with water, bravely she came out of this latter peril.  They reached the point, bailed their boat, hoisted sail, and started across Lake St. Peter, reaching the Nun's Island that night, where they camped.  This was a good day’s work.  Seven rapids, large and small, were passed, and two lakes, making a distance of about seventy miles; and although' wet to the skin,' they slept soundly, feeling thankful, it is to be hoped, to a bountiful Providence, to whose protective hand they, in a peculiar manner, this day owed  their lives.  The next morning they reached Caughnawaga, and were here strongly advised by a gentleman from the Montreal Telegraph and others against attempting this new danger. But they had passed through so many perils safely that they had no notion of quiting their self-imposed task until they had completed it.  They accordingly did run the Lachine Rapid, and ran it safely and without adventure, thus making the entire trip from Prescott to Montreal in a skiff of one hundred pounds weight, with about five hundred and twelve pounds load, including baggage, their own weight, etc.
"All the rapids were run stern first. The reason for this is that a better brace may be obtained with the oars in this position-the boat being at the completer command of the man at the oars, who, besides, goes down facing the danger. In such places a quick eye and steady hand are imperative, and even these, we should imagine, would hardly insure safety at all times.  We hope Messrs.  Welch and Jones will not find many imitators."
A COLORED CORRESPONDENT.
POINT OF ROCKS, Aug. 7.
The chief topic of interest at headquarters to-day was the arrival in camp of Mr. Chester, a colored gentleman, who presented his credentials to Gen. Butler as the authorized reporter in the field of the Philadelphia (Forney's) Press.  Riding up to the tent of the Commanding General, he dismounted and entered. Upon announcing his business, he was asked to be seated, and thereupon presented his letter of introduction from Mr. Young, managing editor of the Press. Gen. Butler read it and endorsed it, directing that Mr. Chester be permitted to pass everywhere within our lines. He suggested that he should take up his headquarters with Gen. Payne's (colored) division, in front of Petersburg, and gave him some general and appropriate instructions touching his duties as a military correspondent; whereupon he remounted his horse and retired-not, however, before asking Gen. Butler to furnish him with a horse, to which the reply was that the Quartermasters of the army were not charged with the mounting of newspaper correspondents of the army. Then he went away –Corr Of the N. Y. Herald. 
BRAVERY OF THE NEGRO TROOPS. The Army correspondent of the Chicago Tribune, writing”in front of Petersburg, August 9, 1864," and giving an account of our late disastrous repulse, says:-
As to the negro troops, they followed their officers into the very jaws of death, and not until their leaders were nearly all shot down did they flinch from the contest.  Any other statement is purely a malignant lie, come from whatever source it may.  Among these our own
59th U. S. COLORED TROOPS,
raised mainly in this State, with portions from Wisconsin and Missouri, were conspicuous for their gallantry and soldierly bearing. They had the advance of the charge, led by their heroic chief, Lieutennant Colonel John A. Bross. It was to him especially, and the officers of his regiment and brigade, as leading the charge directly into the very centre of the tremendous fire of grape and canister, that the expressions of the staff officers in yesterday's letter referred. They had seen more than a score of the most terrible battles of the war, and never witnessed heroism so noble, so truly self-sacrificing and sublime. Through and beyond the exploded fort, already piled with the dead and dying, and with skulkers from the advance Colonel Bross led his brigade, one color bearer after another being shot down, reached the inside line, and mounting it he seized the colors himself in his left hand, and waving his sword he cried, Rally, my brave boy s, rally! forward!" and fell to rise no more.
OFFER TO DEFEND A COLORED SOLDIER. The Nashville Times contains a correspondence between Messrs. Bunts and Lindsay, attorneys in that city, and Colonel R. D. Mussey, commanding the colored troops, in relation to a colored soldier who had, while on guard, killed a citizen, and was to be tried by court martial. The legal gentlemen offer their services for his defence.  Colonel Mussey replies:
"In behalf of the soldier in question, and of the organization I have in charge, I thank you for your generous and patriotic offer.  I also thank you in behalf of the national government, whose agent I am in organizing colored troops, for your hearty recognition of the wisdom of its policy in arming the negroes, and for your willingness to sustain it here, against the bitter local prejudices it encounters. But I trust there will be no need for your professional services in the particular case in which you have tendered them. For the General commanding the post, after a careful investigation of the circumstances attending the shooting of Willis, decided that the soldier did right, and cleared him from arrest, and restored him to duty. Should the matter, however, ever come before a court martial, I will most thankfully avail myself, in the soldier's behalf, of your proffered assistance."
REBELS CAPTURED BY NEGRO TROOPS. The Point Lookout correspondent of the Baltimore American says:
"On Friday last, three hundred and thirty-three rebels arrived from Petersburg and the front. They say they were captured by the negro troops belonging to Gen. Burnside's corps. They belonged to the 3d and 18th South Carolina. They say that the negro troops shot them down by hundreds, and it was with the greatest difficulty that the officers of the negro troops could make them desist, the negroes all the time yelling out, Remember Fort Pillow! These men give the officers, of the negro troops great credit for their humanity in rescuing them from certain death, and seem perfectly satisfied that negro troops will fight. They belonged to a portion of the regiments blown up by the explosion, and claim that they only lost three genuine guns, the rest being Quakers or wooden guns.”
REBEL MONARCHISTS ABROAD. ”Malakoff" writes to the New York Times from Paris, that the haters of democracy in France espouse the cause of the rebels because they fancy they are congenial aristocrats, and he adds: 
"I am sorry to say, also, that a certain portion of the Southern people are willing to accept this appreciation of their cause, and that it is no longer an unusual thing to hear them declare that a monarchical is the only durable form of government, and the Catholic Church the most appropriate of religions for Southern institutions and Southern ideas. A wide conversion to the Catholic Church is already going on."
It is possible that these rebel adventures abroad would profess any notions, political or religious, in order to curry favor for their cause.
The mobile News publishes an account of the death of Nathaniel Hawthrone, and remarks that he was one of the few literary men of the North whose sympathies were with them.
