THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE—
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per and in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed. (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square in carted three times for 75 cents—one square for $1.00. 
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, via:—FRANCIS JACKSON, EDWUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 37. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1498.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
SPEECH OF SENATOR DOUGLAS.
COLUMBUS, O., Sept.7, 1859.
Senator Douglas addressed the citizens of Columbus, this afternoon. The following is a synopsis of his remarks:
Judge Douglas said that the Republican Party, in their platform adopted at Philadelphia in 1856, assert the power, and declare it the duty of Congress to prohibit Slavery in all the Territories. The Democratic party are pledged, on the other hand, by their platform, to the doctrine of non-intervention and Popular Sovereignty in the Territories.
New Mexico and Kansas, by the acts of their Territorial Legislature, present cases now for Congressional intervention with their domestic affairs which will put the advocates of intervention and non-intervention, North and South, to the test.
New Mexico, which refused for several years after the organization of a Territorial Government to introduce or protect Slavery, passed a law in 1858 to recognize and protect Slavery in that territory. Kansas, at the first session of the Territorial Legislature, in 1855, passed a very stringent law 'to punish offenses against slaver property,' by which slavery was introduced, and 'adequate protection' given to it in that Territory. In 1858, however, the slave code was repealed by an act passed Feb. 9, and all protection to slave property withdrawn and denied. By this 'unfriendly legislation,' Slavery has been excluded from the Territory of Kansas.
Now, the Northern interventionists are pledged by their Republican platform to repeal the slave code in New Mexico, and prohibit Slavery by Act of Congress, while the Opposition in Kentucky, and the Southern interventionists generally, are pledged by their principles to intervene and protect slave property in the Territory of Kansas.
The issues must and will be met by the Democratic party. Non-intervention and Popular Sovereignty must be maintained as well as in New Mexico as in Kansas. If New Mexico wants a salve code, let her have it. If New Mexico has laws for the protection of slave property, so be it. If Kansas will not have a slave code, nor Slavery, Congress must nor force her people to accept either.
Northern and Southern interventionists agree that Slavery in the Territories is a rightful subject of Congressional legislation, but differ as to the character of such legislation.
Each insists that Congress should intervene in favor of their particular section, and against the other section, in violation of the people most interested to decide the question of Slavery for themselves. According to the doctrine of the interventionists, North and South, Slavery is not only a rightful subject of Congressional legislation, but dependent upon Federal authority for its existence and protection; and make it, consequently, subject to Federal regulation and control. The Southern interventionists contend that the whole power of the Federal Government should be exerted for the protection of Slavery in the Territories, and the Northern interventionists, that the same power should be extended for its destruction. The Democratic party, in opposition to the interventionists of both sections, hold that Slavery is a State institution, and that it exists in the slaveholding States, 'under the laws thereof,' and not by virtue of the Constitution of the United States. That Slavery, therefore, is beyond the reach or control of Federal authority, for good or evil, except in the single case of fugitive slaves, who must be delivered up. The Democratic Party is pledged to the principle of popular sovereignty, by which the people of the organized Territories, like those of a State, shall 'decide for themselves whether slavery shall or shall not exist within their limits.'
Those who insists that the first handful of settlers should not decide the Slavery question in the Territories, should vote against the organization of Territories, until they have sufficient population for a political community, capable of self-government in all their domestic concerns. No government should be established for any people who are not qualified by numbers, and in all other respects, to legislate for themselves on all rightful subjects of legislation, subject only to the Constitution of the United States. When territorial governments are established, the people will legislate for themselves-will form their own domestic institution, and if their legislation conflicts with the Constitution, it will present a judicial question for the Courts to determine, to whose decision all law-abiding citizens will and must submit.
The Territories must be open for settlement to the people of all the States, Slave States as well as Free States. The system of emigration, fostered and encouraged by Emigrant Aid Societies for the purpose of controlling territorial legislation, is a fraud upon the elective franchise, and designed to subvert and destroy the principles of self-government. None but actual inhabitants, who have abandoned their citizenship and allegiance in their respective States and settled in a Territory, in good faith to make it their permanent home, have a right to voice or vote in the legislation of the Territory.
The doctrine of Mr. Seward's 'Rochester Speech,' with respect to the irrepressible conflict between Freedom and Slavery, must be emphatically condemned.
He said, I denounce it here to-day, as I denounced it in the Senatorial canvass in Illinois when it was mentioned by Mr. Lincoln, as subversive of the principles upon which the Union was founded and must stand. Uniformity in the local laws and domestic institutions of the several States is neither desirable nor possible. Variety of climate and interests necessitate corresponding variety of local legislation, which is and must be adapted to the wants of each particular community or State. The liberty and prosperity of the people depend upon the inalienable right of self-government in all the States and Territories of the United States.
The surrender of fugitive slaves is a duty imposed by the Constitution, and we must be faithful to that constitutional obligation. The opposition and resistance to the fugitive Slave Act in the North begot a like opposition to and violation, in the South, of the laws against the African slave-trade. The violators of both-those who resist the Fugitive Slave Act, and those who violate the laws against the African Slave Trade-are alike false to the obligation of good citizens, and merit alike condemnation and punishment. Maintain the doctrine of non-intervention and popular sovereignty, and the Union is safe. Stand by that doctrine, and the country will prosper, all sections will be content, and territorial expansion is certain. Expansion is a necessity of our national existence; and our destiny is sooner or later to spread our institutions over the entire continent. Cuba, Central America, Mexico, and all the islands advancement to us, will, in time, be one, and this will be, as it should, 'an ocean-bound Republic.'
The Democratic Party is in the only party which recognizes the equality of the States, and the right of the people to exercise all the rights, privileges, and immunities of self-government. I stand firmly by the Democratic platform of 1856. I want no new planks, and no new pillars to strengthen and
<c02>
uphold it. I stand upon the platform and carry the Democratic banner. Let the nominee of the Charleston Convention take the acme position. Put him on that platform, and give him the old Democratic banner, with all its glorious memories clustering around it, and the Democracy will march to a glorious victory in 1860.

DENNISON ON THE STUMP.
The Republican candidate for Governor of Ohio is now on the Stump, and the party papers have reported several of his speeches, which do not materially differ from each other. Here are some extracts:—
THE WHITE MAN'S PARTY.
'The Republican party is the white man's party, and it labors for the prosperity and liberty of the white man.
'He would ask the poor white men of the North, if they are willing that the Territories of the United States shall be slave or free; whether they intend, that their children shall go into the Territories, and enjoy all those political blessings and sacred privileges which we enjoy, or whether they shall yield to the arrogant demands of slavery, and forego them all. He would not discuss the moral aspects of slavery; the North cannot agree with the Democratic party of the South that it is a blessing, but with Washington, Jefferson and the revolutionary fathers, we regard it as a great social, moral and political evil. He would treat it as a question of paramount magnitude; the prominent issue before the people, destined sooner or later to affect directly the interests of the free States. The question which presented itself was, that if power is given to the slate party to strike down the interests of freedom in the Territories, it will soon strike down the poor white man in the States.'
NO ABOLITIONIST.
'Mr. Dennison said he was no Abolitionist. He did not believe there was any body of men in the North, of a respectable size, who wished to disturb the relation of master and slave, where it exists under the sanction and protection of State Law. But as our lathers had decreed that slavery was a creature of local and municipal law, we would protect the people in the enjoyment of freedom in the Territories. Ten years ago, the Democratic party in this State did not call in question this principle of the Republican party, that it is the duty of Congress to prohibit slavery in the Territories.'
THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW.
'Mr. Dennison said that he had forgotten to remark, that when the fugitive slave law was before Congress, the Democratic press of the State almost universally condemned it. They pronounced It then, as he himself bad in his letter to the Cleveland Convention, ' insulting to the people of Ohio.' The people of Ohio were, as a body, willing to carry out all the compromises of the Constitution, the fugitive slave clause included, but they did object to having it enforced in such a way as to insult the people of the State. A jury of twelve Ohio men were fully as competent to try the question of property in an alleged fugitive from Kentucky, as a jury of Kentuckians were to try the question of property in a horse said to be stolen from Ohio.'
THE CREED OF THE PARTY.
'The Republicans came forward, with no new doctrine on the slavery question. They ask, what the Father, had decreed, that slavery should not go into free Territories, but should be circumscribed in the States by municipal law. Than this they demanded nothing more—they would accept nothing less.'
‘The whole of the Republican creed was that slavery should not go into free territories. Thought individual Republicans might demand more, al that the party, at such, demanded was this. Bui if there was any meaning in that word eradicates, the Democratic party of the State, in 1848, were ready to abolish slavery where it then existed in the States.'

From the Milford (Del.) News.
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IN THE SOUTH.
Throughout the Sooth, the principles of the Republican Party have been so grossly misrepresented that many of the leas intelligent class of people believe it to be identical with Abolitionism. This has resulted, in the first place, from a want of intelligence among the masses of the people; hundred of whom cannot read, and thousands who do not to any extent; and in the second place, from the misrepresentations of the leaders of the Pro-Slavery Democracy, whose chief power results from exciting the prejudices and passions of the leas intelligent multitude. But the true state of the case is that the Republican Party does not propose to abolish slavery anywhere in the world. This is a fact that cannot be controverter: consequently, the Abolitionists refuse to vote or act with them, but on the contrary they abuse them more severely, if possible, than the Black Democracy does. In 1856, the Abolitionists did not vote for Freemont, or in any manner encourage his election; but on the contrary the run a candidate of their own—Gerri Smith of New York—to whom they gave their united support. They refused to act with the Republican d party because it is not an Abolition party, and they denounced it and worse even on this subject of Abolition, than the Black Democracy itself. But notwithstanding these undeniable facts, there are people enough in the South, and even in this State, who really believe the Republican Party to be an Abolition party! But this, we suppose, is not so much to be wondered at when we consider how willfully ignorant so many of our voters are on the subject of politics. If there are foots enough to believe, there are demagogues enough to benefit by their blind faith; and we shall continue to see heavy drafts made upon their ignorance and credulity.
The well-known doctrine of the Republican party on the subject of Slavery is, that Congress has the power to prevent the extension of this cursed institution into any or all of the free Territory of the Union; but that the subject of slavery in the States is entirely under the control of the people of each State, and that Congress has no authority to touch or interfere with it.
Notwithstanding it is so well known to all men who have any knowledge at all on the subject, that the Republican Party occupies this, and no other ground upon this question, partisan editors and politicians of the Democratic Party continue to stigmatize the Republican as the Abolition party! Now why is this? They know that all intelligent men, women and children know better, and why do they persist in such misrepresentation? Is it because they think the people fools enough to be influenced hay such lies? We knew of no other reason. When, then, you read a paper in which the Republican party is called the Abolition party, you may know the editor to be either a fool himself, or he thinks he is writing for fools to read; and, when yon hear a political speaker make the same assertion, you may know that be is deceived himself, that he is attempting to deceive the ignorant part of his audience.
<c03>
Instead, then, of the Republican party being the Abolition party, it is, in our humble opinion, the best political organization ever formed for the benefit of the free white men of the South. It is founded upon the principles and advocates the doctrines taught by George Washington, Jefferson, Randolph, Henry, and all the early statesmen of the South.

CATCHING FUGITIVE SLAVES.
From the Council Bluffs (Iowa) Democratic Bugle?
'So HELP ME GOD, RATHER SHALL MT RIGHT ARM WITHER AT MY BODY, THAN I BE SEEN TO ASSIST ANY OFFICER IN THE RETURN OE A FUGITIVE SLAVE.'—Extract from the speech of S. J. Kirkwood in Bloomfield, August 1, 1859.
Mr. Kirkwood asked General Dodge ' whether he would help to catch a runaway slave; ' to which Mr. Dodge replied:
'I WILL DO ANYTHING THAT THE CONSTITUTION AND LAWS OF MY COUNTRY REQUIRE OF ME.'
At other places Mr. Kirkwood, becoming aware of the popular odium attaching to such treasonable sentiments, endeavored to qualify it slightly by saying that he would not assist in the return of a fugitive slave, but if called upon by an officer to do so, he would suffer the penalty for refusing. He said the law gave him this alternative, and he would choose the alternative of the penalty, rather than obey the law.
Does this make the case any better for an aspirant to the gubernatorial chair? Will the people sustain a would-be-chief executive of the laws in setting the example of rebellion against the supreme constitutional law of the land? Is Mr. Kirkwood so ignorant as not to know that such a declaration is equivalent to aiding and abetting those who openly resist the law? Is he so ignorant that be needs to be told that, if there is no resistance to the execution of the law, there will be no occasion for the officer to call on him or any one else to aid in its execution?
These are questions which it would have been well for Mr. Kirkwood to consider before making such a rash declaration. As it is, the people of Iowa will answer those questions in a voice of thunder against him at the polls. Their verdict will be an overwhelming condemnation of him and his guilty compeers, who make their higher-law fanaticism a pretext for the violation of official oaths, for rebellion against the Constitution and laws, and protection of Negro-stealing incendiaries that they use as cat's-paws for keeping up a din and discord which may enable them to steal into power, though their path be lighted by the flames of dissolution and civil war.
At this place, General Dodge pots the same question to Mr. Kirkwood; and, tell it not in Tabor, publish it not in the streets of Mt. Pleasant—Mr. Kirkwood was dumb, and absolutely refused to answer!

DISSOLUTION THREATS.
The Washington correspondent of the Charleston Mercury says:—
'Should the Black Republican party succeed in their aims, whether in electing Chase, or Banks, or Seward, it will then certainly behoove the South, especially all the cotton States of the South and South-West, to retire from the present Union. There is a time and tide in the affairs, not only of individuals, but of States, when a movement, properly made, may be attended with the most decisive and permanent good consequences. I hope that the good and great statesmen of the South—and they are not too numerous— men of pure principles, genuine sagacity and unsullied patriotism—may be endowed with the wisdom and courage to meet the difficulties of the impending crisis. There is not only danger in the distance, but near at hand— much nearer than those who are wont to cry ‘peace! Peace!' is apt to imagine. The South must bring her time-servers to the block. The time for words, for log-rolling compromise is over, and the North and the South are about to meet each other face to face, and have a solemn reckoning. It must result in a re-understanding of the bargain, or dissolution of the ties which have united the two sections together.'

SLAVE-TRADE IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
The following volunteer toasts were given at a Fourth of July celebration at Walterboro' in that State:
By Col. I. J. Wit sell—a hearty welcome to Capt. Wm. Carrie in the Wanderer, with as many Africans as he can bring in, and old Satan take the Government that will say to the contrary.
By Dr. F. W. Frazer— the health of our friend. Col. J. T. Wit sell—that has to-day proved himself a warm and enthusiastic advocate of the African Slave Trade.
By Dr. C. J. Prentiss—the African Slave Trade. May the re-opening of which be heartily welcomed by all Southern men.
By C. M. Rivers—The re-opening of the African Slave Trade—The ' New plus ultra' of Southern policy—May our seaports soon teem with the Wanderer's to our Western shores, and may the hubbub of their voice be echoed and re-echoed to the mountains, valleys and verdant glades of our 'Far West.'

THE AFRICAN SLAVE-TRADE.
HOW A CARGO OF AFRICANS WAS LANDED IN THE UNITED STATES-COPY OF AN AGREEMENT WITH A RHODE ISLAND CAPTAIN.
The St. Augustine (Fla.) Examiner, Aug. 20. is if extremely jubilant over the fact that cargoes of Africans are constantly landed in the United States, in spite of the hue and cry at the North, and is especially pleased at being able to produce the following ' agreement,' entered into between a Rhode Island captain, one Miller F. Wick ham, (commanding brig Favorite,) and a firm doing business on the African coast under the name of Lewis & Boyd. This Rhode Island captain engaged to deliver a certain cargo of rum, tobacco, cordage, &c., to Lewis & Boyd, in elegance for which they promised to furnish him with ' eighty fair and merchantable negroes.' The Examiner asserts, in a tone of triumph, that ' these slaves were landed, and no mistake '—italicizing the latter clause of the sentence. It also indulges in the following editorial comment:
‘The New York Times and Tribune, with a lot of small fry, seem much worried in relation to the landing of cargoes on the coast of Florida. Cannot these papers understand that ' Niggers' are much more useful 'savages' than the Seminoles, and easier tamed? Why should New England people and Northern people generally, make so much fuss in this matter? It is well known that Northern vessels and Northern capital have ever done well in this business, and to ' do well' in New England, according to the 'law and profits,' covers a heap.'
The following is a copy of the ' agreement':
'This agreement, entered into with Capt. Wick ham, of the brig Favorite, from Rhode Island, on
<c04>
the one part, and Messrs. Lewis & Boyd. of Cape Coast Castle, on the other part, Witnessed that the said Wick ham had bartered and agreed to and with the said Lewis & Boyd, for the whole of the cargo of the brig Favorite, consisting of rum, tobacco, cordage, provisions, &c, as per invoice annexed, amounting to 7,135 dollars and forty-eight cents, for which cargo and amount, said Lewis & Boyd bargain and agree to pay said Wick ham eighty fair and merchantable negroes on or before the expiration of seven weeks from the above date. The height of each negro to be four feet and four inches, or upwards, and the customary proportion being observed, viz., two-thirds males, one-third females.
'It is further agreed between said parties, that if any of the annexed cargo should appear deficient when landed, a deduction of 50 per cent, shall be made on each article or articles that may so appear; and should, on the other hand, any article or articles be delivered to Messrs. Lewis & Boyd over and above what is represented and specified in the annexed invoice, we agree to pay the said Wick ham 50 per cent, on the same that may be so delivered.
Signed, MILLER F. WICKHAM, [L. s.]
PHILIP LEWIS, [L. S.]
JOHN BOTD. [L. S.]
The Examiner states, in addition, that 'the large planters made no objection to the landing of the 'negroes,' and 'that, as a general thing, they were purchasers.' The cargo taken out by the Favorite insisted of the following articles:
'Sixty hogsheads of New England rum, two hogsheads of tobacco, seven barrels of gin, twenty barrels of flour, fifteen coils of rope, &c., &c., the invoice taking up nearly two pages of foolscap.

SLAVEHOLDING CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP IN NEW ENGLAND.
‘One New Hampshire pastor, at least, has recently learned that it is possible for a slaveholder, contrary to the doctrine frequently inculcated hereabouts, to become a Christian. The incident was related to new by the pastor himself. These are the facts: A slaveholder from a distant Southern State; came to pass the summer of 1858 in one of the interior towns of New Hampshire. While there, he heard a sermon by this pastor that deeply impressed him with his own sinfulness and need of a Savior. He struggled with his mental load for some me, and often thought he would make known his case to this minister. But he did not. The Spirit of God, however, did not leave him, as he left for his instant home in the South. After some time, he embraced the Savior; and he came to New Hampshire again this post summer a Christian man, and told this minister, his temporary pastor, what the Lord had done for his soul, through him as an instrument. The pastor has full faith in his conversion, and seems to rejoice just as though he was an inhabitant of his own town. He further said, this; Christian slaveholder has lately provided monthly, preaching for his slaves, and only monthly, because he cannot secure a minister oftener. The slaveholder is very anxious that more ministers should go from the North to labor among the destitute in the Southern field.
There is another remarkable fact. Rev. Dr. Ross, Alabama, two or three years since, wrote a book on slavery that was particularly offensive to the throng anti-slavery sentiment of New England. Not long ago, the Doctor married a Northern school teacher, whose home is in one of our suburban towns. They must needs, then, visit her rends in this community, this summer. Probably Dr. R. did not expect an invitation to preach here, but he received several invitations, and preached both in and around Boston, and, among other places, in a Congregational pulpit in Chelsea, where such an invitation would least nave been expected. Thus our people are learning to love their Christian brethren in the South, though they do not love all their views and institutions.'—Boston correspondence of the N. Y. Journal of Commerce.

SELECTIONS.
From the Practical Christian.
PRACTICAL CHRISTIAN ANTI-SLAVERY.
There are many varieties of Christians, so called. We belong to that small variety who professes to be Practical Christians. There are also several varieties of Anti-Slavery. And there ought to be, if there is not, such a variety as Practical Christian Anti-Slavery. We have heretofore consorted chiefly with the old American Anti-Slavery Society, sometimes called Garrisoning. We have done so from conviction and preference, because their fundamentals seemed to us nearer right than those of any other professedly Anti-Slavery class. Moreover, we felt that our kind of Christianity, with its non-resistance and non-politics, would be less cramped and more at home on their platform, than on others where inlet-political or ecclesiastical influences prevailed. As was to have been expected, we have from the beginning had our views, feelings and tastes sometimes crossed. Of this we had no right and very little disposition to complain, however disagreeable; since all were free to express their various sentiments, and our Practical Christian peculiarities had only here and there a sympathizer. It became us therefore to be modest, and let those lead off who were in moral rapport with large numbers. We have always endeavored to act accordingly deeming it our duty to go quietly along with the mass of our associates, until fidelity to our own solemnly professed principles should require us to stand aloof. Latterly we have feared that such a contingency was approaching. Why?
1. Because the war-principle and spirit are becoming too dominant and rampant for our endurance. The motto is reiterated with general applause, 'Peaceably if we can, forcibly if we must.' The local governments of the land are persistently instigated to pass penal laws against the pro-slavery laws of the general Government, and to revolt against its Constitutional supremacy. Red Revolutionism, for the sake of the Anti-Slavery cause, is plainly preached and eloquently urged as the duty o the people. Those who believe that war and penal inflictions in behalf of justice and humanity are absolutely right, can have an valid objection to al this; unless indeed they are so morally perverse a to deny that chattel slavery is a crime. We hold it to be one of the greatest and worst of crimes, second only to war which is its mother, nurse and indispensable supporter. What then is our difficulty. We do not assume any right to suppress other people's convictions. If they hold to the rightfulness necessity and utility of deadly force and red revolution in the last resort, let them preach and practice accordingly on their own responsibility. On concern is to be faithful to oar own convictions, and not to fellowship or countenance what we religiously abhor as forbidden by the highest divine laws. We thus abhor Slavery and War, in their every principle, spirit, development and fruit. To think of resisting and abolishing one of them by means of the other is, to as, like attempting to cast out Satan with Satan. We feel bound to disfellowship and oppose both, by all means that are compatible with
<c05>
Practical Christianity, but by no other. For conscience sake we have withdrawn from all such connection with our General and State Governments as renders a co-governing citizen responsible for their pro-slavery and pro-war institutions. By precept and example we have honestly endeavored to bring there to do the same. But our religion forbids us to practice or countenance any kind of resistance to an existing government which can be consummated only by physical violence. Therefore we cannot concur in any measure which has the essential genius of mobocracy, sedition, rebellion or revolution. We do not believe in such expedients and resorts for lettering the condition of mankind. We hold only o those moral and physical resistances of evil which are orderly and beneficent to all parties concerned. We do not believe absolute human progress is promo table by any other.
In carrying out these principles, we deal with individuals, associations and governmental organizations alike. We can ask them, personally or by petition, to cease from any wrong act, or to do any right act by what to us are right means. But we cannot ask them to do a right act by means which we deem wrong. Therefore we can petition a legislature to repeal a bad law, or to enact a good law which requires no support by deadly force, or by unbeneficent penalties. But we cannot petition any government to enact laws, or to do acts, which we know must and will be sustained by the war-principle in some of its multiform applications. Those only can do so consistently, who hold to the war-principle as right. In accordance with these views, the have declined to recommend or sign the petition to our Legislature for a law to nullity the Fugitive Slave law in this State; and also other petitions for a political dissolution of the Union. Such acts smack not only of vindictive penalism but red revolutionism. In our view the end is right, but the means are wrong; and the end cannot sanctify the means.
What then? Shall we attempt to overrule others who hold opposite religious principles, and have no sympathy for our scruples? We would fain persuade them to come up higher, and stand with as. But they are not ripe for this. They are sore they can drive out a pro-slavery devil with a pro-war scorpion for a scourge. Moreover, they are so confident of this, that they cannot easily avoid expressing now and then a little contempt At Non-resistant setlines. We hear it at almost every public meeting, and it excites laughter at the expense of our principles. Well, it is the voice of ten majorities, and we must submit. We will not make it a point of debate. But it grieves and disgusts us, and perhaps our best testimony will be to retire and do what good woo can in the world, under the banner of simple Practical Christianity. We are rather inclined to such a course.
2. Because there is a growing disposition among our Anti-Slavery associates to magnify their movement for the abolition of chattel slavery as including the main substance of Christianity, or of a natural religion much purer than Christianity—to the great disparagement of other departments of righteousness, and a manifest contempt for really valuable established religious institutions. Bibles, churches, ministers, Sabbaths, external worship, sacraments, Sunday schools, etc., etc., are not only assailed with just criticism and denunciation for what is pro-slavery in them, in which we can heartily concur, but are often spoken of as worthless, and worse than worthless, nay, as positive hindrances to human progress. We are for having all classes of men freely express their honest convictions. But if they express what seems to. Us untrue and unjust, we cannot accept it, nor enjoy it, much less endorse it, or seem to endorse it. And when it is often repeated, with intensified expressions of ridicule, sarcasm and scorn, it becomes disgusting, and we are prone to seek relief by retiring out of its reach.
Now we understand the abolition of chattel slavery to be the plain dictate of natural justice. What is proposed? Simply this: to let the enslaved go free, and take care of them, like the generality of mankind: to abolish all laws, renounce all claims, and cease from all acts, which regard them as chattels. Is it proposed to indemnify the enfranchised for the wrongs they have suffered? No. To recompense them for labors performed while in bondage? No. Yet this would be but simple justice. Is it proposed to endow the liberated with homesteads, with schools and seminaries for the education of their young, with a freedom suit of clothes, or even a dollar of pocket money? No; they are to go forth into freedom with absolutely nothing but their persons. So the Anti-Slavery movement proposes but the simplest justice in behalf of the slave, and that stinted. It enjoins nothing else. It does not reach Charity at all, nor insist necessarily on any other great principle of religion, morality or humanity. Consequently, Anti-Slavery with all iota importance is but a part of Christianity, or of anything that can be called true religion, and covers but a single point in the vast field of human duty. If chattel slavery were utterly abolished to-day throughout the earth, the toils of universal righteousness would scarcely have been diminished.
Is it therefore to be passed over with indifference? By no means. Though justice is but one principle, it is a divine and fundamental principle. Where justice is deliberately violated, grossly and outrageously violated, as it is by cartelizing fellow human beings, the whole temple of religion is more or less defiled and desecrated. The man, the church, the nation, that has not virtue enough to cease from perpetrating or upholding chattel slavery, ought to be unspeakably shamed. For if one is only decently just when he refrains from robbing a fellow-man of his natural right to himself, where is he and what I he in the moral scale when he is persistently guilty of so monstrous a crime! In this point of view, the righteousness of Anti-Slavery, as contrasted with the base wickedness of Pro-Slavery, becomes heaven high and adorable. Viewed from above downward it seems but a small and ordinary portion of God’s universal righteousness. And such it really is. We object therefore to any man's magnifying the Anti-Slavery movement as the main substance of Christianity, or of a natural religion better than New Testament Christianity. It is not so.
We also object to all assertions and representations which make the Bible, or Christianity, or the popular churches, or clergy, or public worship, or Sunday schools, or established religious institutions of the world the cause of chattel slavery. The cause lies behind all these, and deeper. It lies in man' animal lasts,—in his lust of dominion, lust of property, and last of sensual pleasure. The sheerest infidels in slaveholding countries, who daily spit contempt on every thing that professing Christians religiously venerate, are as incorrigible slaveholders, as those Doctors of Divinity who pervert the Bible, religion, and common sense to prove slavery a divine institution. The same general cause is at the bottom in both and all cases. It is the same radical selfishness which causes all kinds of sin. Why then not say so? Why father it on religion and its institutions? These are dragged in, bought in, or flattered in, to ease the consciences of slaveholders, and cover them with artificial respectability, as the also are to do the same thing for great tyrants, warriors, all sorts of upper-crust sinners. Herein
<c06>
lies the guilt of church and clergy, not in causing chattel slavery, war and other popular abominations, but in consenting to be dragged in, hired in, or flattered in as conscience-easers, respectability-givers, and general accessories after the fact. Let them be thoroughly exposed and rebuked for all this.
But at the same time, let no injustice be done to any man or institution. Let not guilty and innocent be condemned together. Let not even the guiltiest are made guiltier than he is. Let all that is really good, useful or praiseworthy in institutions or men be candidly credited as such. Let not the wheat and the tares be pulled up together, which we fear in too often done. No good cause has any thing to gain, but much to lose, by departing under any pretext from strict truth and justice. As delinquent, pro-slavery, pro-war and corrupt as many of the American Church and clergy undoubtedly are, from the Catholics downward to some of the latest fledged Protestants, yet they all do more or less good in their place and way. We do not believe that our country or the world would gain any thing by dissolving and silencing them, even were it possible. 
Some talk as if humanity would rush at ones into the millennium, if only the existing popular religion, with its institutions, priests, arrow books, etc., could be swept out of the way. We believe no such thing. They cannot be spared till fairly superseded by something which meets the religious and social wants of human nature better. No city, town or neighborhood would be as orderly and well-conditioned without as with them, unless prepared for and furnished with something higher. Irreligionist and nothing Aryanism never elevate mankind, nor increase their average happiness. We know of no kind of religion, religious society, or religious ministrations that can be justly considered worse than none; though we know of some that are deplorably low in the scale of wisdom and goodness. Therefore, if any deem it their mission to denounce and destroy the religion that is, let them be prepared to give the people something better: for religious institutions of some sort mankind must have, ought to have, and will have. If we cannot give them better than they already have, all violent palling down and denunciation will ultimately recoil with plagues on its authors. We regret to see so much of it coming from the orator and advocate of great Reforms, which without deep religious influences can never fulfill the aspirations of their projectors and sincerest friends.
3. We find ourselves in doubt whether to consider the Anti-Slavery platform a desirable resort for us, because of the increasing egotism, extremism, exaggerations, antagonism and contemptuous personality, which we are obliged to witness. There has always been too much of these. Latterly there is more than ever. What do we mean? We mean, by egotism, self-importance, self-sufficiency, the opposite of reverence, humility, modesty, deference and courtesy. Individualism is cultivated to excess, so that one's greatness crowds that of another, and there is too little room on the stage for the actors. One jostles the other. ‘Knowledge puffed up, but charity edified' We prefer more of the latter.
We mean, by extremism, the continual intensification of Anti-Slavery dogmas, tests, asseverations, denunciations, epithets, etc. It appears in Resolutions and speeches, some of which would hardly I leave Wm. Lloyd Garrison himself an orthodox abolitionist of his own school. It gives little credit to I any class of professedly Anti-Slavery people who are j not ready for the mew radical revolutionary action I against all pro-slavery institutions in Church and in State. It follows out that unjust and absurd doctrine, the better a man is, the worse he is, or at least the more dangerous, as long as he is not a full saint. We have no faith in or respect for such extremes. We are for giving all men and bodies of men, even the worst, full credit for every thing right and good in them; and then faithfully showing them their sins, calling them to repentance, and inviting them to come up higher.
We mean, by exaggerations, the habit of making extravagant assertions and expressions which are only partially true, and then perhaps in some mystical, hyperbolical or paradoxical sense. We hear too many of these. They may astonish or amoeba the groundlings, bat on the whole mislead, confuse and vitiate common people's minds. It becomes difficult to understand what a man really means, to make the proper discount for his rhetorical gas, and to be sure as to what is absolutely true. Such a cause as that of Anti-Slavery demands plain, truthful, discriminating, solid speech, which can be easily; understood, and its representations fully relied on by, the common mind.
We mean, by antagonism, combativeness, contradiction, disputation, debate, not only toward outsiders but insiders. There is quite too much of this. It spares not the most devoted friends of the cause. It is often unjust and unreasonable as well as vexatious. If it were directed wholly against opposers, or confined to vital principles, it would be tolerable; but when it embroils and divides ' the household of faith ' against itself, it is intolerable. Yet we have heard it defended, and even recommended, as meritorious. Great unity, harmony, concord, in an association, say these Antis, imply tameness, slavishness, stagnation, corruption, death. Mutual contradiction and debate are healthful. We believe in no such doctrine. If men have a good cause, good principles and good motives, they ought to keep the unity of their spirits in the bonds of peace. They ought to love each other, to be conciliatory, courteous, forbearing, kindly affection, ' in honor preferring one another.' We go with Jesus for unity among the disciples of righteousness. Discord is weakness, folly, sin, ruin.
We mean, by contemptuous personality, speaking unnecessarily, invidiously, contemptuously, and sometimes almost scurrilously, of prominent individuals who ' follow not with us.' It is sometimes necessary and right to speak pointedly and severely of individuals, for righteousness sake. In these cases, it should be done with conscientious dignity, and the least possible tinge of personal contempt or vilification. But when speakers frequently, pertly, flippantly and scornfully denounce individuals as sneaks, fools, knaves, scoundrels and the like, they out to have a low, mean cause which cannot be disgraced by such advocacy. It is true the individuals assailed suffer no damage from the contemptuous language hurled against them; because it manufactures sympathy for them, and strengthens the attachment of their adherent; but it is wrong in itself, weakens the influence of the uttered, and damages a noble cause. Yet we have heard personality recommended as a good and useful Anti-Slavery weapon. In our judgment, it is seldom a true spiritual weapon. Too generally it is a carnal or at best semi-carnal weapon. It is quite too common, and to us odious. Finally, we any that we devotedly adhere to the fundamental principles of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and that if we cannot promote them associatively with these who deem certain methods, ways and means right, which are objectionable to us, we will do so in the best way we can as an individual. We are no dictator to others. They must do their duty, as they understand it, in their own way. We must do ours. We desire to be, and mean to be, a Practical Christian Anti-Slavery man—loving all, hating
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is ‘covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
The Free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they expose the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuses in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for talking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the Free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
noneï¿½blessing all, cursing none. And what we cannot do by means strictly consistent with truth, justice and charity to all mankind, we pray for heavenly grace to leave undone. But we have no doubt whatever of the triumph of right over wrong, and good over evil, and all the sooner as mankind cease to oppose evil with evil. 

From the Ohio Anti-Slavery Bugle. 
A CAUSE FOR COMPLAINT.
The True American, (Erie, Pa.,) thinks the political abolitionists have cause for complaint in the action of the Whig element in the Republican party in that vicinity. We shouldn't wonder. Those who go down to Egypt after chariots and horsemen will be very apt to find, in time, that they are but menials in the Conqueror's camp. It is not impossible that other sections may take up the lamentation, though perhaps policy will dictate continued a silence. Bear what the American says: 
'It was, of course, exceedingly proper that the Whigs should come in a body to the Republicans, for certainly the latter desired increase of numbers and influence. But was there not a trifle of the 'see-how-we-apples-swim 'about it? Have not the Whigs absorbed the Republicans, instead of the Republicans absorbing the Whigs? So far as leadership and the bestowment of offices and the enjoyment of the spoils are concerned, has there been much more than a formal transfer of platforms and a change of names? Has there been and is there now that careful and due recognition of all factions and divisions in the formation of Committees, in the enunciation of principles, and in the distribution of offices, which policy dictates, and which justice demands? We are forced to answer in the negative. We are not disposed to be captious and fault-finding. We but revert to these facts which are patent to all observers, and which, out of regard for the harmony of the party, have been smothered and suppressed, not to disorganise or disturb, but merely with a view to their correction in the future. It is in order to secure and promote harmony and good feeling in oar ranks, that we call attention to these notorious truths, and ask for a change of policy.ï¿½ Since the accession of the Whigs to the original Republican party in this county, terry office has been filled from the Whig faction of the party. Not in a single instance has an old-line anti-slavery man been elected to fill any office, however inferior or insignificantï¿½from Congressman to Director of the Poor. The same is true of such Republicans as have, before their conversion, acted with the Democratic partyï¿½none have ever been recognized in our Nominating Conventions. The whole thing has been Whig, and only Whig, and that continually. We have had the tactics and overseeism of the ancient Whig clique, under the new name of Republicanism. The line of apostolic succession is duly followed. The paper which is but an organ, has been in some quarters looked upon as the organ of the party, and upon it have the favors of the leaders and nine-tenths of the patronage of the offices been bestowed. This exclusiveness is as unkind as it is unjust. Nevertheless, we do not complain. It may be all an oversight, wholly unintentional, and which has but to be seen to be corrected. We most ardently hope to consider it as such. We only want to know if it is to be continued in the future. If it is to be, a feeling of dissatisfaction, long suppressed, will grow into an element of essential discord. We hope that in the coming election, a due recognition of all portions of the party will be religiously remembered and observed. Away with cliques and managing factions, and let the masses of the party dictate its policy, and equally enjoy its successes! In thus being true to each other, satisfactory results will ever follow our action.'

From the Erie True American. 
THOMAS CORWIN. 
Thomas Corwin is making 'Republican 'speeches throughout the State of Ohio, in all which be takes pains to declare that the Fugitive Slave law must be faithfully obeyed, and that if he had the power, he would bring to the block all who attempted to resist it! Can it be possible that this kind of stuff, this atrocious diabolism, is satisfactory to the Ohio Republicans? Is that sort of atheism to be set down as pure and unadulterated republicanism? Can Curwin himself be such a monster as he here intimates? If a poor, panting slave-woman, with her baby in her arms, hungry and fainting, yet closely pursued by the Southern fiends from whose lecherous clutches she has made her escape, should come to Thomas Corwin's door, and, falling at his feet, beseech him, for the love of God, to protect her, would he take her in, or would he deliver her and her little one up again to misery and chains? Why don't some one ask Mr. Corwin this question, and demand a public answer, when he makes such assertions as the above? What is the use of a multitude of honest men silently listening to such a sentimentï¿½a sentiment at which humanity shuddersï¿½ a sentiment which every one of them individually rejects, and in uttering which they know the speaker is dishonestï¿½is either a falsifier or a brute? In the name of that Humanity to which all men belong, what can be the design of such utterances? 
Even William Dennison, the Republican candidate for Governor of Ohio, took especial occasion, in a late public speech, to declare that a statement made by a Democratic paper, to the effect that he had at some previous time declared that, if elected Governor of Ohio, he would let no fugitive be returned to slavery from that State, if he had to employ the bayonet to prevent it, was a libelous and malicious lie. Oh, what a pity it was not a truth! Will any man honor William Dennison because it was a lie? Why should intelligent men so mistake human nature? 

LETTER FROM GERRIT SMITH. 
PETERBOFO', August 27, 1859. 
JOHN THOMAS. Esq., syracuse. Chairman of the Jerry Rescue Committee. 
Mr. DEAR SIR: I have this day received your letter, inviting me to preside at the approaching anniversary of the Rescue of Jerry, and to prepare the papers for it. Thankful for this honor as I truly am, nevertheless I am constrained to decline it. I have presided at all the anniversaries of this important event, and written the address adopted at each of them. But my interest in them has declined greatly for the last two or three years; and I am now decidedly of the opinion that it is unwise to continue to repeat the farce any longer. 
The Rescue of Jerry was a great and glorious event. Would to God it had been duly improved! But those who achieved it, and I include in this number all who cheered it on and rejoiced in every step of its progress, have, with few exceptions, proved themselves unworthy of the work of their own hands. We delivered Jerry in the face of the authority of Congress and courts; and, as most of us believed, in contempt also of a provision of the Constitution itself. We delivered him, believing that there was no law and could be no law for slavery. On that occasion our humanity was up; and in vain would all the authorities on earth, even the Bible itself included, have bid it down. Our humanity owned Jerry for its brother; and so did it cling to him, that all the wealth of the world would not have sufficed to buy it off, or tempt it to ignore and betray him. 
Oh, had the thousands who, on that memorable night, crowded the streets of Syracuse, but maintained that sublime elevation to which the spirit of the night exalted them, what a force for the overthrow of slavery would they not have accumulated by this time! Bat they soon fell from it. They soon amok down to the low level of their political and church parties. Jerry was forgotten. Their humanity was deadï¿½for these parties are the graves of humanity. In proportion as a man becomes a partisan is his manhood lostï¿½for in that proportion is he untrue to himself, to his brother, and to God. That day, alas how distant! when every one shall be held, and be willing to be held, to his individuality, shall witness an unspeakably better condition of things than does this, in which men act in parties, and stand in the strength of parties; and in which the vaguely and feebly felt responsibilities of party take the place of the definite and deeply conscious responsibilities of the individual. When our countrymen shall have risen to this higher plane of character, there will be Christians instead of Baptists, Methodists and Presbyterians; and Patriots instead of Republicans, Democrats and native Americans.
Of the thousands who, on the glorious night to which we have referred, were actuated by justice and mercy, probably not less than nine-twentieths fell, immediately after, under those ecclesiastical or political party influences which had previously swayed and shrivelled them. Of the thousands whose motto that glorious night was, 'No law for slavery," perhaps not a down have called on their 
<c02>
churches to adopt it, and not fifty have perseveringly refused to vote for men who recognize a law for slavery. At each of our anniversaries, the resolutions and addresses, and the discussion upon them, have been in harmony with the high and holy principles on which Jerry was rescued. Nevertheless, the vast majority of those who enjoyed the anniversaries returned home to act with their pro-slavery parties in Church and State. 
'Jerry Rescuers 'voting for men who acknowledge a law for slavery! I see not but that they are as basely inconsistent as are our Temperance Societies, forty-nine fiftieths of the members of which, whilst prating for 'prohibition, 'vote for candidates who oppose it. Indeed, always excepting an anniversary of the New York State Temperance Society, I do not know a greater or more shameless or more pernicious hypocrisy than an anniversary of the Rescue of Jerry. 
By the way, I see that a gentleman of fine talents, and high culture, and marked ability as a writer, is called on to write the history of the temperance reformation. For my own part, I had far rather that this history were hidden than published. For, if truly written, what is the great fact it will perpetuate? what but the infinitely disgraceful one that the temperance men, though very ready to talk up and write up their cause, were as ever ready to vote it down? The cause of temperance in this country is dead. In vain are all the efforts of Temperance Societies and temperance newspapers and temperance lecturers to galvanize it into life. Never was the use of tobacco and intoxicating drinks increasing so rapidly. All that have any discernment must see that it is this boundless inconsistency and unprincipledness at, the ballot-box which has killed this dear cause; and that it can never be revived by temperance societies and temperance newspapers and temperance lecturers that go for the election of rum-drinkers. Such stupendous and shameless hyyocrisies must give place to agencies characterized by sincerity and self-denial, before temperance can come to life. 
Respectfully your friend, 
GERRIT SMITH.
This is an extraordinary letter, both in regard to its sweeping denunciations of the whole body of 'Jerry Rescuers, 'and the contempt it pours upon the annual celebration of that event. At the first celebration, the following resolution, written by Mr. Smith, was unanimously adopted:ï¿½
Resolved, That the rescue of Jerry being of incalculable value, as an efficient teacher and practical expounder of sound doctrines in regard to law, and slavery, and kidnapping, should be celebrated every year, until there shall no longer be a wretch -who dares to be a kidnapper, and no longer be a slaveholder to give employment to a kidnapper.
Is there any personal irritation of mind in this letter of Mr. S., arising from the few votes he received? 

From the London Anti-Slavery Advocate for September.
MISS REMOND IN BRISTOL.
On Wednesday evening, a lecture was delivered at the Athenaeum, by Miss Remond,(a colored lady),on 'Negro Slavery in America." This lady (whose father is a native of one of the French West India Islands, who has been settled from boyhood in the free state of Massachusetts) has been engaged for some time in the gratuitous advocacy of the claims of her enslaved fellow-countrymen. Nothing can be more pleasing or ladylike than her appearance and addressï¿½the calmness of her delivery adding no little weight to a statement of wrongs calculated to rouse the indignation of every heart. When it is understood that to such a woman, claiming at once our courtesy by her ladylike exterior, and our admiration by her mental abilities, the most gross and cruel insults have been continually offered in theatres, and churches, and public carriages in the free States of America, our regret and sympathy are no less awakened for the sufferer than our indignation against the oppressor.
The CHAIRMAN (Christopher Thomas, Esq.,) observed that the subject of slavery was one on which he was sure of the sympathy of an English audience. There were no differences of feeling amongst us as to the wrongs of the race of whom the lady he now had the honor of introducing to them stood forward tonight as the representative and advocate.
Miss REMOND commenced her address by observing that, while the English nation sympathises deeply with the wrongs of the slave, the actual condition of the negro race, and its relative proportion to the white population of America, were but imperfectly understood. There are at this time 15 slave States, containing 346,000 slaveholders, and about 4,000,000 slaves. Throughout the whole Union, there are scattered nearly half a million of free negroes. The remaining white population of the slave States, mainly consisting of the degraded class of poor whites, outnumbers the slaveholders in the proportion of 17 to 1. It would seem at first sight incredible that this miserable minority of 346,000 slaveholders should exercise the enormous power they possess, in fact the actual supremacy over the whole policy of America. At the same time that they enslave 4,000,000 blacks, they produce a degradation morally not inferior to that of slavery among the poor whites; and throughout the free States themselves, they sway the legislature, procure the passing of acts like the Fugitive Slave Law in Congress, and place their nominee, Mr. Buchanan, in the presidential chair. That a body not amounting to a third of a million should be able to acquire such importance in a democratic republic numbering 30,000,000, is marvellous indeed. The causes are to be sought in the force of combined action among men of absolutely united interests, and in the extraordinary principle which gives to each slaveholder votes for Congress in the proportion of three to every five slaves in his possession.
Miss Remond proceeded to detail a number of interesting cases of the escape of slaves, and related anecdotes of the 'Underground Railway, 'of which she herself had been witness. In conclusion, she called especially on the women of England to sympathize in the atrocious wrongs of the colored women of America, who are sold for the basest purposes, their value on the auction-block being raised by every quality of beauty, talent, piety, and goodness which should have commanded the respect and tenderness of their fellow-creatures. A slave who can be 'warranted 'to be an earnest Christian is thereby insured with the value of many added dollars! It is not on the most ignorant and wretched that the curse of slavery falls most heavily; it is on the higher natures, which, like the unfortunate 'Cassy 'in Mrs. Stowe's admirable tale, feel and writhe under their intolerable injuries. The sympathy which the English public can give to the cause of abolition is of great importance. The Americans may not love the English as a nation, but at least they respect them, and attach the utmost weight to the calm expression of their opinion.
Miss. Remond terminated her address of more than an hour's durationï¿½in the course of which she had manifestly won the warm suffrages of her audienceï¿½with the words of the abolitionist poet Whittier:ï¿½
'A Christian going, gone!
Who bids for God's own image, for His grace,
Which that poor victim of the market-place
Hath in her sufferings won?
My God! shall such things be?
Hast Thou not said that whatsoe'er is done
Unto Thy weakest and Thy humblest one,
Is even done to Thee?
ï¿½(Long continued cheers.)
R. CHARLTON, Esq. rose to propose the resolution of the meeting, and in doing so took occasion to remark that the English were not only bound to express in every possible way their condemnation of American slavery, but also to guard carefully against partaking of that heinous crime by the Coolie traffic at this moment in nefarious operation. He was sure the meeting would agree in the resolution he should now have the honor of proposing:ï¿½'That the best thanks of this meeting be given to Miss Remond for her lecture delivered this evening; that we who are here present declare our mournful sympathy with the slave, as bound with him; and that we offer words of holy cheer to all those who are laboring truly, zealously, perseveringly, and in the face of deadly opposition on every hand, for his emancipation.
'The Rev. EDWIN CHAPMAN rose and said: An American judge had given the decision that 'Negroes had no rights which the white race were bound to respect.' In that sentence, he thought lay the spirit of despotism. No rights! and yet God had given to them souls, and reason, and conscience, all on which human rights can be founded. The slaveholders might mock at all law above their in human legislation, or declare, as Daniel Webster had done, that there was 'no higher law'; but the Divine eternal justice would yet strike Colombia for her crime against the negro race. He had much pleasure in seconding the resolution.
The resolution was then passed unanimously.
<co3>
The Liberator.
BOSTON. SEPTEMBER 16, 1859.
THE INAUGURATION OF THE WEBSTER STATUE.
To-morrow, the city of Boston, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, are to be dishonored and humbled in the presence of the whole country, by the erection of the statue of DANIEL WEBSTER, under the auspices of the City Authorities, and by the consent of the Legislature, upon the State House grounds. The Presentation Address is to be made by Prof. C. C. Felton, of Harvard College; the Reception Address by Mayor Lincoln; GOV. Banks is then to make a speech; to be followed by an oration by Edward Everett. Whatever may be the popular display or rhetoric of the occasion, posterity will blush, and will have cause to blush, at the entire proceedings. 
For the commission of this great crime against Justice and Humanity, the anniversary of the settlement of Boston has been adroitly selected; thereby securing a general holiday to all the public schools, and a suspension of business affairs, so as to swell the popular demonstration, and, under cover of an important historical event of profound local interest, give it at least the semblance of universal homage to the memory of one, who, by his shocking recreancy to the struggling cause of freedom, deserves to go 'unwept, unhonored and unsung. 'A procession is to be formed at 1 o'clock at the City Hall, of all those who 'love to receive honor one of another, 'including the Reverend Clergy, 'who, with some few exceptions, will doubtless accept the invitation "with alacrity. 'Of course, the 'Young Men's Christian Union' is down in the programme, and no doubt will be strongly represented. So, also, is the 'Boston Humane Society.' But what a paradox, in view of the inhuman course pursued by Mr. Webster toward the colored population of this country, whether bond or free!
We trust it will not prove wholly unavailing, if we earnestly appeal to those who claim to be on the side of libertyï¿½the friends of pure moralityï¿½regardful of the honor and renown of the Commonwealthï¿½ true to the principles of the Declaration of Independenceï¿½animated by the spirit of the Golden Ruleï¿½to give no countenance to this 'image worship, 'by taking any part in the proceedings, even so far as to appear in the procession, or to accept an honorary seat within the enclosure where the addresses will be delivered. They have a very different duty to perform. It is to show, whether within hearing of the speakers or away from the scene, in an unmistakable manner, but within the bounds of propriety, that they take no pleasure in the deed. It is to refuse to go with the multitude 'to do evil. It is to bear testimony, as opportunity may present, against this outrage upon the real sentiments and feelings of the people of Massachusetts. For, in this matter, the Legislature that accepted the cunning overture did not truly represent them, but were ensnared and seduced by local influences, and especially by the recommendation of Gov. Banks, who, from the hour of his elevation to the gubernatorial office to the present time, has had chiefly his own further exaltation in view. Boston is not the Commonwealth: the 'subscribers to the Webster statue, including 'the Committee of One Hundred, are not the people of the State.
THE STATUE MUST BE REMOVED. Let this be the popular decree to-morrowï¿½let the declamation go forth from the lips of every upright manï¿½let it be the voice of Massachusetts. A vote of the Legislature can undo what a vote has done. That vote can be secured by a prompt circulation of a respectful petition, to be signed by all who in their hearts respond to the cryï¿½THE STATUE MUST BE REMOVED. Such a petition has already been prepared; it is in these words:ï¿½
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts: 
WE, THE UNDERSIGNED, Citizens of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to remove from the State House groundsï¿½as no honor to the State and repugnant to the moral sense of the peopleï¿½the statue of Daniel Webster, whose last years were spent in defending the Fugitive Slave Bill, and whose last counsel to the Commonwealth was to 'conquer her prejudices against Slave-hunting, and to return men to bondage 'with alacrity.'
This issue is so clearly connected with the abolition of the Slave system, and the overthrow of the Slave Power, that we regard it as the special anti-slavery duty of the hour in this State. Every blow that shall fall upon the iron image will break a fetter in Carolina: its removal, in accordance with a regenerated public sentiment, will be a heavy stroke to the hopes and machinations of the enemies of impartial freedom, North and South.
This is no personal matter, and therefore not urged in the spirit of personal hostility. It is not in reference to one who filled a private sphere, and acted upon his own responsibility, without involving others. Far otherwise. 
They who conceived the idea of such a statue, to be inaugurated in such form, under such auspices, and in such a place, and who have succeeded in the accomplishment of their purpose, are too well known to render their motives at all doubtful. Their admiration of Mr. Webster rose in proportion as he degraded himself by his servility to the Southï¿½his scorn and hatred of the Anti-Slavery movementï¿½his advocacy of the Fugitive Slave Bill. Every step that he took downward in his pro-slavery course, received their warm commendation. Stung to the quick on finding that he had thereby lost his hold upon the respect and confidence of the people of Massachusetts, they resolved to procure his statue, and make the attemptï¿½seemingly a forlorn oneï¿½to place it by legislative permission upon the State House grounds, and thus obtain an endorsement of his public career on the part of the Commonwealth itself. We feel warranted in saying that they did not expect their overture would be accepted; for in view of the all-prevailing disgust and indignation at his evil course, what ground had they to dream of success? It was the letter of GOV. Banks to the Legislature, recommending a ready compliance with that overture, that turned the scale, and inflicted the disgrace. Had he done his duty, by expressing the hope that no such permission as was asked would be granted, because it would be at variance with the feelings and wishes of the people at large, the wily projectors of the scheme would have been baffled, and the self-respect and dignity of the State vindicated. This act alone should make his re-election an impossible event, let who will be his successor. 
Friends of humanity! lovers of freedom! disciples of Him who came to set the captive free! read the following arrogant, defiant, inhuman sentiments from the lips of the man whose image is to be set up tomorrow, with all the 'pomp and circumstance 'of a civic and military demonstration! [1]
'My public speeches show my opinion to have been decidedly in favor of a proper, efficient, and well-guarded law for the recovery of fugitive slaves. In my judgment, the present law is constitutional, and all good citizens are bound to respect and obey it just as freely and readily as if they had voted for it (1) 'Wheresoever the carcass Is, there will the VULTURES, and other unclean birds of prey, be gathered together 
ANDOVER, Mass., Sept. 10, 1859. 
Gentlemen: I promise myself, in compliance with your invitation, the gratification and honor of being present on the 17th inst., at the inauguration of the statue of the late revered and lamented statesman, Daniel Webster. 
Accept my thanks for your courtesy, and believe me very truly 
Your friend and obedient servant,
FRANKLIN PIERCE.
Hon. F. W. LINCOLN, JE., OTIS CLAFF, Esq., and others, Boston.
<co4>
themselves. I think agitation on the subject ought to cease.'
The Fugitive Slave Law is the law of the land, and as usual is to be respected and obeyed by all good citizens. I have heard no man whose opinion is worth regarding deny its constitutionality, and those who counsel violent resistance to it, counsel that which, if it takes place, is sure to lead to bloodshed, and to the commission of capital offences, it remains to be seen how far the deluded and deluders will go on in this career of faction, folly, and crime.'
ï¿½I hold the Fugitive Slave Law to be a law entirely constitutional, highly proper, and absolutely essential to the peace of the country.'
'I put it to all the sober and sound minds at the North, as a question of morals and a question of, conscience. What right have they, in their legislative capacity, or any other capacity, to endeavor to get round this Constitution, or to embarrass the free exercise of the rights secured by the Constitution to the persons whose slaves escape from them? None at all; none at all. Neither in the forum of conscience, nor before the face of the Constitution, are they, in my opinion, justified in such an attempt. I repeat, here is a well-founded ground of complaint against the North, which ought to be removed; which calls for the enactment of proper laws, authorising the judicature of this government, in the several States, to do all that is necessary for the recapture of fugitive slaves, and " for their restoration to those who claim them. Wherever I go, and wherever I speak on the subject, (and when I speak here, I desire to speak to the whole North,) I say that the South has been injured in this respect, and has a right to complain.'
'I notice that, in one of the meetings holden lately in the very heart of New England, and said to have been very numerously attended, the members unanimously resolved, 'that, as God is our helper, we will not suffer any person charged with being a fugitive from labor to be taken from among us; and to this resolve we pledge our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor. These persons do not seem to have been aware that the purpose thus avowed by them is distinctly treasonable.'
'Depend upon it, the law will be executed in its spirit and letter. It will be executed in all the great citiesï¿½here in Syracuseï¿½in the midst of the next Anti-Slavery Convention, if the occasion shall arise. Then we shall see what becomes of their lives and their sacred honor.'
'We call upon Massachusetts to discharge that DUTY [the catching of fugitive slaves] as an affair of HIGH MORALS AND HIGH PRINCIPLES. The question now is, whether she will conquer her own PREJUDICES! Any man can perform an agreeable dutyï¿½ it is not every man who can perform a disagreeable, duty.'
'I will say again in the city of Boston, if I am spared to have an opportunity, that you of the South have as much right to recover your fugitive slaves, as the North has to any of its rights and privileges of navigation and commerce.'
'The excitement [in Boston] caused by the Fugitive Slave Law is fast subsiding, and it is thought that there is now no probability of any resistance, if a fugitive should be arrested.'
THE STATUE MUST BE REMOVED!
'AND LET ALL THE PEOPLE SAY, AMEN!'
DANIEL WEBSTER.
There are two powers which seem to have had complete dominion over Mr. Webster, the latter part of his lifeï¿½the Money Power and the Slave Power, the latter culminating in his excessive desire to be President of the United States; and these two powers seem not only to have influenced his whole political conduct during this period, but to have shaped his opinions upon nearly all the great measures that came before him for his decision and action. The influence of the first of these, the Money Power, may be seen in the change of his views with regard to the tariff from those he previously entertained and expressed. First, he was in favor of free trade, and made a very able and powerful argument in support of it. Afterwards, when large sums of money were raised for and paid to him by the friends of a protective tariff, he came out in favor of such a tariff. And ever afterwards, to the close of his life, these persons had him under their complete control in regard to this matter, by their application of what, in fact, were no better than bribes to him, whether so stated to him or not. How could he, thus situated, perform his duty as a legislator with independence, and free from bias, acting entirely in conformity with his enlightened judgment, and an honest devotion to the general good? He knew the expectation with which the money was paid to him, and that upon his future conduct depended the repetition of similar favors.
Here his conduct was under the control of the Money Power; how was it in regard to the Slave Power? During the latter part of his life, it is well known, he was ambitious of obtaining the office of President, and shaped all his opinions and measures with a view to this end. To gain the support of the South for this purpose, without which he thought he could not be elected, he came out, in his 7th of March speech, and by his advocacy of the Fugitive Slave Bill made himself completely their tool and their slave; and in this way, he felt almost sure of success. But, thanks, to a merciful Providence, and the sagacity of the American people, his views were frustrated, and the country was saved from the curse and the disgrace of having such a man, with such a character, for its President.
Had Mr. Webster lived, there is hardly any doubt that he would have come out in favor of the Dred Scott decision, the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, the acquisition of Cuba, and even the re-opening of the foreign slave-trade, if by so doing he could conciliate the South, and obtain their votes for the Presidency. By his 7th of March speech, he discovered his willingness, like another Benedict Arnold, to march right into the Southern camp, abandon all his former political friends, and do battle for his new Southern allies, in supporting and extending slavery. He then showed himself to be totally destitute of moral or political principle, and that, having made the leap, he did not care where he landed, provided it promoted his ambitious and selfish schemes. 'Facilis descensus Averni.'
And this is the man whom the State of Massachusetts proposes now to honor, by placing his statue upon its own ground! And, by so doing, prove herself recreant to all the glorious sacrifices and achievements in behalf of liberty in her past history, false to the heroes and martyrs of the Revolution, to the glorious spirits of Concord, Lexington and Bunker Hill, who fought for her freedom, false to her Bill of Rights, and the Declaration of Independence! And, by so doing, proclaim also to the nations of the world, that she is willing to hoist the pirate flag of slavery, and under its black folds make war upon justice, freedom, and the rights of man,ï¿½to disgrace herself in the eyes of mankind, and become a hissing, a byword and a reproach to all future generations! It cannot be that Massachusetts will long submit to such a reproach. Like Samson of old, she will yet again rise in her might, hurl from its pedestal this monument of her disgrace and her shame, and cover with infamy its projectors. A swift retribution waits upon the deed. WARREN.
DANIEL WEBSTER.
MR. GARRISON,ï¿½AS the following, which we clipped from an influential religious paper in this city, may afford the admirers of Mr. Webster an interesting subject for reflection at the inauguration of his Statue, on Saturday next, we hope you will administer to their consolation by giving it a place in your fearless journal. We will respectfully suggest to Mr. Everett, that it will add much to the effectiveness of his Eulogy upon that occasion, if he will give it great prominence in that 'most brilliant effort of his life:-
'Daniel Webster squandered some millions in his life-time, the product of his profession and his political speculations. He died, leaving his property to his children, and his debts to his friends. The former sold for less than twenty thousand dollarsï¿½the latter exceeded two hundred and fifty thousand.'
<c05>
LATE FROM THEODORE PARKER. 
Combs Varin Brot-Dessus, Neuchatel, Suisse, August 23, 1859.
FRANCIS JACKSON:
DEAR FRIENDï¿½Here I am, staying with one of my best friends, Professor Desor, who was often at my house in 1847 and 1852. He is one of the great men in these partsï¿½both respected and belovedï¿½interested in all manner of good things. I have been here a month, and seen many enlightened and interesting people whom he entertains most hospitably. A brother could not be kinder, or a sister more delicate and tender, than he is to me.
I think I am really getting better; certainly I am fatter and stronger than for a year past. But the cough continuesï¿½the voice is good for nothingï¿½it is a little painful to talk at all. Professor Desor has a fine wood lot, and I work in it with a bill-honk and light hatchet, pruning the trees, and cutting down bushes; and sometimes I take an axe, and cut down a tree of 12 or 14 inches diameter. I do not overwork, and I have a good appetite. 
I hope American affairs look better at home than abroad. Here they have an ugly aspect, which gives me a good deal of anxiety. Look at this: 
1st. The South has re-opened the African Slave trade, and neither the government nor the Democratic party, not yet the public sentiment of the great mass, opposes it. 
2d. The Southern States are logically carrying out it principle of Slavery, and applying it to the free blacks. They begin with selling thousands into Slavery to pay their taxes; ultimately they will either banish them all, or else reduce them to Slavery. It would be curious if the New-Englanders should pass law to sell into Slavery all foreigners who could not pay their taxes, purposely made oppressive. 
3d. No Northern Governor dare stand out for State Rights against the invasions of the Slave Power. Look at GOV. Chase, one of the ablest and most enlightened men in the nation, naturally conscientious and humane; but how like a coward he looks at this distance! I hope he seems more courageous and manly as near as Boston. I have had mere respect for him than for almost any of our politicians, for I thought him a great man; but I want new evidence now. (1) 
Will the time never come when an able man shall see that he may be greater than a President, and have more power in the nation by being faithful to the right? It is a mean ambition to desire a mere office, specially when the whole capital smells offensive with such creatures as Polk, Pierce, Buchanan, and the like of them! But, to seek to bless the peopleï¿½ to found institutions which shall promote the welfare and the progress of mankind for a thousand yearsï¿½ that is the noblest aim of noblest men. I should like to see such a man in American politics. Perhaps Sumner will prove one of this stamp; certainly, he looks that way now. 
4th. Besides, the men of property in the great cities have become strangely debauched in their morals. For ten years past, they have not once taken the moral side of any great question. Look at the last act of Bostonï¿½the transfiguration of Rufus Choate! What a sad sign of the times, that our city honors such a man with such a funeral! 
I finish this letter in the city were Calvin burnt Servetus. 
I had a nice letter from Sumner a few days ago. He was in good spirits, and full of hope. 
Yours, always, THEODORE PARKER.
(1) What will be the feelings of Mr. Parker when he shall read the following disgraceful letter from the Republican (!) Governor of Ohio, SALMON P. CHASE, to the Mayor of Boston, in approval of the inauguration of the statue of the shameless defender of the Fugitive Slave Bill, and complimentary to the man who avows his readiness to shoulder his musket, to subjugate or slaughter the mercilessly oppressed slaves of the South, in case they should rise for freedom!ï¿½Is this Gov. Chase's special bid for the Presidency?
COLUMBUS, Sept. 10, 1859. 
Dear Sir: It is with great regret that I find myself constrained to deny myself the gratification of being present at the inauguration of the statue of Webster. I would go far to participate in inaugurating a statue wrought by the art of Powers. I would go further to hear Webster celebrated by Everett. But imperious duties detain me in Ohio. 
With great respect. 
Yours truly, 
S. P. CHASE. 
Hon. FREDERICK W. LINCOLN, Mayor, &c.
VERMONT ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION. 
Agreeably to a call issued by the friends of the slave, an Anti-Slavery Convention for the State of Vermont assembled in West Randolph, August 31, 1859. The Convention was called to order by Rev. Jehiel Claflin, who, on motion, was chosen President pro tern. A. T. Foss was chosen Secretary pro tern. Elder J. Baldwin offered vocal prayer. 
Voted, That the officers of this Convention to be chosen, hold their offices during the year, or till others be chosen in their place. 
B. W. Dyer, Enoch Hibbard and J. M. Coburn were appointed a committee on nominations. 
On resolutions, A. T. Foss, Rev. B. F. Summerbell, S. M. Seaver, E. Hibbard and E. F. Claflin. 
Some excellent remarks were here made by C. L. Remond, of Massachusetts, showing what the nature and objects of the Convention were, and by Rev. Mr. Summerbell, professing his attachment to the Constitution and Union of his country. 
Committee on nominations reported. Report accepted and adopted, as follows:ï¿½ 
Presidentï¿½Rev. Jehiel Claflin. 
Secretaryï¿½James Hutchinson, Jr. 
Vice Presidentsï¿½Rev. N. R. Johnston, J. C. Fargo,
S. M. Seaver and Avery Fitts.
Mr. Foss, in behalf of the committee on Resolutions, reported the following series:ï¿½ 
Whereas, in the language of John Wesley, 'American Slavery is the sum of all villanies' Therefore, 
1. Resolved. That Slaveholders and their intelligent, willing abettors and apologists are sinners of the first rank. 
2. Resolved, That he, who denies the manhood and the rights of the slave, irrespective of color or race, betrays inexcusable weakness, or lamentable wickedness, or both. 
3. Resolved, That one of the chief obstacles in the way of universal freedom, is to be found in a timeserving ministry and a corrupt church. 
4. Resolved, That the Republican party, by its guilty complicity with Slaveholders in ignoring the condition and 'crushing out 'the rights of four millions of men and women in fetters; and in upholding the U. S. Constitution, with its wicked 'compromises, 'occupies a position, hostile to the cause of impartial justice, of universal freedom and the rights of man. 
5. Resolved, That the only foundation for the hope of the slave is to be found in a healthful moral agitation, and in the regeneration of public sentiment. 
6. Resolved, That the Republican party, is 'the white man's party, 'and, therefore, proscriptive, partial and exclusiveï¿½its patriotism being neither broad nor comprehensive, but bounded by latitude and longitude, making merely a territorial, and not a moral issue at all with Slavery as a sin against God; which, for unutterable iniquity, outrage and crime, is paralleled by nothing in the annals of ancient or modern times. 
C. L. Remond addressed the Convention.
Mr. Dyer, in behalf of committee on nominations, reported the following names for a State Committee, and they were chosen:ï¿½J. M. Coburn, L. H. Spear, Charles Hubbard, W. H. H. Claflin, L. G. Bigelow. Adjourned to half past 1 o'clock, P. M.
Met agreeably to adjournment.
Mrs. Hyzen gave a beautiful song, accompanied with the melodeon, Mr. Foss addressed the Convention.
<c06>
Mr. Summerbell criticised Mr. Fossï¿½s address with much zeal; renewed his professions of attachment to his country, and its Constitution and Union; said he had a wife and children whose dearest interest would be lost in the dissolution of the Union.
Mr. Guy C. Sampson made some truthful and timely remarks.
Elder Baldwin said he wished to speak in the Convention at some future time-was an abolitionist, has not a Garrisonian.
Rev. Mr. Whittemore then addressed the Convention. He said whatever in religion or government favored slavery, he was opposed to it; but he was slave opposed to this wholesale denunciation.
Mr. Foss asked, 'Would you turn a man out of your church for voting for James Buchanan, or any other pro-slavery man?
Whittemore-'Yes, if I could have my way.'
Mr. Foes-'Then you are so far a Garrisonian.'
Mr. F. asked-'Would you exchange pulpits with a minister who defended Slavery?
W.-'Yes!'
F.-'Would you do the same with one who defended horse-stealing?'
W.-'Yes!'
F.-'Well, that is sufficiently liberal.'
Voted, That when the Convention adjourn, it be to half past 7 this evening, and 9'oclock to-morrow morning. On motion, voted to adjourn.
In the evening, the Convention was addressed by C.L. Remond, A.T. Foes and J. Claflin.
September 1st. Met agreeably to adjournment at 9 o'clock, A.M. Mr. Summerbell prayed, and Mrs. Hyzen gave another beautiful song.
Resolutions were taken up, on motion of Mr. Summerbell, separately, and No. 1,2 and 3 were passed. 
Mrs. Hyzen now took the stand, and in a speech of great clearness and force, held the earnest attention of the audience for one hour and a quarter. Mrs. H. referred to Rev. Mr. Summerbell's statement, that he could not bear the thought of the destruction of the Union, because he had a wife and children. She passed a warm and beautiful eulogy upon this love of his dear ones, and then took us all away to behold upon the plantations and the rice swamps of our lend, the millions of those husbands and wives, parents and children, which this Union dooms to a condition worse than death.
Elder Baldwin now took the stand, and spoke for some time upon Mr. Garrison's 'infidelity,ï¿½ and in defence of Republican party.
Voted to adjourn one hour.
Met agreeably to adjournment. Song by Mrs. Hyzen.
C.L. Remond made an excellent speech.
Next, the President made a very clear statement of the distinctive principles of the Garrisonians, in reference to their great movement.
Mr. Guy C. Sampson now came forward and made an earnest and faithful appeal in behalf of the slave.
Mr. Foss made the closing speech.
Voted to adjourn to half past 7 this evening.
Met agreeably to adjournment. Song by Mrs. Hyzen.
The remaining resolutions were taken up. discussed, and passed; and the Convention, after six sessions very fully attended, and replete with interest throughout, adjourned sine die.
J. CLAFLIN, President.
JAMES HUTCHINSON, JR., Secretary.
BARRE, (Vt.) August 30,2357.
To the Anti-Slavery Convention, convened at West Randolph, Sept. 1st and 2d, 1859 
FRIENDS OF THE ENSLAVED:
As other duties deprived me of the pleasure which I had hoped to realize in meeting with you in your Convention, I cannot refrain from sending you a word expressive of the deep interest I feel in your work.
This I am prepared to do, not as a boast of personal importance, but because my heart is with you; because I feel that the cause of the oppressed calls for an expression of sympathy from all lovers of humanity, however weak or insignificant they may be. It is to me the highest, the truest, the most living expression of Christianity which is now operative in the word. Untainted by selfishness, untarnished with pride, and untrammelled by sectarian and partisan prejudices, it breathes the spirit of Christ in its freshness I love it, because it appeals to my highest sense of duty, satisfies my highest convictions, permits my sympathies to flow out to those who need them, and allows me to 'rebuke wickedness in high places.' When I fathom the deep places of my soul-when I consult my own feelings, and drink most freely of the spirit of Jesus, I find that I am really in fellowship with none but those who are toiling to 'open the prison doors, break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free.'
And, in speaking thus, I am aware that I erect an almost impregnable 'wall of partition' between myself and the sectarian religions of the day; that I shut myself out from the sympathy of every church in the land. Look at the professedly Christen Church! It is endowed with almost unlimited means of influence. It has wealth, popularity and learning. And yet it stands dumb before the oppressor; Day worse, it bows down at his behest, and does his God defying work. What an attitude this for a Church which claims to be Christian! Its very position on the slavery question brands it with hypocrisy. Viewed in the light of its relation to this sin, every benevolent heart must turn from it with loathing-must feel that it is Christ's most powerful enemy-that it is crucifying him afresh, putting him to an open shame, and doing more to disgrace his cause than all its professed foes. O, that the Churches would put away their false pride, their dishonest scheming and temporizing, and, like Him whose disciples they preface to be, stand forth free and uncontaminated with the sins of their age! Then, 'the oppressed would go free'; then, the 'blood of innocents' would no longer cry against them, and Christ would receive no more wounds in the 'house of his friends.'
But, before this can be, a great work must be dome. The minds of men must be aroused to a consciousness of the evil we oppose. The people are not half awake on this subject. They do not feel its importance. They still consent to let corrupt politicians use it as a means of personal aggrandizement. It is ignored whenever and whenever partisan and sectarian interests require. The peace and quiet of a 'totally depraved' political clique, or of a lazy Church, are thought to be of more importance than the peace and salvation of humanity. There are few who are prepared to insist upon the right, the immediate, unconditional, absolute right, in defence of Church and State. Selfish, material interests crowd themselves upon and control almost every reform movement.
But we claim for Radical Abolitionism an exemption from these charges. If we understand it, it consents to no compromise or union with the wrong. It has no faith in expediency, and never resorts to evil as a means of doing good. In its application to slavery, it demands its absolute and immediate extinction; demands it not chiefly as a constitutional or a political duty, but as a divine right. It teaches as one having authority, and not as the political scribes. In this its central idea, as we have said, we recognize the spirit, the very essence of Christianity, and in seeking to extend it, and give it practical force in society, we feel that we are doing the work of the Master. Let us toil on in faith and hope. Amid all our discouragements, we see indications of an approaching victory. And, even without these indications, our confidence in the power of truth and right is all-sufficient to strengthen us.
That you may have both an interesting and profitable Convention is the earnest wish and prayer of Your fellow - laborer in behalf of universal freedom,
F.S BLISS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE UNITARIAN 'SUSPENSE OF FAITH.'
Henry W. Bellows, a prominent D.D. in the city of New York, of the Unitarian denomination, recently delivered 'an address to the Alumni of the Divinity School of Harvard University,' entitled 'The suspense of Faith.' It contains numerous revelations and confession of the present stagnant condition of that sect; adding another testimony to the effeteness of the American Church. We notice it, not in the interest of Unitarianism, or of any party or school, but in the love of Truth and Humanity, to draw from it a lesson.
The discourse sums up the condition of the denomination in the following rather contradictory language:—'Spite of increasing numbers and increasing moral vitality, of growing earnestness and activity, of larger acceptance and easer advance, there is an undeniable in the denominational life of the body; with general prosperity, in short, there is despondency, self-questioning and anxiety.'
The explanation of this 'loss of interest' and 'languor' is given under three heads, viz. 'Particular, General, and Universal reason.' his article proposes to notice only the first and second reasons, leaving the 'third 'and the consequent propositions of the address for a future day.
The first and 'Particular reason' f the lethargic condition of this wing of the Church is stated thus:—
'The indifference to increasing our ministers and our churches is very much due to the conviction that many ministers and churches, of all names and orders, are now doing our work, if less directly, yet more thoroughly than we could do it ourselves.' ’Is not the work of emancipating the community from bigotry and superstition, so much more bigotry and successfully carried on by political and democratic life, literature and the public press, that our vocation in this direction is mostly gone?'
That others are working industriously in the vineyard seems, surely, no valid reason why the Unitarians should lose interest in the work, and incline to disband. Mr. Bellows, probably, would confess it; yet he states the reason with a complacency that almost endorses its soundness. It would seem natural, that a co-operation so general as he claims should encourage an earnest laborer, kindle new zeal, and infuse fresh vigor into his body. If the Unitarians are really 'paralyzed' by considerations so cheering; if they become indifferent because 'the spirit of the country, the age, and the Church is working with them, 'it is an indication that they have been hitherto moved more by a spirit of antagonism, a fondness for negations, than by a deep-rooted love of affirmative principles: that they have enlisted out of ambition for battle and victory, for the sake of conquering rather than blessing mankind. This charge has been frequently brought against them, but has been invariably met with the noble affirmations of the 'rights of conscience,' 'freedom of inquiry,' 'rationality of method and practical views of religion'; by the assertion of the 'Fatherhood of God, the brotherhood of Man,' and the 'dignity of human nature. 'Why are they now disheartened, unnerved? Why losing power and influence? Is it not because they have been false to their principles and sentiments, refusing to apply them to life,--to the life of this century and this country? In these days which indeed try men's souls, how have they stood the test? God anointed their eyes so that they saw the great principle of human brotherhood, and the grandeur of human capacities. He then pointed them to the pit of slavery, to the poor, ignorant, degraded, dusky human forms delving therein. He said to the Unitarians, I am your Father in heaven; these my children are your brothers; have is human nature; give them freedom, a right to think, to love, to act for themselves; to illustrate your theory of human nature. These preachers of the worth of man, and a religion of love, refused to obey. God sought other agents; and men outside of their fold, with a few noble souls educated by their ideas, and faithful to them, have begun and carried on the work. It cannot be winked out of sight, at this late day, however blind (wilfully or otherwise) people have been, that Slavery is the God-presented test of character in our time and country. Individuals and institutions, legislatures. sounds and sects, are brought before this judgment seat. The Unitarians have been found wanting. They have not only refused sympathy and cooperation to the true men of their creed, who took the slave by the hand, but have sustained and honored those ministers who openly advocated the return of those heroic men, who might successfully run the gauntlet of slave-hunters and bloodhounds. Instead if encouraging the young or timid of their faith, by pointing in praise and joy to the faithful MAYA, FOL.LUN. FURNESS and STETSON, and those true men, who, filled with a living faith, were not afraid to apply the gospel to Slavery, they turned away in indifference, not daring to commend, yet fearing to condemn. Even the idolized CHANNING could not win them to the Anti-Slavery work. When noble ministers of an Anti-Slavery gospel have been turned out of Unitarian pulpits for fidelity to Unitarian sentiments, there has no voice of protest and rebuke gone up from the ranks of the Sect, but there have always been sleek, dumb dogs to crawl into those pulpits, without a work or remonstrance. The Unitarians have been afraid to apply their moral sentiments to life. No wonder that these have become mere sentimentalities-that faith is oozing out of their souls! Let us see how it has been with their the logical principles. This brings us to the second reason for the 'suspense of faith,' presented in the discourse, viz., the 'logical tendencies' of the Protestant Unitarian faith, and the 'awakening to the full consciousness' of them. The address reads thus:-
'Permit me, then, for the moment, to state in unqualified, and even in offensive terms, what the logical product of Protestantism is.' 'If, then, with logical desperation, we ultimate the tendencies of Protestantism, and allow even the malice of its enemies to flash light upon their direction, we may see that the sufficiency of the Scriptures turns out to be the self-sufficiency of man, and the right of private judgment an absolute independence of Bible or Church. No creed but the Scriptures, practically abolishes all Scriptures but those on the human heart: nothing between a man's conscience and his God, vacated the Church; and with the Church, the Holy Ghost, whose function is usurped by private reasons. The Church lapses into what are called Religious Institutions; these into Congregationalism, and Congregationalism into Individualism-and the logical end is the abandonment of the Church as an independent institution, the denial of Christianity as a supernatural revelation, and the extinction of worship as a separate interest.'
These tendencies are admitted to be strictly logical, the 'most logical product' of Unitarian ideas; yet the representative of 'right of conscience, rationality of method, freedom of inquiry,' stands aghast before them; the whole denomination pauses in 'suspense of faith.'
Most the Unitarians eat all their good words shout human reason, and the nearness of God to the soul? Must they retract all their invectives against Orthodox 'carnal' reason. and return to the infallible authority of Scripture and the Church? Yes, thy must do so; for they are losing faith in their great original annunciations, because they refuse to apply them to the life of to-day. As the limbs become weakened by inaction, the memory treacherous by disuse, so the mind cannot hold great principles long without using them; neither can the heart keep a truth without applying it. Already the for most man in their ranks, having shackled the Unitarian locomotive to every Protestant car in Christendom, springs to the rostrum of the engine, not to let steam on the propellers, but to open the whistle valve, and, with a long wild screech of alarm, signals-'Brakes down!'-a 'suspense of faith'; and points with horror stricken countenance to the mangled corpse(?) of 'the gifted heresiarch of this neighborhood, the ultimator of Protestant negations,' who has followed the 'logical path' of Unitarianism onward, (not 'round and
<c02>
up,') where the 'leaders of small elevation saw'-'the absence of any more road.'
O ye of little faith, why did ye doubt? Here, too, the Infinite Wisdom had enlightened your minds to perceive the beauty and use of human reason; to know how closely it was linked with His intelligence, and adorned with the angelic wings of freedom. You had begun to learn the peerless value of the human soul; that wherever breathed a true, living spirit, was one greater than the Temple, superior to any Scripture; for in him was the word. Yet, because you foresaw that, in the way God was leading you, the Temple might be 'vacated,' not one stone left upon another—and the Scriptures, as authority, 'abolished '-men judging of themselves what is right—and the order of the priesthood shorn of all supernatural divinity, you pause—refuse to go where God points— and the mighty throng of travellers behind press you—ON and UP. 
Abandon a noble enterprise, because 'men of small elevation' see 'the absence of any more road'! What if Columbus. when filled with faith in the existence of Western land across the great waters, having sailed bravely on beyond sight of land, hemmed in by sky and water, seeing no way but the pathless Atlantic, had listened to the 'small' men about him—had turned his course, leaving the setting sun in his wake—what would have become of his faith, and that of his friends, in a new world? They would soon have been preaching a 'suspense of faith.' The Western land would have remained uncovered till a braver man had pressed on, over the waste of waters that closed over his path, to safe anchorage and firm footing on the new-born continent. So is it with the Unitarians. Having laid down the oars of effort, the sails of free inquiry and rational methods flapping in the wind, they have drifted into the dead calm of a 'suspense of faith,' wondering where they will bring up at last; while the 'gifted heresiarch' they scorn has crossed the boisterous sea in the rude shallop of their own faith, has opened a mighty Continent of Truth, and, from the timber growing there, has built a ship safe and strong to ferry over the human race. God spare his head, and heart, and arm, to pilot many a living freight across! 
Both in the moral and theological field, the Unitarians have become lax, and untrue to their divine gifts. If men had been as negligent in other fields of labor, the world would not have the industrial powers it possesses. Suppose the expansive force of steam had never been applied to locomotion; that, because of the tendency to explosion, Watt or Fulton had inaugurated a suspense of faith, and had turned their minds to repairing and improving scows and schooners, stage-coaches and horse-flesh! They would have died unknown and unhonored; other men would have entered into their ideas and labors.
It is the same with the great ideas announced by Unitarians; they get applied, notwithstanding accidents. What though EMERSON get blown out of a Unitarian pulpit, alighting cheery and melodious on Mount Concordia What though BKOWNSON lose his foothold, and slide off the platform! What though Miss MARTINEAU suffer fracture in her religious consciousness, yet keeping a heart warm and active; and speculative men, experimenting with the newly discovered force, go up in a cloud! BURRITT, and BUSHNELL, and BEECHER, and GARRISON, and PARKER, and the PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS, and the TRUTH remain. Human nature and God are left.
The author of the Address chooses to judge the religious character of the age from an inspection of those outside of the 'church;' and, with a slightly aristocratic pose of his paragraphs, alludes to 'unthinking, unspeculative, unconscious masses, and a 'body of citizens without religious prejudices, that is, for the masses, without religious ideas. He infers an 'unreligious age 'as much from absence of church-going; the deepening hostility of all States to established churches; the disjunction between science and faith, literature and theology; the popularity of all attacks upon the clergy; the acceptance and elevation of those ministers, understood to be suspected and discountenanced by the rest; the growing use of the Sabbath for recreation—not, as abroad, under the smile of the Church, but in direct contempt of its frown; the popular and applauded hostility of the philanthropy of the day to the churches, as from 'the easy conscience of the people in the profound secularity of their lives; the frequency of suicide; and the defence of scortatory love;' as if religion consisted in going to church, seeking its smile, praising its clergy, hunting its heretics, and hugging its 'Holy Ghost'!
Perhaps a peep into the church might throw some light upon the 'un-religious 'character of the 'age. 'Perhaps it might reveal the spiritual father of the segregation that 'goes to church nowhere.' Perhaps it might discover the cause of many other ills the age is heir to. Perhaps it might teach us that a theology based upon mere assumptions, at variance with science and the known laws of the material world scornful of human reason and 'logical products, 'is not calculated to command the respect of men learned in the mechanism of the physical creation, and studious of its methods. Perhaps it would suggest that literary men are not attracted to a creed and discipline, that scoff at the fruits of fancy and the works of the imagination. Perhaps it might be found that a church which fellow shipped, kidnappers and slaveholders, crushed out the voice of conscience, and trampled on the plainest promptings of justice and love, is not the institution to attract the man and God-loving hearts of the age.
Another time we may comment on the 'third reason,' and the means proposed to evade the flagging faith of the 'vanguard of Protestantism.'
H. O. S.
DOUGLAS CANT.
'Douglas is consistent.' Bah! Persistent is the term-Persistent in his cant about 'popular sovereignty.' Hear him in his Columbus speech, so much applauded:—
'I hold my political action bound by that great principle of the Nebraska bill, which tells every community to regulate its own affairs and mind its own business, and not to interfere with those of its neighbors.'
Every one for himself, and the devil take the hindermost! That's not it exactly; it is this:—White men for themselves, and the niggers for the white men. What fools we were that we did not apply this principle to Algiers, Tunis and Tripoli, in 1815! Hadn't they a right to be pirates, as much as we in South Carolina? They didn't know the difference (which makes all the difference) between white and black men, perhaps. White and black! Does Southern slavery know, or care to make it? I thank God it does not.
This 'mind your own business,' popular sovereignty of Douglas has reference to one point, and one only-the point referred to throughout in his Columbus speech-the point which he says 'constitutes the only difference between Democrats and Republicans.' If there were any other-and what is there, save Mormon polygamy?-there would be something more than cant in his assertion, 'We not only apply that principle to the question of slavery, but we extend it to all the local and domestic institutions of all the States and all the territories of the Union. 'But when we strip of these' glittering generalities,' which he holds up to the people to hide the loathsome form he wishes them to embrace,-when we consider that he is contending for the principle, that one man may, under protection of the general government enslave as many as he may have the means to purchase, or animality to produce,-his doctrine becomes hideous. He simply claims that, if they choose, one portion of a people may with the greatest impunity commit the greatest possible outrage upon another portion. This makes government a protector to evil-doors-'a league with death, and a covenant with hell!"
But see Douglas's consistency! In the very next sentence, he say--'But there are certain great prin-
<c03>
ciples of universal application, which it is proper to discuss in all parts of the Confederation, in the same way, and to enforce by the same arguments.' That is precisely what we Garrisonians say. But what are those 'great principles of universal application'? We say they are the 'inalienable rights' with which, we hold, 'all men are endowed.' Douglas says those 'great principles' are, that any class of men may combine politically, and deprive another class, in their own territory—a class, it may be, larger than themselves—of their 'inalienable rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. 'Yes, one hundred men may deprive a thousand of every God-given right; for to resist would call out the U. S. troops to put down an 'insurrection'! More than this—fifty-one may vote to do this, and the forty-nine, with the thousand, must submit. If not, what? 'Hands off!' 'No interference!’ Those are the 'great principles of universal application,' and that is the 'consistency 'of Stephen Arnold Douglas! But, for the next sentence:—'I maintain any political creed to be unsound, which cannot be avowed and practised in Ohio the same as in Kentucky—in the North as well as the South; there must be something radically wrong.' It is not slavery that is radically wrong. O, no! it is freedom! The Slave creed can be and is avowed all over the country—and put in practice even in Boston. It is Freedom's creed that cannot be avowed everywhere—at the North as well as the South, in Kentucky as in Ohio.
Again: 
'The Democratic party hold that it is the right of the people of every State, of every territory, and of every political community within this confederacy, to decide that question [of slavery] for themselves. 
The declaration is false, and you know it, Mr. Douglas! The Sims case proved it to be false; and the Burns case too, which, under a Democratic administration, brought United States soldiers into Boston, stationed them in her Court house, and ordered them to load their muskets in State street, and violently hurled the writer of this into a dungeon, because speaking 'in his own way.' In 1783, Massachusetts did try to settle this question for herself; but the Democratic party, in 1850, said she should not do it—should not abolish slavery on her own soil—but that hundreds of her citizens should be slaves, and be bound in chains by their masters in Boston, and in every other town, if the masters said so, no less than in Virginia. And so strongly did they say and do this, that the great Republican majority in the Legislature does not dare to say 'Hands off! 'Yes, Mr. Douglas, you did speak one truth at Columbus, when you said, 'The Republican party hold that the Federal Government can decide the slavery question for the people of the Territories and the new States.' The Republican party of Massachusetts does, by its Legislature refusing to annul the Fugitive Slave Bill, proclaim this doctrine; and the same party in the territory of Minnesota, by disfranchising the negro, through fear that their Constitution would be rejected by Congress, (this was their only excuse,) proclaimed the same doctrine. But your assertion, that this constitutes the only difference between the Democrats and the Republicans, I was about to say is false. It may be true; for Democrats say, 'They shall be free to regulate, &c, but—they shall not be free'! Republicans say, 'They shall NOT, but—they shall'! And Douglas seems to be the disjunctive conjunction, proposing to unite the two. 
The Republicans shall have the credit of telling you one truth, Mr. Douglas, which you everlastingly ignore, and in your Columbus speech seek to conceal—that the framers of that Constitution you talk so much about, (that same year, 1787, before the Constitution was adopted by the States,) in framing the first territorial government under it, did, then and there, in the same Congress, accept of and adopt 'Mr. Jefferson's amendment, FOREVER EXCLUDING SLAVERY FROM THAT EXTENSIVE REGION,' viz., the North-West Territory. 
You say to the people of Ohio, 'If you go over to Virginia to steal her negroes, I trust she will catch you, and put you in jail with other thieves.' What do you say, when a Virginian comes into Ohio to steal her negroes—or into Massachusetts? 'We will help you with United States bayonets'! 
Again you say:
'The great principle of liberty is to leave every man and every woman perfectly free in their action, to the full extent that is consistent with the safety and peace of society; and that principle should be applied to States, Territories, and political communities, as well as to individuals.'
'This continent was set apart as an ASYLUM FOR THE OPPRESSED OF THE WHOLE WORLD, AND AS A NURSERY FOR LIBERTY. Let us be what our numbers and what our position require us to be—not only an example to the friends of liberty, but A TERROR TO THE OPPRESSORS OF MAN THROUGHOUT THE WORLD but, above all, let our policy at home be THAT WHICH SERVES AND PRESERVES LIBERTY—LIBERTY AT THE FIRESIDE-LIBERTY AT HOME--LIBERTY IN THE REGULATION OF OUR L0CAL AND DOMESTIC CONCERNS.'
Do you expect we Garrisonians are going to vote for you, Mr. Douglas, because you flourish our capitals in this way, and so grandeloquently quote us? Your father tried that game with Jesus eighteen hundred years ago, with about as much success as you will now play it. Do you not know that we never vote under the Constitution, which, according to the interpretation you support, directly contradicts all these principles of liberty, and gives the tyrant ample support and protection over all our land? If you can get the Republicans to support you in the next campaign, is it not all a reasonable modesty can ask? Can you not afford to apply your 'let alone' doctrine to the Garrisonians? J. H. F. 

EXPLANATORY.
MR. GARRISON,—Mr. Baldwin, editor of the Spy, objects to my statement, that he refused to publish my article on the Celebration, because it was not confined to Anti-Slavery, instead of criticising the church. He says he made some such criticism as a reason for not publishing the paragraph relating to the Salem Street Church, but not the article in question. Any one cannot be too cautious in giving publicity to remarks dropped in private conversation, because, in the impulse of the moment, we sometimes use expressions that a little reflection might induce us or retract. When I asked him if he were going to publish it, and saw that he hesitated, I told him that I did not wish to urge him, if he were not willing, never meaning to intrude my writing on any one; and, after an hour's conversation on the general subject, I gathered the impressions before communicated, which I do not understand him to refute. Judging from the tone of his paper, that he is a fair sample of political anti-slavery, I quoted his sentiments as indicative of the general estimation and comprehension of the principles of the Abolitionists the among the ranks of non-extension. Non-extension may be anti-slavery, but it does not necessarily comprise the abolition of slavery where it now exists; a point which it seems impossible to make the Republican party understand. He may be honest, as many others doubtless are, in thinking that we are really enemies of the church as such," because they have not yet escaped from that thraldom that sometimes makes us travel the whole circuit of a life-time to discover a truth that God has made so simple, the merest child can grasp it. The sum and substance of all we have to say is this: if slavery is wrong, no power on earth can make it right, and we shall not hesitate to proclaim it at all times, and on all occasions, assailing every thing that comes in conflict with this idea, whether it be the United States Constitution or the American Church. If this be arrogance, we must have a new edition of Webster suited to American idiosyncracies. It is immaterial to me whether Mr. Baldwin objects to criticism t of the Salem Street Church or any other; it is such organizations as that, and such men as he, that we mean to criticise, leav-
<c04>
ing the defunct bodies of Rev. Nehemiah Adams and Democratic party for the Salem Street Church and the Republican party to criticise.
As governments are not yet far in advance of the old doctine, that might makes right, or the modern idea, that they are formed to protect property and not men, we cannot expect them to lead the van in a moral enterprise, and hence more guilt rests upon the church. It may relieve the suffering, befriend the homeless, succor the poor and needy at its own door; so long as it fails to proclaim the unchanging law of the universe, that God never commits the inconsistency of requiring us to fellowship a wrong, in order to accomplish a good, it will come under the judgment,) and 'These things ought ye to have done, but not to leave the other undone.' S. E. W. 
P. S. In the second paragraph of the first column my article last week, in the sentence beginning, his extreme selfishness,' please read sensitiveness.

THE MAYFLOWER PILGRIMS.
MALDEN, Sept. 5, 1859. 
Mr. GARRISON: In the Liberator of Aug. 12, I notice a letter from Mr. Higginson, in which he very justly remarks, that the position of reformers is one of peculiar responsibility; that' they must be charitable in their judgment, very thorough and accurate in their facts, and never be tempted by excitement into asserting more than they can prove.'
Following this letter is one from the reformer, Henry C. Wright, in which he asserts that 'these very Pilgrims were the first to set the example of selling the Indians into slavery, of getting the Indians into their power by war, plunder and treachery, and then selling them into West India slavery.' And again: 'Those Mayflower Pilgrims, by legislative enactment, seized and sold into slavery the rightful owners of the soil.' Is Mr. Wright' thorough 'and 'accurate 'in his facts? If so, I shall be truly obliged to him if he will indicate to me the specific source "from which he derived them. Will Mr. Wright deny that the hostility exhibited towards them by the Indians whom they first met on the Cape, was caused by the capture and enslavement of Indians previous to their voyage, and by persons of a very different stamp? 
I am not thoroughly conversant with the legislative enactments of the Mayflower Pilgrims, but as I know that it is not true that they set the example of enslaving the Indians, I would respectfully ask for proof of the other statements of Mr. Wright, before I can credit them.
I am yours, Mr. Wright's, and the slaves' friend,
HERBERT GLEASON.
FRIENDLY CRITICISM.
BR. GARRISON—The just reproof and correction given those of us who are contemptuous and extravagant in public speech, by our Br. Ballou, must produce great good. I refer to his late editorial on Practical Christian Anti- Slavery, which I doubt not you will transfer to your columns. (1) Of course, we are not responsible for the faults or infirmities of others, except as we neglect to obviate them. Mr.-,at times, not only hurls anathemas against his enemies, but seems to consider it right to do so, and no one on our platform objects to his vindictiveness. Mr.- not only indulges in utter contempt and derision of others, but prides himself in such unchristian sentiments. But now our Br. of Hopedale has spoken, the atmosphere will be clearer. I feel confident that you will always welcome his sentiments on the Anti-Slavery platform, and that the errors he alludes to will be abated. Yours, truly,
South Natick. W. G. BABCOCK.
(1) We had already done so, before receiving this. [See first page.] The spirit of Br. Ballou's article is excellent, and some of its criticisms just and timely. But we hope to see no retreat from a free platform—for what can be done without it?—[Ed. Lib.
THE HYANNIS KIDNAPPING CASE.—The Grand Jury of Barnstable County have returned indictments against Captains Orlando, Crowell and Bacon for kidnapping, and another against the above parties and J. W. Baker, of Boston, owner of brig Rolerson, for conspiracy to kidnap. The trial of the case was postponed to Tuesday, Nov. 15th. Gen. Cushing is senior counsel for the defence, and with him are associated H. A. Scudder, of Boston, and Judge Marston, of Barnstable. The Commonwealth will be represented by B. Sanford, District Attorney. Between thirty and forty witnesses are summoned, and among them is a family of liberated slaves, who came to Hyannis from Pensacola in the brig which brought the fugitive. and who were acquaintances of the runaway.

FRATERNITY LECTURES.
SECOND SERIES. 
TREMONT TEMPLE.TUESDAY EVENINGS.
THE FRATERNITY OF THE TWENTY-EIGHTH CONGREGATIONAL SOCIETY respectfully inform the public that their SECOND COURSE OF LECTURES will commence on TUESDAY EVENING, Oct. 4, 1859, at the TREMONT TEMPLE, on which occasion, 
A POEM will be read by
RUFUS LEIGHTON, JR., 
Followed by an ADDRESS from 
WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
The succeeding exercises will consist of LECTURES in the following order:— 
Oct. 11,-GEORGE SUMNER.
Oct. 18,-EDWIN P. WHIPPLE.
Oct. 25,-GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS.
Nov. 1-FREDRICK DOUGLASS.
Nov. 8-RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
Nov. 15-SARA JANE LIPPINCOTT.
Nov. 22-HENRY WARD BRECHER.
Nov. 29-CARL SCHURZ.
Dec. 6-BAYARD TAYLOR.
Dec. 13-THOMAS W. HIGGINSON.
Dec. 20-WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
Dec. 27-EDWIN H. CHAPIN. Mr. JOHN D. WILLARD will preside at the Organ Tickets for the Course, admitting a Gentleman an Lady, $2.00. No more tickets will be issued than the capacity of the hall will allow. To be procure at all the Bookstores, and the office of the Temple. 
The doors will be opened at 61/2 o'clock, and the exercises commence at 71/2 precisely. 
Per order of the Lecture Committee. Sept. 16.
MICHIGAN YEARLY MEETING OF THE FRIENDS OF PROGRESS,
At Ann Arbor, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 23d, 24th, 25th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A. M.
Not a meeting of a sect, bound by arbitrary authority, and therefore shrinking from freedom of thought and speech; but an assembly of men and women
'Who seek for Truth, wherever found,
On Heathen or on Christian ground,'
and, to gain it, welcome the frank and earnest utterance of the matured thoughts and convictions of at who may be present, on the great questions of Reform, Religious Freedom, Spiritual life, and Social Order, which are moving the world more than ever before.
Let many meet, from far and near, for three days of candid thought and well-ordered free speech, that we may know better now to aid the rule of Wisdom Justice and Love, how to gain that health of spirit and body so needed for the advent of 'Peace on earth and good will among men.'
Able speakers are expected, and it is confidently hoped the occasion will be one of interest and importance.
Come! Orthodox and Heterodox, Spiritualists and Materialists.
Strangers wishing homes will call on the Committee below named:—
Washington Weeks, Robert Glazier,-Kellogg, A. Widermann. Z. Pulsipher, J. Sprague.
H. C. Wright, J. M. Teebles, Mr. Greenleaf of Illinois, and Mrs. C. M. Stowe, both able trance speakers, and G. B. Stebbins, have engaged to attend; and correspondence is going on with W. L. Garrison, T. W. Higginson, Emma Hardinge, S. J. Finney, Jane Elizabeth Jones, &c. &c.
<c05>
TO PERSONS OUT OF EMPLOYMENT.
SEARS'PICTORIAL WORKS FOR 1859. 
The attention of the reader is solicited to the advertisement of Agents wanted for the series of Pictorial Books issued from the press of Mr. Sears. These books are popular and saleable throughout the Union, the five moat saleable publications ('THE PICTORIAL FAMILY BIBLE,''RUSSIA ILLUSTRATED,'CHINA AND INDIA,''THRILLING INCIDENTS IN THE WARS OF THE UNITED STATES, 'and 'WONDERS or THE WORLD, second series), are in every way equal to the other works in point of attraction and interest. What he wishes to obtain is, competent Agents in every section of the country. The readiness of their sale offers great inducements for persons to embark in their disposal, and, as they are of a high moral and unexceptionable character, there are none who cannot conscientiously contribute to their circulation. 
Circulars, containing full particulars and instructions, with a complete list of our publications, with wholesale and retail prices, will be sent to any address, free of postage. 
Address ROBERT SEARS, 
sep 16 2w 181 Williams St., New York. 
[BY SPECIAL REQUEST.] 
CALL FOR A CHRISTIAN SPIRITUAL ORGANIZATION. 
As spiritually enlightened members of the great family of God and the universal brotherhood of man, we acknowledge the propriety of some external rites which may give outward expression of internal religious convictions, believing as we do in the existing and ruling power of God, manifested through Jesus Christ, and the ministration of angels to our world still continued, illuminating, inspiring, purifying and ripening the souls of the children of earth for higher life in the earth, and in the heavenly spheres. We here make this call for a Public Declaration of our faith, by which we may enjoy the rights d privileges which are legally granted to all those ho avail themselves of being protected by the laws our blessed country; by so doing, our ministers, hen ordained, will have the right of consecrating members, of celebrating matrimony, and all other privileges granted to the ministry. We hereby request those sympathizing with the above call, to meet in convention at Boston, on Thursday, October 6th, 1859, for organization, and examination of those candidates to be ordained on the following Sunday, October 9th, 1859. Notice of the house where we all meet will be given in the Banner of Light, Spiritual Age, and Spirit Guardian, in the last week of September. Those who wish to become members of the association, and to be ordained for the ministry, must bring letters of recommendation, certifying of their good moral character and ability to such Christian principles. Those female lecturers who desire to be consecrated at this time, will write and let us know, so as to provide for their entertainment during the session, by giving notice of their intentions to B. Danforth, 19 Green St., Boston. Per order of B. Danforth and 13 others. 
Boston, Mass., Sept. 8th, 1859. , 
FAIR IN WEYMOUTH. 
The Weymouth Female Anti-Slavery Society will hold their annual FAIR some time in October, (time and place to be given hereafter.) In, former years, we have had articles from the Boston Fair to help fill our tables. This year, we solicit contributions from friends of the cause. Articles, useful ornamental, will be thankfully received, and acknowledged in the Liberator. 
By order of the Society, 
M. E. P. HUNT, Secretary. 
TO LYCEUM COMMITTEES—DR. JOHN S. ROCK would respectfully announce to Lyceum Committees and others, that he is prepared to lecture on the following subjects:— 
The Character and Writings of Madame De Stael.
The Unity of the Races. 
The Lights and Shadows of African Life. 
Dr. J. S. Rock affords a striking refutation of the paltry, though oft-repeated argument, that the African race is not susceptible of high mental and scientific attainments. He is a handsome speaker, and his lectures evince a fine education, superior scholarship, and much careful research.—Middlesex Journal. 
Dr. Rock is an orator, both as to style and matter, and is himself a living proof that the colored man is capable of the highest refinement and culture.—Skaneateles Democrat. 
Please address DR. JOHN S. ROCK, Boston, Ms. 
CIVIL AND POLITICAL EQUALITY. 
New York State Civil and Political Equality County Meetings, to be addressed by Rev. ANTOINETTE BROWN BLACKWBLL, SUSAN B. ANTHONY, and others, wilt be held as follows: 
Peterboro', Madison Co., Tuesday, Sept. 20. 
Oswego, Oswego co., Thursday, Sept.22. 
The meetings will commence at 2 and half-past 7 o'clock, P. M., of each day. 
Admission to day sessions FREE—evening sessions, 10 cents. 
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture in the State of Maine, for several weeks to come, as follows:—Hampden, Friday, Sept. 16. 
Bangor, Sunday, Sept. 18. 
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak at 
Weymouth, Sunday, Sept. 18, P. M. and eve'g. 
East Weymouth, Monday Sept.19, eve'g. 
South Weymouth Tuesday, Sept 20, eve'g 
DRED SCOTT DECISION.—An Original Poem, on the Dred Scott Decision, will be delivered by Rev. E. P. ROGERS, of Newark. N. J., (author of a Poem on the Repeal of the Missouri Compromise,) at the Joy Street Church, on Tuesday evening, Sept. 20. 
Admission 10 cents. 
R. THAYER, of Boston, will lecture, on Sunday evening next, in Opera Hall, 13 School street, at half-past 7 o'clock. Subject: Christianity. 
J. H. FOWLER having returned to Cambridge, would be happy to receive invitations to speak upon Slavery, Temperance, Religion, or any other subject connected with the great interests of Humanity. 
MARRIED—In this city, 7th inst., by Rev. R. C. Waterston, Mr. THEODORE ROBINSON to Miss SUSANNAH S. POWELL, both of Boston. DIED—At West Chester, Pa., on the 13th of July, BETHULIA, second daughter of. THOMAS and ALICE ELIZA HAMBLETON, of Pennsgrove, Chester Co., aged 22 years. Her early removal brought their first great sorrow to the hearts of her parents. 
Duteous, gentle and confiding, yet full of joyous abounding life, looking upon existence as a great sphere for labor and active achievement, she at once . won her way to the hearts of all around her. 
But in the midst of life, and but a few days before those about her fully realized her danger, away from her beloved home, the cold hand was laid upon her brow. 
She, however, was unconscious that the close was near, and manifesting care for the comfort of he father and a sister, (who had just arrived.) saying she was happy, sweetly fell asleep. Her remains were interred at Longwood Cemetery, in accordance with her idea that the dead should rest in pleasant places; and seldom has the writer been present upon a more impressive occasion. Remarks were made by persons of several different denominations, and life high purpose of developing and purifying the spirit, and thus making its path through time a track o of brightness, and a source of strength and happiness to others, was beautifully impressed. High hopes have been buried with this bright human flower; but a we sorrow with her sad home circle, we feel the beauty of that faith which can enable the heart t give its loved ones back in trust to God, thankful that to us is ever left the fragrant memory of their virtues and their love, joyful in believing that there is a life which death can glorify, but cannot destroyer -[Com.
In Nahant, Sept. 8, THOMAS W. PHILLIPS, Esq., of Clerk of the Municipal Court of Boston for nearly thirty years, in the 63d year of his age. Mr. Phillips, was the oldest son of Hon. John Phillips, for many years President of the Senate of this Common wealth, and the first Mayor of Boston, and was born in the city on the 16th of January, 1797. His brothers and sisters, all of whom survive him, are Sarah Hurd, wife of Prof. Alonzo Gray of Brooklyn, N. Y. Margaret. wife of Dr. Edward Reynolds, Miriam, wife of Rev. Dr. Blagden, Rev. John Charles Phillips of Methuen Gen. William Phillips, Esq., Wendell Phillips. Esq., and Grenville Tudor Phillips, Esq., the last three of Boston.
It is rarely that the public are called upon mourn the departure of one possessing, in so large and eminent a degree, the estimable and social qualities of him who has just departed. His sudden decease will cause a blank in the community and in many circles which cannot be easily filled. To no one better than to him will apply the following words of the poet:-'Integer vita scclerisque purus.'-Journal.
<c06>
GET THE BEST
WEBSTER UNABRIOCED
PICTORIAL EDITION!
1500 Pictorial Illustrations.
GET THE BEST.
WEBSTER'S 
UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY. 
NEW PICTORIAL EDITION. 
15OO PICTORIAL ILLUSTRATIONS. 
9000 to 10,000 NEW WORDS in the Vocabulary.
Table of SYNONYMS by Prof. GOODRICH. 
With other new features. Together with all the matter of previous editions. In one volume of 1750 pages. Price $6 50. Sold by all Booksellers. G. & C. MERRIAM, Springfield, Mass. Sept. 9. 3t. 
HIS LAST WORK! 
THE late Dr. WM. A. ALCOTT left among his papers a most remarkable manuscript, entitled,
Forty Years in the Wilderness of Pills and Powders.
OR,
THE COGITATIONS AND CONPESSIONS OF AN AGED PHYSICIAN.
This most interesting, curious and valuable book will be published by us on THURSDAY, SEPT. 1.
It is a book for every household and every individual-presenting for the benefit of others a wise man's experiences and observations in the world of medicine, illustrated with a superb portrait on steel of the venerable and beloved author. In one volume 12 mo. Price, $1.
Tens of thousands will buy and read this book-it will therefore be a great book for Agents. All applications should be addressed to the publishers,
JOHN P. JEWETT & Co.,
S2 3tis 20 Washington Street.

HOPEDALE HOME SCHOOL.
THIS Institution is designed to combine thorough instruction in Science, Art, and Literature, with judicious training of the physical and moral nature. To secure the children and youth, resorting to it for educational purposes, such home and neighborhood influences, together with such specific culture as may be promotive of positive growth in virtue and true excellence, is its sacred aim. Thoroughly Reformatory and Progressive in its spirit and character, it must rely mainly upon the patronage of those sympathizing with the better tendencies and movements of the age for support.
The First Term of the Scholastic Year 1859-60 commence on Wednesday, Sept, 9, and continues Fifteen Weeks.
For Circulars, containing full information, please address either of the Principals, Hopedale, Milford, Mass.
W. S. HAYWOOD, A. S. HAYWOOD, Principals.
Aug. 10. 3w
WEST NEWTON 
English and Classical School. 
THIS SCHOOL for both sexes is under the care of NATHANIEL T. ALLEN. It is situated in the pleasant and healthful village of West Newton, Mass., on the line of the Boston and Worcester Railroad, nine miles from Boston, and about three minutes' walk from the Station. The Course of Study embraces every branch of a thorough English education, together with the Ancient and Modern Languages; and while particular attention will be given to preparation for College, or for mercantile and scientific pursuits, a special aim of the teachers will be to impart instruction in the common branches thoroughly and correctly. A Primary Department is connected with the Institution, into which pupils of the youngest school-age are received. There is connected with the school a large and well-appointed Gymnasium, in which systematic instruction will be given. Particular attention will be given to the subject of manners and morals. The School-year will occupy forty weeks, and will be divided into two terms of twenty, or four of ten, weeks each. 
TEACHERS. 
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN, Principal.
Teacher of Mathematics and the Natural Sciences.
CYRUS PEIRCE, 
Teacher of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy. 
WILLIAM F. ALLEN, 
Teacher of the Classics, History, and English Literature. 
GEORGE F. ALLEN, ANNA C. BASSETT, Assistants.
B. F. BAKER,
Teacher of Piano and Vocal Music. 
E. L. MERRILL, 
Teacher of Calisthenics and Dancing. 
SARAH R. BASSETT, 
Teacher of the Primary Department. 
'Father Peirce' is at present prevented by ill health from giving Instruction In his department. 
The Messrs. ALLEN will receive a limited number of pupils into their families. It is their purpose to provide for those who may be placed under their charge a comfortable and pleasant home. For further particulars, address N. T. ALLEN, West Newton, Mass 
REFERENCES 
Rev. E. S. Gannet, D. D., Wm. Brigham, Esq., Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Esq., Boston; Rev. George E. Ellis, D. D., Charlestown; Prof. L. Agassiz, Cambridge. 5t Aug. 25. 
CARPETING. 
'All the Year Round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO. 
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 
CARPETING, 
285 WASHINGTON STREET, 
(NEAR WINTER STREET.) 
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs. Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings. 
—ALSO—
AMERICAN CARPETING. 
All which are offered at the Lowest Prices, for cash or approved credit. S16 tf
NOW READY, PRICE TWENTY CENTS.
THREE DISCOURSES ON THE RELIGION OF REASON. BY GERRIT SMITH. With a letter to WILLIAM GOODELL. Orders supplied by ROSS & TOUSEY, 121 Nassau street, New York. Sept 16. 5t
PROFITABLE EMPLOYMENT.
PLEASE TO READ THIS!- Agents wanted!-Extra inducements for 1860! All persons INWANT OF EMPLOYMENT will at once receive our Catalogue of Books, pre-paid, by forwarding us their address. Particular attention is requested to the liberal offers we make to all persons engaging in the sale of our Large Type Quarto PICTORIAL FAMILY BIBLE, with about One Thousand Engravings. ON RECEIPT OF THE ESTABLISHED PRICE, six Dollars, the Pictorial Family Bible, with a well-bound Subscription Book, will be carefully boxed, and forwarded by express, at our risk and expense, to any central town or village in the United States, excepting those of California, Oregon and Texas. Our books are sold by canvassers, and are well known to be the most saleable. Address, post paid.
ROBERT SEARS, Publisher,
No. 181 Williams Street, New York.
sep 16 2w
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY. 
THE BATTLE
TRANSLATED FROM SKILLER, BY SIR S.SULWER LITTOM.
Heavy and solemn
A cloudy column, 
Through the green plain they marched and came!
Measureless spread, like a table dread, For the wild grim dice of the iron game. 
Looks arc bent on the shaking ground. 
Hearts breast band with a knelling sound;
Swiftly by the breast that unit bear the brunt, 
Gallops the major along the front;— Halt!'
And lettered they stead at the stark command, 
 And the warriors, silent, halt! 
Proud in the blush of morning glowing, 
What on the hill-top shines in flowing? 
'See you the foeman's banners waving?'
'We see the foemen's banners waving!'
'God be with ye, children and wife!'
Hark to the music—the tramp and fife— 
How they ring through the ranks, which they rouse to the strife!
Thrilling they sound, with their glorious tone— 
Thrilling they go through the marrow and bone! 
Brothers, God grant, when this life is o'er 
In the life to come , that we meet once more!
See the smoke! how the lightning is cleaving asunder!
 Hark! the guns, peal on peal, how they boom in their thunder! 
From host to host, with kindling sound, 
The shouting signal circles round; 
Ay, shout it forth to life or death—
Freer already breathes the breath! 
The war is waging, slaughter is raging, 
And heavy through the reeking pall 
The iron death-dice fall!
 Nearer they dose,—foes upon foes,— 
Ready! —from square to square it goes. 
They kneel as one man, from flank to flank. 
And the fire comes sharp from the foremost rank; 
Many a soldier to earth is sent. 
Many a gap by the ball is rent; 
O'er the course before springs the hinder man, 
That the line may not nil to the fearless van. 
To the right, to the left, and around and around. 
Death whirls in its dance on the bloody ground. 
God's sunlight is quenched in the fiery fight, 
Over the host falls a brooding night! 
brothers, God grant, when this life is o'er. 
In that life to come, that we meet once more! 
The dead men lie bathed in their weltering blood, 
And the living are blent in the slippery flood. 
And the feet, as they reeling and sliding go, Stumble still on the corses that sleep below. 
 What! Francis!'— 'Give Charlotte my last farewell!'
As the dying man murmurs, the thunders swell. 
'I'll give—O God! are their guns so near?
Ho! comrades!—yon volley!—look sharp to the rear! 
I'll give to thy Charlotte thy last farewell; 
Sleep soft! where death thickest descendeth in rain, 
The friend thou forsaketh thy side may regain!
Hitherward, thitherward reels the fight;
Darkly and more darkly day glooms into night. 
Brothers, God grant, when this life is o'er, 
In that lift to come, that we meet once more! 
From the Newburyport Herald.
THE AURORA BOREALIS.
BY MISS H. F. GOULD. 
The North!. the North! from out the North 
What founts of light are breaking forth, 
And streaming up these evening skies, 
A glorious wonder to our eyes! 
It mounts, it spreads, it parts, it plays 
In thousand forms, a thousand ways. 
The moon, to hide her silvery crown. 
Behind the hills is sinking down; 
The silent stars more fixed appear, 
To watch the blaring o'er their sphere. 
The North! the North! ah! who can tell 
What fires in thy cold bosom dwell, 
Or e'er the grand arcana know 
Such scenery o'er the heavens to throw? 
It fades! it shifts! and now appears 
An army, bright with shields and spears, 
That, winding on in proud array, 
Up the blue heights pursue their way. 
With waving plumes and banners, where 
No eagle's wing e'er cleaved the air. 
In serried ranks they're seen awhile; 
Then, twining off, in thin defile, 
Battalioned, now again they march 
Beneath the high triumphal arch. 
And while the vast pavilion spreads, 
Gold-fringed and tasselled, o'er their heads, 
A senith loop superbly holds 
Its emerald, green, and purple folds. 
'Tis changed! a city looms to sight. 
With towers and temples shining white! 
Behind it, snowy mountains rise— 
Before, a foaming ocean lies.
And eager throngs impetuous sweep 
Fast downward to that yawning deap; 
Then, pressing on the crumbling shore, 
Drop off, and all are seen no more!
Their mansions melt in waning fire, 
While fast the mount and sea retire. 
The North! O, who can view aright, 
But He who said, 'Let there be light!'— 
Himself a glorious mystery. 
Throned in His calm eternity! 

From the Boston Cultivator. 
DREAMS.
I am dreaming of days—of dear old days,
Long hid in the shadowy past; 
And my heart is light, and my spirit free, 
As the spell o'er my soul is cast. 
But a shadow falls, and there bursts a sigh 
From my soul's most secret cell— 
We have said 'Farewell!' to those happy days, 
Those days we loved so well. 
I am dreaming of days—of coming days, 
Where no shadow of grief shall fall; 
Where the light of love with gladd'ning rays 
Beams alike on the hearts of all; 
And I turn my gaze from the 'long ago,'
With its memories of delight, 
To those COMING days, whose noonday glow 
Shall be dimmed by no coming night. 
I am dreaming of friends—of early friends, 
Who were dearer than all to me; 
And the freshness of youth again descends 
With this blessed memory! 
But my heart grows sad, and tears fall fast 
For those friends of earner hours. 
Those warm, freak hearts, those hands I clasped, 
Are dust beneath the flowers. 
I am dreaming of friends—of early friends, 
Whom the future will restore. 
In the land where each soul with its kindred blends, 
To be parted never more!
And my ears for the loved and lost shall cease, 
For I know when this lift is past, 
With early friends, by the 'River of Peace,'
We shall wander together at last! 
MARY

THY WILL BE DONE.
Thy will be done! Oh, what a state 
Of mock submission that implies! 
That, disappointed, still can wait
In patience for the promised prize! 
<c02>
The Liberator 
THE SLAVE AUCTION.
They were born as slaves, through the iniquity of men. They are redeemed to be free men, through Christ Jesus.
BY DR. JOHN THEOPHILUS KRAMER. 
There is a broad hall, situated in one of the most requested streets of a large and well-known city in the South. You will be astonished when you shall find, in place of a lion's den or a man-trap, a nicely-fitted up refreshing-place. Nothing formidable is presented to your eyes. Several corpulent and richly dressed gentlemen are helping themselves to fine liquors and delicacies, profusely spread out before you, and planed upon an elegantly shaped bar. Beautiful pictures, ornamenting the walls, attract the eyes of some amateurs of art; while others, preferring nice .lots and buildings, are studying the designs of several large maps, showing various city lots and splendid buildings, advertised 'for sale at auction.' In the vicinity of said maps is a platform, whereupon a table is placed, together with a writing-desk and a few chairs. Two colored waiters are busy placing several hundred commodious chairs, facing the platform. The doors of the hall open frequently, for there are many gentlemen entering, and soon is gathered a large assemblage, by whom the chain are occupied. There you will see the elegantly dressed dandy, smoking his sweet-scented Havana, while examining, through his richly gilded eye-glass, the designs of building lots. Next to his chair you will perceive and admire the athletic form of a Kentucky trader ,with his plain frock, and with his boots reaching over his knees. There you will also see the rich and proud planter from Mississippi, reasoning with his fierce-looking, but now, before his employer, creeping overseer.
The doors are opened again. Four ladies, splendidly dressed in black silk and satin, and glittering with precious jewels, are entering the hall. Eight or ten gentlemen, who were already comfortably seated next to the platform, jump up from their chairs, and politely offer their seats to the fair guests.
But, you will ask, for what reason is all this going on? What are the ladies and gentlemen waiting for? Perhaps it is court-day, and the people are waiting for the Judge. It cannot be, for the court-house is opposite the Square. Is it perhaps a prayer-meeting? Pshaw! Prayer-meeting and liquor-bar—would that do?
But what can it be? Who is that jolly round gentleman, placing a large book upon the writing-desk, and looking like a bird which has never seen a cage, but which has its three meals per diem in the middle of a ripe wheat field? Is it not a pleasure to take a glance at his face, radiant with contentment and plenty? If that man were a pastor, should we not like to pasture with his flock? See there! he hands now to the waiters a large package of bills. We shall soon learn what kind of a concern all this is. It will be, most probably, neither a session of a court, nor a prayer-meeting.
A SLAVE AUCTION! Great God in heaven! a SLAVE AUCTION! And that man upon the platform is the auctioneer!
What a noise is going on outside of the doors! There will, surely, enter a troop of men, women and children. How will they find places amongst the spectators of the tragedy which will soon commence?—for every chair is occupied, and many men are leaning upon the bar. There is room in front of the table, and near to walls of the hall.
A gentleman is entering. The auctioneer hastens to receive him with distinction, and conducts him to the chair behind the deck. The stranger is an American gentleman, and owner of the slaves who are now to be sold at auction. He owns a beautiful plantation, about forty miles from the city, near the rail road. He intends to run as a political candidate; he needs, therefore, money. He says he is truly sorry 'to be obliged to sell his slaves at auction. Why sorry? Because his father raised most of them. They are 'family slaves, and very likely indeed. He is a young man of about thirty years. He has a high forehead, and an intelligent, upright face. 
But why can he not take a glance at the assembled audience? What is the matter with him, that he always bends his face over the desk, and that he will not look up? Has he not a right to be proud, and shall not the multitude envy the happy owner of a gang of one hundred and forty-nine slaves? But we comprehend what is the matter with him. He pretends to be a good Christian, and he is acquainted with the gospel; he therefore knows what is right, and what is wrong. It is his conscience that troubles him. His inner man is well aware that he is doing a heinous crime to sell at auction one hundred and forty-nine fellow-beings, redeemed by his Savior upon the Cross!
While we were regarding the man behind the desk, we never perceived that the doors were re-opened, and that a large number of people had entered the hall. There are men, women and children, and some babies upon their mothers arms. Their color differs from that of the ladies and gentlemen sitting upon the chairs. Some are black as ebony, some brown, some yellow. There is also a beautiful young girl, nearly white, and you would readily infer that she is of Spanish or French blood. Not one among all of these poor creatures will raise his or her head and eyes, to take a glance at the sitting assemblage. Some poor girls are weeping audibly, and all are looking sad—sad—sad! Reader, if you should happen to be of a gentle nature, take a glance at the little babies upon the arms of their poor and distressed mothers! Can babies feel their misery? Yes, indeed, they can. Every mother will endorse my words. I shall never forget those looks of deep sorrow, which I perceived in the faces of all those poor little children upon the auction-stand. I know that they participated in the distress of their mothers; I believe that they were conscious of their horrible fate in that awful hour— to be sold for money to the highest bidder! You, who have human feelings—you, who are no figures of cold marble—contemplate each of these one hundred and forty-nine descendants of Africa's sons and daughters! Will you be still indifferent towards that institution which degrades men to beasts, which is the deepest pit of barbarity?
But, you will say, are they not tolerably well dressed? And who would say that their bodies have been worn out by hard labor, or by the effect of hunger? No; it seems rather that their master had treated them kindly, that they have seen but little trouble, but few hard times. Why then are they looking grave and distressed, as if some heavy misfortune had befallen them? Their knees tremble, as if they had the foreboding of some awful calamity!
Yes, indeed, they have cause to tremble—they will not do wrong if they cover their eyes (which are not their own)—they may bend down their heads in deep mourning; for—reader! these one hundred and forty-nine human souls shall be sold to-day as so many heads of cattle!
They have been taught the religion of freedom, the gospel of the only Master in heaven and upon earth. They know that they ought to be free, because they are Christians. They believe that the Son of God has abolished slavery by his death upon the accursed tree. They were told by their own master that they were made free through the merits of the blood of Jesus Christ, and that they have a right to claim their freedom for themselves and for their children.
Such are the teachings of the slaveholders in the slave States, bat they mutt themselves surely believe in a very different gospel from the gospel of freedom, as given by the Nazarene! 
<c03>
To excuse themselves, they say that, through the curse of the patriarch Noah, a whole race of man were made slaves forever. They are deaf to the great truth, that, thousands of years after the death of Noah, the great Liberator, JESUS CHSIST, appeared, and that he broke, by his death upon the Cross, all chains of slavery forever!
Let us return to the table of barbarity, and we will follow the course f proceedings at the public auction sale of one hundred and forty-nine of our fellowmen.
The auctioneer stands upon the platform: he is ready to sell any of these to the highest bidder for gold, silver, or approved paper. He calls himself a Christian. He seems to have no idea that he is going perform an act which is the greatest blasphemy towards his Lord and Master. Is not any man, pretending to be a Christian, and selling his Christian brothers like horses, mules or dogs, a hypocrite? And is any man, calling himself a disciple of Christ, but favoring and seconding slave auctions, any better? 
We will listen to the reading of the auctioneer, who holding is a paper in his right hand:—'I am authorized,’ he begins, 'to sell at auction, one hundred and forty-nine plantation negroes, comprising carpenters, bricklayers, blacksmiths, coopers, drivers, house and field-hands. Families will be sold in block. These have been raised, and the larger portion of them were born on the estate of Minor R., Esq., who is retiring from the plantation interest on the Beau-Bosquet Place. The slaves are considered as one of the most valuable and healthy gangs in the South. They will be guaranteed only in title. Terms of sale, one-third cash, balance at one and two years' credit, with interest of six per cent, per annum, until final payment. No slave will be delivered to the purchaser before date of adjuration. If the terms of sale are not completed within four days from date of sale, the slaves will be resold, for account and risk of former purchasers, after two days' advertisement in two of the city papers, without further notice of legal default.'
No. 1. Harvey, field hand, about twenty years old. Come up here, my boy 1 There you are—bon! A capital boy! Ladies and gentlemen, look here at this healthy child! Can any darkey upon God's beautiful earth beat him? Wouldn't he whip Hercules, if that personage should happen to be present? What a splendid fellow he is! The gentleman who will buy Harvey has drawn a lucky number. Who is going to bid? Go ahead, gentlemen! Here is a Capital opportunity.'
'Eight hundred dollars.'
'Pshaw! Eight hundred dollars? Why, twice as much shall never buy him; he is fully worth two thousand dollars. Who will bid more?'
'Nine hundred.'
'Nine hundred dollars is no money for such a fellow, and if you will pay every picayune twice, you can't get him! Nine hundred for Harvey? Gentlemen, you have had, probably, bad news to-day; or is the news confirmed, and has the California steamer foundered? They say so, but do not believe a word of it. I say it is safe! Nine hundred dollars for Harvey!'
'And fifty.'
'Nine hundred and fifty dollars for Harvey, the most likely boy in the noble and fair State of Louisiana! Ain't it toy bad? Who bids more?'
'One thousand!
'Well, a little better! Go on, gentlemen, if you please. One thousand—one thousand—one thousand dollars.'
'And fifty.'
'And fifty! My dear sir, do me a favor, and say at once two thousand. And fifty—and fifty! Ten hundred and fifty dollars!'
'Eleven hundred.'
'Eleven hundred! Too little yet.
'Twenty dollars more.'
'Sir? Twenty dol-. Pardon, excuse me, if I am truly astonished to bear a gentleman bid twenty dollars for Harvey, the American Hercules! Twenty hundred I would like it better.
'Twelve hundred and fifty,'
'There is a generous gentleman! Sir, take my best wishes for your welfare! Twelve hundred and fifty dollars——'
'And fifty.'
'Still better! And fifty! One thousand three hundred dollars!'
'Fourteen hundred.'
'Fourteen—thank you, sir, thank you! Fourteen hundred dollars! Fourteen hundred! Fourteen Gentlemen, bid more, if you please! Fourteen hundred dollars for Harvey are nothing. Fourteen-'
'And fifty.'
'Fourteen hundred and fifty dollars for a boy who is worth two thousand! Gentlemen, here is a good chance to improve property! Whoever will buy Harvey, shall own a fortune. Who is going to bid more? Fourteen—fourteen hundred and fifty dollars —going? One thousand four hundred and fifty dollars— dollars—dollars! Who will bid more? No body? Nobody more? Fourteen hundred and fifty dollars for the negro boy Harvey, the best field hand and the most gentle boy amongst all the darkeys in the United States! Going—for the first—second— who will say more? Fourteen hundred and fifty dollars—going—going—going—gone!'
'Go off, Harvey! Hurry yourself! Don't believe your bones are made of sugar and eggs.'
No. 2. Joseph, field hand, aged about seventeen. 
'Gentlemen, there is a young blood, and a capital one! He is a great boy, a hand for almost every thing. Besides, he is the best dancer in the whole lot, and he knows also how to pray—oh! so beautifully, you would believe he was made to be a minister! How much will you bid for him?
'One thousand dollars.'
'Good—but that is not half the price he is really worth. Gentlemen, if you will bid two thousand at once, it may not suffice to buy him.
'One thousand dollars for a boy, who will be worth in three years fully twenty-five hundred dollars cash down. Who is going to bid two thousand?'
'Twelve hundred dollars.'
'Twelve hundred dollars! Sir, I did say, he would soon bring two thousand. I am always pretty near certain of what I say. Twelve hundred for Joseph! Splendid fellow that! Eleven hundred and eighty dollars more, for his namesake of old in the land of Egypt. Twelve hundred dollars! Gentlemen, bid more!'
'Twelve hundred and fifty dollars.'
'One thousand two hundred and fifty dollars! All right; but more! more 2 more!' 'And fifty.'
'And fifty—and fifty—and fifty for Joseph—not the Hebrew.'
'Thirteen hundred.'
'Thirteen hundred—a bad number, gentlemen— don't let him rest at thirteen hundred.'
'And fifty.'
'Thirteen hundred and. fifty is said to be a lucky number in lotteries. I don't know as it is true, but I do know that thirteen hundred and fifty dollars will not buy Joseph.'
'Fourteen hundred.'
'Well, no ticket of any lottery will cost that much; but Joseph must bring more. Fourteen hundred dollars!'
'And fifty.'
'One thousand four hundred and fifty dollars. It looks like rain; for cash will not out, and I ass unable to procure a magnet which will draw gold for value received. Fourteen hundred and fifty dollars! Too small an amount for Joseph. Seventeen years only—a strong, healthy, fine-looking, intelligent boy. Fourteen hundred and fifty dollars! Gentlemen, Joseph is worth more than Harvey—upon my word! One thousand, four hundred and fifty—going! Four teen hundred and fifty for the first second—going? 
<c04>
Fourteen hundred and fifty dollars—going! going! going! and last—gone! He is sold to you, sir! Please state your name.
No. 3. John Dowson, a carpenter, thirty-five years old, (afflicted with alight hernia.) an intelligent n looking man, stands upon the platform.
But as the reader would get tired of listening to every word that the auctioneer of human souls says, 're will stay with some of the poor creatures, merely giving the names, age, and the price of sale of the rest. The above named John Dowson was sold for t$1200.
No. 4. Alfred, cooper, (injured in left leg.) 19 years of age, a strong and very honest looking boy, brings $1550 a very small price for a first-rate cooper, but surely the price of blood for a man and a Christian! 
No. 5. George Bedford, field hand, 30 years, sold for $1450. 
No. 6. Jim Ludlow, field band, 30 years old, brings $1400.
No. 7. Chap, field hand, 34 years, brings the round sum of $1000. 
No. 8. Henry Wood, 23 years old, for $1375. 
No. 9. Charles Longback, plowman and harness maker, age 35, value received, $1300. 
No. 10. March, field hand, 26 years old, fine looking fellow, splendid eyes, teeth white like ivory. That dandy there, who is lighting his cigar with a fashionable Parisian silver-match, would be glad to give his gold watch with chain, and his diamond breastpin in the bargain, for March's beautiful set of spotless teeth. But how can we see them? Is March so much pleased as to show all his teeth? No, reader! be is very, very far from laughing. His eyes are east down; they are fixed upon the floor of the hall. But tell me why March shows his teeth? Out of rage? Yes, indeed, out of rage. Why? 
There is a poor young woman at his side; they call her Caroline. A Christian minister gave her that name when she was christened. She is bitterly crying; she casts a look of extreme sorrow upon her husband. Why? 
Caroline is the lawful wife, (lawful, indeed? lawful in a Slave-State?) of March, and the 'gentleman' who bought him for $1250 will not buy Caroline. She is twenty-two years of age, and the auctioneer calls her a splendid washer and ironer, a very likely girl. She has always conducted herself well; she is a member of the Methodist Church; she is one of the most gentle persons in the South; she calls March her husband, and she loves him dearly. And now, gentle reader, tell me why Caroline shall be torn from her husband? Why shall she belong to a tyrant? Because that man has money—because he bought her for $1100. 
Friends of humanity! take another glance at No. 10½. There stands Caroline, crying for her husband in a manner to move a heart of stone; but she is not crying loud enough to move pretended 'Christians, who are going to church every Sunday, there to adore the Redeemer of mankind, the Savior upon the Cross! 
No. 11. Abraham Arkansas, plowman and carter, 28 years of age; he brings $1350. 
No. 12. Michael, carter and plowman, 29 years, sold for $1300. 
No. 13. Booker, plowman, 28 years, brings $1375. 
No. 14. Lucy, a young girl of 14, yet nearly a child. Her color is black, but her features are handsome. She stands upon the platform like a lamb, doomed to be sold to a wolf. See those long, silky eyelids; how the large full drops are falling upon the table! Look at the sad, silent face of a poor lovely girl of dark color, innocent like the blossom of a fair nightly flower! Her crime is, that she is a descendant from African blood. Look, how her full, red lips open with untold agony, showing a string of pearls rarely to be met with. Her dark but soft eyes are fixed upon the man who has already bid twice for her. She casts them down in despairing hopelessness, as he is bidding for her $1025 for the last time. She belongs to him! Her whole body belongs to the man with the lustful countenance; to the very man who whispered in her ear when she was entering the hall of perdition, 'Thou art mine, black little dove! Thou art mine, even though God and all his holy angels should defend thee! Does not that man look like one of the fiends? But he has paid for her, one thousand and fifty dollars in gold and approved paper; he takes her away—and hell solemnizes its triumph! 
No. 15. The boy Clifford, a field hand, fourteen years of age, is sold for $1000. 
No. 16. Sam, twenty-one years, truly as honest a boy as could be found south of Mason and Dixon's line. A gentleman behind my chair is exclaiming, 'What a splendid jet black animal he is! Sam brings the nice round sum of $1500. 
No. 17. Little Henry, plowman, twenty-four years, brings $1325. 
No. 18. Titus, blacksmith, cooper and engineer, 'extra,'23 years. Of course, he must be 'extra, fox he is able to work for his master at the rate of $5 a day. Now, suppose he could work for himself at the rate of only $3 a day, it would take him only two years five months and seventeen days to produce the money for which he is now sold at auction. But hit master will be a wise man, (though he is a prominent member in his church)—he will let him have no time to work for himself; no, not one hour! 
The kind reader will give me permission to retreat, for a short time, from the auction hall, in order to relate an event which happened at the time of my stay in the same city where our auction takes place. A certain citizen of said city had a very honest and diligent slave, a blacksmith by trade. The slave agreed with his master to pay him two dollars and a half a day, but the money which he should earn besides should belong to himself. He diligently worked by day and night, hardly allowing himself any rest By so doing, he made two dollars and a half a day for his master, and one for himself. After five years of the hardest toil, the slave had collected the required sum of money to buy himself free—say $1800. He —poor honest fellow!—not suspecting the rascality of his 'Christian master, had given to him, at the end of every week, $24,50; all of his very hard earned money; and after the lapse of five years, he demanded his freedom from that master. But the hardened wretch laughed at him, and told him to go to h—11 and to his work again. Now, could not the slave find justice in the court of justice? No, never—for the laws of the Slave States provide that no slave shall bear witness against any white person. No 'Christian' judge nor 'Christian' jury could help the poor slave; for the laws of a 'Christian' State regard a fellow-man of color as a tool, belonging to any rascal who happens to possess a sufficient quantity of money to buy that human tool! 
No. 19. Rosa, field hand, 16 years of age, a capital girl, well built, good natured and intelligent There she stands upon the platform, gazed at by several hundred men. She has to submit, without 1 murmur, to be examined by the hand of a rough fallow, a slave-driver—a name which I consider equivalent to 'human butcher.' Her fine teeth an touched by his bloody fingers; so are her beautiful eyelashes; and when he is handling her beating bosom, oh, reader! mark the just indignation expressed in all her features! Poor Rosa! there is no help for you; there is no salvation. he knows it, and the awful conviction of so crushing a calamity casts her down,—down into the abyss of utter despair. She is sold at last to the highest bidder—to the slave-driver—to the tiger in frock-coat and pants, for $1260. 
No. 20. Ben, field hand, 30 years old, for $1150. 
No. 21. Isam, a field hand, 40 years old, is not able to bring more than $700, because his youth hat gone. Of course, a mule of 18 is worth lees than one of 6 years. It is certainly very reasonable to sell an old animal for less than a young one. But, let us see what kind of an animal Isam is? Isam is not a
<c05>
strong man; his health is rather delicate; but his mind is sound. He has not only an inclination toward religion, he is himself a Christian, and he acts on Sundays among his unfortunate fellow-men as a minister of the gospel. 
What! A minister of the gospel a brute—to be sold at auction for $700! Is not that a shameful untruth? No barbarian, in whatever part of the globe, will sell at public auction the priest of his faith for any money! Behold, ye nations of Christendom! There is a country which called a Christian one, in which a minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ is sold at public auction like a brute! Will that time never come when such as he shall be sold 10 more to the highest bidder by the pretended disciples of that Savior who came to break every yoke, and to set every captive free? 
No. 22. Yellow Charles, carter and plowman, (has a short leg from infancy.) 27 years of age, is sold for $|950,—a very trifling sum. Yes, indeed, trifling for his own natural father—the rich banker—the man of refinement—the gallant 'defender of liberty.'
No. 23. Sam Bayou, field hand, 32 years old, for $1075.
No. 24. Brown, field hand, 28 years, brings $1200. 
No. 25. George, the valorous, 26 years old, strong enough to be a rival to his celebrated namesake, the dragon-killing knight of the middle ages. At least, he is able to kill two alligators in five minutes. George (not the knight) is sold for $1400. 
No. 26. Etienne, carter and plowman, 29, sold for t $1150. 
No. 27. Quacco, plowman and carpenter, a young a man of 23, brings $1275. 
No. 28. Bob, blind of one eye, plowman and carter, aged 35, brings $850. Why only $850? Because the has but one eye. How did he lose the other? When he was a little boy, he had a sister, a very kind and gentle little girl, whom he dearly loved. One Sunday, they were walking together near the plantation to which they belonged. Beneath an orange tree, covered with red, beautiful, juicy fruits, they sat down upon the grass. Nancy, which was the name of the little girl, dropped silently her head; not a word came from her lips, but large drops fell from her eyes upon the grass. Bob took her hands in his, asking her tenderly, 'Sis, what is the matter with you? Why will you cry? O Bob,' sobbed she, 'I am very unhappy—I wish to die.' 'Why, Nancy?' But Nancy gave no answer—all her limbs trembled— her eyes stared in agony towards the sugar-house. A big white boy came running towards them, holding in his hand a large whip. It was Peter, the overseer's oldest son—the most malicious and cruel young rascal in the parish—the terror of the poor slaves on the plantation. 
'Ay! you black little grasshopper, have I caught you at last!' cried the young loafter, grasping her by the neck, and throwing her upon the grass. You shall know that I am master, and you are my slave. 'The terror-struck girl made no reply; she only uttered a long, painful groan. Bob, in great excitement, placed himself between his sister and the boy, crying, 'Oh, master Peter, don't hurt my sister! No! you shall not hurt my sister!' At once, the young overseer got into a terrible rage, and crying, 'His, dog of a nigger!' he struck Bob with the, heavy handle of his whip in the face, and the poor boy fell with a single piercing cry to the ground. From that day, Bob had but one eye, and the stripes made by the whip of the overseer upon Bob's back can be still seen to-day. 
No. 29. Charles Yellabusha, field hand, 24 years old, price $1525. 
No. 30. Allrick, field hand, age 45. He looks very good-natured; twenty years ago, he was worth $2100, but is sold now for $1025. 
No. 31. Jake, good cooper, sugar-maker, and vaccum boiler, 32 years of age. His color is a mingling of yellow and white. His forehead is high, his face intelligent. There is no mistake—plenty of Anglo-Saxon, blood is running through his veins. If he had been born in Massachusetts, or in one of the other Free States, in Canada or in Europe, I would bet a hundred dollars against one, he would be a professor, a minister, a doctor, or some kind of a savan, now. If his star had cast him into the empire of France, I should by no means be surprised to see in him a second Alexander Dumas; and if, in that case, he would not be able to write as admirable a story as is 'The Count of Monte' Christo,' I should despair of finding any sense in a Gall or a Lavater. Well, this second Alexander Dumas is sold at auction for $2625, a sum which he could realize for himself in less than one year, if be were not born in a Slave State. 
Who was Jake's mother? Of course, a mulatto woman, and a slave. Most probably, she has gone to that land where the master and the slave enjoy 'equal rights.'
But who was her father? There we have a problem, which even the discoverer of the quadrature of the circle can never solve. Perhaps Jake's grandfather was a 'rising man,' and his white grandchildren are now celebrated senators and lawgivers. 
And who was the father of Jake? Don't know. But may it not be possible that he was a Governor, or some other big personage? Perhaps, while Jake is being sold at auction to the highest bidder, his natural brothers and sisters axe sitting in splendid par-Ion, or in the drawing-room of some fashionable hotel, 'up North. 'May not one of Jake's natural brothers be a Judge of the Supreme Court, and the other a learned minister of the gospel? How does it happen that, while one of the children of the same father is a rich and high-standing favorite of the people, the other child is sold at public auction, like a valuable mule? Can it be the little difference in their color? Well, let the former brother stay for some years in South America, or in some other warm climate, and I am sure his color would show no great "difference from that of his brother who is sold at auction. Why, then, shall the one brother be treated as a beast, and the other brother as a gentleman? Can 'any one of my leaned readers solve this problem for me? No. 32. Willis, field hand, 24 years, sold for $1350—and No. 32½. Lucy Scott, field hand, 25. She is not placed upon the platform. Why We cannot say; but the distressed face of the poor woman tells us that she has been sold privately to a personage, of whom they say that he is a member of the church, but who in reality may prove to be a demon. 
No's 33, 34, 35, 36 and 37.
A very good-looking pair is first put upon the platform. Davy, a good vegetable-gardener, 50 years old, and his wife Harriet, about 45, together with their daughters, Cassy and Scills, twins, 14 years, and Amy, 12 years. Really, I would give something if you could see the daguerreotype of this family standing upon the platform, to be sold at auction. But, no—I recall the wish. Thank God that you cannot see that picture, because it would haunt you like a dreadful vision. 
I remember an event which I heard related while I was in France. A young French lady had occasion to visit a picture gallery. Her eyes (ell upon a large picture, representing the martyrs thrown before wild beasts, at the time of the Roman Emperor Diocletian. The expression of agony in the features of the bleeding Christians was so fearfully given, that the maiden fell into hysterics, and she never recovered from the effect of her terror.
 I will not attempt to imagine the anguish and horror that my fair female readers would have felt, if they could have witnessed the picture of that poor disuses ed family—the despairing features of those three innocent girls upon that slaughter-bench, like three faultless lambs offered for sacrifice! All five were sold for $3000. 
No. 38. Big Bill, cooper, 55 years, and 
<c06>
No. 39. Winey, his wife—(to sell a wife at suction! — what a sacrilege of the sacred name!) 54 years old. Both together were sold for $1850.
No. 40. Tom, field hand, 28 years, and
 No. 41. Matilda, 25 years. For both, $2250. One family.
No.42. Shad, field hand, 38 years —No. 43. Rachel, 29— and 
No. 44. James, their son, 6 years of age —all were sold at $2275. Dear family that! But how much dearer shall he pay at the day of judgment who sells the 'bodies and souls of men for gold, silver, and approved paper, like cattle! 
 No. 45. Louis Mare, bricklayer, 42 years .
 No. 46. Yellow Mary, 23 years of age. For both was offered $1750. 
 Kind reader, I must make your heart sad again and with compassion for your unfortunate and oppressed fellow-men. But I will speak the truth and nothing but the truth. God has given me a feeling heart; and, certainly, I suffered while being present at the slave auction, of which I am giving you a faint description. But I had to stay, and my face had to be as stern as any of the salve-buyers present, while my heart mourned. Is it not a vision? There stands a girl upon the platform, to be sold to the highest bidder; perhaps to a cruel low dissolute fellow, who, a day or two since, won a few thousand dollars by his playing tricks at the faro table. She is nearly white; She is not yellow ,as they call her. She has a fair waist, her hair is black and silky, and falling down in ringlets upon her full shoulders. Her eyes are large, soft, and languishing. She seeks in vain to hide the streaming tears with her small and delicate hands. Her features are fair, like those of the girls of the Caucassian race they remind me of those of the highland girls of my native country, Switzerland. Who in all the world can have anything against her color? In England, the she would be called a 'star'; in Francs, a 'bells'; in Germany, a 'nice little woman'; and in the free States of the Union, she would pass, when fashionably dressed, for a fair French lady. But, in the Slave States, she is openly sold, as thought she were nothing more than a 'beautiful mare' or a 'splendid cow'!
They say in the Slave States, that they are Christian that they consider a fair Christian girl as a brute, because she is not of pure white blood! Why do they not make company with the fishes in the lower Mississippi? Have they not' white blood'?
If Mary's father, who is, perhaps, a very much honored gentleman, 'one of the best members of his church '—if that great man could see his only daughter , his own flesh and blood, standing upon the platform, with tearful eyes, and sighing in untold misery, to be sold like a quadruped—surely, his blood would turn 'white' for shame and terror!
No. 47. Josephus, accomplished blacksmith ,35 years old—and 
No. 48. Catharine, field hand, 30 years old. Catherine is a very strong and healthy-looking woman. If this pair of giants had the liberty to keep the earnings of their own labor for themselves, they would surely make the money for which re sold now,—those $2800,—in leas than three years . But their bodies belong to another, because the laws of the Slave States regard men and women of colors beasts of burden. 
No. 49. Dennis, field hand, (suffers torn hernia,) fifty-five years— 
No. 50. Isabella, thirty-one years. Price for these poor human beings, $1350.
[Remainder next week.) 

LANDS FOR SALE. 
A LARGE number of parcels of land are hereby offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies, sympathizing with the fundamental principles and general objects of the Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale. Milford, Mass, at constituting a part of the original Community Domains, are of different sizes, ranging from two to two to twenty acres, and present a variety of tillage and patty-age, together with some woodland—most of the tillage being under a high state of cultivation — and are designed either for simple building lots, or for wail farms, as may suit different classes of purchasers. Upon some of them are pleasant dwellings, tenements in the village may be rented by those an prepared to buy erect buildings In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry, suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege, rendering the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business, and especially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such horticultural employment as health, saw, pleasure, or profit may dictate. Persons also literary inclinations and pursuits may obtain that quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active out- door manual or other exercise necessary to the highest usefulness and success in their chosen fields of labor. And any or all of the classes to whom the lands are offered may desire for themselves and families the superior moral and social influences of Hopedale, or who may wish to secure for their children the advantages of the Hopedale Home School- a flourishing Institution of much excellence, both in it. general character and in its methods of instruction. designed to aid in the attainment of thorough symmetrical. and practical Education-will and here unusual inducements for making themselves at Home.
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R.R., by which communication may be had three times a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England.
Prices reasonable, and terms of payment suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious, economical family.
For further particulars and all necessary information, inquire of E.D. DRAPER,
Hopedale, Milford, Mass.
June 17, 1859.—tf.
HOPEDALE LANDS OPENED FOE SETTLEMENT.
We bespeak attention to Br. E.D. Draper's advertisement as above, offering for sale sundry parcels of Hopedale land. Some two years since, when most of the Joint Stock Property of the Hopedale Community was individualized and divided among the stock-holders, a large portion of the Community Domain went legitimately into the private possession of Dr. Draper. He has recently caused his lands to he surveyed into homesteads of from two to twenty acres each, with a view to offer them for sale to persons friendly to our distinguishing principles, who may chosen to settle in our midst. We hope that a goodly number of friends, cherishing a general sympathy with our people, and desiring to give their children the advantageous of our excellent select and common schools, will avail themselves of the new opening. Seeing that we must be disappointed in not realizing the Unitary social arrangements, the anticipation of which originally attracted us hither, the next best things is , to see as good a Neighborhood built up as circumstances will allow, We are therefore pleased with dr. Draper's new plan of offering small homesteads for sale to our friends scattered abroad —Pactical Christian.

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL 
SALEM. MASS.
THE next Term will commence with an Examination of Candidates for admission, on WEDNESDAY, Sept. 14, at 9, A.M
This Institution is open to young ladies not less than 16 years of age, (without limit as to place of residence,) who wish to pursue a Course of Study extending through three terms, or a year and a half, in direct preparation for the work of teaching. To all who intend to teach in the public schools of Massachusetts, TUITION IS FREE. Text-books are mostly furnished from the Library of the School. Good Board can be obtained at from $2 to $3 per week. From the State Appropriation, and other sauces, more than $1000 are annually distributed among pupils who may merit and need the aid. For Circulars, or further information, address
ALPHEUS CROSBY, Principal.
Aug. 19 3w

BOARDING-HOUSE
ROBERT R.CROSBY would inform his anti-slavery friends, anti such others as desire pleasant rooms and good board, that having opened house No.23 Eliot street, a few doors from Washington street, he will be happy to entertain such as may be pleased to favor him with their patronage.
