THE LIBERATORS
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for THE DOLLARS, if payments be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than on square inserted three times for 75 cents— one square $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:—FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 39. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1500.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
GOVERNOR BANK'S ADDRESS.
AT THE INAUGURATION OF THE WEBSTER STATUS, IN BOSTON, SEPTEMBER 17, 1859.
The celebration of this day, Mr. Mayor marks two public events of immediate local interest tot he people of the Commonwealth,—the birth of a city so renowned as its metropolis, and the monumental commemoration of the public career of a citizen so distinguished as Daniel Webster, whose name has been made illustrious by an unsurpassed strength of intellect and transcendant genius. 
Greatly distinguished men may be, without extravagance, identified with the political and social communities in which they are reared, or to which, in the meridian splendor of life, they contributed of their strength and labor. Their powers are disproportionate, and their destinies dissimilar: yet, in the economy of Divine Providence, the silent but perpetual ascendency of character in states as in statesmen corresponds in so many respects, and harmonizes in so many attributes, that the advent of the one and the career of the other may without impropriety be celebrated together. Ant I congratulate myself, sir, that it is permitted me, in this public manner, as the Representative of the People of Massachusetts, to make official recognition of the great honor which the municipality of Boston has conferred upon our ancient and beloved Common wealth.
Cities, it has been truly said, I think, are freedom's nurseries. They mark with the towns from which they spring, the line that separates rude and wandering tribes of men from settled and civilized forms of society. It is through their contests and sorrows, in a great degree, that we have attained our now imperishable institutions of government, and enjoy, in peace and prosperity, the blessings of rational liberty.
There is no more inspiring theme among the traditions of men than that which recounts the creation of cities that during a succession of ages maintained forms of government, established popular rights, opened paths of Christian intercourse with each other through the avenues of commerce, enlarged the circles of learning and art, and hemmed in the great middle sea of antiquity with a myriad of commercial establishments that mark in succession the culmination and decline of the power of <illegible>, Greeks, Carthaginians, Romans and Venitians. It was there that civilization found its earliest and freest development, and from them we have derived much if not 'all that hither to has dignified human existence,—our arms our arms, our letters, and our religion.' Among the proudest of these, the city you represent, and which this day celebrates its 229th anniversary, may without shame enroll its name and record its deeds. In patriotism, in enterprise, in invention, in art, in letters, in eloquence, in beauty, in love of regulated liberty, the sight we see, the voice we shall hear the history we recall, the future we anticipate, embolden us to proclaim that the proudest of Phoenician or Grecian cities contributed not more to the renown of ancient history than the metropolis of New England to the higher and nobler cause of American civilization. 
She was among the first to recognize the institution of the Jury as a basis for popular governments; to protest against slavery and the slave trade, to establish printing presses, and to support public journals, to denounce the oppressors of England, and to indicate resistance to her government. Her sons were the proscribed men of the colonies. Her name was a synonym for Rebellion in the early days of the Revolution, and represented the American cause in the Courts of Europe, as Greece might have been represented by Athens, or Rome by her eternal city. No municipality was ever more bounteous in her charities, or in the support of the twin causes of Education and Christianity. She drew to her shores the first steam vessel that ever crossed the Atlantic, and large <illegible> sailing ship that ever rested upon the waters <illegible> from her docks. With a territory of less than two thousand acres originally, an area less than some of the farms of the Common-wealth, it has become the second commercial city of the American Continent. It has a stronger claim to our respect. Her sons and daughters have never lost affection for their native city, but have carried with them to the ends of the earth, and to the grave itself, the tender attachments that distinguish offspring and parents.
I am happy also to participate with you in the commemoration of the day of its nativity by the erection of a statue to the memory of Daniel Webster, so long one of its most distinguished citizen, who so long represented the Commonwealth in Congress and the Cabinet; whose name in a period of public peril became a synonym for that of Defender of the Constitution; whose love of the union of states so colored his opinions and his life, and whose fame as a jurist and orator adds lustre to American jurisprudence and American eloquence.
He was in the service of the people of Massachusetts and of the Union for an uninterrupted term of thirty years, quite reaching the period of his death. He identified himself by important services with the re-organization of the constitutional law of the state; with the statues, the criminal jurisprudence, currency, commerce and manufactures of the Union; harmonizing by just interpretation, at the bar, in the Senate and the cabinet, its constitution with conflicting state constitutions and state legislation. In some respects, his services of this character have been rarely equalled and never surpassed. It is not the fortune of men, neither of rulers nor of servants always to receive instantaneous or universal approval in all public acts. The higher the occasion, the weightier the act, the more certain is the conflict of interest and opinion. Nature speaks through such diversities of education and constitution, and by such varied personal experiences, that it is enough, and only such success as the greatest attain, if they are able to stamp upon the body of the age in which they live the form and pressure of their own opinions, to connect by a silent but far-reaching influence the present with future, by the power of their own passionate emotion uncompromising lesson. In this, Mr. Webster was unlike and greater than most men of any age. His character is impressed, to an extent rarely equalled, upon the manners, language, ideas, legislation and constitutional lore of his time.
The people of the Union will cherish their recollections of him as one of the grand representatives of American intellect and character: New England will be proud of his birth, and his honors: Massachusetts of his identification with her history. Over his grave they will discontinue the controversies connected with his life, remembering the broad-hearted and reverential live he bore his country and its people; and every breeze that sweeps from the south, over the haven of the pilgrims, from his tomb by the sad sounding sea, will be forever sharpened by a poignant regret, will be forever freighted with a weighty admonition to the youth of our land, that in the contests of men, concession does not always secure peace.
It is fit that for such men monuments of bronze or marble should be planted upon the foundations
<c02>
of the earth. They are the landmarks of the ages. They represent at the transitions of thought, and the conquests of experiment. It is from such men that students of history, doubting mariners on the sea of life, take new observations, 'and thence make progression.' 
In a life of three score and ten years of great activity, encountering in hot contests the advocates and assailants of all social and political problems of the time—treating all with distinguished ability, and encountering many with exhibitions of extraordinary power—it is manifest that different impressions as to his character will have been made upon different generations of men. It is a question of some interest, which of the generations participating in a life like Mr. Webster's shall claim the privilege of indicating its leading characteristics, and to which belongs the right to demand that its personification in bronze or marble shall conform to the image impressed upon its own faculty of observation. The response must be different as it is applied to different men. Precocity of intellect would require the period of youth as the proper era for delineation. Age could only represent a life whose honor rested upon accumulation. But for a life signalized by impetuous and heroic achievement, no representation satisfies enlightened curiosity unless it be of that period made illustrious by startling manifestations of power. It is as Cromwell appeared at Mars ton Moor or Naseby to the rapt vision of a squadron of the Ironsides, that he should be represented. Our conception of Wellington is as he conquered at Waterloo, and not as he died at Apsley House; of Napoleon as he appeared in the eyes of the Old Guard at Austerlitz or Marengo, and not as in his controversies with Sir Hudson Lowe at St. Helena; of Washington as he looked to the Sons of Liberty when in the darkest hours of the Revolution, with more than Napoleonic vigor he <illegible> the lines of British troops; or with higher patriotism than that of Greek or Roman fame, in the zenith of his power, he surrendered at Annapolis his commission as Commander-in-Chief of the American Army.
Heroic characters may rightly demand so much as this. It is ill content with the portraiture that satisfied Cromwell, who demanded a representation of personal and physical deformities, and seeks the elevation, the idealization, of as artistic, devotionalistic conception.
Such seems to me to be the statue that the distinguished American artist has presented. It is Webster in the pride of intellect, the plenitude of power, who at Plymouth portrayed the results of Puritan civilization in the New World, and hurled Demosthenic anathemas at the reviving slave trade. It is the Senator who described in a sentence the military power of Great Britain. It is the orator who spoke for all the receding and advancing generations: who in 1830 stamped upon every American heart, in a burst of forensic eloquence that has no fellow in the Saxon language, a triumphant vindication of Massachusetts, and wrought a conviction in all hearts of the inseparable natures of Liberty and Union. It is him! ah him! as be looked—as he lived—as he desired to be remembered, and as we might desire him to be represented. As such, I accept the statue at your hands, Mr. Mayor, in the name of the people, and shall ask for it the protection of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. May it stand upon its firmly planted as long as monuments shall stand, until the earth crumble and the dome and column of the capital mingle in the dust together! 
May it everyday in the year, and every hour in the day, incite youth and age to a love of country land of liberty. May it stimulate a patriotic public taste in works of art until the public grounds of State and City shall smile with the effigies of the worthiest sons and daughters of the Commonwealth, whether it be of the founders of States, like Winthrop, of one who meets death in the columns of battle like Warren, of the Princes of the forum like Choate, or who, like Mann, sinks sweetly into a better life, overtasked in the work of training the youthful mind to a full appreciation of its mission and power. 

SELECTIONS. 
THE FALL OF DANIEL WEBSTER. 
BY THEODORE PARKER.
The effect of Mr. Webster's speech on the 7th of March was amazing: at first Northern men abhorred it; next they accepted it. Why was this? He himself has perhaps helped us understand the mystery:— 
'The enormity of crime so astonishes men as to subdue their minds, and they lose the desire for justice in a morbid admiration of the great criminal, and the strangeness of the crime.' 
Mr. Webster stamped his foot, and broke through into the great hollow of practical atheism, which undergulfs the State and Church. Then what a caving in was there! The firm-set base of northern cities quaked and yawned with gaping rents. 'Penn's sandy foundation ' shook again, and black men fled from the city of brotherly love, as doves, with plaintive cry, flee from a farmer's barn when summer lightning subs the roof. There was a twist in Faneuil Hall, and the doors could not open wide enough for Liberty to regain her ancient Cradle; only soldiers, greedy to steal a man, themselves stole out and in. Ecclesiastic quicksand ran down the hole amain. Metropolitan churches toppled, and pitched, and canted, and cracked, their bowing walls all out of plumb. Colleges, broken from the chain which held them in the stream of time, rushed towards the abysmal rent, Harvard led the way, 'Christo et Ecclesiae' in her hand. Down plunged Andover, ' Conscience and the Constitution ' clutched in its ancient failing arm. New Haven began to cave in. Doctors of Divinity, orthodox, heterodox with only a doxy of doubt, ' no settled opinion,' had great alacrity in sinking, and went down quick, as live as ever, into the pit of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, the bottomless pit of lower law,—one with his mother, cloaked by a surplice, hid beneath his sinister arm, and an acknowledged brother grasped by his remaining limb. Fossils of theology, dead as Ezekiel's bones, took to their feet again, and stood up for most arrant wrong. There is no higher law of God,’ quoth they, as they went down: ' no gulden rule, only the statutes of men.' A man with mythologic ear might fancy that be heard a snickering laugh run round the world below, snorting, whinnying, and neighing, as it echoed from the infernal spot pressed by the fallen monsters of ill-fame, who, thousands of years ago, on the same errand, had plunged down the self-same way. What tidings the echo bore, Dante nor Milton could not tell. Let us leave that to darkness, and to silence, and to death.
But, in spite of all this, in every city, in every town, in every college, and in each capsizing church, there were found Faithful Men, who feared not the monster, heeded not the stamping;—nay, some doctors of divinity were found living. In all their houses there was light, and the destroying angel shook them not. Toe word of the Lord came in
<c03>
open vision to their eye, they had their Lamps trimmed and burning, their loins girt; they stood road-ready. Liberty and Religion turned in thither, and the slave found bread and wings.
After the 7th of March, Mr. Webster became the ally of the worst of men, the forefront of kidnapping. The orator of Plymouth Rock was the advocate of slavery; the hero of Bunker Hill put chains around Boston Court House; the applauder of Adams and Jefferson was a tool of the slaveholder, and a keeper, of slavery's dogs, the associate of the kidnapper, and the mocker of men who loved the right. Two years he lived with that rabble out for company, his name the boast of every vilest thing. 
'Oh, how unlike the place from whence he fell!' 
In early life, Mr. Hill, of New Hampshire, pursued him with unrelenting bitterness. Of late years Mr. Webster had complained of this, declaring that 'Mr. Hill had done more than any other man to debauch the character of New Hampshire., bringing the bitterness of politics into private life.' But after that day of St. Judas. Mr. Webster pursued the same course which Mr. Hill had followed forty years before, and the two enemies were reconciled. 'The Herod of the Democrats and the Pilot of Federalism were made friends by the Fugitive Slave Bill, and rude in the same ' Omnibus,'—'a blue-light Federalist' and 'a genuine Democrat dyed in be wool.'
Think of him!—the Daniel Webster of Plymouth Rock advocating the ' Compromise Measures!' the Daniel Webster of Faneuil Hall, who once spoke with the inspiration of Samuel Adams and the tongue of James Otis, honoring the holy dead with his praise!—think of him at Buffalo, Albany, Syracuse, scoffing at modern men, who 'perilled their Lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor,' to visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep themselves unspotted from the world! think of him threatening with the gallows such as clothed the naked, fed the hungry, visit the prisoner, and gave a cup of cold water to him that was ready to person! Think of Daniel Webster become the assassin of Liberty in the Capitol! Think of him, full of the Old Testament and dear Isaac Watts, scoffing at the Higher Law of God, while the mountain of Virgins looked him in the face!
But what was the recompense? Ask Massachusetts,—ask the North. Let the Baltimore Convention tell. He was the greatest candidate before it. General Scott is a little man when the feathers are gone. Fillmore, you know him. Both of these, for greatness of intellect, compared to Webster, were as a single magpie measured by an eagle. Look at his speeches; look at his forehead; look at his face! The two hundred and ninety-three delegates came together and voted. They gave him thirty-two votes! Where were the men of the 'lower law,' who made a denial of God the first principle of their politics? Where were they who in Faneuil Hall scoffed and jeered at the 'Higher Law;' or at Capron Springs, who 'laughed' when he mocked at the Law higher than the Virginia hills? Where were the kidnappers? 
The 'lower law' man and the kidnappers strained themselves to the utmost, and he bad thirty-two votes!
Where was the South? Fifty-three times did the Convention ballot, and the South never gave him a vote,—not a vote—no, not one! Northern friends—I honor their affection for the great man—went to the South, and begged for the poor and paltry pittance of a seeming vote, in order to break the bitterness of the fall! They went 'with tears in their eyes,' and in mercy's name, they asked that crumb from the Southern board. But the cruel South, treacherous to him whom she beguiled to treason against God, she answered, 'Not a vote!' It was the old fate of nun who betray. Southern politicians 'did not dare dispense with the services thrust on him, but revenged themselves by withdrawing his well-merited reward.' It was the fate of Strafford; the fate of Wolsey. When Lasthenes and Euthycrates betrayed Olynthus to Macedonian. Philip, fighting against the liberties of Greece, they were distinguished—if Demosthenes be right—only by the cruelty of their fate. Mr. Webster himself had a forefeeling that it might be so; for, on the morning of his fatal speech, he told a brother Senator, 'I have my doubts that the speech I am going to make will ruin me.' But he played the card with a heavy, a rash, a trembling, and not a skilful hand. It was only the playing of a card,—but his last card! Mr. Calhoun had said, 'The furthest Southerner is nearer to us than the nearest Northern man.' They could trust him with their work,—not with its covenanted pay! 
Oh! Cardinal Wolsey! there was never such a fall! 
'He fell, like Lucifer, never to hope again!' 
The telegraph which brought him tidings of his fate was a thunder-stroke out of the clear sky. No wonder that he wept, and said, 'I am a disgraced man, a ruined man!' His early, his last, his fondest dream of ambition broke, and only ruin filled his hand! What a spectacle! to move pity in the stones of the street!
But it seemed as if nothing could be snared him. His cup of bitterness already full, was made to run over; for joyous men, full of wine and the nomination, called him up at midnight out of his bed—the poor, disappointed old man!—to 'congratulate him on the nomination of Scott!' And they forced the great man, falling back on his self-respect, to say that the next morning he should ' rise with the lark, us jocund and as gay.' 
Was not that enough? Oh, there is no pity in the hearts of men! Even that was not enough! Northern friends went to him, and asked him to advise men to vote for General Scott! General Scott is said to be an anti-slavery man; but soon as the political carpenters put the 'planks' together at Baltimore, he scrambled upon the platform, and stands there on all-fours to this day o looking for 'fellow-citizens, native and adopted,’ listening for 'that rich brogue,' and declaring that after all, he is 'only a common man.' Did you ever read General Scott's speeches? Then think of asking Daniel Webster to recommend him for President,—Scott in the chair, and Webster out! That was gall after the wormwood! They say that Mr. Webster did write a letter advocating the election of Scott, and afterwards said, ' I still live.' If he did so, attribute it to the wanderings of a great mind, shattered by sickness; and be assured he would have taken it back, if he had ever set his firm foot on the ground again! 
Daniel Webster went down to Marshfield—to die! He died of his 7th of March speech! That word indorsed on Mason's Bill drove thousands of fugitives from America to Canada. It put chains round our court-house; it led men to violate the majesty of law all over the North. I violated it, and so did you. It sent Thomas Sims in fetters to his jail and his scourging at Savannah; it caused practical atheism to be preached in many churches of New York, Philadelphia, Washington; and, worst of all, in Boston itself! and then, with its own recoil, it sent Daniel Webster to his grave, giving him such a reputation as a man would not wish for him utterest foe. 
<c04>
Cardinal Wolsey fell, and lost nothing but his place. Bacon fell; the 'wisest, brightest,' lived long enough to prove himself the 'meanest of mankind.' Strafford came down. But it was nothing to the fall of Webster. The Anglo-Saxon race never knew such a terrible and calamitous ruin, His downfall shook the continent. Truth fell prostrate in the street. Since then, the court-house has a twist in its walls, and equity cannot enter its door; the steeples point awry, and the 'Higher Law' is hurled down from the pulpit. One priest would enslave all the 'posterity of Ham,' and another would drive a fugitive from his own door; a third became certain that Paul was a kidnapper; and a fourth had the 'assurance of consciousness that Christ Jesus would have sold and bought slaves!' Practical atheism became common in the pulpits of America; they forgot that there was a God. In the hard winter of 1780, if Fayette had copied Arnold, and Washington gone over to the enemy, the fall could not have been worse. Benedict Arnold fell, but fell through,—so low that no man quotes him for precedent. Aaron Burr is only warning. Webster full, and he lay there ' not less than archangel ruined,' and enticed the nation in his fall. Shame on us!—all those three are of Now England blood! Webster, Arnold, Burr! 

From the National Anti-Slavery Standard. 
THE WEBSTER STATUE. 
They set up a Statue to Daniel Webster at Boston, the other day. Some say it is ugly, other some, (though few,) that it is altogether lovely. Its aesthetic merits, however, are nothing to the purpose of this discourse. It matters not whether it be comely as his fair renown when, in the fresh prime of his years, he thundered against the slave trade, at Plymouth, on the 221 of December, 1820, (the moment of his life on which all his eulogists on the day of Inauguration endeavored, in their various measures of oratoric art, to fix the thoughts of their hearers,) or whether it be as ugly as his plumed and tattered fame when he erected slave-hunting into the first of a freeman's duties, on the Seventh of March, 1850, at Washington. It is erected on the grounds of Massachusetts, and it must be received, for the present, as a sign that he is the man whom Massachusetts most delights to honor of all her sons, native or by hospitable adoption. It was eagerly accepted by the Republican Governor of that State—who hopes to exchange that dignity for the highest in the nation, soon—and his acceptance confirmed, without objection or remonstrance, by a Republican Legislature. This is what gives significance to the event—this is what puts the breath of life into the bronze, and makes the Man of the Seventh of March, though dead, yet to speak with most miraculous organ. Elsewhere and otherwise it would have been of inconsiderable moment. Had the city which sent Anthony Burns back to slavery, with tuck of drum and blare of trumpet, in swift obedience to the injunction of him whom she most loved to honor, had Boston set up the statue on its municipal soil, there had been a fitness between the act and the place which would have silenced criticism. But that Massachusetts, who, as a State, has been cried up as the foremost in the opposition to the principles and practices of the Seventh of March and its hero, should be called on to take this load of brass upon her breast, is a fact which may well excite our special wonder.
Was there no sincerity in all the declamations which Massachusetts, and the men she has put into the high places instead of Webster and his like, have made against the crimes of his latter days? Do the people of the State which claims to lead the hosts of freedom against those of slavery in the battle-fields of politics, really have no sense of that enormous wickedness, and of its too successful effect in debauching and demoralizing the moral sense of the inhabitants of the country? Do they regard that action—those words which were far-reaching acts—as a simple error of judgment into which a good man had casually fallen, through the imperfection of his mortal nature? Do the leaders of the Republican party regard the mighty issues of the iniquity Daniel Webster helped to perpetrate that day, as the mere cards and dice and counters with which the game is to be played, of which the Presidency and its long roll of offices to be held? It may be so as to these last—though we cannot but hope better things of many even of them. But, as to the mass of the people of Massachusetts, we believe any such imputation would be simply libelous. The reaction of the excitement stirred up by priests and politicians to sustain Mr. Webster in the hope of thrusting him up into the Presidential throne, consequent upon his ridiculous discomfiture, which changed his countenance and sent him away to die, has left a deep and abiding detestation, mingled with contempt for his memory and his name, wide-spread, and daily extending and deepening. We affirm that the act of the Governor and Legislature, in permitting this ediolon of the Fugitive Slave Law to be erected on their premises, was the act of eye-servants, of unfaithful stewards, who made use of power entrusted to them for one purpose, to do a thing never contemplated by their masters. 
Richard Cobden left a legacy of half a dozen winged words behind him which are well worth all the praise he may extract from our institutions for political use at home. We mean when he said that what the Republican party wanted was pluck; that what gave the Democrats advantage over them was that they were not afraid to maintain their doctrines everywhere, whereas the Republicans were always apologizing for theirs, and trying to explain them away. This matter of the Boston Statue—the Massachusetts Statue, we suppose we must call it, till the State has flung it away from her—is a case directly in point. We verily believe— indeed, we have been assured on the best authority that the fact was so—that a large majority of the members of both branches of the Legislature felt, as all right-judging men did on the subject of the disgraceful character of the proposition suggested by Mr. Everett and the Boston Webster clique, through Governor Banks as their mouthpiece, and yet not a word of remonstrance was raised against it, on any true ground, and scarcely word on any ground at all! The Legislature could not have done a more popular action, nor one in which they would have been more generally and enthusiastically sustained, than the refusal to assent to Gov. Banks's proposition, for the reason that Daniel Webster was not the man whom Massachusetts delighted to honor, because of the guilt which stained his later public life. But the metropolitan influences brought to bear upon them, the dread of the denunciation of noisy though impotent tools of the Slave Power, like the Post and the County sealed their lips, and induced them to permit this ignominy to be inflicted on the State whose honor was committed to their keeping for the time; and that by means of a dirty trick, dignified by one of the party leaders by the appellation of 'a d—d lucky hit'—under the cover of which they skulked away from the doing of their duty and the performance of their trust.
The Republican party of Massachusetts has generally had the credit of being the most thoroughly anti-
<c05>
slavery of any of the divisions of that army. It may be so; but if this action be a specimen of what we have to expect from the National party, when it takes possession of the government, as it hopes to do in 1861, we can draw but very faint hopes of an improved state of things from their victory. If the strongest division of their party, led by a prominent candidate for the Presidency, have not the strength of mind to resist the seductions of the seedy, battered, broken-down remnants of the Webster Whig party in Boston, what hope can there be of their standing out against the bullyings and the wheedlings of the slaveholders, who are neither seedy, battered, nor broken down, but with actual substantive political power in their hands? Should the next Legislature of Massachusetts refuse to set their State right before the world in this matter, it will at least relieve all Abolitionists of any anxious interest in the result of the election of 1860. It this be a taste of the courage and spirit of the best among the Republicans, what, in the name of common sense, must be the worst? For one, we should look with great resignation on the election of Mr. Douglas, in that alternative—believing that he would at least stand by himself, and not suffer the slaveholders to crow over him, or encroach on the North, unless it answered his own purpose. Let us have King Stork rather than King Log. Anything rather than Sneaks to rule over us. 
But we will not believe that this blot will be permitted to blacken the fair name of the Bay State for long. The Republicans, perhaps, were sleeping—at any rate, they were taken at unawares. The Abolitionists, who have ever been their school-masters, had not an opportunity to instruct them on this point. That defect in their education must be forthwith remedied. And we are glad to learn that measures have already been taken to fill the State with petitions for the removal of this monument of her disgrace. A lucky hit cannot rid the next Legislature of the full discussion of the matter on its merits. There must be a Committee and a public hearing, and annually, as long as the State Statue stands, the misdeeds of Daniel Webster will be kept fresh in the minds of men. Of course, this, act of justice and self-respect will be demanded on no grounds of the artistic qualities of the Statue. It would not matter if it rivalled the most famous works of the ancient or modern chisel—if it vied with the Olympian Jove in majesty, and eclipsed ' the statue that enchants the world ' in grace. It is the public crimes of the man it stands for that stamp it as unfit to stand where it does, if the people of this State are what they pretend to be. We look for faithful service to this cause from the faithful hands of the Massachusetts Abolitionists; and if they fail, we believe it will be for the first time. 

A SCENE IN CONGRESS IN 1826!
Thirty-three years ago, a New England Representative made his first essay in the Halls of Congress. And what, think you, citizens of Massachusetts, was the first subject of his eulogy? Was it Liberty?
Most surely, a son of the Pilgrims—one who, within a stone's throw of Bunker Hill, had seen, for years, the morning and the evening sunshine resting upon its green summits—a representative of ' the old Bay State,' before whose free and glorious charter Slavery was cast down, like Dagon before the Ark of Israel—must have offered his earliest gift upon the altar of Human Freedom. 
HE LAID IT ON THE ALTAR ON SLAVERY. 
'Sir,' said he addressing the speaker, 'I am no soldier. My habits and education are very unmilitary, but there is no cause in which I would sooner buckle a knapsack on my back, and put a musket on my shoulder, than that of putting down a servile insurrection at the South.' 'The great relation of SERVITUDE, in one form or other, with greater or less departure from the theoretic equality of men, IS INSEPARABLE FROM OUR NATURE.' ' DOMESTIC SLAVERY IS NOT, in my judgment, TO BE SET DOWN AS AN IMMORAL OR IRRELIGIOUS RELATION.' 'The slaves of this country are better clothed and fed than the peasantry of some of the most prosperous states of Europe.' 
He was followed by the Hon. Mr. Mitchell, of Tennessee— the representative of a slaveholding State:— 
'Sir, I do not go the length of the gentleman from Massachusetts, and hold that the existence of slavery, in this country, is almost A BLESSING. On the contrary, I am firmly settled in the opinion that it is A GREAT CURSE—one of the greatest evils that could have been interwoven into our system. I, Mr. Chairman, am one of those whom these poor wretches call master. I do not task them; I feed and clothe them well; but yet, alas! sir, they are SLAVES, and SLAVERY IS A CURSE IN ANT SHAPE. It is no doubt true that there are persons in Europe far more degraded than our slaves, worse fed, worse clothed, &c.—but, sir, this is far from proving that negroes ought to be slaves.' 
John Randolph, a Virginian and a slaveholder, fastened his keen eye upon the recreant New Englander, and exclaimed in tones of bitter scorn and contempt:
'Sir, I envy neither the head nor the heart of that man from the North, who rises here to defend slavery upon principle.' 
The guilty apologist for slavery, rebuked thus by the very men whose favors he had courted, endured all this in silence, without a word in explanation or defence. 
Stung to the quick by the ignominy and disgrace thus brought upon the representatives of the North, by one of their members, Churchill C. Cambreleng, of New York, now arose: 
'The gentleman from Massachusetts,' he said, 'has gone too far. He has expressed opinions which ought not to escape without animadversion. I heard them with equal surprise and regret. I was astonished to hear him declare that slavery—'domestic slavery, say what men will, is a condition of life as well as ANY OTHER, to be justified by MORALITY, RELIGION, and international law'; and when, at the close of his opinions, he solemnly declared that this was his ' confession of faith,' I lamented, sincerely lamented, that 
-'Star-eyed science should have wandered there
To bring us back the message of despair.' 
'If, sir, amidst the wild visions of German philosophy, I had ever reached conclusions like this; if in the Aulae of Gottingen I had ever persuaded myself to adopt a political maxim so hostile to liberal institutions and the rights of all mankind, I would have locked it up forever in the darkest chambers of my mind. Or, if my zeal had been too ardent for my discretion, this place, at least, should never have been the theatre of my eloquence. No, sir; if such had been my doctrines, I would have turned my back forever on my native land. Following the course of the dark rolling Danube, and cutting my way across the Euxine, I would have visited a well known market of Constantinople, and there preached my doctrines amidst the rattling chains of the wretched captives. Nay, air, I would have gone 
<c06>
from <illegible>, and laid my forehead upon the <illegible> of the Sultan, and besought him to set his foot upon my neck, as the recreant citizen of a recreant republic!'
The scorching words of Cambreleng fell like a rain fire upon the northern advocate of slavery; but he cowered under the rebuke, and remained silent. 
Who was that degenerate son of the Pilgrims? Who was it that thus heaped infamy upon his birth-place? Who was it that thus bowed himself to the 'strange gods' of the South—the Baal and the Moloch of slavery? 
EDWARD EVERETT,
of Massachusetts, who, as Governor in 1836—true to his principles—announced in his Inaugural Message, that the discussion of slavery is an offence indictable at common law! 
Christians, republicans, citizens of Massachusetts, by your love of Truth, and Freedom, and Honor, will you give jour plaudits to the man who has sacrificed all these to Falsehood, and Slavery, and Infamy; and who is now, in strains of fulsome eulogy, commending to your admiration and imitation, DENIEL WEBSTER, THE SHAMELESS DEFENDER OF THE FUGITIVE SLAVE BILL?

From the New York Independent. 
JEFFERSON DAVIS. 
Mr. Jefferson Davis has taken under charge of his ministry, the continued adjustment of the divine providence as to the distribution of races, and especially has undertaken the fulfilment of God's curse upon Canaan, in restoring to their ' normal condition,' under that curse, the descendants of Ham. The slight mistake of confounding the other descendants of Ham, whether in Africa or any other quarters of the globe, with the Canaanites, on whom the prediction of Noah was fulfilled, only gives to Mr. Jefferson Davis's theology the piquant zest of holding the truth in unrighteousness. It can hardly be supposed that a man of intelligence is so complete an ignoramus as not to know the difference between Canaan and Ham; it is therefore to be presumed that this is the theology of accommodation, adopting the popular prejudice as a steed to carry the curse. The curse, as the assumed judgment of God upon the colored race, must not wear out, must not be permitted to fail; rather let us offer ourselves as its devoted priesthood. What submissive, reverential regard to the providence of God! What filial adoration of his judgments! With what pious haste do our Southern political orators and Cabinet preachers present themselves as the instruments of God for securing and carrying out those judgments! And how glorious a refuge for the attributes of the Almighty is their provision of such an insurance! How blessed are the Southern slaveholders in the privilege of preserving his predictions from the disgrace of not being fulfilled, and of rendering that fulfilment, by slave-holding law, a perpetual miracle, from generation to generation, as wonderful as the preservation of the Jews, peeled, scattered, and branded, on the face of the whole earth!
But Mr. Jefferson Davis assumes the state of chattelism, the servile caste, to be the normal condition of the African, that is this most perfect state, the highest and happiest development of his nature and destiny. His theology grins and sneers at the slave, as unworthy and incapable of any higher development, or any other. He takes a man, makes a beast of him by slavery, then taunts him with his degradation, and cuffs him for not being anything better than a beast. He takes the negro, debases and dehumanizes him under the iron bondage, deprives him of all the rights, influences, and elevating privileges and institutions of freedom and Christianity, and then and there declares that the condition to which he is thus reduced is the holy providence of God, working out his appointed destiny, and that we are bound by the highest obligations of piety to assist in working out that providence! The iniquity of man is the providence of God, and the perfection of a slaveholding piety, its normal condition, is the voluntary degradation of its professors as the instruments of that iniquity, in order that they may fully accomplish that divine providence! Sublime and admirable piety! In adoration of the divine providence, through a holy jealousy of God's adorable sovereignty, ye have become the servants of sin, and free from righteousness, in order that ye might yield yourselves as instruments of iniquity unto iniquity, for the glory of God! Paul himself never imagined such an ecstacy of spiritual abnegation. 
But this great political preacher speaks of the slaves as being 'a useful and happy body of laborers, under the protection of our laws, and the benefit of our civilization.' At the same time he 'vindicates our institution of African bondage from the assaults which have been made upon it, by proving that the good of society requires that the negro should be kept in his normal condition.' And this normal condition is the curse of God upon him in his slavery! 
How a curse upon a race, and a malediction from the Almighty, comes to be the normal condition of that race, its highest perfection and happiness, is A puzzle in theology, or would be to any other than the slaveholding theology, whose grand mission upon earth is to teach the doing of evil that good may come. But how again, it slavery were a curse, a punishment, necessary to be maintained and perpetuated for God's honor, it can be right for pious slaveholders to draw the fangs from it, and introduce its subjects to 'the protection of our laws, and the benefits of our civilization,' is another problem, which the same piety alone can solve. And how again, if slavery were a curse, a punishment, ' the good bishop Las Casas' could have contrived, in Mr. Davis's theological dialect, ' to have inaugurated the importation of the race of Ham with philosophical humanity,' is equally inscrutable; but probably the same kind of humanity with which the sheriff swings off his criminal upon the gallows. How again, under the curse of God, it can be possible for such a cursed race to thrive, is another problem; the curse being for them so much more preferable to the blessing, that it preserves them from vagrancy and vice, from prison and from Madness, and is indeed their normal condition, their most their salvation in heaven! This sermon, as we shall see, is a master-piece of piety as well as ingenuity.
[REV. GEORGE B. CHEEVER.

From the Northern Independent. 
THE PADLOCK CONVENTION.
The second great Union Saving Convention, entitled the 'Local Preachers' Association of the Methodist Episcopal Church of the United States,' is to meet in Baltimore on the first of October next. In the notice we read that 'no subject of discussion will be allowed, that may in the least excite local or sectional feeling;' that is to say, that every northern local preacher who goes there, if any should go, must have a huge padlock put upon his lips before he enters. And yet it is an association of 'the Methodist Episcopal Church in the United States'!
Again we read:
'P. S.—The Friday preceding the Convention will be scrupulously observed by all local preachers throughout the land as a day of fasting and prayer,
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell,'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR PATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free states are tending.-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
for the Onion of the Methodist Episcopal Churches in the United States.' 
For years these men have been saying, and still declare, that if we touch slavery so much as to dot an i, or cross a t, of the Discipline, they will secede, and thus rend the Church; and then ask their brethren in the North to fast and pray that the Church may not be divided!ï¿½i.e., that slavery may not be cheeked in its triumphant march. Was there ever greater effrontery or hypocrisy? 
Brethren of the Local Ministry in the free states! Have you in any way sanctioned this pro-slavery movement? Are yon willing that it should go abroad, that a General Conference of the local preachers of our Church, (for such it is,) admitted delegates only on condition of silence on the great sin of the age? Are you ready to fast and pray for the perpetuity of slavery in the M. E. Church? The mere proposition is a scandal to every local preacher in the free states, and to the whole Church. The sole design and aim, as is more and more apparent, is to protect slaveholding, and defeat all effectual action in 1860. It is simply a sectional gathering of slaveholding local preachers, (such as Ear. L. D. Traverse,) and their apologists, to bolster up slavery, in the name of all the local preachers in the M. E. Church. Let every local preacher who it not in sympathy with this movement, send his personal protest, by letter, to Rev. Isaac P. Cook, Baltimore, Md. It is high time this pro-slavery junto of local preachers knew that their doings are not endorsed by the local ministry generally, of 1 the Methodist Episcopal Churches of the United States.' 

'PRACTICAL CHRISTIAN ANTI-SLAVERY.' 
[Correspondence of the Anti-Slavery Standard.] 
PHILADELPHIA, Sept. 20th. I have read with interest and edification the article you copied into your last number from the columns of The Practical Christian. Anything from the pen of Adin Ballou is worthy of attention; for he is not only an able writer, but a man of great consistency of character and well-known soundness of judgment. Nevertheless, he is not infallible, as I think this article shows. 
Mr. Ballou is inclined, for certain reasons which be mentions, to withdraw from the anti-slavery organization, and to confine himself henceforth, in his labors for the cause, to individual action. One of the reasons he gives for this is the rampant activity, an be regards it, of the ï¿½war spiritï¿½ in our movement. On this head, be makes some statements, which, if they came from almost any one else, I should say at once were exaggerations. They may be true to the extent of he observation, and doubtless are, or he would nut make them; but they certainly cannot be predicated of that portion of the American Anti-Slavery Society that comes within our purview. 
That the war spirit is more than usually in the ascendant just now, all will admit. It is so the world over. There is a strong disposition everywhere to resort to physical force for the subversion of existing evils. Abolitionists sympathize with this fueling. Our organization is made up of people of all varieties of opinion on the force question. Nevertheless, it may be safely affirmed that no Society in the country embraces so large a proportion of peace men as does the American Anti-Slavery Society. So palpably is this the case that, for nearly twenty years, it has been our chief reproach. It is extraordinary, then, that one usually so well informed as our friend Ballou should talk of retiring, as though the precise contrary were the fact. 
Our anti-slavery movement has undergone no essential change in this or any other respect. It is the same now that it was in the beginning. It has always included men who believed in political action, and maintained the right in certain contingencies to resort to physical force. There may have been more repression in this respect in times past, but the sentiment has always been known to exist. That it should show itself, and that somewhat offensively, now that we have acquired power, and enjoy the sympathies of outside masses, and now that the slaveholders so frequently avail themselves of the provisions of the Fugitive Slave law, should not surprise any one. 
But our friend finds difficulty with our measures as well as our spirit. He says he cannot sign a petition to the Legislature for the nullification of the Fugitive Slave law, or the political dissolution of the Union. Very well; his duty then is plain. Let him withhold his signature. He is not alone in this respect. Others, without a thought of leaving the Society, have the same scruples. A majority, however, regard it as their duty to circulate petitions of this character. Let them do so; they are responsible, not he, for their acts. 
Our friend says: ï¿½We would fain persuade them to come up higher, and stand with us.ï¿½ Then why does he not do so? His answer is, because 'they are not ripe for this.' Then why not essay to ripen them? is the thing impossible? Then he had better doubt the truth of his position. If it can be done, who better qualified for the work than Adin Ballou; or where will more favorable opportunities offer than are afforded on the platform of the Anti-Slavery Society? Our friend has done good service in this respect heretofore: why should he now relax his efforts? At the very time we need him must, according to his account of our condition, he proposes to leave us. This is not right. I have now before me a speech of his, entitled 'The Superiority of Moral Power to Political Force.' This speech was printed and circulated by the Pennsylvania branch of the American Anti-Slavery Society, and scattered broadcast over the country. It did good, and is still doing good. Let the testimony be repeated, and the benefits therefrom will still be great. Let Mr. Ballou come to our annual meeting on the 5th and 6th proximo, and he may he mire of an attentive hearing, and of a ready reception of his doctrine by the great majority of his hearers. 
There is an apparent despondency in our friend's tone, that does not become one who stands for the all-sufficiency of the Truth. He says: 
ï¿½They are sure they can drive out a pro-slavery devil with a pro-war scorpion for a scourge. Moreover, they are so confident of this, that they cannot easily avoid expressing now and then a little contempt at non-resistant softliness. We hear it at almost every public meeting, and it excites laughter at the expense of our principles. Well, it is the voice of the majority, and we must submit. We will not make it a point of debate. But it grieves and disgusts us, and perhaps out best testimony will be to retire, and do what good we can in the world under the banner of simple Practical Christianity. We are rather inclined to such a course.ï¿½
This does not sound like Adin Ballou. It is he, not the Society, that has changed. What if ï¿½now and then a little contempt of non-resistant softlinessï¿½ does find expression? Cannot our friend, who knows he is in the right, bear that, and a little 'laughter at his expense' besides? Why should he say, 'It is the voice of the majority; I must submit; I will not make it a point of debate'? This looks almost like shirking duty. The voice of the majority imposes no obligation of submission. If he does not 'make it a point of debate,' it is because he will not. He has the right, and one would suppose he would feel it to be his duty. But he says, 'We are rather inclined to retire.' Let him not forget that inclination and duty sometimes lead in opposite directions. 
Another reason given by Mr. Ballou for contemplating withdrawal is thus expressed: 
ï¿½Because there is a growing disposition among our anti-slavery associates to magnify their movement far the abolition of chattel slavery as including the main substance of Christianity, or of a natural religion much purer than Christianity, to the great disparagement of other departments of righteousness, and a manifest contempt for the really valuable established religious institutions.ï¿½
As a criticism, this is worthy of consideration. There may be, and doubtless are, some of whom it may be affirmed; but if they art; authorized exponents of the doctrine of abolition, I must say it has never been my lot to hear them. 
It is somewhat extraordinary that while orthodox ministers, the 'most straitest' of their sect, after making our movement their study for years, are now venturing upon our, platform, Mr. Ballou, a heretic of heretics, should feel compelled to retire for the very reasons which had before obliged these orthodox men to stand aloof. 
But our friend certainly labors under a misapprehension on this point. No one claims for abolitionism that it is the end of the law for righteousness; nor that, strictly defined, it comprehends the ï¿½main substance of Christianity.ï¿½ It is quit, possible that its apostles, in their real to magnify their office, may have sometimes overstated its claims, or ascribed to it too gnat a breadth; but this error is quite as pardonable as that of those who would underrate the enterprise and unduly contract its
<c02>
scope. Into this errorï¿½of course, unconsciouslyï¿½our friend Ballou, we think, has fallen.
It does not follow, because the liberation of the a slave is the sole end avowed by the Anti-Slavery Society, that 'natural justice,' and that ï¿½stinted,' is the only duty it is its office to inculcate. Our movement has a basis which gives it a much wider scope. It purposes not only to accomplish this end, but to accomplish it in a particular manner. ï¿½Our measures shall be such as the opposition of moral purity to moral corruptionï¿½the destruction of error by the potency of truthï¿½the overthrow of, prejudice by the power of loveï¿½and the abolition of slavery by the spirit of repentance.ï¿½ 
That is abolitionism, as it is preached and practised by its authorized exponents. It is not Christianityï¿½all told: nor 'natural religion,' in its full extent; but it is both, applied to the overthrow of slavery. Whoso preaches abolitionism as it is taught in the formulas of our Society, so far forth teaches Christianity; or, if you chouse, a ï¿½natural religion much purerï¿½ than the Christianity which generally prevails. 
But while the necessity of a heart-change in regard to this great crime is insisted upon, no one claims that the chief end of man is to be an Abolitionist. On the contrary, when Wendell Phillips said that ï¿½God did not send us into the world to abolish slavery, but to do our duty,ï¿½ the sentiment was received with universal applause by the adherents of our society. As a general thing, abolitionism if insisted upon as a corollary from the accepted doctrines of the Christian religion. 'What is that the Lord thy God doth require of thee, but to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?' therefore aid in the overthrow of slavery. 'As ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them'; therefore try to abolish slavery. ï¿½Pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this: to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world '; therefore it is your duty to be an Abolitionist. 
This is Abolitionism, as its advocates generally understand it. This, so far as my opportunities of judging extend, is the general tenor of anti-slavery preaching. That there may be exceptions, is freely admitted. We have men of unhallowed as well as of sanctified temper in our ranks. Good men sometimes say wrong things, and wise men foolish ones. Our platform is free to all. Mr. Ballou says, ï¿½We are for having all express their honest convictions.ï¿½ He ought to be prepared, then, to hear things which in his judgment are ï¿½untrue and unjustï¿½ï¿½which he can neither 'accept, enjoy, endorse, nor seem to endorse'; and he ought to be prepared to hear these things expressed with all the intensity of feeling that may characterize those who utter them. A man who consents to full freedom of expression has no right to retire in disgust under the operation of his own rule. One who holds to general organization for the overthrow of an evil is not at liberty to pick his company. If Mr. Ballou may retire because he is disgusted or offended, so, for the same reason, may Mr. Garrison or Mr. Phillips, Mrs. Mott or Robert Purvis. 
And why should we resolve our Society into its original elements, and each one fall back on his individual efforts, after the manner proposed by our friend of Hopedale? Because common sense and all past experience teach us that it would not be best; that there is strength in combination; that the advantages of associative action greatly exceed the disadvantages. Therefore we hold on to our organization, enduring the evils for the sake of the good. It is best every way that we should; best for ourselves, and best for the cause. Dissent is sometimes useful in teaching forbearance; contradiction has its benefits; and it does us no harm to be occasionally 'disgusted.' ï¿½Seeming to endorseï¿½ has a specious sound, but there is nothing in it, as on our platform. One man is not responsible for what another man says, nor, without his own consent, for what the Society does. Such is the nature, and the generally understood nature, of our organization. Membership of the American Anti-Slavery Society will injure no one's character; co-operation on its platform will be a drawback to no man's usefulness. Quite the contrary, as is easily demonstrable. 
Mr. Ballou says: 
ï¿½We find ourselves in doubt whether to consider the Anti-Slavery platform a desirable resort for us, because of the increasing egotism, extremeism, ex-aggerationism, antagonism, and contemptuous personality which we are obliged to witness.ï¿½ ï¿½There has always been too much of these. Latterly, there is more than ever.ï¿½ 
The assertion contained in this last sentence is surely a mistake. It may be true of certain individuals, or in certain localities, but it certainly cannot he predicated of the movement at large. From a faithful attendance at the meetings of the American Anti-Slavery Society for the last twenty years, and from frequent opportunities of hearing und reading the speeches of its leading members here and elsewhere, I should have said, and, before rending this article, without fear of contradiction, that there is less extravagance in the respects alluded to than there used to be, and that the tone of anti-slavery speeches and writings has, as a general thing, undergone a marked improvement. And this, I believe, is the general impression in this region, both among the friends and opponents of the Anti-Slavery movement. 
But, while differing from our friend as to the correctness of his facts and the propriety of the conclusion he would draw from them, all must concede that this article contains much wholesome and edifying truth. Rightly accepted, it cannot fail to do good. 'Faithful are the wounds of a friend.' 'Let the righteous smite me; it shall be an excellent oil.' But pray, friend Ballou, don't leave our ranks. The cause has need of you. 'The whole need not a physician, but they that are sick.' I don't think that we are nearly as warlike and venomous as you make us out to be, but still we are bad enough to need the antidote of your gentle spirit and peace-breathing doctrines. Don't desert us. 
M.
The above reviewï¿½admirable in its spirit and conclusive in its reasoningï¿½we think we are safe in attributing to the pen of our friend J. MILLER MCKIM.ï¿½[Ed. Lib.

Translated for the Liberator. 
From the Boston [German] Pionier of Sept. 24. 
THE WEBSTER STATUE. 
So, the 'disgrace' of a public inauguration of the Webster Statue before the State House was designed for the city of Boston, on its 229th birthday. But 'Providence' interfered, and frustrated the humbug. Altogether, ï¿½Providenceï¿½ seems to have been as discreet in rendering the attainment of his end as difficult to the bronze, as to the living, Webster. The first statue, which cost $12,000, went to the bottom with the ship which was to bring it over from Europe, and is now the admiration of the sharks below, who might be called the slaveholders and slave-hunters of the sea. Thereupon a new one was ordered to be made for $7000; so that Mr. Webster costs the moneyed men of Boston almost as much after his death as before it. Nevertheless, the statue has incurred universal censure. It seems that God would not let the 'godlike Daniel' have too much of the worship which was due to himself. At length, the long looked for 17th of September came, and God came once more to thwart the Webster worship, since he let fall from heaven all the water that he had in store. The thousands of seats which had been erected in front of the State House, for the admiring ladies and gentlemen, remained empty, and if the original man-hunter had once been obliged to drink all the water that poured down upon his brazen image, he would not have-left behind him a debt of two hundred thousand dollars, spite of the hundreds of thousands which he put down his throat. Mr. Everett knew how to shift for himself in such outbreaks of the divine displeasure, since he supposed the rain came in good time for the farmers, (while they did not need it at all,) and the statue would lie thereby baptized. Pity that the pious Mr. Everett was not present at the Deluge, lie would have made the discovery, that all submerged mankind were but baptized. 
The passion for being baptized was not in vogue, however, on the 17th of September; for everything that did not wish to he baptized,ï¿½Mr. Everett at the bead,ï¿½saved itself in the Music Hall, where, instead of the waters of heaven, the water of speech rained down upon the emerged populace. ï¿½The masterpiece of his lifeï¿½ï¿½as ï¿½the orationï¿½ of Mr. Everett was styled in advanceï¿½was nothing but a composition of the most hollow phrases, with nothing that has even the semblance of an idea. To this gentleman himselfï¿½as is seen in his speechï¿½ the praise of the brazen image had become difficult; and although the pious Prof. Feltonï¿½namely, he 
<c03>
who sought in the press of this city to represent Humboldt as a bigotï¿½and the crafty Gov. Banks, as well as a praying 'reverend,' lent it all their support, the whole celebration was, notwithstanding, a palpable, wearisome and sickening ï¿½FAILURE.ï¿½ 
Mr. Everett and his fellow orators are rich in remembrances of antiquity and in classic quotations, specially from their 'Tully.' If he again pronounces a panegyric, we commend to him and to others the following, from this Marcus Tullius:ï¿½ 
ï¿½Maximas respublicas ab adolescentibus labefactas, a senibus sustentatas reperietis (through Fugitive slave Laws?)ï¿½ 
Furthermore, the following passage, which seems to have been expressly designed for ï¿½Compromisesï¿½:ï¿½ 
'Nullse sunt occultiores insidise, quam quae latent in simulatione officii, aut in aliquo necemitudinis nomine.ï¿½

Translated for the liberator. 
From the Boston [German] Pionier of Sept. 24.
GOVERNOR CHASE OF OHIO. 
Theodore Parker remarks, in a letter from Switzerland, which be recently wrote to the abolitionist, Mr. Jackson, of this city, that the great men of America, contemplated from Europe, present a much smaller appearance %ban on this aide the water; that, especially, the pliancy and indifference which most of thorn exhibit in relation to the Slave Power, place them in a disgraceful light; that not a single Northern Governor has the courage to oppose decidedly the slave oligarchy, and that to him, Parker, at a distance, Governor Chase also, whom he formerly considered a ' great man,' looks like & 'coward.'
We confess that we entertained and were confirmed in a similar opinion of Mr. Chase, when, some years ago, In Cincinnati, ho quietly allowed a stave woman, whom be could and ought to have rightfully and lawfully rescued and protected, to be dragged back to Kentuckyï¿½that unfortunate 2nd heroic woman who killed her child, in order not to let it fall again into the hands of the slaveholders. 
Mr. Chase has just embraced a good opportunity to show his manliness in u brilliant light. He bad received from the Mayor of Boston an invitation to be present, on the 17th of September, at the erection, contrived with so much eclat, of Powers's statue of Webster, in front of the State House in this city, where Mr. Everett was to deliver the ration, 'the masterpiece of his life.' Mr. Chase replied to the invitation in the following manner:ï¿½ 
'My honor and my principles forbid me to accept an invitation, which, if I did not consider your position, I must regard as a personal insult. Glorious Boston, which calls insult the Cradle of Liberty, can take upon itself alone the disgrace of erecting a statue to a man who should find his proper plaice in the grave, sooner than in the Cradle of Liberty. You have at least no right to expect as accomplices in your festival, men whose honor and principles are not empty names. To honor a traitor is to honor the treason, and I have nothing to do with such as judge it lightly, when it is coupled with talent. Arnold and Burr had also talent; Douglas himself has talent. You cannot honor Webster's talent, without doubly honoring his guilt. Talent cannot blind, but can only fill we with indignation, when it is made subservient to base purposes. The father of the Fugitive Slave Law, who consecrated to infamy the soil of Boston as well as of the whole North, should not enjoy in the Free States so much as a grave, much less a statue. If his statue must be erected, then let it be done where the slave-driver cracks his whip, and where the chained victims of barbarity writhe in the agonies of death on the crackling fagots of the stake. There are grounds for honoring Webster there; among the supporters of slavery, he has acquired for himself true merit, since the Fugitive Slave Law was the moral precursor of the abolition of the Missouri Compromise, the Dred Scott decision, the re-opening of the slave-trade, and all the other outrages by means of which the slaveholders seek to subjugate the North. That Boston Representative, who was so dishonorable OH to degrade, the citizens of the Free States to the hunting of fugitive slaves, was the one who infused into the South the shameless courage to prepare for us every imaginable kind of disgrace; and if there be any who deserve to share the curse of his delinquency, it is those who, spite of the pernicious consequences of the same, are still, in the year 1859, shameless enough to erect a statue to him. Down with this statue! And if the memory of him whom it represents is to be perpetuated, let it be only for the purpose of punishing a discouraging example to those who carry freedom and the Commonwealth upon their lips, but take office to betray them to ambition and the greed of gain.' 
Is not that a proper reply? Is Chase a ï¿½cowardï¿½? Is not Chose an honorable man? Is not Chase a true Republican? Does not such a man deserve to become President? 
But, softly! The foregoing answer is about such a one as Mr. Chase must have given, if he were a man and a Republican. Here follows the one which he really gave:ï¿½ 
COLUMBUS, Sept. 10, 1859. 
Dear Sir: It is with great regret that I find myself constrained to deny myself the gratification of being present at the inauguration of the statue of Webster. I would go far to participate in inaugurating a statue wrought by the art of Powers. I would go further to hear Webster celebrated by Everett. But imperious duties detain me in Ohio. 
With great respect,
Yours truly, 
S. P. CHASE. 
Hon. FREDERICK W. LINCOLN, Mayor, &c. 
A man to whom it would afford gratification to be present at the erection of a statue to the father of the Fugitive Slave Law, and who would go the farthest distance to hear that traitor celebrated by one of the most intolerable conservatives and aristocrats in the country,ï¿½such a man claims to be trusted, as a Republican President, to repeal the Fugitive Slave Law, and to restrain the slaveholders! 
We give the German Republicans of Ohio to consider what they are doing, if they continue to place upon their shield such a weakling, diplomat and 'coward.' 

The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
BOSTON, SEPTEMBER 30, 1859. 
CIRCULATE THE PETITIONS. 
The following forms of Petitionsï¿½the first having reference to slave-hunting in this State, the second to the removal of the statue of Daniel Webster from the State House grounds whereon it has been treacherously erectedï¿½have been sent to many long-tried friends of the Anti-Slavery cause in various parts of the Commonwealth, for the purpose of a speedy and thorough canvassing for signatures in every town and, village, without distinction of sex. Let the work be thoroughly done, and WITH A WILL. Who that claims to love God and his fellow-manï¿½and to regard the good name and fame of the Commonwealthï¿½will refuse to put his signature to either of these petitions? 
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts: 
The undersigned, citizens of 
Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to put an end to SLAVE-HUNTING, in Massachusetts, by enacting that no person who has been held as a Slave shall be delivered up, by any officer or court, Sate or Federal, within this Commonwealth, to any one claiming him on the ground that he owes ï¿½service or laborï¿½ to such claimant, by the laws of one of the Slave States of this Union.
To the Senate and House of Representatives of Massachusetts: 
We, the undersigned, citizens of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, respectfully ask you to remove from the State House groundsï¿½as no honor to the State, and repugnant to the moral sentiment of THE PEOPLEï¿½the STATUS OF DANIEL WEBSTER, whose last years were spent in defending the Fugitive Slave Bill, and whose last counsel to the Commonwealth was to 'conquer her prejudicesï¿½ against Slave-hunting, and to return men to bondage ï¿½with alacrity.ï¿½
<c04>
THE STATUE MUST BE REMOVED. 
In compliance with a unanimous request on the part of the pseudo-Republican Legislature of Massachusetts, now holding an extra session in Boston, Edward Everett re-delivered his oration on Daniel Webster, in front of the State House, on Tuesday afternoon last, before a large concourse, drawn together from various motives, among which curiosity largely predominated, but with little regard to the subject of the eulogy. Our readers have already been apprised that a similar display was prevented on the 17th inst. by a violent rain storm, which made it necessary to take refuge in the Music Hall. Three different days were afterwards assigned for the repetition of the oration, but the elements continued sternly adverse for the space of ten days. 
One of the besetting weaknesses of Mr. Everett is his overweening fondness for oratorical display and insatiate love of approbation. Having delivered his oration on the day originally selected, to a vast audience in the Music Hall, and published it far and wide through the daily press, one would think it might have sufficed; and so it would, in the case of almost any other speaker. A repetition of what had already been heard or read by the persons specially provided with seats on the occasion, can be properly regarded only as a very ridiculous affair. 
Mr. Everett was introduced to the assembly by Hon. Charles A. Phelps, (Republican!) President of the Senate, who, in a fulsome strain, unworthy of his anti-slavery professions, saidï¿½ï¿½No official action of ours was necessary to perpetuate the fame ofï¿½ï¿½ THE ADVOCATE AND DEFENDER OF THE FUGITIVE SLAVE BILL!ï¿½nevertheless, ï¿½it has seemed eminently fit and proper (!) that we should HONOR THE MEMORY OF ONE whose name and fame must he forever associated with the historic glories (!) of our Commonwealthï¿½ï¿½meaning the aforesaid ADVOCATE AND DEFENDER OF THE FUGITIVE SLAVE BILL! Let this be remembered.
For the time being, the triumph of the pro-slavery worshippers of Mr. Webster is complete, through the recreancy of the leaders of the Republican partyï¿½a party which, since the delivery of his infamous 7th of March speech, has professed to hold him in abhorrence, as undeserving of any respect on the part of the people of Massachusetts, and which we trust will place its indignant veto upon the recent action of the Legislature, by a prompt removal, at the next session, of the statue which now desecrates the ground on which it stands. IT MUST BE REMOVED! 
In this connection, we desire to thank the editor of the German paper in this city, (Mr. HEINZEN,) entitled the 'Pionier,' for his independent and faithful testimony against the outrage which has been perpetrated upon the Commonwealth by the erection of this statue. He is a true and brave man. [See the scathing articles from his pen in another column.] 

WORDS FITLY SPOKEN. 
On Sunday morning last, at the Music Hall, Rev. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE preached an excellent discourse on ï¿½Theodore Parker and his Theology.ï¿½ He took for his text the words of Jesus, recorded in John 14: 28, ï¿½I go Away and come to you,ï¿½ and commenced his discourse by referring to the effect of absence in our estimate of men. Jesus, he said, did not come to his disciplesï¿½ understandings and hearts until he had gone away from thorn in outward presence. The friend leaves us, and then, from the little eminence-of absence, we see him and know him better than we did before. So the traveller, when close to the walls of the city of Strasburg, looks up in vain to see the mighty tower of her Minster. It is too near to be seenï¿½eclipsed by the lower walls and buildings; but as he leaves the city, they sink and it rises, until they have sunk totally away into the plain out of sight, though miles and miles away, the great cathedral still lifts its spire in full sight. 
The preacher then spoke of two classes of great men, one of which was but little missed, when they left us, because they originated nothing, but only expressed the common thoughts of men in more beautiful language than others; while the other class was permanently missed, because they were doing a work of their own, which nobody else can do for them. In this connection, Mr. C. referred to the demonstrations which have recently been made in this city in honor of two of our departed 'great men,' as follows: 
ï¿½I read the other day, in Lord Bacon, this sentence: ï¿½Learned men who are not before the eyes of mankind are like the images of Cassius and Brutus, of which, they not being represented at the funeral of Junior, Tacitus says, they were all the more conspicuous because they were not there." We have recently had, in this city, two funerals.ï¿½ Our Brutus and our Cassius were not there. The first lasted two days, during which the city was moved by funeral processions, funeral orations, funeral addresses, funeral speeches, the tolling of bells, and the firing of cannon, in honor of our eminent lawyersï¿½a man of great intellectual gifts, certainly, in his profession, and in private life, it is said, a warm friend and an affectionate parent. But that which the public knew of him, that for which the public honor him, was not this, but that he was a great and unscrupulous advocateï¿½a man with marvellous power to "make the worse appear the better reason"ï¿½a man who had devoted the line gift of intellect, through long yean, to confusing juries, puzzling judges, making black seem white, and white black. But the city of Boston paid such honors to him for this,ï¿½for simple intellect and for simple power of speech,ï¿½as it ought to have reserved for its Franklin and Washington; and our judges and magistrates and great men went from Faneuil Hall to Essex Street Church to hear a letter read which he had written to his pastor, ï¿½accompanying a volume of poems, in royal octavo edition, as a votive offering on the birth of a child"! It seems to me that the effect on the community is a demoralizing one, when we say, with all she weight of this authority to our young menï¿½ï¿½Take this man as your model! Be, like him, brilliant and successful! Do not make it your object to pursue the flying footsteps of truth, but make it your object to win the cause, to dazzle with words, to confuse with sophisms, for this is the ideal standard of greatness in the city of Boston, in the middle of the nineteenth century after the coming of Jesus Christ!ï¿½ So, when I gazed on that procession, and when I looked over the pages of that tinsel rhetoric, I saw a face that was not present, and I heard a silent voiceï¿½the face of our Boston Socrates, going up and down the city, to search out its shams and expose them; the voice, always a terror to despots and to sophists. He was all the more conspicuous because he was not there. We wanted him; we felt our need of him then. And so with that other funeral solemnity, the inauguration of the statue of Webster; we wanted him then. The majestic understanding of Webster, we are all willing to acknowledge; but we know that it was not associated with a moral character corresponding to it. We know that be did not, at his departure, represent the deepest and highest convictions of the people of Massachusetts. On the 7th of March, 1850, he became ï¿½the lost leaderï¿½ of the Bay State; he became an apostate from the principles which the people of Massachusetts, by immense majorities, steadily declared that they cherish still. If those principles are true, then they are vital truth, and the politicians who profess to hold them, and yet care so little for them, that they are willing to place in the public ground of the State the statue of a man who did more than any other to overthrow them, will find that there is also danger of their becoming ï¿½the lost leadersï¿½ of the State of Massachusetts. At such times as these, we shall continually feel the need and mourn the loss of Theodore Parker; and at such times as these, in the midst of such ovations as these, our Brutus and our Cassius,ï¿½our Theodore Parker and our Charles Sumner,ï¿½ï¿½are all the more conspicuous because they are not here.ï¿½ï¿½
<c05>
PRO-SLAVERY IN THE PERIODICAL PRESS.
Slavery is a state of permanent and continuous hostility between the subjugated and the dominant classes. Their respective interests lie in opposite directions. And as, in other forms of war, all the rules of morality are unhesitatingly subjugated to the present interests of each party, whether in advancement of the great object of the campaign, or of some little collateral or local advantage, so in slavery, each party habitually seeks to forward his own interest at the expense of the other, and seeks to put this position into the most plausible form of statement for self-vindication, quits irrespective of the actual truth and justice of the case. 
It is a curious anomaly in human nature, that one who knows that falsehood is as unjustifiable as theft, should systematically attempt to conceal or excuse his thefts by lies, even when the falsehood is as obvious as the theft, so that his double guilt is exposed alike to man and God. But such is the fact; and while a deliberate putting of darkness for light, the use of dishonesty in all its phases, is habitually practised by the pious and reverend officers of the New York and Boston Tract Societies in the transaction of their daily business, no one need be surprised at a similar unscrupulousness in slaves and slaveholders, for the promotion of their respective interests. 
Slaves are of course liars. The principles of human nature and the records of history unite in showing that this is and must be the general rule. The few mitigating drops of sweet in the slave's bitter cup, the casual indulgences with which he varies a routine of toil and suffering, must be snatched by stealth from the domain claimed by his master, and deception is the natural resort to which he trusts for escape from punishment. And each new falsehood, with him as with the Secretaries of the Tract Societies, draws others in its train, so that the habit is fortified by constant repetition. 
It might seem, at the first glance, that slavery, being a system of brute force, might dispense with fraud, and that the chivalrous lords of the lash might! accomplish their purposes by bare-faced tyranny, without the meanness of falsehood and the humiliation attending its frequent detection. But, apart from the family relationship of all the vices, and the freedom which each feels to make itself at home on the domain of every other, slavery is a system so inexpressibly base and vile, its need of excuse and apology on every side is so sensibly felt by its perpetrators, that every sort of temporary help is pressed into its defence, and the false representation demanded by the present distress is made with no less impudent assurance because of its absolute inconsistency with another lie told yesterday, or with a third which will be needed to-morrow. Thus, the very man who will tell you, with South-side Adams, that the condition of the slaves is one highly favorable to the attainment of piety in this world and salvation in the next, and who meets your statements of the necessarily corrupting influences of slavery upon its victims with a counter-statement of how many slaves have become subjects of the late glorious revival, and how they have joined the churches in even greater proportion than their masters, will at once, if you make the claim of a right to immediate emancipation on the part of these children of God and heirs of heaven, shift his ground, and give you plenty of evidence that they are yet too vicious to be trusted; and too ignorant to take care of themselves, and that their church-membership does not avail to keep them from thefts or lies, fornication or adultery. Dr. Parsons, of Windham, Maine, has recorded in his ï¿½Inside View of Slaveryï¿½ some of the deliberate falsehoods told him by his fellow church-members in the attempt to conceal or to excuse the enormities of slavery; and: more may be found by any one who will seek it in the columns of the religious papers, whose unscrupulousness in adapting themselves to the present necessities of the church is well suited to remind you of the horse-jockey's boy, who, on being directed to show the paces of a horse, first whispered to his master to know whether he was to ride him to buy, or ride him to sell. 
The outrages upon truth committed by slaveholders, in advocacy or defence of slavery, appear, quite as often as in any other way, in the insinuation of false ideas, deceptive general observations assumptions directly at variance with truth, and sophistical reasonings, into the periodical press. When men of eminent intellectual ability and rhetorical power lend their names and their influence to these base purposes, and especially when Northern men of this description act thus, the mischief is more widely spread, and rendered more permanently abiding. Thus, when Webster, without a blush, called upon Massachusetts to 'conquer her prejudices' against kidnapping, and when Choate shamelessly stigmatized the fundamental principles of the Declaration of Independence as 'glittering generalities,' they gave those counterfeits a temporary currency, enabled men of smaller size: unblushingly to echo them, and deliberately used their powers of persuasion and their weight of influence to rivet this immense obstruction in the path of freedom, truth and progress. In our judgment, such acts, on the part of such men, show an enormity of guilt, and create an extent of disaster, which cannot be reached by ordinary practitioners of piracy, arson or murder. Known and trusted as pilots, such men hang out false lights, which draw whole navies upon the rocks. Venerated as wise and sagacious; teachers, they reverse, in the minds of a whole generation which looks up to them for light, the very! foundations of truth and justice. More powerful than Socrates to influence their contemporaries, they really and deliberately commit the very crime of which he was falsely accused, corrupting the youth, aye, and the manhood and Womanhood, of a community to which they might and should have given light and strength. To bestow special honors upon such men, to seek by public memorials of distinguished consideration to embalm their names among those of the real benefactors of mankind, is to become an accomplice of their crimes. 
These reflections have been suggested by two cases which have just come under our observation, in which fake ideas, based upon false assumptions, craftily directed to the production of false impressions, and suited to mislead the cart-less reader in matters of the gravest importance, are copied from the pro-slavery press into Northern papers that do not wish to be considered pro-slavery, without a word to expose the monstrous impudence of their assumptions. 
The following is copied by the Traveller, without comment, from a letter of the New Orleans correspondent of the Charleston Courier:ï¿½ 
'There is quite a flutter here just now among our free colored population. Laws have been passed at different times by our State Legislature, prohibiting the introduction and stay in the State of free blacks not natives of Louisiana; in 1845, a law was passed, authorizing all those who had resided in the State since 1838 to remain, provided they made a declaration before some of the city authorities, provided their freedom and obtained a certificate thereof within thirty days after the promulgation of the law. A great many have neglected to fulfil these various conditions, and are consequently in the State in contravention to law. 
The late legislature enacted a law which will take effect from the first of September next, very stringent in its provisions, which provides for the immediate expulsion, and, even, in such cases, the punishment of all such offenders. The severity of this law has roused the colored folks to a sense of danger, and many find themselves in a dilemma through their own neglect and carelessness. Some of these people have been here for twenty years; they have bought property, raised families, and now they must abandon everything, and seek a new home if the law is strictly enforced, as it will be most probably. This will doubtless increase strongly the current of emigration to Hayti. The want of foresight and common prudence that has brought them to this unfortunate alternative, is a distinctive trait of the character of the black race, and shows how much they need the tutorship and guidance of the whites.ï¿½
<c06> 
It would be impossible to exceed the impudence of the concluding sentence of this extract, which <illegible> the most hideous tyranny, with the <illegible> names of ï¿½tutorship of guidance.ï¿½ Assuming it to be not only required by natural deficiencies on the part of its victims, but to be an exercise of <illegible> on the part of its perpetrators. It not only assumes the trampling of the weak by the strong to be perfectly correct and satisfactory, but presents, as a sufficient ground for the continuance of that injustice, the charitable hope heretofore entertained by the weak, that the strong would not carry out into actual practice the full cruelty and wickedness of their laws.
If a statement like the above were copied into <illegible> English newspaper, it would need no comment. It would be its own sufficient refutation, because the particular vice there assumed to be virtue-namely, caste, the stigmatizing of the colored race as <illegible> and, on account of their color, properly deprived of certain rights that appertain to other men-is not known in England. But in Boston, where the colored race are yet scoffed at as ï¿½niggers,ï¿½ and where the ï¿½piousï¿½ and the ï¿½worldly,ï¿½ the churches and the theatres, unite either in excluding them altogether, or not in admitting them under stigma as ï¿½niggersï¿½ and not as men-in Boston, where Park street Church can take a prominent share in a ï¿½glorious revival of religion,ï¿½ without ever having made restitution to Frederick Brinsley of the pew of which her ï¿½Prudential Committeeï¿½ robbed him, and without even repealing the article which stands on her Bye-laws and which her members adopted, in a meeting ï¿½opened and closed with prayer,ï¿½ for the purpose of permanently excluding the whole colored race from equal participation in their Sabbath worship-in Boston, to copy such a statement without dissent, is openly to take side with the oppressor, and to plant the foot with new energy on the neck of the oppressed.
The other article to which we alluded is copied, without remark, by the Christian Inquirer from the New York Express. It is headed ï¿½No Divorce.ï¿½ And it not only states, as a gratifying fact, that in South Carolina there is no divorce after marriage-and again, both as a gratifying fact and satisfactory reason, that ï¿½there is no divorce in South Carolina because public sentiment does not tolerate the legal separation of man and wife,ï¿½-but it proceeds in the following eulogistic strain:
ï¿½The example of South Carolina in the stringency of the Marriage laws, is worthy of all praise, and in great contrast with every other State in the Union. The looseness of the laws in such States as Indiana have compelled a reformation; but they need change everywhere, where they are not, at least, as strict as they are in the Slate of New York. South Carolina treats the marriage relation as something which cannot be made and unmade at pleasure. It regards it in sense and sentiment as a life-long contract; and if it tails to perform all or any one of the moral obligations resting upon it, the fault is with those who are parties to the contract, and no: in the enduring character of the marriage relation.'
If the 'religious press' of the Nona speaks with such unqualified commendation of the ï¿½examplesï¿½ of South Carolina in regard to marriageï¿½if the most pious of the Northern Churches unite with the Bible Tract and Missionary Societies in welcoming her ministers, who manufacture and uphold that ï¿½example,ï¿½ as Christian brethrenï¿½and if the Northern party, the least unprincipled of the political parties, agrees that the customs of South Carolina in regard to marriage may continue and be perpetuated there, though it resists their extension into new Slates and Territories it is important that somebody should state, somewhere, the other fractional parts of this vaunted ï¿½example,' that, before we echo the praise of South Carolina, we may know the whole of her law, her custom, and her public sentiment in regard to the relation of the sexes. 
In South Carolina, the thing which substantially constitutes divorceï¿½the permanent separation of a man and a woman who have chosen each other as connubial partners, and lived months or years in the relationï¿½is ten times more frequent than any one of the Northern States, and is upheld by the unanimous consent of the clergy, the churches, the legislature and the community. But, nevertheless, in that favored Stale there is no divorce! Certainly not! I Divorce is the dissolution of marriage, and the sovereign State of South Carolina does not allow these people to marry, though it allows them to live together and raise children. 
In the North, divorce is the separation of man and wife at their own request, and for their own satisfaction, which is of course a very dreadful thing. In South Carolina, the sin and the evil are numerous separations quite irrespective of the wishes of the two parties, and settled solely by the will of a third person. Happy South Carolina! 
In the North, again, a very sad feature of divorce is the difficulty of disposing of children, and the allotment of some to the lather, and of other to the mother. In South Carolina, this difficulty is removed by a power, given by law and public sentiment, by the Church and the State, to the third persons above mentioned, to take all the children away from both parents whenever he chooses. Sagacious South Carolina! 
It is very obvious, and the article upon which we are commenting candidly admits, that it may be very disagreeable for two parties to be chained in legal bonds who have no sympathies, feelings or wishes in common. The North, though so inexcusably lax in the matter of divorce, where the parties themselves with it, provides penalties against all eases of fornication and adultery. The law of South Carolina supported by the unanimous consent of her public church-members, her common custom and her public sentiment, sets apart a very large classes of women who may be bought in the open market as <illegible> by any white man, single or married, who has money enough, or who may be ravished by any white man single or married, who finds or makes the opportunity, without legal punishment or censure to him and, without protection or remedy to them. Immaculate South Carolina!
We affirm of this instance, as of the one first quoted-for the Inquirer, the CHRISTIAN Inquirer, in a city where the spirit of pro-slavery and of caste are so predominant as in New York, to copy such a statement without dissent, is openly to side with the oppressor, and to plant the foot with new energy on the neck of the oppressed.
C.K.W

A VALUABLE PAMPHLET.
Report of the Woman's Rights Meeting at Mercantile Hall, May 27th.1859. Boston: Published by S. Urbino, 19 Winter St., (up stairs.) For sale also at 21 Cornhill. Octavo, pp.32
We wish again to remind our readers of this valuable pamphlet, which was briefly noticed in the Liberator on its first appearance. It contains addresses, (or abstracts of them) by Mrs. C. M. Severance, Dr. Harriot K. Hunt. Rev. James. Freeman Clarke, Mrs. C. H. Dall, Rev. J. T. Sargent, Rev. C. G. Ames, and Wendell Phillips. 
The meeting thus put on record was preeminent in interest among the meetings of Anniversary week, and is designed to be the first of a series, to be annually held, for the same purpose, on the Friday afternoon of that week. All who are interested development of woman's powers, by means of the full recognition of her rights, should make their arrangements for a regular and punctual attendance at that meeting; and all who would attend at the second series next May, should buy and keep this pamphlet, in which the key-note of the movement is struck.
Or the many valuable thoughts and important facts there recorded, none interested us more than those contained in Mrs. Dallï¿½s Address, which gave evidence of elaborate and careful preparation.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
She gave highly interesting details of the establishment and operations (in England) of the Institution for the Advancement of Social Science, the first meeting of which, at Liverpool, took up the Woman's Question for consideration, and at whose second session ten communications were read by women, among whom were Florence Nightingale, Mary Carpenter, and Isa Craig, the Burns poetess.
Mrs. Dall gave details also respecting the establishment of 'The English woman's Journal,' with an honorable corps of writers, of the new Divorce Bill, of the Married Woman's Property Bill in Canada, and particularly of some of the results of the last census of the United Kingdom. The facts drawn from the source last mentioned, respecting the number of employments heretofore monopolized by men, in which women have begun to take an active part, and the number of women who have shown themselves able to conduct these occupations successfully, are well suited to amaze those who have paid no attention to the subject, and to encourage women in want of occupation to apply themselves fearlessly to any employment for which they feel either a present fitness or a power of fitting themselves. These facts are the same which formed the basis of a highly valuable article on 'Female Industry' in the Edinburgh Review for April. Mrs. Dall's treatment of them is no less interesting and effective than that of the English writer; and the buyer of this pamphlet, besides obtaining for fifteen cents the substance of that which would cost fifty in the Review, will helps the Committee of Publication in further labors for the benefit of American women, and thus of women all over the world.-C. K. W.

MR. EVERETT'S EULOGY ON WEBSTER.
Mr. Everett, in his panegyric on Mr. Webster, was very careful to confine himself almost entirely to that period of his life which may properly be considered the period before his fall. At this time, there is no doubt he stood deservedly high in the estimation of the American people, and was the object not only of their respect, but even of their admiration. And had he died at that time, his loss would have been sincerely mourned by men, and his memory been embalmed in their warmest affection and gratitude. But after his apostacy, he became an entirely different person. He was no longer the same Daniel Webster who delivered the Pilgrim discourse at Plymouth, or the Bunker Hill Monument oration. The spark of liberty had gone out within him, he had become the devote friend and advocate of slavery, and all his great honors and influence were employed in its defence and extension. Now, Mr. Everett is very careful, and very wisely too, to pass almost entirely over this latter part of his political career, for it would not bear examining, and hardly to glance at it. But, in so doing he is not giving a faithful portrait of Mr. Webster. Mr. Webster is to be judged, both by the present generation and by posterity, by the character he sustained at the close of his life, and not at a preceding period. And there would be the same propriety and justice in delivering a eulogy or erecting a statue of Benedict Arnold or Aaron Burr for the services they rendered or the character they sustained, before they committed treason against their country, as to confer these same honors in the case of Mr. Webster.
There is a high principle involved in this matter. The object of the statue is not only to pay a distinguishing mark of respect to Mr. Webster, but to hold him up as a model for imitation by other and succeeding generations, Was he , at the time of his death, deserving of this honor, and was his character at that time a fit model for imitation, whether considered in a political or moral point of view? There cannot be one true answer. They were not. The statue, then, should never have been erected, for its influence must be bad upon the public morals, as breaking down all moral distinctions, and confounding vice with virtue; and as creating, also, a false standard of greatness, in dignifying as patriotism and devotion to the good of his country, what in fact was a mere personal selfishness and a low ambition, acting by unworthy means for an unworthy end. And, to prevent this disastrous influence upon public character and public morals, the statue should be immediately removed.
ARISTIDES.
Boston, Sept. 25, 1859.

DR. HARRIOT K. HUNT.
BANGOK, Sept. 19, 1859.
MY DEAR MR. GARRISON:
Dr. Harriot K. Hunt, of your city, has just closed a summer tour to our State. She came here the last week of June, and left about ten days ago. She did not come on a lecturing mission exclusively, but to rest as well. She wished also to see some of our grand scenery, and grasp the hands and look in the faces of some of the noble-hearted men and women of Maine. Still, she has not been idle. She has travelled over five hundred miles, and spoken about twenty times, in ten or twelve towns, including Bangor, Augusta, Dover, Ellsworth, and I believe Portland, besides having been consulted several times professionally. By saying that she has spoken, I do not mean merely that she has lectured upon subjects connected with her profession and the true position of woman, but she has preached in several of our pulpits, and thus practically untied the offices of physician and spiritual teacher. She has been brought into contact with many minds of various modes of though and grades of culture, and I may safely say that no female lecturer who has ever visited us has left a more favorable impression. Indeed, I think her missionary tour to Maine has been a grand success.
She has presented the Woman question in a most practical from. She has not stopped to argue abstractly whether woman may speak in public, but has asked men and women to come and hear her lecture and preach. They came in large numbers-radicals and conservatives-and has their minds instructed, their consciences aroused, and their hearts softened. She does not found her remarks upon mere theory, but in all she says, draws from the storehouse of a deep, rich and varied experience.
Though sympathizing more fully with the Swedenborgians than with any other body of professing Christians, her large heart and generous mind disdain their sectarian narrowness and cold conservatism, and bring her into fellowship with whatever promises to benefit mankind. She is thoroughly reformatory, and is, both inside and outside of her profession, exerting a wide influence for good.
She was one of the very first pioneers in the Woman movement, as you well know, and has, by her application, perseverance and faith, outlived opposition, conquered prejudice, and won an honorable name and competence in her profession. I never met with a person who had a higher or more sacred view of the healing art, nor with one who seemed, in some particulars, better fitted by nature for the calling she has chosen. We hear of those who are born physicians; she is one of that class. She unites to a buoyant and hopeful temperament which spreads sunshine around a sick room, a most wonderful faculty of seeing into the inner being of a patient, and tracing out the moral, mental and physical causes of disease. She has in a marked degree what phyrenologists would call the bump of human nature, enlightened by a comprehensive spiritual insight. Then, again, she is positive and aggressive, and walks straight into what she deems the false modes of thinking and being of those who consult her. On the whole, she is a rare woman, whom it is a privilege to know. That she may long live to bless the world by her radiant cheerfulness, large charity, moral enthusiasm, noble and high views of life, and her deep trust in God, is the earnest wish of her very many friends in Maine.
A. B.
<c02>
WEST RANDOLPH A. S. CONVENTION.
West BROOKFILED, Vt., Sept. 20, 1859.
DEAR BROTHER GARRISON:
I wish to say a few words in regard to the Anti-Slavery Convention recently held at West Randolph.
We were right glad to meet those well-known and long-tried and true friends of the slave, A. T. Foss and C. L. Remond. I think two better men could hardly have been chosen to do anti-slavery service in such a field.
A very strong and bitter prejudice exists in that place against our holy cause, and especially under the name of 'Garrison Abolitionism.' Charity, however, leads me to believe that this prejudice and opposition, on the part of some, arise from ignorance, while, on the part of others, they spring from malice, and a real hatred of the doctrine of impartial freedom for the black man as well as for the white. Mr. Remond, by his noble and gentlemanly bearing, and his glowing and eloquent speeches, proved to the satisfaction of all, that colored men have rights (and talents too) that white men are bound to respect. He won the unwilling praise of many. 
Mr. Foss far exceeded the most sanguine expectations of the friends here. He is a whole magazine of facts, arguments, illustrations, anecdotes, eloquence and humor. He certainly is not a very small man. His last speech in the Convention was one of great force and power, a perfect vindication of the great fundamental doctrines of the Anti-Slavery cause in its various bearings on the interests and destiny of this Republic. 
Mr. Remond left immediately after the close of the Convention for Ohio. 
The Convention was rather a stormy one. The old charges of 'infidelity,' ‘destroying the churches,' 'destroying Christianity,' 'opposed to religion and the ministers,' were brought in by the ministers present, urging that the ulterior designs of the Garrisonian Abolitionists were to destroy Christianity and the Church of Christ; assuming that the various human organizations of the land are, as such, (though full of abominations, and voted into existence and voted out at the pleasure or caprice of men,) the real, visible Church of Christ! Nothing can be further from the truth. The real Church of Christ does not depend on votes and outward organization, therefore, transient and mutable, but it is spiritual, and. hence indestructible. Many are willing to sacrifice a real, living humanity for an intangible abstraction, or a mere outward organization. So of professed patriots and politicians, they think more of the dead fathers than they do of the living God. But it is recorded in the wise sayings of a good book, that a 'living dog is better than a dead lion.' Reverence for the past, with too little discrimination in regard to what is apparently and what is really good and true, is a great hindrance to human advancement; and the reformer needs much patience in his efforts to enlighten and elevate the masses. The bold, searching and truthful criticisms of the various pro-slavery religious sects and political parties, made by Mr. Remond and Mr. Foss, have produced an unusual excitement and agitation in West Randolph and its suburbs, which, I trust, will result in the promotion of anti-slavery truth. 
Reformers will understand that, from a law of necessity, agitation is a necessary antecedent of progress and reform; and it is no new charge to say, 'These that turn the world upside down have come hither also.' The Son of God, the great Model Reformer of the world, said, ' I came not to send peace, but a sword—divisions.' Not, surely, to inaugurate bloodshed and violence, not to disturb or divide those who were united together in righteousness, justice and love, but to divide light from darkness, truth from error, right from wrong, good from evil. 
Mr. Foss did good service to the cause in this place in an evening lecture of great force and clearness, showing, as but few are capable, the true character and workings of the two great political parties of the country, and of the Federal Government since its organization, showing conclusively that it commenced by wickedly compromising the rights of the colored people for a consideration. It would have been a great speech in the metropolis of this nation. He occupied the pulpit all day Sunday at Braintree, to great acceptance and the edification of the people. His last lecture in this part or section was at North-field, Monday evening. The audience was small, but the lecture was admirable, and well sustained the reputation of the speaker. We feel that he did ample justice to the cause, and feel safe in saying that the cause will not suffer in his hands. He did not forget to remember the loved and justly-honored pioneer of our cause, in well-merited and fitting terms of fraternal regard. I was happy to make him welcome to the hospitalities of our humble home. He will be kindly remembered by many warm friends of himself and the cause of the oppressed. I have not learned of the success of the last part of his tour in the other section of the county. 
I sincerely hope that the anti-slavery sentiment of Massachusetts will be sufficient to cause the removal of the Webster statue. There would be a mighty significance in such expression. It is literally a standing insult to the whole North, and to Massachusetts in particular. LET IT BE REMOVED! 
Thine, ever for the oppressed, 
JEHIEL CLAFLIN. 

GLASGOW EMANCIPATION SOCIETY.
At a meeting of Committee, specially convened to meet WILLIAM ROBSON, Esq., of Warrington, held 10th August, 1859, Andrew Paton, Esq., in the chair, Mr. Robson gave an interesting, instructive and most gratifying detail of his visit to the United States of America, particularly in relation to the Anti-Slavery cause, the condition of the colored people and the prospects of success in the emancipation movement; the indications in this last respect being hopeful and encouraging.
Mr. Robson expressed his conviction that the time had come for more energetic action on the part of the friends of abolition in this country, in order to strengthen the hands of our fellow-laborers in America; and, alluding to the efforts recently put forth by the Leeds Anti-Slavery Society, and to the formation of the London Emancipation Committee,-of which our friend, George Thompson, Esq., is Chairman,—submitted to the consideration of this Society the desirableness of union and co-operation among the friends of the American Anti-Slavery Society in this country, in furtherance of the slave's liberation
This Committee, harmonizing very fully in the sentiments expressed by Mr. Robson, desires, through him, to convey to the American Anti-Slavery Society, the assurance of our continued confidence and sympathy, and of our warmest wishes for their success.
As regards the Leeds Ant-Slavery Association and the London Emancipation Committee, while continuing to maintain our independent position as the Glasgow Emancipation Society, this Committee will, at all times, be glad to afford them our hearty co-operation in any measures they may adopt for the promotion of the Emancipation cause.
As a likely means of awakening the long dormant anti-slavery feeling of this country, this meeting would express its conviction that great benefit would accrue to the cause of negro freedom, were a well-qualified and accredited agent of the Americas Anti-Slavery Society to visit the United Kingdom, and, in con junction with George Thompson, Esq. and Miss Sarah P. Remond, (now in this country,) devote himself, by holding public meetings and otherwise, to the furtherance of the anti-slavery enterprise.
The Secretaries are directed to furnish Mr. Robson with a copy of this minute, and also to forward a copy to the Leeds Anti-Slavery Society and the London Emancipation Committee.
Copy from the minutes,
WM. SMEAL, Secretary.
<c03>
LOOK OUT FOR THE IMPOSTOR.
FRAMINGHAM, Sept. 25, 1859.
MR. GARRISON: 
DEAR SIR—The man described as an impostor by C. C. Burleigh, in the Liberator of the 23d inst., is, apparently, the same person who came to this place on the 10th inst., under the name of John Johnson, claiming to be a fugitive from a wealthy family in Baltimore, his name, when in bondage, being John Oliver. He was seventeen days from Baltimore, stopped at a Quaker's in Wilmington, Del., also at Theodore Frelinghuysen's, who forwarded him in his own carriage.
He called at the Anti-Slavery office in Philadelphia, saw there a Dr. Still, the first physician of the colored race he ever saw. There he exchanged his clothes for a better suit, recorded his slave name of John Oliver, and took the name of Johnson. He saw eighteen fugitives at the office, who were travelling North. He saw also Mr. Williamson in Philadelphia. 
He said he was going to the Suffolk Bank, Boston, to meet a gentleman whose name he had on paper, and to whom he was sent by a cousin of the gentleman, Jenkins by name, who had written by mail to Boston from Philadelphia. I have since learned that he went to the Suffolk Bank, and was assisted by the gentleman who had received a letter from a friend in Westfield, but not of the name of Jenkins. 
The colored man stated also that a large bundle of winter clothing was to be forwarded for him from Philadelphia, to the care of Edmund Quincy, Esq., and that the friends in Philadelphia had telegraphed, to Mr. Q. to that effect. 
He was rather a small man, very erect, not entirely black, short beard on chin, no moustache, a mole on the right corner of the upper lip, a scar on the outer angle of the left eyebrow. He was fluent in speech, using good language, pronouncing the letter V like W, having very thick lips rolling out. He was evidently well acquainted with streets, public places and public men in Washington and Baltimore—very polite in his manners, answering very well to the situation of a house servant of high grade, which he claimed to have filled. I did not learn his master's name, but he spoke of Aurelia, a married daughter. He was easily agitated and fearful, and I had some reason to think that he used opium in some form. 
He left this place early on Monday, the 12th inst., for Boston. I gave him my address, also the No. and street of the Liberator office, with my initials stamped in red wax on the latter. 
I have since received a letter apparently from him, without signature, dated and post-marked Billerica, dated 13th inst., post-marked 14th. The man said he could not write. I suppose some one wrote for him. 
I was somewhat suspicious of the man, but had no means of testing him. He told the same story from time to time, except once he said he took the name of Jackson. 
In his account of stopping at night in Wilmington, he said the man came to the door with a musket, and afterwards said it was a Quaker family—but that they were 'gay Quakers.' It looked strange that a Quaker should appear with a musket, but I remembered how sadly many Friends have fallen from the original faith of Fox and Penn, and so reconciled it. 
If you find his story about friends in Philadelphia and Mr. Quincy untrue, and the man an impostor, please warn people against reposing any confidence in him from the possession of my address. 
While here, he manifested no disposition to collect money, made no effort in that direction—was only desirous of shelter and food till he could get to Boston. 
He carried a bundle wrapped in coarse tow-cloth, and in his hand an illustrated copy of the late 'War in Italy'—so as to look literary, as his ' master used to.'
Yours, truly,
H. O. STONE.
Of course, we have seen nothing of this impostor in Boston, and we presume he will give it a wide berth. Too much caution cannot be exercised in regard to all such cases.—[Ed. Lib. 

THE LATE EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON.
VALLEY FALLS, 9th mo. 26, 1859. 
MY DEAR FRIEND GARRISON: 
Concerning our excellent friend, and the friend of humanity, EFFINGHAM L. CAPRON, a few days since removed to a higher sphere of life, I wish to state, through the Liberator, that, within two years of this time, he said to me, that when he should die, he desired that, Wm. Lloyd Garrison might preach his funeral sermon; and I think he said he had made the request of thyself. In some of the last conversations: I had with him, I was satisfied that, while more than ever imbued with the progressive spirit of genuine Quakerism, and more earnestly engaged in promulgating its distinctive principles, his sympathies were entirely withdrawn from the organization which, at present, bears its name; and I only regret that he did not publicly dissolve his connection therewith. 
I presume that, previous to the delirium which, during the last days of his life on earth, rendered him unable to express his choice, he had no idea that he might not recover, and so made no request of his children in regard to his funeral. I had no intimation of his illness, until I saw the announcement of his death in the Providence Journal, and that did not fall into my hands until the next day after its publication.
It has been extremely painful to me, that such an opportunity should have been lost to commend the beauty and usefulness of such a life as his, and to present to the people assembled on the occasion the claims of those objects of righteousness and Christian philanthropy to which he had devoted so large a portion of that well-spent life. I was thankful for the short but excellent testimony which our friend May found an opportunity to bear, and for his letter concerning the occasion in the Liberator of last week. 
Thus much I deem it my duty to say, in behalf of one so devoted to the interests of humanity.
Thine, for truth and justice,
ELIZABETH B. CHASE. 

LETTER OF WENDELL PHILLIPS.
On perusing the reply to Wendell Phillips's letter in the Tribune, we could only wonder at the view taken by the writer, in supposing Mr. Phillips was actuated by personal spite against those esteemed citizens of the Commonwealth, Chief Justice Shaw and President Walker, who, occupying prominent positions in society, consequently exert a wide influence upon those young men who are looking to them for instruction and guidance.
At the trial of Anthony Burns, when he imploringly asked Wendell Phillips if he could not save him from being sent back into Southern slavery, with great sorrow of heart that noble man was obliged to reply, he could not.
At that time, I heard he made a vow to himself that he would never allow any person, in whatever relation he might stand towards him, to come between him and the slave; and that righteous decision has been carried out, however painful the sacrifice to the finely sensitive and delicately organized nature of Wendell Phillips.
As he has allowed no one to stand between him and his brother the slave, so, in like manner, cannot see any one whose influence may send brother back into the slavery of intemperance, which is so much encouraged by the traffic at the Revere House, without bearing an equally faithful testimony.
There are many parents in our New England towns, who, not without many sacrifices, have sent their sons to Harvard College, desirous of giving them all the education in their power. I have heard them express their gratification, that there was one man in the land, who could fearlessly express his views without regard to the position at the parties concerned. 
<c04>
While a Boston mother cannot forgive Wendell Phillips for the conscientious discharge of what is due to justice and truth, the hearts of mothers all over the Commonwealth overflow with thanks towards him for his courage and fidelity to the cause of truth.
ANOTHER BOSTON MOTHER.
FOXBORO', Sept. 8, 1859.
EDITOR LIBERATOR:
DEAR SIR,—At a temperance meeting in Union Grove, South Foxboro', Aug. 28, Mr. Wendell Philip's letter to Judge Shaw and President Walker was read, and listened to with undivided attention by an audience of nearly two hundred persons. At the close, Mr. Williams, Chairman of the meeting, proposed that a vote of thanks be given Mr. Phillips for his faithful and judicious admonitions to the honorable gentlemen, and for his unflinching fidelity to the cause of truth in thus exposing such unjustifiable wrong-doing in high places. The vote was manifested by the rising of the audience, and was unanimous, with two or three exceptions. M. H. S.

THE TWENTY-SIXTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY
SUBSCRIPTION-ANNIVERSARY; 
IN THE MONTH OF JANUARY NEXT, IN BOSTON,
1860.
In a year when Americans find themselves citizens of a country where the African slave trade is going on, and slave-hunting unforbidden, and sheltering the fugitive indicted as a crime, and the leading religious and political Influences so dead to this public shame as to discountenance legislative reform, we are confident that we have only to open our subscription in order to be becomingly and effectually sustained by the awakening virtue of the people, in the enterprise to which our lives are given.
We entreat, then, all the friends of Liberty, and the foes of Slavery, every where, in the South as at the North,—in Europe as in America,—philosophers as well as Christians, Catholics no less than Protestants, to subscribe to a fund and a mode of expenditure which prepares the way before every sect, every party, every association; which makes all other men's anti-slavery labors light; and which has, for six and twenty tears, been laying the foundations of many generations, so as to exclude slavery from American institutions, and secure to posterity hose blessings of liberty which the last generation passed away without enjoying. 
THE UNDERSIGNED, while asking the favor of their subscribers' company, on their customary Anniversary occasion, are impelled by the goodness and the grandeur of the enterprise,—by its indispensable nature, by the universal and fundamental character of its principles,—to entreat also the assistance of all. The crisis in the nation's life makes the occasion:—one which it will be worth crossing the ocean to participate in. And while thanking our European friends for their generous cooperation of last year with 
America, we ask its continuance yet a little longer; till a spirit of devotedness adequate to this great world-enterprise shall have been here awakened. 
From this day forward through the year we begin to arrange our plans, organize our efforts, and economise our means, greater or smaller as the case may be, to meet this great national claim: and we desire all who would see slavery abolished, and truth, honor, peace, liberty and safety in righteousness restored, to meet us at its close, for cheer, counsel, sacrifice, resolve, and generous co-operation. 
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN, 
MARY MAY, 
LOUISA LORING, 
ELIZA LEE FOLLEN,
L. MARIA CHILD, 
HENRIETTA SARGENT, 
ANNE WARREN WESTON, 
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN, 
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON, 
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL, 
FRANCES MARY ROBBINS, 
CAROLINE WESTON, 
MARY WILLEY, 
SARAH BLAKE SHAW, 
SUSAN C. CABOT, 
SARAH PARKER REMOND, 
LYDIA D. PARKER, 
ELIZA F. EDDY, 
ABBY FRANCIS, 
SARAH RUSSELL MAY, 
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER, 
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK, 
EVELINA A. S. SMITH, 
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL, 
AUGUSTA G. KING, 
ELIZABETH VON ARNIM, 
ANNA SHAW GREENE, 
ELIZA APTHORP, 
ANNE LANGDON ALGER, 
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT, 
MATTIE GRIFFITH, 
ELIZA ANDREW. 
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY for October was published Saturday. The contents are—Daily Beauty, The Artist Prisoner, The Minister's Wooing, Old Papers. Rifled Guns, A Trip to Cuba, Blondel, The Wondersmith, Roba di Roma, La Malannotte, The Professor at the Breakfast Table, Reviews and Literary Notices, Obituary, and Recent Publications. It is as good a number of this standard periodical as has ever appeared. The article on ' Rifled Guns,' especially, is a timely production, and will be read by all who take an interest in soldiering and slaughtering, in other words, by every body, from generals to girls. This is the 24th No. of the Atlantic, consequently it has completed its second years, but the publishers liberally made their first and second years contain 13 Nos. each. [Phillips, Sampson & Co., publishers.]— Traveller.
DEATH OF PROF. BUSH.—Professor George Bush, well known as one of the ablest and most prominent expositors in this country of the Swedenborgian doctrine, died at Rochester, N. Y., a few days since, after a long illness. Prof. Bush, says the New York Post, was born at Norwich, Vt., in 1796. He entered Dartmouth College at the age of 18, and after the college term studied theology at Princeton College, and was at one time pastor of a Presbyterian Church at Indianapolis, and afterwards Professor of Hebrew and Oriental Literature in the University of New York city. At a late period of his life, he embraced the doctrines of Swedenborg, and soon became a shining light in the Swedenborgian church. 
SUMNER'S ORATION.—Mr. George Sumner's oration on the 4th of July in Boston has received warm commendation in Europe. The Italian papers continue to publish extracts from the oration. The Opinione, the leading journal of Turin, declares the oration to be ' nobly generous to Italy,—honorable to Boston and to America.' 
Elihu Burritt has given up the editorship of North and South, at New Britain, Conn., and goes to England with the expectation of taking part in the movement for a general disarmament. The publication of North and South is continued by L. M. Guernsey, under the title ' New Britain Times.' 
The Hon. J. R Giddings had his pocket picked of $30 at the Vermont State Fair at Burlington. The Burlington Free says that a number of gentlemen immediately subscribed the amount, and gave it to him. 
The Mercantile Library lectures at Boston open on the 12th of October with an address by Henry Ward Beecher, and a poem by E. W. B. Canning, of Stockbridge. 
Letters from Paris announce the death of Mr. Charles H. Fairbanks, so widely known as 'Ague-cheek.' 
The annual meeting of the Pennsylvania State Anti-Slavery Society will be held at West Chester on the 5th and 6th of October next.
J. G. Flowers, of Clairborne county, Mississippi, emancipated his negro women, Dawes and her four children, in the Cincinnati Probate Court. The eldest child is eight yean, the youngest two months old.
<c05>
THE OXYGENATED BITTERS. 
The qualities of this medicine have placed it upon imperishable foundation. In destroying disease, and inducing health, it has no parallel. 
For the following complaints these bitters are a Specific, viz.:—Dyspepsia, or Indigestion, Heart Burn, Acidity, Costiveness, Loss of Appetite, Headache, and General Debility. 
In many sections of our country, this preparation is extensively used by physicians in their practice, and it seems to have restored many to health who were apparently beyond the reach of the healing art. 
Subjoined are a few tributes from well-known physicians:
MANSFIELD, TIOGA Co., Pa., Aug. 26, 1858. 
I have used the Oxygenated Bitters in my practice with decided success in debility and general prostration, &c, and confidently recommend it in General Debility, and diseases of the digestive organs. 
F. H. WHITE. M. D. 
AURURN, N. Y. Sept. 6. 1858. 
Gentlemen:—I have been in the drug business the last fifteen years, and have never sold a medicine which has given such great satisfaction in cases of Dyspepsia as the Oxygenated Bitters, and in this disease I always recommend it H. G. FOWLER. 
BURLINGTON, Vt., Nov. 12, 1854. 
Gentlemen:—I am pleased to state that I have tried the Oxygenated Bitters for Indigestion and Debility, and found immediate relief from using only a part of bottle. I have the greatest confidence in it as a cure for Dyspepsia and General Debility, and recommend it with much pleasure. Yours, &c.,
JAMES LEWIS, M. D. 
Prepared by S. W. Fowle & Co., Boston, and sold by dealers everywhere.
Sept. 23 
CONCERT. We learn that the Sedgwick Concert Troupe propose another of their pleasing entertainments at the Meionson on Friday evening, 30th inst. The troupe consists of Miss S. Sedgwick, soprano; Miss Jenny Allene, contralto and pianist; Mr. J. A. Grimes, basso; and the colored Mario, tenor. From tie commendations bestowed upon this colored troupe in other cities for their skill in rendering gems from Italian and English operas, we can without hesitation appeal to the Boston musical public to award them its patronage. N. 
GIVE HIM A HEARING. Rev. Wm. E. Walker, late of Western Theological Seminary, Alleghany, Pa., has just delivered in this city two of his lectures on 'The Rights and Wrongs of the Colored People n the United States.' They are elaborately prepared, and well calculated to interest all whose hearts beat in sympathy with that outraged class in our country identified with the lecturer by complexion and condition. 
Mr. Walker hopes to gain access to the churches in New England. His sojourn in Breton will be brief, and we trust his desire to do the Anti-Slavery cause service will be duly appreciated.
N. 

FRATERNITY LECTURES.
SECOND SERIES. 
TREMONT TEMPLE TUESDAY EVENINGS. 
THE FRATERNITY OF THE TWKNTY-EIGHTH CONGREGATIONAL SOCIETY respectfully inform the public that their SECOND COURSE OF LECTURES will commence on TUESDAY EVENING, Oct. 4, 1859, at the IREMONT TEMPLE, on which occasion, 
A POEM will be read by
RUFUS LEIGHTON, JR., 
Followed by an ADDRESS from 
WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
The succeeding exercises will consist of LECTURES in the following order:— 
Oct. 11—GEORGE SUMNER.
Oct. 18—EDWIN P. WHIPPLE.
Oct. 25—GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS.
Nov. 1—FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
Nov. 8—RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
Nov. 15—SARA JANE LIPPINCOTT.
Nov. 22—HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Nov. 29—CARL SCHUHZ. 
Dec. 6—BAYARD TAYLOR.
Dec. 13—THOMAS W. HIGGINSON. 
Dec. 20—WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON.
Dec. 27—EDWIN H. CHAPIN.
Mr. JOHN D. WILLARD will preside at the Organ. 
Tickets for the Course, admitting a Gentleman and Lady, $2.00. No more tickets will, be issued than the capacity of the hall will allow. To be procured at all the Bookstores, and the office of the Temple.
The doors will be opened at 6 1/2 o'clock, and the exercises commence at 7 1/2 precisely.
Per order of the Lecture Committee.
Sept. 16.
WOMAN'S RIGHT TO LABOR. 
MRS. DALL'S LECTURES.
MERCANTILE HALL. 
Mrs. Dall will deliver a course of Lectures at Mercantile Hall, Summer street, on three successive Monday evenings, to commence 
MONDAY, Nov. 7, at half-past 7 o'clock.
Nov. 7.—Low Wages and Hard Work. 
Condition of women employed in slop-work. Way of safety, honorable independence. Dress-makers and governesses. Mayhew's Letters. Noble women among the fallen. Women never forbidden to labor, only ladies. Historical argument. Unhealthiness of French factory labor. Women sold as 'beasts of burden' in England. Metal workers. An absurd fiction in the statement that all men support all women.
Nov. 14. Practical opposition, and the work now open. 
Avocations already open. False ideas of society keep respectable women out of them. Practical opposition not ended. Penn. Medical Society. Census of Great Britain and the United States. Nantucket. Dr. Franklin's sister-in-law. Olive Rose. Baron Taemer and Felicie de Fauveau.
Nov. 21. New work to be done in Boston.
Drowning of daughters. New means to prevent it. Medical specialties. Dr. Heidenreich Marian, the Bible woman. Training School for Servants. Knitting factory, &c. &c. Mr. Buckle's position to be questioned. A labor exchange. Will you tread out the nettles?
There will be no tickets. Editors, Reporters, Clergymen and other lecturers will find free admission. 
Single admission 25 cts. Doors open at half-past 6 o'clock. 

THE ORIGIN OF MANKIND. 
One First Pair, or Many? 
Dr. WM. SYMINGTON BROWN has prepared a Lyceum Lecture on the above subject, to which he would direct the attention of liberal Committees. This Lecture embraces a fair statement of the pros and cons, with the results of recent investigations.
Address, Wm. Symington Brown, M. D., 15 Congress street, Boston.
8t 
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak at 
Nashua, N. H., Sunday, October 2. 
Hollis, N. H., Monday eve'g, October 3.
New Ipswich, N. H., Tuesday eve'g, October 4.
New Ipswich, N. H., Wednes. eve'g, October 5.
Milford, N. H., Sunday, day & eve'g, 9.
East Wilton, N. H., Tuesday eve'g, Oct. 11. 
Amherst, N. H., Wednes. eve'g, Oct. 12. 
WORCESTER NORTH.—The Worcester North A. S. Society will hold a quarterly meeting at East Princeton, Sunday, Oct. 16. ANDREW T. Foss and SAMUEL MAY, Jr., will attend in behalf of the Massachusetts A. S. Society. Per order. 
PRINCETON.—Mr. Foss and Mr. MAY will speak at the Town Hall in Princeton, Saturday evening, Oct. 15. 
DR. ROCK will deliver his lecture, 'The Voyage of an American Outlaw,' in the Joy Street Church, on Monday evening, Oct. 3, at 8 o'clock Admission, 10 cents. 
TO LYCEUM COMMITTEES.—DR. JOHN S. ROCK would respectfully announce to Lyceum Committees and others, that he is prepared to lecture on the following subjects:—
The Character and Writings of Madame De Stael.
The Unity of the Races. 
The Lights and Shadows of African Life.
MARRIED—In this city, Sept. 22, by Rev. L. A. Grimes, Mr. RIOHARD H. SMITH to Miss ELIZABETH C.SMITH.
<c06>
GET THE BEST
WEBSTER UNABRIOCED
PICTORIAL EDITION!
1500 Pictorial Illustrations.
GET THE BEST.
WEBSTER'S 
UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY. 
NEW PICTORIAL EDITION. 
15OO PICTORIAL ILLUSTRATIONS. 
9000 to 10,000 NEW WORDS in the Vocabulary.
Table of SYNONYMS by Prof. GOODRICH. 
With other new features. Together with all the matter of previous editions. In one volume of 1750 pages. Price $6 50. Sold by all Booksellers.
G. & C. MERRIAM, Springfield, Mass. Sept. 9. 6t. 

HIS LAST WORK! 
THE late Dr. WM. A. ALCOTT left among his papers a most remarkable manuscript, entitled,
Forty Years in the Wilderness of Pills and Powders.
OR,
THE COGITATIONS AND CONPESSIONS OF AN AGED PHYSICIAN.
This most interesting, curious and valuable book will be published by us on THURSDAY, SEPT. 1.
It is a book for every household and every individual-presenting for the benefit of others a wise man's experiences and observations in the world of medicine, illustrated with a superb portrait on steel of the venerable and beloved author. In one volume 12 mo. Price, $1.
Tens of thousands will buy and read this book-it will therefore be a great book for Agents. All applications should be addressed to the publishers,
JOHN P. JEWETT & Co.,
20 Washington Street.
S2 3tis
WEST NEWTON 
English and Classical School. 
THIS SCHOOL for both sexes is under the care of NATHANIEL T. ALLEN. It is situated in the pleasant and healthful village of West Newton, Mass., on the line of the Boston and Worcester Railroad, nine miles from Boston, and about three minutes' walk from the Station. The Course of Study embraces every branch of a thorough English education, together with the Ancient and Modern Languages; and while particular attention will be given to preparation for College, or for mercantile and scientific pursuits, a special aim of the teachers will be to impart instruction in the common branches thoroughly and correctly. A Primary Department is connected with the Institution, into which pupils of the youngest school-age are received. There is connected with the school a large and well-appointed Gymnasium, in which systematic instruction will be given. Particular attention will be given to the subject of manners and morals. The School-year will occupy forty weeks, and will be divided into two terms of twenty, or four of ten, weeks each. 
TEACHERS. 
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN, Principal.
Teacher of Mathematics and the Natural Sciences.
CYRUS PEIRCE, 
Teacher of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy. 
WILLIAM F. ALLEN, 
Teacher of the Classics, History, and English Literature. 
GEORGE F. ALLEN, Assistants.
ANNA C. BASSETT, Assistants.
B. F. BAKER, Teacher of Piano and Vocal Music. 
E. L. MERRILL, Teacher of Calisthenics and Dancing. 
SARAH R. BASSETT, Teacher of the Primary Department. 
'Father Peirce' is at present prevented by 111 health from giving Instruction In his department. 
The Messrs. ALLEN will receive a limited number of pupils into their families. It is their purpose to provide for those who may be placed under their charge a comfortable and pleasant home. For further particulars, address N. T. ALLEN, West Newton, Mass 
REFERENCES 
Rev. E. S. Gannet, D. D., Wm. Brigham, Esq., Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Esq., Boston; Rev. George E. Ellis, D. D., Charlestown; Prof. L. Agassiz, Cambridge.
5t Aug. 25. 

NEW ENGLAND 
Female Medical College, 
SPRINGFIELD STREET, BOSTON. 
THE Twelfth Annual Term will commence on WEDNESDAY, Nov. 2, 1859, and continue seventeen weeks. PROFESSORS: Enoch C. Rolfe, M. D., Theory and Practice of Medicine; John K. Palmer, M. D., Materia Medica, Therapeutics and Chemistry; Stephen Tracy, M. D., Anatomy and Surgery; Marie E. Zakrzewska, M. D., Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children; Frances S. Cooke, M. D., Physiology and Hygiene; Mary R. Jenks, M. D., Demonstrator. Fee, $5 for each of the Six Tickets, Free tuition from State Scholarships, for students in Massachusetts. Rooms to be had by students in the College building. The College has now a Clinical Department for the practical education of its students. 
ENOCH C. ROLFE, Dean of the Faculty, 
563 Washington st.
Sept. 23.

CARPETING. 
'All the Year Round.'
 JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO. 
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN 
CARPETING, 
285 WASHINGTON STREET, 
(NEAR WINTER STREET.) 
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs. Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
—ALSO— 
AMERICAN CARPETING. 
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT 
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept. 16 tf 
PROFITABLE EMPLOYMENT.
PLEASE TO READ THIS!—Agents wanted!— Extra inducements for I860! All persons IN WANT OF EMPLOYMENT will at once receive our Catalogue of Books, pre-paid, by forwarding to their address. Particular attention is requested to the liberal offers we make to all person engaging in the sale of our Large Type Quarto PICTORIAL FAMILY BIBLE, with about One Thousand Engravings. On receipt of the established price. Six Dollars, the Pictorial Family Bible, with a well-bound Subscription Book, will be carefully boxed, and forwarded by express, at our risk and expense, to say central town or village in the United States, excepting those of California, Oregon and Texas. Our books are sold by canvassers, and are well known to be the most saleable. Address, post paid,
ROBERT SEARS, Publisher, 
No. 181 Williams Street, New York. 
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, 
PRINTERS;
21 Cornhill .BOSTON.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
The annexed poetic effusion was suggested to the author, upon reading the following conversation published recently in the Practical Christian) which took place between the Rev. JAMES T. WOODBURY and Rev. CHARLES SPEAR, when the last was on his prison mission in Milford, July last:—
Milford.—Spent a few days here. Applied for the Methodist and Orthodox churches.
Conversations with Rev. Mr. Woodbury.—I have made up my mind, Mr. Woodbury, to speak for you one half of the day next Sunday.
'I deem it no favor for any one to preach for me. I love to preach.'
'So do I; but I hare no pulpit now.'
'You go against hanging; I go for it,' (putting his fingers across hit neck.)
'Yes, I have been opposed to hanging men for thirty years.'
'I cannot let any man in who holds to such sentiments.'
'But I would let you into my pulpit, if I had one. Your brother was opposed to capital punishment,—Hon. Levi Woodbury.'
'I believe he was not so clear.'
'I have the documents here in my carriage, and his likeness.' Mr. Woodbury could not deny that, and so the conversation ended.

THE HANGMAN'S CREED.
Yes, I believe, disciple as I am,
Disciple, yea, and follower of the Lamb
Of God all-loving, who his being gave,
Not to destroy the sinner, but to save;
Who, at the friend and lover of his race.
Yea, and the herald of God's saving grace,
Filled with the spirit of his Father, cries,
'I will have mercy, and not sacrifice';
I do believe, in spite of all the Son
Of God has ever said, endured or done,
Or his old prophets, in their day, declared.
He'd rather have the sinner hanged than spared:—
Yes, hanged, with all his sins upon his head—
Hanged on a gallows, ' till he's dead, dead, dead,'
And doomed, to all eternity, to roll
In burning brimstone, in that dismal hole
That no light visits, but the lights that flit,
Baleful and blue, round the infernal pit,
That has no bottom,—rather than still live,
And learn that God can pity and forgive.
This I believe;—this is my creed in brief;
And, in this comfortable, firm belief,
I ply my calling, and adjust the knot
Around the neck of the convicted sot,—
(A proper subject of my mission made
By my good friend, the liquor-dealer's trade)—
Whom, when he's drawn against; his brother's life,
His Colt's revolver, or his Bowie-knife,
I do not leave, his doubtful way to grope,
But, in my Christian charity and hope,
Drag down to hell with my good hempen rope.
Such is my faith; and, oh! were my belief
More shown by works, now all too few and brief!
Too much spare time now falls unto my lot:
Too rarely am I called to fix-the knot.
Hard is it so much precious time to lose;
Hard, so unfrequently to grease the noose.
Oh, could more labor in my line be done!
Could I but bring two callings into one!
Oh, could I this, my field of labor, stretch,
And join the gallows-preacher to Jack Ketch!
Could I by doctrine mould the public mind,
And feed the mill, where now I only grind!
Then might I turn men off, as well as teach,
And get more practice as the more I preach!
But, as it is, we must divide the labor;
I'll reap the crop, sown by my reverend neighbor;—
He, by his doctrine, shall the gallows prop,
And I, in turn, do service at the drop.
Thanks to the clergy, who with me conspire
To keep in blast the good old-fashioned fire,
Kindled long since to roast the godless gang
Of thieves and robbers, that I hate—and hang!
The clergy, who can find, as yet, no flaw
In Noah's gospel, which they take for law;
Over whose pulpit, as o'er Eden's gate,
Flames a drawn sword—the sword of Church and State—
To keep out those who fain would enter in,
And plead the cause of such as, sunk in sin,
Lift up their bloody hands to God, in prayer,
And let them know that there's no mercy there!
Such gospel preachers have well-learned their part;
Such are the preachers after my own heart;—
And I suppose that there is little odds—
Little?—nay, none—between my heart and God's.
Let no 'Reformer,' then, approach His altar,
To steal away from it the hangman's halter,
Or dare to put Moses and Christ asunder,
Or rob eternal justice of its thunder.
Ho! for the gallows!—all the sinner's hope
Hangs on the cross-beam with him, by a rope!
'I go for hanging! So does my good teacher,
My reverend, learn'd and venerable preacher:
He tells me—and in him I put my trust—
"A God forgiving is a God unjust."'
Milford, July, 1859.

From Household Words.
NOW.
Rise! for the day is passing—
While you lie dreaming on,
Your brothers are cased in armor,
And forth to the fight are gone;
Your place in the ranks awaits you
Each man has a part to play;
The past and the future are nothing
In the face of stern to-day.
Arise from your dreams of the future—
Of gaining a hard fought field—
Of storming the airy fortress—
Of bidding the giant yield;
Your future has deeds of glory—
Of honor, (God grand it may!)
But your arm will never be stronger,
Or needed as now to-day.
Arise! if the past detain you,
Her sunshine and storms forget!
No chains so unworthy to hold you
As those of a vain regret;
Sad or bright, she is lifeless ever—
Cast her phantom arms away!
Nor look back, save to learn the lesson
Of a nobler strife to-day.
Arise! for the hour is passing;
The sound that you dimly hear
Is your enemy marching to battle!
Rise! rise! for the foe is near!
Stay not to brighten your weapons,
Or the hour will strike at last,
And from dreams of a coming battle,
You will wake and find it past.

ALL'S WELL.
The clouds, which rise with thunder, slake
Our thirsty souls with rain;
The blow most dreaded falls to break
From off our limbs a chain;
And wrongs from man to man but make
The love of God more plain.
As through the shady lens of even,
The eye looks farthest into heaven,
Or gleams of star and depths of blue
The glaring sunshine never know.
—Whittier.

BENEVOLENCE.
Who would not give
Some portion of his ease, his blood, his wealth.
For others' good, is a poor frozen churl.
—Joanna Baillie.
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR.
PROFESSION VS. PRACTICE.
MR. EDITOR:
The facts of the following communication, without criticism or remark, have been offered for publication to the Worcester Daily Transcript, the Worcester Daily Spy, and the New York Independent. By the first two it was refused, because the public, as the; editors assert, 'have no interest in church anti-slavery (in this ease, pro-slavery) action.' No anti-slavery enterprise, without the watch and care of the ‘opposed to the present national administration,' &c.: party, has any claim to a public hearing. What Christ and his Church will do is unworthy of any consideration. They can do no good, unless voting the nameless party ticket, and no harm, unless failing to vote it. So low has the Church fallen as a power in the world!
The Independent is so engaged in the annihilation of the New York Tract Society, which is just now a popular work in the North, that it can afford no space for the charges against the American Board—an association which has prostituted the Gospel to the support of slavery more directly, openly and effectually than the Tract Society has ever been able to do; which has done more to darken the understanding and blind the conscience of the Church than the Tract Society could have accomplished in an indefinite period.
Forced, therefore, to select a medium which has no reputation for blinking direct issues, I again offer the article for publication, believing that if the Church is to deny Christ when his cause is one with the slaves, and the issue is directly and fairly presented, its apostasy to truth and duty should be proclaimed and recognized, lest the community be led to suppose a time-serving, man-fearing, Christ-denying Church, the acknowledged representative of Him whose mission was 'to preach deliverance to the captive,' ‘to break every yoke,' and ‘to let the oppressed go free.' This article was formerly prefaced by the simple interrogation, ‘What constitutes Church Consistency?' Let it now be appropriately entitled, in accordance with the shameful fact it exposes,
AN EXAMPLE OF INCONSISTENCY AND APOSTACY.
Omitting some remarks on the general subject of Church inconsistency, I proceed immediately to a statement of facts too well known to be contradicted or denied.
On the 23d of June. 1859, the Salem street Congregational Church in Worcester, Massachusetts, solemnly ‘renounced all church connection, association and fellowship with slaveholders, and all who, in any manner, knowingly and persistently uphold and countenance slavery.’ They professed to regard slavery as ‘the sum of all villanies,' and, by a logical necessity, those who ' knowingly and persistently ‘practised and countenanced the sin as wilful sinners. Therefore they expressed what appeared to be a sincere determination to regard those who sin in this way as they would, should and do regard those who practise any other iniquity. So much for the profession of this church; now for its practice. This last is the all-important point, for it is to him who doeth Christianity to whom the promise is given.
On the 5th of August, 1859, a motion was made in the same church to 'discontinue regular collections for the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, so long as that body should maintain a pro-slavery attitude.' Mark the limitation! In the discussion, the following facts were developed. The A. B. C. F. M. ‘knowingly and persistently' supports, by aid of the contributions of our church, mission churches, members of which, in good and regular standing, assert and exercise the impious claim of property in man.
Missionaries employed by the A. B. C. F. M., whom our contributions aid in supporting, refuse to require, as an evidence of Christian character in converts offering themselves for admission to the mission churches, that they should repent of and forsake (this) sin, or even express an intention of doing so before or at death.
Missionaries employed by the A. B. C. F. M., whom our contributions aid in supporting, shamelessly proclaim that they will not discipline professing Christians for exercising the impious claim to hold human beings as property, or for stealing and trading in human beings, even brethren of the same church, or for breaking up and separating by sale Christian families.
Missionaries of the A. B. C. F. M., whom our contributions aid in supporting, affect to believe, and do advocate the doctrine, that ' negroes are created an inferior race, and specially designed by God to be slaves,' and that any one not believing slavery the normal state of negroes, richly deserves expatriation.
Missionaries employed by the American Board, whom our contributions aid in supporting, affect to believe and do proclaim, that the New Testament sanctions slavery, and is their authority for the above course, thus ' holding the truth in unrighteousness,' prostituting the glorious gospel of glad tidings of great joy to ALL MEN from the charter of freedom into a law of oppression; in the words of the apostle, ' changing the truth of God into a lie.'
Missionaries of the American Board in the Sandwich Islands, in Western Asia and in Africa, have repeatedly exhorted and warned American Christians to exert an unequivocal and positive anti-slavery influence, as this enormous wickedness, which seems to the unenlightened heathen inexcusable in a nominally Christian nation, is the greatest hindrance to the spread of the Gospel in foreign lands. But the Board refuses to publish such communications, and they only reach us through a few of the secular and more radical religious papers. More than this, the Board have rebuked some brethren for being over-zealous in the removal of this greatest obstacle to the accomplishment of ‘the mission whereunto they were sent.'
As to evidences of piety and grounds for church discipline—to say nothing of their preaching and practice—missionaries of the A. B. C. F. M., whom our contributions aid in supporting, do not treat slavery as other sins—caste, intemperance, Sabbath-breaking, horse-racing, theft, lying, polygamy, &c. 'Blind guides, who strain at the gnat of idleness or horse-racing, and swallow the camel of man-stealing.’
None of these facts were denied or invalidated, and their irresistible logic cannot be refuted. The A. B. C. F. M. does countenance and uphold slavery, and that, too, not by a mere silence in regard to the sin, as the American Tract Society of New York, but by openly fellowshiping it in their mission churches, and countenancing it in all the ways above mentioned—lending the garment of Christianity as a covering for its inherent, unregenerate foulness and deformity.
In the teeth of this testimony, drawn almost altogether from the Reports of the Board, twenty-one individuals—three-fourths of the number present and voting at the church meeting—voted not to discontinue, that is, they VOTED TO CONTINUE THE CHURCH SUPPORT OF THE A. B. C. F. M., ‘WHILE IT MAINTAINE A PRO-SLAVERY ATTITUDE.’
It is, however, due to truth, and to many honest members of the Salem Street Church, to state, that the whole responsibility and dishonor of placing the church in this hypocritical position before God and the world belongs to each of two individuals, either of whom might have organized the anti-slavery sentiment of the church into a victory resplendent with glory and honor; but both—to their own shame and the dishonor of their profession, it must be spoken—false to the precedents of their former life, and all the bright hopes inspired by numerous bold and earnest (verbal) protests against the abomination, voluntarily, (In charity let us hope ignorantly, too,) and
<c03>
with an alacrity that appeared recklessness, assumed the labor of perverting the moral sense of the church, and lent the majority-leading influence of their petition to the otherwise hopeless cause of the oppressor. The Publican and Levite in league against Christ!
And when, on the next Sabbath after the church meeting, a collection was taken up for the American Board, a Christian deacon, rather than solicit funds for that object, resigned his deaconship, and did not remove the contribution-box from its place, one of these two individuals—the one who publicly boasts of an anti-slavery profession twenty-five year long—the one who has not contributed to the American Board for eighteen years, because of its proslavery attitude—the one who, notwithstanding this, could attempt, and in a desperate necessity actually DID endeavor to demonstrate that the A. B. C. F. M. had bean anti-slavery in its principles and action ‘all along'!
‘O what a tangled web we weave,
When first we practise to deceive!'
This same individual 'conquered his prejudices,’ valiantly volunteered his services, seized the box, circulated it through the aisles for the benefit of the American Board, and saved the Union '—of the churches. Indeed, his one alarum-cry through the whole contest has been, 'The Union is in danger!' and his one rallying-cry, 'Save the Union!' It is ‘the Union!'—' the Union!'—' THE UNION!' We thought that dodge had been exposed, ridiculed out of the political arena, was dead and buried in trespasses and shame; but its essential spirit and more terrible ghost have appeared unto the Church, and here, more intangible, they will be more dangerous than ever.
‘O tempora!' Has one for whom it was once glory enough to be branded ' Abolitionist,' sunk unto a princeship of the tribe of Union-savers: And shall he, in the pow-wows of that disconsolate and fading race, henceforth be a recognized counsellor? Then must it be recorded of his anti-slavery reputation and character, ' Died of neglect and abuse, Aug. 5th, 1859, aged more than twenty-five years.' Its grave will be unknown to posterity. Contemporaries have written on its already crumbling tomb the justest of epitaphs, ‘Tried, and found wanting.'
The Salem Street Church must do one of two things to clear itself of hypocrisy—either rescind its excommunication of sinners, or practise its profession.
G. W. ALLEN.
Worcester, Sept. 23, 1859.

WEST RANDOLPH A. S. CONVENTION.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
Participating as you did in the exercises of the Anti-Slavery Convention held at West Randolph, Vt., last year, and remembering that the people were obliged to convene in the hall, and sit upon rough, incommodious seats, because the use of the churches was refused, you may, as an index of progress, or no progress, be interested in a short account of the Convention just held in the same place, the same hall, and for the same reason.
I do not purpose to give any thing like a report of the proceedings, only a slight record, with some of the impressions produced. It may not be impertinent, as a preface, for me to tell you that the hall has been occupied nearly every Sabbath during the summer by Spiritualists, and that they have sometimes had the services of such speakers as have drawn large audiences; and that the good people having the welfare of the community at heart, have shown their disinterested benevolence by offering to the proprietor of the hall a larger sum than he was receiving, and allowing it to remain unused. I do not relate this as of itself a matter of interest, but on the principle that 'straws show which way the wind blows.'
The last day of August and first of September were the days of the Convention. After the forenoon of the first day, there was a full attendance, and much interest, with not a little excitement. Mr. Foss and C. L. Remond were the only speakers from abroad. Mr. Remond, at the opening, stated very explicitly the perfect freedom that was allowed at their anti-slavery meetings, and invited any one who desired to take part in the Convention to do so, however widely they might differ in opinion. I will pass over the organization, preliminary remarks, proposed amendments to resolutions, &c. The resolutions themselves I am unable to give. They were not unlike those usually presented at such gatherings. The Union was censured, the church and ministry called corrupt and time-serving, and the short-comings and inefficiency of the Republican party, as an anti-slavery part, touched upon. I name these points, because from them the most interesting and exciting part of the discussion arose.
Mr. Foss's remarks, though by no means severe to those accustomed to the outspoken language and un-flinching position of the Garrisonian Abolitionists, aroused the resistance of some gentlemen present, who felt called upon to defend the institutions they uphold. He neither called himself religious or irreligious, Christian or Infidel, but in a powerful, eloquent and genuinely earnest manner, proceeded to expound the great principles which underlie the abolition movement, and to expose to view (but, in consequence of his natural humor, he did expose to ridicule) many phases of governmental and church policy, which, in his opinion, interpose barriers to all philanthropic undertakings. He took the right, and proved himself possessed of the power to criticise and rebuke the American Church, and declare it inadequate to the wants of an advancing society; but those great religious truths which are independent of all organizations, which infuse into the mind peace and good-will, lofty aspirations, and an assurance of immortality, he presented in such charming hues, that through them ‘an elevated humanity <illegible> luminous as a transparent veil through which an angel shone.' He did not intimate that a pro-slavery church was an essential rather than an accident of Christianity, or that by doing away with the institution, we must not retain the religion. He paid due reverence to human understanding and reason, never subjugating them to exalt imagination or established dogmas; but, as has been the case with nearly all abolition lecturers, an under-current of infidelity was discovered; and why, said they, should the impression have become so general, if it had no foundation in truth?
Throughout the Convention, a determined persistency to confound Church and Christianity was adhered to by the clergymen who were present, and took part in the discussion. In this enumeration, I do not include the worthy President, Rev. J. Claflin, who seemed to test the speakers by a different standard. They were all anti-slavery men, but they considered themselves insulted, in that the church and ministry were in general terms condemned. Rev. Mr. Somerbell acknowledged that he hesitated about attending the meeting, on account of the infidel name that attached to this class of Abolitionists; but on account of the exceeding fairness of Mr. Remond's remarks in the morning, he had consented to serve on the Committee on Resolutions, and make a few remarks. He followed Mr. Foss, and was very glowing in his denunciations of the doctrines he had presented, and very reverential and enthusiastic in his devotion to the Church and Union, and considered it dreadful that such unpatriotic sentiments should be vindicated in the hearing of young men. It made him shudder to think of the awful results that must follow the adoption of such principles! He appealed to the sympathy of the audience by calling attention to himself as a husband and father, and in imagination portraying the dire evils that might happen to his wife and children is case of a dismemberment of the Union. A few plain and pertinent questions were politely asked him, to some of which he replied, but finally, in an excited manner, said he did not come
<c04>
there to be catechised, criticised or insulted, and if gentlemen persisted in such a course, be should take leave to withdraw. But he did not, though of course no one questioned his right to that privilege.
Mrs. Hyzer, a Spiritualist, was invited to speak. She expressed sympathy with Mr. Somerbell's kind parental feelings, which would guard and protect his own family from real or anticipated harm; but her sympathies, she said, extended further, even to the Southern plantation, the rice and cane and cotton fields, and the auction-block. She saw there already—no need to anticipate—agonized husbands, wives and parents, mourning and comfortless children, and she was willing to make a sacrifice for the securing of their liberty. She spoke at considerable length, and though, technically speaking, not altogether to the question, she spoke nobly, and her remarks had a bearing in the right direction.
Then there were Rev. Mr. Whittemore, Rev. Mr. Baldwin, and Rev. Mr. Davis, all of whom endeavored to speak candidly, and did not hesitate to declare themselves radically anti-slavery; but they confounded Church and Christianity, and joined in the cry of ‘Infidelity! Infidelity!'
Mr. Baldwin took the liberty to sit in judgment upon the orthodoxy of your religious views. He said he entered the Convention which was held a year ago with the impression that there would not be such a universal cry of infidelity without cause, but he wished convince himself fully, as the father and founder of Garrisonianism was to be present. And for a time he was most happily disappointed. Mr. Garrison, he said, spoke with such fervor, beauty and eloquence, and quoted so extensively the sayings of Jesus, that he thought ha must have been belied. He read also from a well-worn Bible which he drew! from his pocket, and by that time, the evidence was so satisfactory, that he really took him to his heart.; But do not grow warm nestling there, for you were not long held in that fraternal embrace. Mr. Baldwin declared the reverse of his feelings, his sad disappointment, when, upon questioning you, both publicly and privately, he was forced to believe you did not rely upon the Divine authority of the Bible as the complete and only revealed word of God. He had no comments to make, but such, he said were the facts; and he greatly feared, if a vote should be taken in that very assembly upon the divine authority of the Bible, there were some present who would not rise.
The standard, then, by which Garrisonian Abolitionists were to be judged was not, were they heart and soul anti-slavery? but, do they believe the Bible, just according to the notions of the clergy? And if they do not, wo be unto them! Big Tray and little Poodle will unite in barking them down, if possible. I do not use this phrase with any invidious intent, but simply as illustrative of their style of argument. All they seemed to think necessary was to prove that, as a class, Garrisonian Abolitionists, with Garrison at their head, did not make the Bible their only directing chart. Mr. Baldwin is a Calvinistic Baptist, and his reasons for condemning yourself seem about as arbitrary as those which Calvin ascribes to God in justification of the doctrine of predestination, where he declares 'that God, in predestinating from all eternity one part of mankind to everlasting happiness, and another to endless misery, was led to make this distinction by no other motive than His own good pleasure and free will.'
Mr. Foss was accused of ridiculing prayer, on account of an illustration which he introduced. The illustration I cannot repeat, but the accusation was about as much deserved as if he had simply repeated the fact that the Abysinnians consider hyenas enchanters, and the inhabitants will not touch the skin of a hyena till it has been prayed over and exorcised by a priest. And who shall say there are not as absurd prayers out of Abysinnia? As the 'Professor' has it, the unbelief is understood, but the belief is not fathomed.
I should be happy to pay a just tribute to the calm and dignified manner, the distinct and beautiful enunciation, the fitly-chosen words and finely-arranged sentences, the lofty and ennobling sentiments, and the convincing arguments of C. L. Remond. Sure I am that the audience generally, like Desdemona, ‘saw his visage in his mind.' When he spurned and spat upon the United States Constitution, and all compacts and decisions that robbed him of his inalienable rights, it seemed only his God-given manhood gushing forth. As identified with the colored race, he probably made a deeper impression than any who spoke.
The prospect of anti-slavery men working together in unity, regardless of religious opinions, did not seem very flattering at this Convention. However, good will come from all such discussions, and I hope another year will bring us another Anti-Slavery Convention.
A. H.

THE WEST RANDOLPH ABOLITION CONVENTION.
MR. GARRISON:
The proceedings of this Convention, in your paper of last week, are substantially correct, so far as they go. But they do not embrace a certain resolution, and the course of action contemplated under it, deemed quite important by some good friends of the cause. The resolution was as follows:—
Resolved, That it is the imperative duty of every true anti-slavery man to labor, ‘with might and main,' for the total and immediate abolition of American slavery, either through the instrumentality or over the ruins of the United States Constitution.
This resolution was passed with great, if not perfect unanimity by the Convention, and its object was to unite the Gerrit Smith men and the Garrisonians in the moral agitation. The genuine abolitionists of Vermont are divided into these two classes, the former being in the majority. But they are unable, at present, to do any thing by an independent party organization; still, they wish to be active for the slave's deliverance. Nor do they wish to keep up contention with those of your school. On the contrary, they would co-operate with them as to the great end which both have in view. And this feeling seemed to be mutual between the parties at West Randolph. Hence some talked of the wedding between us. At any rate, we passed the above resolution, indicative of our purpose.
A MEMBER OF THE CONVENTION.

LIBERAL CHRISTIANITY IN VERMONT.
FRIEND GARRISON:
Since I last wrote you on this subject, I have met with many things of interest pertaining to it. I might here speak of what has passed in private conversations and at public meetings. I held a very interesting conversation with an Orthodox clergyman on the subject in hand only last week. He had been arraigned before an ecclesiastical tribunal for preaching heresy; and his experience had enlightened him. He admitted that true Protestantism was set aside by his denomination and kindred ones, and that, in reality, they were all practising the principles of Popery. At our Universalist Commencement, Mr. Curtis, of New York, set forth the fundamental principle of Protestantism—the right of private judgment intact in matters of religious faith—responsibility to God only—in a clearer and more forcible light than we have been wont to see it in this State. He exhibited the gross discrepancy between profession and practice in this matter among so-called Protestants. He showed that although the technical Inquisition had been abolished, there is a moral Inquisition yet retained in the excommunications, anathemas, calumnies, and turning the tide of public opinion against and patronage from the victims, which is far worse, in some cases, than the literal iron racking and entering the body. Many bigots had a ‘flea pot into their ear' on the occasion, and many eyes were indeed opened to new light.
<c05>
I ascertained, by inquiry and intercourse, that the fossil notations of the plenary and verbal inspiration of the Bible are discussed with a freedom and boldness in Burlington somewhat startling to the anise men, but full of promise to the men of progress and free thought.
I had a good opportunity, at the State Universalist Convention in Stowe, to witness the workings of religious independence in conflict with proscription and creeds. Bro. H. P. Cutting, of Castleton, took the advanced ground in favor of. free, rational interpretation, adducing Luther as the true exponent of Protestantism. He made good use of the, fact that Luther would accept nothing as inspired, unless it comported with his reason. Hence his exclusion of the books of Esther, Revelation, and the epistle of James, from the sacred canon. With Mr. C. sympathized several of the Council, as Messrs. Severance, Elkins, Rounds and others. Many voices were raised against these liberal views, as tending to atheism and infidelity. But the result was, that the Council would only adopt an article affirming that ‘the Bible contains a revelation of the character of God.’ It would not affirm that it contained the revelation or a full revelation of his character. Some of the trifles and barbarisms of the Old Testament were handled pretty freely, and there were some members of the Council prepared to take the ground that we cannot help testing the Bible by our reason and conscience; that we must reject what they condemn.
I have not time to speak of the General Convention of Congregational Ministers and Churches (Trinitarian) holden at Vergennes. I may venture the general remark, however, that, as they axe claiming prosperity these days from the accessions to their numbers of those who claim to have been connected in the revivals of the last two years, they will not be likely to do much for progress in theological matters at present. Yet I could not but rejoice to hear one of their ministers in an Association say, 'that Christianity which ignores the case of the slave is a contemptible sham.' On the whole, Mr. Editor, I can say, with the venerable John Quincy Adams, ‘I live in the faith and hope of the progressive advancement of Christian liberty, and expect to abide by the same in death.'
ETHAN ALLEN.

RELIGIOUS REFORM CONVENTION AT ELLENVLLLE. N. Y.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
A Religious Reform Convention, advertised in the Liberator, was held at Ellenville, Ulster county, N. Y., on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 2d, 3d and 4th. Like the Progressive Friends' meetings held in this State and elsewhere, it was numerously attended, and, like those meetings, it was characterized by a lively interest in themes of a practically religious nature. It was the first meeting ever held in that portion of Eastern New York, and greatly surpassed, in point of interest and numbers, the expectations of the friends by whom it was called.
Among those who addressed the Convention were the Rev. A. D. Mayo of Albany, Rev. Mr. Reynolds of Newburgh, Frederick Douglass and George W. Clark of Rochester, Philip D. Moore of New Jersey, Rev. W. H. Hoisington of Ohio, Aaron M. Powell, and others. I cannot now undertake to give you even a sketch of the addresses and discussions of the Convention. The doctrine of ' Love to God, and love to all mankind,' was ably and forcibly enunciated, and its practical bearings upon our society and civilization set forth by Mr. Mayo, Mr. Reynolds and others, in contrast with the theories and the theology of evangelical orthodoxy, and the so-called Christian 'scheme' of salvation.
On Friday evening, Aaron M. Powell gave a discourse upon 'The Relations of Liberal Christianity to Slavery,' and introduced the subject of no more slave-hunting upon the soil of New York. Frederick Douglass followed in an eloquent and earnest speech upon the religious aspects of the slavery question, and in advocacy of the petition for putting an end to slave-hunting in the Empire State. Several copies of the petition were distributed, and a large number of signatures, I understand, were obtained in the Convention.
On Saturday evening, Mr. Douglass gave an able lecture upon ' Self-Made Men.' On Sunday, the audiences were very large, and were addressed by Messrs. Moore, Douglass, Clark, Powell, Hoisington, and others. Mr. Clark, a superior vocalist, contributed much interest to the Convention by his singing, excellent in itself, and expressive of sentiments in unison with the occasion.
Letters of much interest were read from Lydia Maria Child, Oliver Johnson, Wendell Phillips, C. C. B. Mills, and others.
P.

From the Century.
COLLEGE ‘CONTESTS,' AND 'HAZING.'
The Harvard game of foot-hall, at the opening of: the new college term, has been witnessed (we have been told by the Boston papers) with the usual relish by the good people of that city and Cambridge. It elicits no further comment; and yet the history of these semi-annual contests, if told without a shade of exaggeration, would make nearly the same impression on the public mind as a Spanish bull-fight. In fact, they are more dangerous to the combatants, and hardly less brutal in any respect. The contending classes prepare for the game in the true spirit of the 'ring'—the ball affording a pretext for a general rough and tumble tight, in which the fists are as lustily employed as is customary among regular bullies. Boys, or young men, are pitted against each other by scores and fifties. The knock each other down, tear of each other's clothes, and inflict all the personal injury which their utmost strength will allow. After the contest is over eyes are bunged up, faces are black and bloody, shirts and coats in rags, and shins broken. The arena of this brutal exhibition is surrounded by hundreds of ladies and gentlemen from Boston and other places, whose presence cheers on the fighters, and nerves them to strike blows which are severe enough to cause lasting injury, and which not unfrequently leave marks for little. All this is known to the Professors of the University, and they have repeatedly endeavored to put a stop to it, but without success. We are well assured that the President regards the practice with anxiety and dread, and that he has used his earnest influence to discourage it; but it is one of those time-honored customs of college boys which they conceive to be an affair of their own, and outside of the college authorities. This is the only explanation or excuse for it. Yet it is quite within the scope of the civil authorities of Cambridge, and ought to be arbitrarily prohibited. If nothing else will cure it, a fatal blow will someday be struck, and the practice will then cease.
The character of the Institution is not beyond being injured by this boy-bull-fight. The pupils are clearly within its authority from the moment they arrive in the place, and they ought to be subject to its discipline. It is for their own sake, for that of their parents, and the Professors of the college, that we speak, and with the hope that the exhibition will be so modified in its character as to remove all objection, and to be what it might be made—a lusty, healthy, and 'royal' sport, leaving no regrets to follow it.
Another practice, we are told, is not yet entirely out of vogue among the Harvand students—and that is, ‘Hazing.' This is a process of mock or real torture to which the older pupils have a right, by their 'code,' to subject the Freshmen. The victim is caught accidentally, or decoyed to some lonely place, tied to a tree, or blindfolded and subjected to various modes of treatment. He is let down into a well, or dragged about by the ears, or beaten, and otherwise maltreated, if not in earnest, in a very severely jocular way that has the same result. This practice has been carried to such an extent as to incur the direct rebuke and positive prohibition of the Professors. It is the strong tyrannizing over the weak, or the many worrying the one. In a recent case at Harvard, a strong student in one of the advanced classes caught a freshman, tied him to a tree, and burnt matches under his nose, so as to injure the skin, and endanger the poor boy's eyes. The coward was detected, and punished by a sentence of six months' suspension from the college.
<c06>
This practice of ‘hazing’ eludes the knowledge of the Professors, because it is considered a breach of honor for the victim to ‘tell tales’; and often, after he reaches a higher class, he takes his own turn in torturing another. When discovered, it is sure to meet with condign punishment. The revenge of an indignant parent, for the abuse of his son will, probably, one day put the matter in such a serious aspect as to rule the practice out of existence, unless it be stopped by other means.

Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:—
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL, DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOUREUX, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPELAS, ROSE OR SR. ANTHONY’S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that season of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and four feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication form the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bottles for $5.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liter Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the Blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Box; Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, have lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agencies below named furnish gratis our American, Almanac, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by.
THEODORE METCALF &CO., BREWER, STEVENS & CUSING, Boston. 
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where.
6m May7

LANDS FOR SALE
A LARGE number of parcels of land are hereby offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies, sympathizing with the fundamental principles and general objects of the Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale, Milford, Mass, and constituting a part of the original Community Domain, are of different sizes, ranging from to twenty acres, and present a good variety of tillage and pasturage, together with some woodland—most of the tillage being under a high state of cultivation—and are designed either for simple building lots, or for small farms, as may suit different classes of purchasers. Upon some of them are pleasant dwellings, and tenements in the village may be rented by those unprepared to buy orere et buildings. In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry, suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege, rendering the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business, and especially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such horticultural employment as health, pleasure, or profit may dictate. Persons also of literary inclinations and pursuits may obtain that quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active, out-door manual or other exercise necessary to the highest usefulness and success in their chosen field of labor. And any or all of the class to whom the lands are offered, who may desire for themselves and families the superior moral and social influences of Hopedale, or who may wish to secure for their children the advantages of the Hopedale Home School—a flourishing Institution of much excellence, both in its general character and in its methods of instruction, designed to aid in the attainment of thorough, symmetrical, and practical Education-will find here unusual inducements for making themselves at Home.
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R.R., by which communication may be had three times a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England.
Princes reasonable, and terms of payment suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious, economical family.
For further particulars and all necessary information, inquire of
E.D.DRAPER,
Hopedale, Milford, Mass.
June 17, 1859—tf.

NOW READY, PRICE TWENTY CENTS,
THREE DISCOURSES ON THE RELIGION OF REASON. BY GERRIT SMITH. With a Letter to William GOODELL. Orders supplied by ROSS & TOUSEY, 121 Nassau street, New York.
Sept. 16 5t.

BOARDING-HOUSE.
ROBERT R.CROSBY would inform his anti-slavery friends, and such others as desire pleasant rooms and wood board, that having opened house No.23 Eliot street, a few doors from Washington street, he will be happy to entertain such as may be pleased ,to favor him with their patronage.
