THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisement inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper Viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. when two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
VOL. XXXII. NO.4.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 1892.
WHOLE NO. 1622.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
A MYSTERY UNSOLVED.
The Liberator furnishes its explanation of the disuse of its motto. It seems to amount to this, namely,-that whereas the Constitution is now abrogated in relation to the South, "a covenant with death, an agreement with hell" no longer exists. Consequently, that tenderness of conscience, for which abolitionists in general and the Liberator in particular are distinguished, rendered proper the hauling down of the flag in question. This, it will be perceived, assumes the dissolution of the Union as a fact accomplished, and is as treasonable, though not quite so irreverent and profane, as the Liberator's old use of Scriptural language. But will this assumption answer. Is there not a covenant with Kentuckyan agreement with Maryland? Is not the declared policy of the Government to restore all things, to the utmost jot and tittle, under the Constitution, interfering with slavery only just so far as the unavoidable necessity of the case may demand? If, therefore, on any such theory ass the Liberator professes, it has lowered its treasonable Black Flag, it is surely leaning on a broken reed.
It denies, however that it has received any intimation, appropriate to its seditious character; which leaves Mr. Sumner's movement for the freedom of the press still unaccounted for. Nor does it speak well for the vigilance of the Government, while they are in the way of sending imputed traitors to State prisons, that they should overlook the very worst traitors in the land-the source of "all our woe." By way of retort to our suggestion, however, Mr. Garrison favors us with a personal recollection of his own, and says "he remembers that it is not long since the courier required a significant popular intimation as to its seditious course," &c. There was certainly a brief period, many months ago, when every newspaper known to be in favor of maintaining the Constitution and the Union in their integrity was exposed to insult by a faction which has subsequently made its true character evident in the eyes of all men-and perhaps from other earnest but misguided persons, who have since seen their error. Intimations, a few, and always anonymous, certainly came to us then, which were treated with the contempt which such cowardly attempts deserved. But at the same time, we had others more gratifying intimations, growing stronger and stronger, until they became faithful assurances, that if any attack threatened the office of the Courier, thousands would be instantly there, ready for its defence, and prepared.
Happily nothing of the sort ever occurred; but we, too, remember an incident of the time, which Mr. Garrison's reference to his own recollections induces us to bring forward, and which always seemed to us to have a highly humorous turn to it. There was, it is said, a sort of conference of a certain set of persons, about "mobbing the Courier." They had became somewhat brave in words, and it seemed almost likely that they might actually pass some resolution on the subject, when one of the company spoke up and said, "Yes, boys, we'll mob the courier certainly,-but all things in order-let's begin with the beginning. We must go to Garrison's paper first-that has been preaching open treason for those twenty-five years,-and when we have put that down, we can then take into consideration the case of the Courier, which has always been in opposition to the unconstitutional doctrines of Garrison and all his crew." Thereupon, the meeting dissolved.-Boston Courier.
Our abolition neighbor, the Transcript, thus announces a very bad, but very silly course of lectures.
EMANCIPATION LEAGUE.-The course of lectures before this League, advertisement in our columns, will be delivered by some of the ablest advocates of emancipation. See the advertisement.
Upon referring to the advertisement, we see that the first lecture is to be delivered by that pure and peaceable divine, Dr. Cheever; the second, by that weathercock of politics and religion, O. A. Brownson; the third by M. D. Conway, said to be "a native of Virginia."-we suppose to remind us of the proverb about the ill bird and its own nest; and the fourth, by the negro, Fred Douglass.
The Transcript sets these forth, including the remaining two lectures, not yet ascertained, as "some of the ablest advocates of emancipation." Let us hope that nothing serious will happen in consequence of their efforts; but we give them this notice gratuitously, because we forbade the appearance of their advertisement in our columns formerly, and as they have not called for the money paid at our countingroom in advance, according to request, intending, as we understood, to bring a suit for failure to fulfil a contract, we wish to square the account.-Ibid.
TREASON RAMPANT IN BOSTON.
Treason is still rampant in Boston, as well as in Charleston, South Carolina, and we may ask where are the authorities that such treason is tolerated here, when thousands of the sons of Massachusetts, on the line of the Potomac, and on the Southern seaboard, are risking their lives to put it down? The Liberator once paraded at its head, "the Constitution is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell." This was as strong with treason as any words ever uttered by Yancey or Rhett, or any other minion of Secession. In all probability, the District Attorney gave the Liberator notice that this offending was too rank in the nostrils of this loyal people to be longer continued with safety. The Liberator complies, and erases the words, but with a dexterous sleight-of-hand the same treason now leers out of these other words at the head of its columns, "No Union with Slaveholders"; which is including a spirit of disloyalty to that Constitution whose unbroken integrity makes a Union with slaveholders a legal necessity. Yet the Liberator remains unrestricted in its circulation through the mails, unimprisoned for its treason. Let, the authorities again show their sword of justices, if they would save the property and the lives of Massachusetts men now imperilled to undo the treason these men have accomplished.
We must also pay our most gracious compliments to Mr. Phillips, as he stands in the same category with those who are warring on the Constitution and the legal authorities of the United States. He attacks all things and constituted powers vehemently. He attacks the Generals for making no advance; he attacks the Cabinet for being an Apology Cabinet; he attacks the President for not being a man; he attacks these gentlemen in power as men whose memories would sink to the infamy of Burr and Arnold; he attacks them for giving up Slidell and Mason; he attacks the North as bankrupt in character and in money; and, above all the rest, he comes out and acknowledges the crime which we have so long imputed to him and to the anti-slavery party of the country, that of treason, by saying that "the anti-slavery party had hoped for and planned disunion, be-
<c02>
cause it would lead to the development of mankind and the elevation of the back man." He commends the South in this manner, by saying that she "deserved to succeed because she had exhibited better statesman ship and more capacity for contest." These words are listened to in Boston, by Boston audiences, and they are applauded. On the line of the Potomac these words uttered would consign him to Fort La­fayette; in Boston they consign him to the Elysium of the Abolitionists.
By Congressional assumption of power, by the influence of our Greeleys, Bryants and Cheevers, of; New York, and Garrisons and Phillipses of Boston, there is serious danger of Secession becoming revo­lution, and of the utter thwarting of all the attempts which have been made, and may be made, for the restoration of the Union. But the loyal men of the North must stand firm, and the right will prevail. —Boston Post.
CONSTITUTIONAL DUTIES. In renewing my subscription. I can but express my gratitude to you for the faithful discharge of your duties as public jour­nalists. In view of all that is now being enacted, what real patriot does not mourn that your counsels have been so disregarded for the last eighteen months? Had those counsels prevailed, peace now would have been achieving its most splendid vic­tories; the sum of human happiness would have been larger than ever before. But the Abolitionists say that it is the Lord's doings, that His ways are marvelous in our sight. Do you believe that? Can you believe that they and their twin brothers in crime, the Secessionists of the South, can escape their own guilt by laying it to the Lord? If so, then all guilt is banished from the earth, and Provi­dence is responsible for all the wickedness commit­ted. But this is not so; every intelligent being is responsible for the natural consequence of his own acts. By this rule, some; men of the North are just as responsible for this war as the South. We together have made a Constitution. We have pros­pered beyond all expectation under that instrument. When slavery became unprofitable in the North, the slaves were sold to the South, and the cash paid for them. Now, shall we turn right about, and carry on the war to liberate the slaves of the South? —Letter of a subscriber of the Journal of Commerce. 
Selections.
MEN, NOT SLAVES.
There are four millions of black people in the re­bellions States of this republic. A portion, and possibly the whole of them, are, in the providence of God, to be freed from their subjection to white mas­ters, and brought under the control of the Federal Government. Its duty to them may be complicated and manifold; the relation to such a people is a new one, and time and events must define it in all its bearings. But one thing is plain—one thing, as a starting-point, admits Of no doubt, needs no hesita­tion: Let us forget that these blacks ever were slaves, and remember only that they are MEN. With this as our first principle, we cannot go far wrong.
As the strength of a chain is in its weakest part, so the power and the virtue of a government are in its protection of the rights of the weakest and hum­blest of the people. To strike a man when he is down is the part of a bully and a coward; and this is as true of a State as it is of an individual. To wrong a man because he has been a slave, and cannot assert his own rights, is to act in the spirit of a slaveholder. It is only to strike a man when he is down. Let us not, if we can help it, be guilty of this meanness.
He who has been a slave may be helpless. Is that a reason why we should rob him? He may, degraded and enervated by bondage, be a fit subject for peculiar care and peculiar training. Is that a reason why our guardianship should be only a mitigated form of slavery? It we do not at first see our duty clearly to these people, our sight will be anointed if we can remember that we are dealing with men whom we would raise to all the dignity of manhood, and forget that they have been slaves, belonging to a despised race, worth so many cents a day as labor­ers. The mistake would be as fatal as that of Cardinal Ximenes, who, that he might redeem the In­dians from bondage, and make them Christians, pro­cured the importation of heathens from Africa for the Spanish colonies, and made them slaves. It is the spirit of slavery that we must rid ourselves of, and not merely a particular form of it.
It is this error into which Congressional legislation seems likely to fall. Wherever, in the Southern country, the war strikes a blow, the Federal forces are met by a people who welcome their coming as deliverers; who, abandoned by those who have hitherto controlled them, hold up their hands, yet numb from the manacles that have just dropped from them, and ask, in their helplessness, "What will you do with us?" There are two answers: " Slaves! we will take care of you!" or, "Men, be men, and take care of yourselves!" If their helplessness appeals to us, let not their manhood be dumb. To the oppressed and weak of all other nations, we offer an asylum and a welcome. To the Irish, the English, the French, and the Germans, driven from home and want, we have ready work for ready hands; all that benign laws, free schools, free churches, and the rights of free citizenship can give, we offer freely to them and their children. We do not stop to ask how deep the wounds are that the brand of suffering, of starvation, and of tyranny has stamped upon their souls for centuries. We do not seize upon and bind them over to an apprenticeship of five or five-and-twenty years, appropriating some small pittance of wages, held in our hands, for their maintenance, till such time as we shall think they may become fit to be the free citizens of a republic. We appropriate no far-off region for their colonization, but leave them to dissolve into the surrounding mass, trusting to our own strength to absorb theirs, and to neutral­ize their weakness. Shall we trust ourselves less, and be less kind to that more unfortunate class among ourselves, hitherto isolated from all those peculiar blessings that have made our country the most favored of all the earth? There is nothing in their character, their intelligence, or their conduct, past or present, that demands that they should be made an exception in the treatment we extend to the poor of all the earth; and we only propose to do so in their case because they have been the oppressed of our own countrymen, and because, in tolerating the great injustice of which they have been guilty, we have learnt to govern ourselves by their spirit. We are consenting to perpetuate, in some measure, the crime of which they have been guilty, because these slaveholders have been our masters also, and have instilled into us their own contempt of the blacks. We shall achieve our own emancipation as we work out theirs, and justify our own manhood as we recog­nize theirs, and any other course is only an evidence that we have not yet broken even our own bonds.
The country is not yet agreed that the abolition
<c03>
of slavery is justifiable even as a war measure. There are well-meaning people who question the constitutional right to confiscate the property in slaves; but there should be no doubt as to the constitutional and natural wrong of reducing to a new slavery those who may fall into our hands. If we cannot make men of slaves, surely nothing can justify us in making slaves of men. If the Federal forces find Beaufort District in the possession of black man, and no others there to claim ownership of houses and lands—or, only such as have earned by rebellion the penalty of confiscation—then it is no business of such forces to inquire into the past condition of those loyal laborers found in possession. They are men, and women, and children, living in their own homes, to whose labor that soil is peculiarly necessary, whose wealth that labor has created, understanding and fitted for its production, acclimated by birth to that climate, asking only now the protection of our laws, and ready, under any equable system, to go to work as free laborers. By what law of God or man do we tear them from their homes, and consign them to a new servitude in some region to be yet redeemed from the wilderness? Why should we desolate a whole section of country by banishing from it the needed labor already on the spot? We pride ourselves on our practical character, while we propose to outrage common sense by removing the labor which, we are told, is alone fitted for that locality, from a region whose industry is already organized and producing vast results, to one where it may not be needed to all, and where, at any rate, a generation or two must pass away before there can be any results whatever, except, perhaps, a bare subsistence for incompetent colonists. We pretend to know something of political economy, and welcome the laborer from every quarter of the globe even to our most populous cities, and yet propose to banish from our richest lands the sparse, but proper, labor, which under the worst system gets from them hundreds of millions of dollars every year. And, as if this gigantic blunder were not enough, we propose to found new colonies by an enforced system of serfdom, a system of apprenticeship, the to-be-continued of slavery, concentrating in new communities all the vices, all the discontent, and all the evils, so far as the blacks are concerned, with new ones added, which slavery has engendered! And this, the mere feculum of a proslavery prejudice, the unreasonable and unreasoning hatred of a race that owes us nothing but the remembrance of centuries of wrong, is called statesmanship! If it were not so wicked, one could laugh at its utter foolishness and blindness. But it is as unworthy of us as Christians as it is as discredi­table to us as freemen.
No; let us treat the blacks as men—simply as men. If we remember that they have been slaves at all, let it only be that we may listen to that appeal to our humanity. Extend to them all the advantages of free labor, and the free institutions we so cherish for ourselves and our children; give to them the right of the "pursuit of happiness" in their own way; secure to them the right of a fair day's wages for a fair day's work; and welcome them to common justice and a common toil. We may safely listen in this matter to the dictates of common sense, and leave, the event of simply doing right to follow.—New York Independent.
NEGROES FOR SOLDIERS.
In a speech before the Legislature of Vermont, at its last session, Gen. Butler declared that, in the event of a foreign war, "we would arm every man on the continent, be he white, grey, blue, or black." The statement was welcomed with vociferous applause by the audience, who seemed to have no horror of a piebald host composed of such constituents. But since, when men have coolly considered the proposi­tion, some have gravely raised the question as to the capacity of negroes to make good soldiers. The insane cry, so rife a few years ago, "Put none but Ameri­cans on guard," is now rendered by many people: "Put none but white men on guard." The former slogan has lost its charm. It has been found that Irishmen and Germans are loyal, and will fight; that they will do" to put on guard." Perhaps ac­tual trial will show that black men may be trusted, too. But are negroes fit for brave and efficient soldiers?
There is no instance, that we remember, of regular and protracted warfare between negroes and whites, save in the island of Hayti. We shall not now discuss the political aspects of the Haytien Revolutions, but barely examine them, to discover what light they shed on the question which has been raised. Napoleon attempted to reduce the emanci­pated slaves on the island to slavery again. They fought out a bloody conflict with him in the defence of their rights, and worsted him. Toussaint L'Ouverture, the great leader of the blacks, who showed the highest qualities of a general and statesman, was of pure negro descent; was a slave in the capacity of coachman, when the Haytien troubles first began. He gradually rose from the most subordinate posi­tion to that of leader and Liberator of his fellows. His chief lieutenants and coadjutors were blacks, or of mixed descent. Before L'Ouverture gained the command, the blacks fought in predatory, guerilla bands, plundering, burning, and murdering; but he organized them into regular military organizations, disciplined them, and curbed their fierce and vindic­tive passions. The French veterans found them a stubborn enemy, contesting every inch of ground, and finally driving them back into the sea.
When Napoleon determined to subjugate the blacks in Hayti, he made the most formidable preparations. The fleet was composed of twenty-one frigates and thirty-five other vessels of war—exceeding the Port Royal expedition. The fleet bore one of the most valiant of armies. It was composed of French veterans who had served in Italy, in Egypt, on the Rhine, numbering more than 30,000 men, under the command of Leclere, brother-in-law of Napoleon. Toussaint's forces numbered 16,000 men. When he saw the hostile fleet, he exclaimed to his officers, "We must perish; all France is coming to St. Domingo." With skilful strategy, however, the negro general retired from the seaports to the mountains. After considerable parleying and manceuvering, Leclere advanced on Toussaint with an army of 25,000 men. His advance guard under the command of Rochambeau, son of the Frenchman who commanded the French auxiliaries in our Revolution, was met in a ravine at Couleuvre by the black army, and repulsed. Dr. Beard thus describes the conflict:—
"The impetuosity of the French attack was checked by the bravery of the resistance. The troops in am­bush pressed forward on the flanks and in the rear of the French, who everywhere presented a bold front to the assailants. The retrenchment having been opened, the conflict became bloody and obstinate. Now the victory inclined to this side, now to that. With such fury did the conflict rage, that arms were thrown aside, and combatants, seizing each other, struggled for life and death. The field of battle was covered with slain. A decisive effort was necessary. Putting himself at the head of his grenadiers, Toussaint rushed to the attack, and drove Rochambeau over the river, where in the morning the fight had begun."
<c04>
That is very decent behavior for negroes under a negro leader, matched against the elite of Napoleon's soldiers! In the siege of Crete-a-Pierrot, the same determined, steady course was displayed by the blacks. The French made the first assault on the 4th of March, 1802. They rushed forward to the at­tack with bravery and enthusiasm, but were hurled back discomfited. The general-in-chief, Debelle, was wounded as well as brigadier-general Devaux. The division fell back with a loss of 400 men. Soon another assault was made. General Boudet was wounded. When his division was on the point of perishing, that of General Dagua came up. That general was struck down; only one general officer kept the field. The blacks charged, and the French were again repulsed. This second attack cost them 800 men. Preparations for a third attack were made. The stronghold was regularly invested. Fresh troops were brought up, and partial successes obtained. Encouraged by them, Rochambeau was emboldened to attempt to carry a battery, but failed with the loss of 300 men. The garrison finally cut its way out with the loss of less than half its number, leaving to the assailants only a pile of ruins. The contest was finally renewed elsewhere. By the bas­est treachery, Leclere entrapped Toussaint, whom he could not vanquish in the field. But other lead­ers were found. The French army was decimated by disease, and by its contests with an active foe. The splendid army was completely reduced, and Napoleon was compelled to send out another army of 20,000 men. But he still failed of his purpose. The blanks rose throughout the island under the command of Dessalines, Christophe and Ferrou, ravaged the interior, laid waste the coasts, and invested the Frenchmen at Cape Francais, and they were finally compelled to capitulate. Having expelled the in­vading foe, Dessalines, once a slave himself, proceed­ed to organize a government, of which he became the head.
These are some salient points of the contest in Hayti. The negroes manifested fortitude, courage and enthusiasm through the long war. They were intrepid in attack, steady and unflinching when as­sailed. They met face to face the best troops the world had then, and proved themselves "foremen worthy of their steel." They were organized and led by negroes who had just been freed from sla­very. The history of the Haytien Revolution is positive proof that negroes have made good soldiers. —Burlington (Vt.) Times.
QUIETISM.
There have been in all periods a class of persons who, either from natural disposition or from person­al or class interest, have been opposed to all innova­tion upon established institutions or usages, and averse to all change in the constitution of society. We may call then Quietists. They are forever praying for peace and harmony. They deprecate all discussion and agitation. They may acknowl­edge the existence of alleged evils, but beg that these may not be disturbed in their day. "After us the deluge. Let us eat and drink, marry and give in marriage, and let our descendants look out for themselves. As for this Noah who goes about preach­ing so much of his righteousness, and finding fault with our way of living, and predicting some terrible disaster which is soon to overtake us, he is only a noisy fanatic, seeking popularity with the masses whom he deludes by his talk. He ought to be put down, and not be allowed to create all this strife and discussion, and overturn the foundations of society, and disturb the peace and repose of his betters."
Such is a specimen of the arguments in all age of the Quietists. Some of them are honest, and, some are dishonest. The former might be suffered to babble away, for they could never exert any in­fluence on the general current of affairs. They could pore over their books, or retire to their country seats, lamenting over the unsettled state of af­fairs, and deploring the passions of men, but they are of no particular consequence. It is only when interested men take up the same strain, and seek to prolong the existence of bad institutions in religion, government or society, that it is worthy of notice, and the necessity and duty of discussion and agita­tion need to be boldly asserted and practised.
The Northern friends of slavery have been the greatest quietists in this country from the beginning. Both the sincere and the insincere have endeavored to prevent discussion, to put down agitation, to stifle the voice of those who were seeking to arouse the people to its injustice, and to the disasters which must result from a persistence in maintaining it. All through the proslavery and anti-slavery agitation of the last thirty years, this has been one of the weap­ons in the hands of slavery, and one it has wielded with no little effect. Time and again have the peo­ple been deluded by the cry of quietism. The tiger has withdrawn his claws and concealed his teeth for a brief period when the popular sense of his ferocity and danger seemed growing so strong as to endanger his ease and safety, and then his keepers have cried out, "What a handsome animal he is! What smooth fur, and pretty stripes, and soft tread, and meek look he has! There is no harm in him. Let him alone." And so the people have been quieted, and the tiger has revived his nature, and has gone on devouring men and women, and seeking further prey for his insatiable appetite. And those who have declared his true character, and warned against his continuance in the land, have been stigmatized with the most opprobrious epithets, the vilest preju­dices have been excited against them, until the name of Abolitionist has become one of more terror than that of the tiger himself they have sought to destroy.
And so we have come down to our times. And the savage beast slavery has developed its nature to the fullest extent, by seeking to rend the country in twain, and involving us in a civil war with all the untold and imaginable evils that accompany it. Having failed in establishing its lair in the national government, it has resolved to build a den for itself, and to enclose a forest where it may roam and riot at pleasure. And are there quietists still? Are there men who, when we are engaged in this deadly struggle, in which either liberty or slavery must triumph, bid us refrain from discussion, forget the causes which led to this lamentable strife, and con­duct the struggle without reference to the causes in which it had its origin? One would deem it impossible. If in the war of the Revolution one calling himself a patriot American had stood up in Faneuil Hall, after the battles of Lexington and Bunker Hill, and after the Declaration of Independence, and urged on the people to continue the struggle against Great Britain till independence was achieved, but for the future to make no mention of the causes of the contest in which they were engaged, of the tyranny of the mother country, of her hostility to the interests of America, of her intention by all means to prevent our growth and prosperity, would not the sound common sense of our fathers have hooted him from the platform, and would be not have been a marked man, suspected as regarded his fidelity to the cause ever after?
Equally absurd it is at the present day to carry on the present contest, and ignore the causes which
<c05>
have led to it. If we would conduct the struggle to a successful issue, if we would establish the final triumph of liberty over slavery, of democratic over class and privileged institutions, we must keep constantly in view the causes of the war. If we do-not, if we suffer ourselves to be deluded by the cry of the Quietists, if we forget that it is slavery against which we are fighting, we shall, before we know it, have the old palliative proposed, we shall have some new compromise, some new concession to slavery pre­sented as a means of settling our difficulties. We may thus secure a superficial and transient truce, but we shall leave the cause of the war, the same sources of discord, of trouble, and of war that have brought the present evils upon us, as a doubly bane­ful legacy to our descendants. Let us not be so cowardly as that. Let us probe the matter to the root for ourselves. Let us continue to keep in mind the great cause of our national troubles, and resolve that there shall be no more compromise with it or concession to it. And let us look with distrust upon the Quietists who every little while are raising their soft voices amid this struggle of great principles and ideas, and begging us to forget all principle, and only seek for peace. All such are either incapable of ap­preciating the magnitude and the character of the struggle in which we are engaged, or they are base­ly seeking to deceive the people, to blind their sense of justice, to administer an opiate to their con­sciences, and in reality to aid and sustain the exist­ence and the evils of human slavery.—New Bedford Republican Standard.
MANUFACTURING PUBLIC OPINION IN FAVOR OF THE SOUTH.
The slaveholders of the Southern States have one characteristic of the children of this world in a very high degree. They are wise in their generation. They have been preparing for their great secession for years with all the subtlety of the serpent; and they have, as one means of securing aid and comfort for their cause, sought and obtained a strong feeling in their favor in Britain and her dependencies. By artful representations that the secession movement was for liberty and free trade, when it was really for slavery, they have secured many powerful advo­cates; and they have been, it is believed, skilful in the use of still more direct inducements to manufac­ture public opinion in favor of their cause.
The results of this engineering are obvious. In the West Indies, for instance, British neutrality is very one-sided. Everything that can be done with­out transgressing the law of nations, is done for Southern belligerents, and everything, within the same limits, against Northern belligerents. This is not very extraordinary, seeing the frequent inter­course between the West Indies and the Southern States, and the aristocratic pro-slavery feeling which almost everywhere prevails among officials and offi­cers.
The leading paper of Britain, and perhaps of the world, followed by a host of satellites, has gone thoroughly for the South and against the North, in a way that is a perfect disgrace to British fairness. Everything that tells in favor of one side is magni­fied and set in the most favorable light, whilst every­thing injurious to the other "is set in a note-book, learned and conned by rote, to cast into her teeth." The unanimity, vigor, patriotism and self-sacrifice of the Northern States are; sneered at and misrepre­sented in a manner worthy of Mephistophiles him­self; whilst their every error, weakness and fault, is made the most of. It is not, however, surprising that the Times should take the pro-slavery side; it always has done so. In all questions respecting West India slavery, it has been on the side of the merchants, planters and capitalists; and when their views conflicted with humanity and justice, the Times was always in antagonism with both. The unscrupulous character of the "leading journal," in this respect, has been the subject of remark for many years; and it is one of the reproaches of Eng­land that, such a wrong-principled paper should be its prominent organ. The Times, we believe, can­not be bribed with Secession gold; but its instincts are on the side of aristocracy, slavery and cotton, versus human rights and human freedom: and those instincts are shown in the present struggle, in the most malignant manner. It is doing its very best to incite the British nation to war with the United States at this time, as the best opportunity for over­throwing what it calls" unbridled democracy"—aid­ing slavery and other aristocratic institutions, and obtaining cotton to promote commerce and manu­factures.
It is in Canada, however, that the greatest triumphs of Secession intrigue may be seen. The West In­dies—on account of near neighborhood, long mutual acquaintance, and frequent intercourse—was, doubt­less, predisposed to favor the South. England has the powerful inducements of free trade and cotton to draw her sympathies in that direction; but the intercourse and interests of Canada were all with the North, and to have secured as much as they have done of public opinion here, in favor of Dixie, shows no little ability in manufacturing public opinion on the part of the knot of clever Secessionists who have been residing for some months in Canada.—Montre­al Witness.
CALEB B. SMITH ON ARMING THE SLAVES.
In his speech at the Prentice dinner at Washing­ton, Hon. Caleb B. Smith. Secretary of the Interior, said of the Cochrane Cameron proposition to arm the slaves:—
"Putting arms into slaves' hands! If this be at­tempted to any extent, the whole world will cry out against our inhumanity, our savagery, and the sympathies of all mankind will be turned against us as they were against the blacks, who murdered and drove the French from Hayti. And if it be attempt­ed, the soldiers in the army from Southern Indiana, Illinois, all Maryland, Kentucky, Delaware, Pennsylvania, nearly all, and from New York south of the Erie Canal, with the strong regiments from New Jersey, will, before God, protest against being thus put on an equality with negro soldiers in their ranks."
All very nice, Hon. Mr. Smith, with your sons comfortably housed around you in fat offices in Wash­ington, guarded by 200,000 soldiers who sleep in the mud and eat army biscuits! You theorize bravely about the soldiers in the army from Southern Indiana, while you know not a whit about their feelings. 'Negro equality,' forsooth! Do you protest before God against being put on an equality with the ne­gro who does chores for you and your dear sons in Washington? Be assured, Mr. Smith, that the sol­diers have just as good sense as you have, and will not flare up if negroes are put between them and bayonets, a bit more than the Hon. Smith's family would if their bootblack and their cook should thrust their sable persons between the aforesaid Smith fam­ily and an armed assassin, or perchance a scout from the rebel army. Would the Smiths feel their dignity so endangered that they would say, "Boys, you black rascals, stand back! We scorn to be sav­ed by the negroes, lest Southern Indiana should say
<c06>
we are in danger of negro equality!" Hardly, Mr. Smith. We imagine you would say: "Boyths, do your duty, thoot the athathins." The soldiers from Southern Indiana do not know why receiving aid from negroes in the army any more puts them on an equality, than such aid as Mr. Smith receives in Washington makes equality there.—Ind. American. 
HON. CHARLES SUMNER.
The intelligent Washington correspondent of the Anti-Slavery Standard writes that paper under date of Dec. 3, that Mr. Sumner is doing a brave work in the Senate:—
"Scarcely a day passes on which he does not give slavery a hard blow. The members from New Vir­ginia, or Kanawha, have taken his attacks upon the institution in very bad humor. Each of them has made a bitter speech against slavery agitation and Abolitionists. When Senator Carlisle had finished his speech the other day, a Republican Senator re­marked quietly, "A poor exchange for Mason!" The fact is, you can't cure a man educated under the influence of slavery of his love for the institution, though he may have no pecuniary interest in it for years. The ignorance engendered by slavery is not to be overcome at once.
"Mr. Sumner is now a leading man in the Senate, occupying the position for which his talents eminent­ly fit him. The pro-slavery Senators complain some­times that he keeps the picture of slavery constantly before their eyes, but, to tell the truth, it is very pleasant to an outsider to see these old tyrants obliged to sit still for awhile, and hear things uttered of the subject of slavery which it is very unpleasant for them to hear. It will do them good, and wheth­er it will or not, Sumner will not give them rest. To see men like Bright and Powell sit still when Charles Sumner charged Baker's murder on slavery was worth at least ten years of anti-slavery priva­tions. The pro-slavery interest in the Senate is quite respectful, and does not indulge in the old time bluster and parade."
WASHINGTON, January 9, 1862.
The speech of Mr. Sumner in the Senate to-day, on the Trent affair, was a masterly and exhaustive exposition of the triumph of American principles as applied to international law. In all his arguments and illustrations, he left our respected mother Eng­land "out in the cold." He demonstrated that, by all other leading European Powers, the American doctrine had been recongnized and admitted for many years, and that England alone had opposed it. The inconsistency of the present position of England, with her policy in all the past was admirably illus­trated, and the conclusion, that Great Britain is now stopped from any future assertion of her doctrine in reference to the right of visitation and search was brilliant and effective. The speech was impressive­ly delivered. The galleries of the Senate were densely crowded. Notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather, the ladies' gallery was filled to over­flowing. Mrs. Vice President Hamlin and a party of her friends occupied seats in the diplomatic gal­lery, which was also filled. Secretaries Chase and Cameron occupied seats on the floor of the chamber, where were also the French, Russian, Austrian, Prussian, Danish and Swedish Ministers. Lord Lyons was not present, as etiquette required that he should not be there on such an occasion. M. Mer­cier, the French Minister, occupied a seat next to Mr. Bright, and exchanged salutations with Mr. Sumner at the conclusion of the speech, as did also most of the other foreign dignitaries.
Mr. Sumner's speech has created a marked im­pression on the public in regard to himself. It has removed much prejudice that existed against him, and added greatly to his reputation as a profound statesman. The impression prevailed that, with all his learning, his extraordinary acquirements and splendid talents, be could not avoid the introduction of his peculiar views in reference to slavery; and on account of the strong anti-slavery proclivities of England hitherto, and the sympathy heretofore from this cause existing between leading English politicians and our own anti-slavery men of Mr. Sumner's class, it was apprehended by many that he would be inclined to lean towards Great Britain in this controversy. His course to-day was, therefore, an agree­able surprise. The absence of any allusion in his speech to the negro question demonstrated his abil­ity and willingness to rise superior to the one idea attributed to him, and the seathing exposition of British inconsistency in regard to the right of search, and the dignified rebuke be administered to England, exhibited his capacity to regard public affairs with the eye of a genuine statesman.
The applause accorded to this really great produc­tion is universal and unqualified.— Washington cor­respondent of the New York Herald.
GLEAMS OF MORNING LIGHT.
"It now seems," says the Worcester Transcript, as if we could already catch the first gleam of the breaking day of emancipation. Already public sen­timent is indicating its unmistakable tendency to­wards the removal of the great cause of all our troubles. The Yankees may be anything else one chooses to call them, but they are not fools. If the best way to carry on this war is by striking at slav­ery, they will find it out, and they will not submit to have it carried on by any but the best way. Al­ready, men who wait till they are sure they can move in a majority, and others who move because a major­ity is moving, are beginning to feel their way on to the platform where the few despised pioneers who move because duty bids them, and who care not if they stand alone, so that they are right, have been this long while standing. Already they are begin­ning to say," Down with slavery, if it is the stumbling block in the way of the reestablishment of the Union!" And such is the response of the people to these words that it will soon require more courage not to say than to say them.
Our army is now upon enemies' territory. It is surrounded by tens of thousands of staves who were deserted by their terrified masters. It must extend to them the rights of which they have been deprived. It must accept their services, and make the most of them. And the moment this is done, the 30,000 slaves around Beaufort are more terrible to the rebels than an army with banners. They are 30,000 missionaries to carry the gospel of emancipation to the millions of their fellow-bondmen, who have so long been kept from the light and knowledge which alone are nec­essary to make them freemen.
And the blow which has fallen upon South Carolina impends with equal certainty over all the rebel States. One after another, they must fall before the Northern invaders, and slavery cannot survive in the pretence of an army of freemen."
The U. S. Senate, after an Executive session of three hours on Friday, confirmed the nomination of Mr. Cameron as Minister to Russia, by a vote of 24 against 14.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 24,1862.
MR. GARRISON'S SPEECH AT NEW YORK.
The Abolitionists and their Relations to the War.
[Phonographically reported by ANDREW J. GRAHAM.]
[REVISED BY THE LECTURER.]
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON lectured at the Cooper Institute, in the city of New York, on Tuesday eve­ning, 14th inst., on "The Abolitionists, and their Relations to the War." Previous to the lecture, a lady [Mrs. Abby Hutchinson Paton] modestly advanced from one of the seats on the platform, and placed a bouquet of fragrant flowers beside the speaker's desk, and also an ivy wreath. The tribute was noticed by the audience with an outburst of applause. Among others present on the crowded platform were Rev. Dr. Tyng, Superintendent J. A. Kennedy, Rev. Mr. Sloan, and others of prominence.
At 8 o'clock, Mr. Garrison arrived, escorted by Mr. Theodore Tilton, who, after announcing a forth­coming lecture by Davis, the contraband, introduced the orator of the evening, as follows:-
SPEECH OF THEODORE TILTON.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,-I put myself, for a moment, between you and him, [pointing to Mr. Garrison.] because I have been asked, and honored in the asking, to give to a genuine Yankee a genuine Yan­kee welcome; and I know not how to do it better than just to make the old-fashioned sign of the right hand, which is the Yankee token of good fellowship, and in your name to offer it to WILLIAM LLYOD GARRISON. (Applause.)
Mr. Tilton thereupon extended his hand to Mr. Garrison, who forthwith advanced, and was cordially welcomed. Mr. Garrison spoke as follows:-
SPEECH OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN,-No public speaker, on rising to address an assembly, has any right to pre­sume that, because at the outset he receives a cour­teous and even warm approval, therefore they are pre­pared to endorse all his views and utterances. Doubt­less, there are some points, at least, about which we very widely differ; and yet, I must frankly confess, I know of no other reason for your kind approval, this evening, than that I am an original, uncompro­mising, irrepressible, out-and-out, unmistakable, Garrisonian Abolitionist. (Enthusiastic applause.) By that designation, I do not mean one whose brain is crazed, whose spirit is fanatical, whose purpose is wild and dangerous; but one whose patriotic creed is the Declaration of American Independence, (loud cheers,) whose moral line of measurement is the Golden Rule, whose gospel of humanity is the Sermon on the Mount, and whose language is that of Ireland's Liberator, O'Connell-" I care not what caste, creed or color slavery may assume. Whether it be persona or political, mental or corporeal, intellectual or spiritual, I am for its instant, its total abolition. I am for justice, in the name of humanity, and according to the law of the living God." (Cheers.)
Hence, what I wrote many years ago, I feel proud once more to affirm:-
"I am an Abolitionist!
I glory in the name;
Though now by Slavery's minions hissed,
And covered o'er with shame.
It is a spell of light and power-
The watchword of the free;
Who spurns it in the trial-hour,
A craven soul if he!"
(Applause.)
I know that to be an Abolitionist is not to be with the multitude-on the side of the majority-in a pop­ular and respectable position; and yet I think I have a right to ask of you, and of all who are living on the soil of the Empire State, and of the people of the North at large, why it is that you and they shrink from the name of Abolitionist? Why is it that, while you profess to be opposed to slavery, you nevertheless desire the whole world to understand that you are not radical Abolitionists? What is the meaning of this? Why are you not all Abolitionists? Your principles are mine'. What you have taught me, I adopt. What you have taken a solemn oath to support, as essential to a free Government, I recognize as right and just. The people of this State profess to believe in the Declaration of Independence. That is my Abolitionism. Every man, therefore, who disclaims Abolitionism, repudiates the Declaration of Independ­ence. Does he not? "All men are created equal, and endowed by their Creator with an inalienable right to liberty." Gentlemen, that is my fanaticism- that is all my fanaticism. (Cheers.) All I ask is that this declaration may he carried out everywhere in our country and throughout the world. It belongs to mankind. Your Constitution is an Abolition Con­stitution. Your laws are Abolition laws. Your insti­tutions are Abolition institutions. Your free schools are Abolition schools. (Cheers.) I believe in them all; and all that I ask is, that institutions so good, so free, so noble, may be everywhere propagated, every­where accepted. And thus it is that I desire, not to curse the South, or any portion of her people, but to bless her abundantly, by abolishing her infamous and demoralizing slave institution, and erecting the tem­ple of liberty on the ruins thereof. (Loud applause.)
I believe in Democracy; but it is the Democracy which recognizes man as man, the world over. (Cheers.) It is that Democracy which spurns the fet­ter and the yoke for itself, and for all wearing the human form. And therefore I say, that any man who pretends to be a Demoerat, and yet defends the act of making man the property of his fellow-man, is a dis­sembler and a hypocrite, and I unmask him before the universe. (Loud cheers.)
We profess to be Christians. Christianity-its ob­ject is to redeem, not to enslave men! Christ is our Redeemer. I believe in Him. He leads the Anti­-Slavery cause, and always has led it. The Gospel is the Gospel of freedom; and any man claiming to be a Christian, and to have within him the same mind that was in Christ Jesus, and yet dares to hold his fellow man in bondage, as a mere piece of perishable property, is recreant to all the principles and obliga­tions of Christianity. (Applause.)
Why is it, men of the Empire State, that there are no slaves here? Four millions of people, and not a single slave among them all! On what ground was slavery abolished in the State of New York? On the mere ground of policy or expediency, or because it was an immorality, a crime, an outrage, and there­fore not to be tolerated by a civilized and Christian people? Hence I affirm that the people of this State are committed to radical, "ultra" Abolitionism. And so I have a right to expect everywhere a friendly hearing and a warm cooperation on the part of the people when I denounce slavery, and endeavor to bring it to the dust, and to take the chains from those who are laboring under the lash of the slave-driver. You have abolished slavery, because it can have no rightful existence here. You allow no man to decide whether he can humanely hold a slave. So of Mas­sachusetts, so of New England, and so of the nine­teen free States. Slavery is pronounced a curse by them all. Every man before the law is equal to every other man; and no man may lay is hand too heavily upon the shoulder of his brother man, except at his peril.
In the very generous notice of this lecture last Sun­day, by Henry Ward Beecher, he said that he fully accorded with me in my principles, which strike at the foundation of slavery. All slavery is wrong, un­just, immoral and unchristian, and ought to termi­nate, but he expressed some difference of opinion in regard to my methods for its abolition. I am confi­dent that, upon further reflection and investigation, he will find my methods of Abolition are as unexceptionable as my principles. My method is simply this:
<c02>
when I see a slaveholder, I tell him he is bound by every consideration of justice and humanity to let the oppressed go free. That is God's method, and I think there can be no improvement upon it. (Applause.) And when I find an accomplice of the slave­holder sustaining him in his iniquity, I bid him re­pent, and demand that he bring forth fruits meet for repentance. That is my method. (Renewed ap­plause.)
Now I say that if we are right in establishing our institutions upon the foundations of equal liberty, we hare a right to endeavor to propagate those institu­tions all over the country and throughout the world. We have a right to say to those in the slave States, "Your system of slavery is inherently wrong and dangerous. Regard your slaves as men, treat them as such, establish free institutions, substitute for the lash a fair compensation, and you will be blest, won­derfully blest." Have I not a right to say this? Is it not a natural, God-given, constitutional right? On the other hand, they have a perfect right at the South to endeavor to proselyte us in regard to their institu­tions; and I think they have dune their best-that is, their worst-in that direction.
I never hare heard any complaint in regard to the unlimited freedom of speech on the part of Southern slaveholders and slave-traffickers. We are told by pro-slavery men here, that we have no right to discuss this matter! They point us to our national compact. They gravely tell us to remember that, at the organ­ization of the Government, the slave States were in existence, and came into the Union on terms of equality, and, under the compact, we have no right to criticise or condemn them because of their holding slaves. Now, my reply to them is, in the first place, that no compact of man's device can bind me to silence when I see my fellow-man unjustly oppressed. (Applause.) I care not when or where the compact was made, or by whom it was approved. My right to denounce tyrants and tyranny is not derived from man, nor from constitutions or compacts. I find it in my own soul, written there by the finger of God, and man can never erase it. (Applause.) I am sure that, if it were your case; if you were the victims of a com­pact that denied the right of any one to plead for your deliverance, though you were most grievously op­pressed-though your children and wives were for sale in the market, along with cattle and swine-you would exclaim, "Accursed be such a compact! Let none be dumb in regard to our condition!"
My reply again is, that the compact, bad as it is in its pro-slavery features, provides for the liberty of speech and of the press, and therefore I am justified in saying what I honestly think in regard to slavery and those who uphold it. The Southern slaveholders, I repeat, have always exercised the largest liberty of speech. They have denounced free institutions to an unlimited extent. Is the right all on one side? May I not reciprocate, and say what I think of their slave institutions? Yes, I have the right, and, by the help of God, I mean to exercise it, come what may. (Great applause.)
The times are changing. Yes, it is spoken of with exultation,-and well it may be as a cheering sign of progress,-that even Dr. Brownson has been able to speak against slavery in the city of Washington, with­out being in peril of his life; that even Horace Gree­ley and George B. Cheever have been permitted to stand up in the Capital of their country, and utter brave words for freedom; and nobody mobbed them! (Applause.) And I am told it is expected that my eloquent friend, and the friend of all mankind, Wen­dell Phillips, (cheers,) will also soon make his ap­pearance at Washington, to be heard on the same sub­ject, without running any great personal risk. This is something to boast of! And yet I must confess, that I feel humiliated when I remember that all this is rendered possible, under our boasted Constitution, only because there is a Northern army of 150,000 sol­diers in and around the Capital! (Applause.) Take that army away-restore the old state of things-and it would not be possible for such speeches to be made there, but while we have Gen. McClellan and 150,000 Northern bayonets in that section, a Northern man may say aloud at Washington, " Let the Declaration of Independence be applied to all the oppressed in the land," and his life is not specially endangered in so doing! (Cries of "Hear, hear!") If that is all we have to boast of now, what has been our condition hitherto?
Now, I maintain that no institution has a right to! claim exemption from the closest scrutiny. All our Northern institutions are open for inspection. Every man may say of them what he pleases. If he does not: like them, he can denounce them. If he thinks he can suggest better ones, he is entitled to do so. No­body thinks of mobbing him, nobody thinks of throw­ing rotten eggs and brickbats at his head. Liberty! why, she is always fearless, honest, open-hearted. She says, as one did of old, "Search me and try me, and see if there be anything evil in me." But, on the other hand, we are not permitted to examine Southern institutions. O no! And what is the reason? Sim­ply because they will not bear examination! Of course, if the slaveholder felt assured that they could, he would say, "Examine them freely as you will, I will assist you in every way in my power." Ah! "'tis conscience that makes cowards of them all!" They dread the light, and with the tyrant of old they cry, "Put out the light-and then put out the light!" That is their testimony in regard to the rectitude of their slave institutions.
The slaveholders desire to be let alone. Jefferson Davis and his crew cry out, "Let us alone!" The Slave Oligarchy have always cried out, "Let us alone!" It is an old cry-1,800 years old at least-it was the cry, of those demons who had taken possession of their victims, and who said to Jesus, "Let us alone! Why hast thou come to torment us before the time?" (Laughter and applause.) Now, Jesus did not at all mistake the time; he was precisely in time, and therefore he bore his testimony like the prince of emancipators, and the foul demons were cast out, but not without rending the body. The slaves of our country, outraged, lacerated and chained, cry out agonizingly to those who are thus treating them, "Let us alone!"-but the slaveholders give no heed to that cry at all! Now, I will agree to let the slaveholders alone when they let their slaves alone, and not till then. (Applause.)
"Let this matter rest with the South; leave slavery in the care and keeping of slaveholders, to put an end to it at the right time, as they best understand the whole matter. "You will hear men, claiming to be in­telligent, talking in this manner continually. They do not know what idiots they are; for is it anything better than idiocy for men to say: "Leave idolatry to idolators, to be abolished when they think best; leave intemperance to drunkards; they best understand all about it; they will undoubtedly, if let alone, in God's own time, put an end to it (laughter); leave piracy to be abolished by pirates; leave impurity to the licentious to be done away; leave the sheep to the con­siderate humanity of wolves, when they will cease to prey upon them!" No, this is not common sense; it is not sound reason; it is nothing but sheer folly. Sal­vation, if it comes at all, must come from without. Those who are not drunkards must save the drunken; those who are not impure must save the impure; those who are not idolaters must combine to put down idola­try; or the world can never make any progress. So we who are not slaveholders are under obligation to combine, and by every legitimate method endeavor to abolish slavery; for the slaveholders will never do it if they can possibly help it. Why do you send your missionaries abroad? Why do you go to the isles of the sea, to Hindostan and Burmah and other parts of the heathen world with your meddlesome, impertinent, disorganizing religion? Because you affirm that your object is good and noble; because you believe that the Christian religion is the true religion, and that idolatry debases and deludes its votaries; and to abolish it, or to endeavor to do so, is right And yet you have no complicity with heathenism abroad. Nevertheless, your missionaries are there, endeavoring to effect a thorough overturn of all their institutions and all their
<c03>
established ideas, so that old things shall pass sway, and all things become new. Bat how is it in regard to slavery? You have something to do-aye, a great deal to do with it. You ought to know precisely where you stand, and what are your obligations in re­lation to it. Only think of it! Under your boasted Constitution, two generations of slaves have been driven to unrequited toil, and gone down into bloody graves; and a third generation is going through the same terrible career, with the Star Spangled Banner floating over their heads! This is by your complicity, men of the North! Oh, how consentingly the North has given her sympathy to the South in this iniquity of slaveholding! How everywhere the Anti-Slavery movement has been spit upon, and denounced, and caricatured, and hunted down, as if it were a wild beast, that could not be tolerated safely for an hour in the community! What weapon has been left unused against the Abolitionists of the North? How thor­oughly have the people been tested everywhere, both in Church and State, in relation to the slave system of the South! But "Wisdom is justified of her children." The Abolitionists serenely bide their time. The verdict of posterity is sure; and it will be an honor­able acquittal of them from all the foul charges that have been brought against them by a pro-slavery people.
I do not think it is greatly to the shame of Abolition­ists that the New-York Herald cannot tolerate them. (Laughter and applause.) I do not think it at all to their discredit that the Journal of Commerce thor­oughly abominates them. (Laughter.) I do not think they have any cause to hang their heads for shame be­cause the New-York Express deems them fit only to be spit upon. (Applause.) I do not think they have any reason to distrust the soundness of their religion be­cause the New-York Observer brands them as infidels. (Applause.) Capt. RYNDERS is not an Abolitionist. (Great laughter.) The Bowery Boys do not like Abolitionism. (Laughter ) And as it was eighteen hun­dred years ago, so we have had, in this trial of the nation, the chief priests and scribes and Pharisees on the one hand, and the rabble on the other, endeavor­ing by lawless means and murderous instrumentali­ties to put down the Anti-Slavery movement, which is of God, and cannot be put down. (Applause.) The slaveholders who have risen in rebellion to overthrow the Government, and crush out free institutions, are in the mood of mind, and ever have been, to hang every Abolitionist they can catch. I hold that to be a good certificate of character-(applause)-and when I add, that the millions of slaves in bondage, perish­ing in their chains, and crying unto Heaven for de­liverance, are every ready to give their blessings to the Abolitionists for what they have done, and when they run away from their masters come to us who are represented to be their deadliest enemies, it seems to me we have made out our case. Such Abolitionism every honest, humane, upright and noble soul ought to endorse as right. And, besides, I say it is a shame that we should any longer stand apart-I mean we of the North. What are all your paltry distinctions worth? You are not Abolitionists. O, no! You are only Anti-Slavery! Dare you trust yourself in Carolina, except, perhaps, at Port Royal? (Laughter.) You are not an ultra Anti-Slavery man; there is nothing ultra about you. You are only a Republican! Dare you go to New Orleans? Why, the President of the United States, chosen by the will of the people, and duly inaugurated by solemn oath, is an outlaw in nearly every slave State in this Union! He cannot show himself there except at the peril of his life. And so of his Cabi­net. I think it is time, under these circumstances, that we should all hang together, or, as one said of old, we shall be pretty sure, if caught, to hang separately. (Laughter.) The South cares nothing for these nice distinctions among us. It is precisely, on this matter of slavery, as it is in regard to the position of Rome respecting Protestantism. Our Protestant sects assume to be each one the true sect, as against every other, and we are free in our denunciation of this or that <illegible> our particular theological creed. What does Rome care for any such distinction? Whether we are High Church Episcopalian or Methodist, Quaker or Universalist, Presbyterian or Unitarian, we are all included in un­belief, we are all heretics together; and she makes no compromise. Just so with slavery. If we avow that we are at all opposed to slavery, it is enough, in the judgment of the South, to condemn us to a coat of tar and feathers, and to general outlawry.
I come now to consider what are the relations of the Abolitionists to the war. Fourteen months ago, after a heated Presidential struggle with three candi­dates in the field, Abraham Lincoln was duly and constitutionally chosen President of the United States. Now where are we? At that time, who doubted the stability of the American Union? What power in the universe had we to fear? Was it not pronounced impossible for any real harm to come to us? How strong was our mountain, and how confident our expectations in regard to the future! And now our country is dismembered, the Union sundered, and we are in the midst of the greatest civil war that the world has ever known. For a score of years, prophetic voices were heard admonishing the nation, "Because ye have said, We have made a covenant with death, and with hell are we at agreement; when the over­flowing scourge shall pass through, it shall not come unto us; for we have made lies our refuge, and under falsehood have we hid ourselves. Therefore, thus saith the Lord God, Judgment will I lay to the line and righteousness to the plummet; and the waters shall over­flow the hiding place; and your covenant with death shall be annulled, and your agreement with hell shall not stand." And now it is verified to the letter with us. In vain are all efforts to have it otherwise. "He that <illegible> in the heavens shall laugh, the Lord shall have them in derision." "Though hand join in hand, yet shall not the wicked go unpunished." Yes, America! "Though thou exalt thyself as the eagle, and though thou set thy nest among the stars, thence will I bring thee down, saith the Lord."
Who are responsible for this war? If I should go out into the streets for a popular reply, it would be, "The Abolitionists"-or, to use the profane vernacu­lar of the vile, "It is all owing to the d-d Abolition­ists. (Laughter.) If they had not meddled with the subject of slavery, everything would have gone on well; we should have lived in peace all the days of our lives. But they insisted upon meddling with what doesn't concern them; they indulged in censorious and harsh language against the slaveholders; and the result is, our nation is upturned, and we have immense hostile armies looking each other fiercely in the face, and our glorious Union is violently broken asunder." Let me read an extract from the New York Express, (laughter,) for your express edification:-
"Our convictions are, that Anti-Slavery stimulated, and is the animating cause of this rebellion. If Anti-Slavery were, now, removed from the field of action, Pro-Slavery would perish of itself, at home, in its own contor­tions." (Laughter.)
Well, I do not think I can make a better reply to such nonsense than was made by your Chairman, in a brief letter which he sent to the annual meeting of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society at West Ches­ter, a few weeks ago, and by his permission I will read it:-
"My opinion is this: There is war because there was a Republican party. There was a Republican party because there was an Abolition party. There was an Abolition party because there was Slavery. Now, to charge the war upon Republicanism is merely to blame the lamb that stood in the brook. To charge it upon Abolitionism is merely to blame the sheep for being the lamb's mother. (Laughter.) Bat to charge it upon Slavery is to lay the crime flat at the door of the wolf, where it belongs. (Laughter.) To end the trouble, kill the wolf. (Renewed laughter.) I be­long to the party of wolf-killers." (Applause and merri­ment.)
And let all the people say, Amen! (Cheers.)
But consider the absurdity of this charge. Who are the avowed Abolitionists of our country? I have told you they occupy a very unpopular position in so­ciety; and, certainly, very few men have yet had the moral courage to glory in the name of Abolitionist. They are comparatively a mere handful. And yet
<c04>
they have overturned the Government! They have been stronger than all the parties and all the religious bodies of the country,-stronger than the Church, and stronger than the State! Indeed! Then it must be because with them is the power of God, and it is the Truth which has worked out this marvellous result (Cheers.)
How many Abolition Presses do you suppose exist in this country? We have, I believe, three or four thousand journals printed in the United States; and how many Abolition journals do you suppose there are? (Laughter.) You can count them all by the fingers upon your hand; yet, it seems, they are more than a match for all the rest put together. (Loud cheers and laughter.) This is very extraordinary; but, our enemies being judges, it is certainly true. And now, what has been our crime? I affirm, before God, that our crime has been only this: we have en­deavored, at least, to remember those in bonds as bound with them. I, for one, am guilty only to this extent:-I hare called aloud for more than thirty years to my beloved but guilty country, saying:-
"There is within thy gates a pest,
Gold, and a Babylonish vest;
Not bid in sin-concealing shade,
But broad against the sun displayed!
Repent thee, then, and quickly bring
Forth from the camp th' accursed thing;
Consign it to remorseless fire.
Watch till the latest spark expire;
Then strew its ashes on the wind,
Nor leave one atom wreck behind.
So shall thy wealth and power increase;
So shall thy people dwell in peace;
On thee th' Almighty's glory rest.
And all the earth in thee be blest!" (Cheers.)
And what if the Abolitionists had been heeded thirty years ago? Would there now be any civil war to talk about? (Cries of "No.") Ten years ago? five years ago? one year ago? And all that time God was patient and forbearing, giving us an opportunity of escape. But the nation would not hearken, and went on hardening its heart. Oh! how guilty are the conspirators of the South in what they have done! How utterly unjustifiable and causeless is their rebellion! How foul and false their accusations against the Government, against the Republican party, against the people of the North! Utterly, inexcusably and horribly wicked! But let us remember, to our shame and condemnation as a people, that the guilt is not all theirs. I assert that they have been encouraged in every conceivable way to do all this for more than thirty years-encouraged by the press of the North, by the churches of the North, by the pulpits of the North, (comprehensively speaking.) Abolitionists have been hunted as outlaws, or denounced as wild fanatics; while the slaveholders have been encour­aged to go on, making one demand after another, until they felt assured that when they struck this blow, they would have a powerful party at the North with them, to accomplish their treasonable designs; and it is only by God's providence we have escaped utter ruin. (Loud applause.) Therefore it is that the vials of Divine retribution are poured out so impartially. We are suffering; our blood is flowing, our property is melting away-and who ran see the end of it? Well, if the whole nation should be emptied, I should say: "Oh! give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever!" Our crime against these four millions of slaves, and against a similar number who have been buried, cannot be adequately described by human language. Our hands are full of blood, and we have run to do evil; and now a heavy but righteous judgment is upon us! Let us rev­erently acknowledge the hand of God in this; let us acknowledge our sins, and put them away; and let each man put the trump of jubilee to his lips, and demand that the chains of the oppressed shall be broken forever! (Cheers.)
"The Abolitionists have used very irritating language"! I know it. I think, however, it must be admitted that that charge has been fully offset by the Southern slaveholders and their Northern accomplices; for, if my memory serves me, they have used a great deal of irritating language about the Abolitionists. In­deed, I do not know of any <illegible>, false, protane, malicious, abominable epithets which they have not ap­plied without stint to the Abolitionists-besides any amount of tarring and feathering, and other brutal out­rages, in which we have never indulged towards them! (Laughter and cheers.) Irritating language, forsooth! Why, gentlemen, all that we have said is, "Do not steal," " Do not murder," "Do not commit adultery," -and it has irritated them! (Applause and laughter.) Of course, it must irritate them. The galled jade will wince. John Hancock and Sam Adams greatly irri­tated George the Third and Lord North. There was a great deal of British irritation at Lexington and Bunker Hill, and it culminated at last at Yorktown. (Loud cheers.) Well, it is certain that a very remarkable change has taken place within a short time. They who have complained of our hard language, as applied to the slaveholders, are now for throwing cannon balls: and bombshells at them! (Laughter and applause.) They have no objection to blowing out their brains, but you must not use hard language! Now, I would much rather a man would hurl a hard epithet at my head, than the softest cannon ball or shell that can be found in the army of the North. (Laughter.) As a people, however, we are coming to the conclusion that, after all, the great body of the slaveholders are not ex­actly the honest, honorable and Christian men that we mistook them to be. (Applause.) It is astonishing, when any wrong is done to us, how easily we can see! its true nature. What an eye-salve it is! If any one picks our pocket, of course he is a thief; if any one breaks into our house, he is a burglar; if any one un­dertakes to outrage us, he is a scoundrel. And now that these slaveholders are in rebellion against the Government, committing piracy upon our commerce, confiscating Northern property to the amount of hun­dreds of millions of dollars, and plunging the country into all the horrors of civil war, why, of course, they are pirates-they are swindlers-they are traitors of the deepest dye! (Cheers and laughter.) Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you one thing, and that is, they are just as good as they ever were. (Cheers.) They are just as honest, just as honorable, and just as Chris­tian as they ever were. (Laughter.) Circumstances alter cases, you know. While they were robbing four millions of God's despised children of a different com­plexion from our own, stripping them of all their rights, selling them in lots to suit purchasers, and trafficking in their blood, they were upright, patriotic, Christian gentlemen! Now that they have interfered with us and our rights, have confiscated our property, and are treasonably seeking to establish a rival con­federacy, they are downright villains and traitors, who ought to be hanged by the neck until they are dead. (Laughter and cheers.)
"Abolitionists should not have intermeddled with their affairs," it is said. "We of the North are not responsible for slavery, and it is a very good rule for men to mind their own business." Who say this? Hypocrites, dissemblers, men who are condemned out of their own mouths. They are those who are always justifying or apologizing for slavery, who are in relig­ious fellowship with these traffickers in human souls, who claim political affinity with them, and who give constitutional guarantees that fugitive slaves may be hunted and captured in every part of the North, and that slave insurrections shall be suppressed by the strong arm of the national government, if need be; and yet they have nothing to do with slavery! Hypo­crites and dissemblers, I spurn you all! When I see a man drowning, if I can throw him a rope, I will do it; and if I would not, would I not be a murderer? When I see a man fallen among thieves, and wounded and forsaken, if I can get to him with oil and wine to bind up his wounds, I am bound to do it; and if I refuse, I become as base as the robber who struck him down. And when I see tyranny trampling upon my fellow-man, I know of no law, human or divine, which binds me to silence. I am bound to protest against it. (Cheers.) I will not be dumb. It is my business to meddle with oppression wherever I see it. (Applause.) It is said, again, "There was no trouble in the land until the Abolitionists appeared." Well, the more is the pity! Order reigns in Warsaw until Kosciusko
<c05>
makes his appearance. It reigns in Hungary until Kossuth conies forward,-in Italy, until Garibaldi takes the field. (Loud cheers.) No trouble until the Abolitionists came forward! The charge is false,-historically untrue. Witness the struggle that took place at the formation of your Constitution, in regard to the slavery guarantees of that instrument. What is the testimony of John Quincy Adams on that point? He says:-
"In the articles of Confederation, then was no guaran­ty for the property of the slaveholder-no double repre­sentation of him in the Federal councils-no power of taxa­tion-no stipulation for the recovery of fugitive slaves. But when the powers of Government came to be delegated to the Union, the South-that is South Carolina and Georgia-refused their subscription to the parchment, till it should be saturated with the infection of slavery, which no fumigation could purify, no quarantine could extinguish. The freemen of the North gave way, and the deadly venom of Slavery was infused into the Constitution of freedom."
And so at the time of the Missouri struggle in 1820. There were no Abolitionists then in the field; yet the struggle between Freedom and Slavery was at that time so fierce and terrible as to threaten to end in a dissolution of the Union. (Cheers.) Oh! no stain of blood rests on the garments of the Abolitionists. They have endeavored to prevent the awful calamity which has come upon the nation, and they may wash their hands in innocency, and thank God that in the evil day they were able to stand. (Applause.)
No, my friends, this fearful state of things is not of men; it is of Heaven. As we have sowed, we are reaping. The whole cause of it is declared in the memorable verse of the prophet: "Ye have not hearkened unto me in proclaiming liberty, every man to his brother, and every man to his neighbor: behold, I proclaim a liberty for you, saith the Lord, to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine." That is the whole story. This is the settlement day of God Almighty for the unparalleled guilt of our nation; and if we desire to be saved, we must see to it that we put away our sins, "break every yoke, and let the oppress­ed go free," and thus save our land from ruin. (Applause.)
Be not deceived:-this rebellion is not only to eternize the enslavement of the African race, but it is also to overturn the free institutions of the North. The slaveholders of the South are not only opposed to Northern Abolitionists, but to Northern ideas and Northern institutions. Shall I refresh your memories by one or two quotations in point? Listen to the language of the Richmond Examiner:-
"The South now maintains that slavery is right, nat­ural and necessary, and does not depend upon complexion. The laws of the slave States justify the holding of white men in bondage."
The Charleston Mercury says:-
"Slavery is the natural and normal condition of the laboring man, whether white or black. The great evil of Northern free [mark you, nut Abolition] society is that it is burdened with a servile class, mechanics and laborers, unfit fur self-government, and yet clothed with the attributes and powers of citizens. Master and slave is a relation in society as necessary as that of parent and child; and the Northern States will yet have to introduce it. Their theory of free government is a delusion."
Yet you are for free government, but not for Aboli­tionism! What do you gain by the disclaimer? The South is as much opposed to the one as she is to the other-she hates and repudiates them both!
The Richmond Enquirer says:-
"Two opposite and conflicting forms of society cannot, among civilized men, coexist and endure. The one must give way and cease to exist. The other becomes universal. If free society be unnatural, immoral, unchristian, it must fall, and give way to slave society-a social system old as the world, universal as man."
An Alabama paper says:-
"All the Northern, and especially the New-England States, are devoid of society fitted fur well-bred gentlemen. The prevailing class one meets with is that of mechanics struggling to be genteel, and small farmers who do their own drudgery, and yet who are hardly fit for associating with a Southern gentleman's body-servant."
You see, men of the North, it is a war against free­dom-your freedom as well as that of the slave- against the freedom of mankind. It is to establish an oligarchic, slaveholding despotism, to the extinction of all fire institutions. The Southern rebellion is in full blast; and if they can work their will against us, there will be for us no liberty of speech or of the press-no right to assemble as we assemble here to­night, and our manhood-will be trampled in the dust. (Applause.) I say, therefore, under these circum­stances, treason consists in giving aid or countenance to the slave system of the South-not merely to Jeff. Davis, as President of the Southern Confederacy, or to this rebel movement in special. Every man who gives any countenance or support to slavery is a traitor to liberty. (Enthusiastic applause.) I say he is a dangerous and an unsafe man. (Renewed cheers.) He carries within him the seeds of despotism; and no one can tell how soon a harvest of blood and treason may spring up. Liberty goes with Union and for Union, based on justice and equality. Slavery is ut­ter disunion and disorganization in God's universe. (Cheers.)
But, we are told, "hang the Secessionists on the one hand, and the Abolitionists on the other, and then we shall have peace"! (Laughter.) How very dis­criminating! Now, I say, if any hanging is to be done, (though I do not believe in capital punishment-that is one of my heresies,)-if any hanging is to be done, I am for hanging these sneaking, two-fated, pseudo loyal go-betweens immediately. (Loud and enthusiastic applause. A voice, "That's the talk!") Why, as to this matter of loyalty, I maintain that the most loyal people to a free government, who walk on the American soil, are the uncompromising Abolitionists. (Cheers.)It is not freedom that rises in rebellion against free government. It is not the love of liberty that endangers it. It is not those who will not make any compromise with tyranny who threaten it. It is those who strike hands with the oppressors. Yes, I maintain, the Abolitionists are more loyal to free government and free institutions than President Lincoln himself; because, while I want to say every­thing good of him that I can, I must say I think he is lacking somewhat in backbone, and is disposed, at least, to make some compromise with slavery, in order to bring back the old state of things; and, therefore, he is nearer Jeff. Davis than I am. Still, we are both so bad that I suppose if we should go amicably to­gether down South, we never should come back again. (Laughter and cheers.)
"Hang the Abolitionists, and then hang the Seces­sionists"! Why, in the name of common sense, wherein are these parties agreed? Their principles and purposes are totally dissimilar. We believe in the inalienable rights of man-in "liberty, equality, fraternity." They disbelieve in all these. We believe in making the law of God paramount to all human codes, compacts and enactments. They believe in trampling it under their feet, to gratify their lust of dominion, and in "exalting themselves above all that is called God." We believe in the duty of liberating all who are pining in bondage. They are for extend­ing and perpetuating slavery to the latest posterity. We believe in free government and free institutions. They believe in the overthrow of all these, and have made chattel bondage the corner-stone of their new confederacy. Where is there any agreement or simi­larity between these parties?
But it may be said, you are for the dissolution of the Union. I was. Did I have any sympathy with the spirit of Southern secession when I took that po­sition? No. My issue was a moral one-a Christian one. It was because of the pro-slavery nature of the compact itself that I said I could not as a Christian man, as a friend of liberty, swear to uphold such a Union or Constitution. Listen to the declaration of John Quincy Adams, a most competent witness, I think, in regard to this matter:-
"It cannot be denied-the slaveholding lords of the South prescribed as a condition of their assent to the Con­stitution, three specific provisions to secure the perpetuity of their dominion over their slaves. The first was the im­munity for twenty years of preserving the slave trade; the second was the stipulation to surrender fugitive stares-an engagement positively prohibited by the laws of God delivered from Sinai; and thirdly, the exaction, fatal to the principles of popular representation, of a representation
<c06>
of slaves-for articles of merchandise, under the name of persons.
The bargain between Freedom and Slavery, contained in the Constitution of the United States, is morally and pelitically vicious-inconsistent with the principles on which alone our revolution can be justified-cruel and oppressive by riveting the chains of Slavery, by pledging the faith of Freedom to maintain and perpetuate the tyranny of the master. and grossly unequal and impolitic, by admitting that slaves are at once enemies to be kept in subjection property to be secured and returned to their owners, and persons not to be represented themselves, but for whom their masters are privileged with nearly a double share of representation. The consequence has been that this slave representation has governed the Union Benjamin's pertion above his brethren has ravined as wolf. In the morning he has devoured the prey, and in the evening has divided the spoil." 
Hence I adopted the language of the prophet Isaiah, and pronounced the Constitution, in these particulars, to be "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell." Was I not justified as a Christian man in so doing? Oh, but the New York journal of Commerce says there seems to have taken place a great and sudden change in my views-I longer place this motto at the head of my paper. Will ladies and gentlemen, you remember what Benedick in the play says:" When I said I would die a bachelor, I did not think I would live to get married." (Laughter.) And when I said I would not sustain the Constitution, because it was "a covenant with death and an agreement with hell," I had no idea that I would live to see death and hell secede. (Prolonged applause and great laughter.) Hence it is that I am now with the Government, to enable it to constitutionally stop the further ravages of death, and to extinguish the flames of hell forever. (Renewed applause.)
We are coolly told that slavery has nothing to do with this war! Believe me, of all traitors in this country who are most to be feared and detested, they are those who raise this cry. We have little to fear, I think, from the Southern rebels, comparatively it is those Northern traitors, who, under the mask of loyalty, are doing the work of the devil, and effectively aiding the secessionists by trying to intimidate the national government from striking a direct blow at the source of the rebellion, who make our position a dangerous one. (Applause.) What! slavery nothing to do with this war! How does it happen, then, that the war is all along the border between the Free and the Slave States? What is the meaning of this? For there is not a truly loyal Slave State in the Union not one. (Voices-"That's so.") I maintain that Maryland, Kentucky and Missouri are, by their feigned loyalty, greater obstacles in the way of victory than Carolina, Alabama and Georgia. Nothing but the presence on their soil of the great army of the North keeps them loyal, even in form, and even under such a pressure they are full of overt treason. They have to be enticed to remain in the Union as a man said he once enticed a burglar out of his house-he enticed him with a pitchfork! (Laughter) Withdraw your troops, and instantly they will fall into the Southern Confederacy by the law of gravitation. That is the whole of it. But this is not to be loyal-this is not a willing support of the Constitution and Union. No! On the other hand, every Free State is true to the Government. It is the inevitable struggle between the children of the bond-woman and the children of the free (Applause.).
Treason-where is it most rampant? Just where there are the most slaves! It disappears where there are no slave, except in those cases to which I have referred, of skulking, double-faced hypocrites, wearing the mask of loyalty, and yet having the heart of traitors. (Applause.) What State led off in this atrocious rebellion? Why, South Carolina, of course; for in that State, the slave population outnumbers the white And so of Louisiana, out of which every avowed Unionist has been driven by violence: more than had of her population are slaves. Charleston and New Orleans are the head-quarters of treason, because the head-quarters of slavery. Besides, do not the rebeis proclaim to the world that the issue they make is the perpetuation of their slave system and the overthrow of free government? Commend them for their openness: they avow just what they mean, and what they desire to accomplish. Now, then, for any party at the North to say, " Don't point at slavery as the source of the rebellion-it has nothing whatever to do with it-the Abolitionists are alone to be held responsible"-why, I have no words to express my contempt for such dissemblers. I brand them as worse than the rebels who are armed and equipped for the seizure of the Capital.
It is loudly vociferated in certain quarters, "This is not a war for the abolition of slavery, but solely to maintain the Union." Granted, ten thousand time over! I, as an Abolitionist, have never asserted the contrary. But the true issue is, in order that the Union may be perpetuated, shall not slavery, the cause of its dismemberment, be stricken down to the earth? The necessity is found in the present imperiled state of the Government, and in the fatal experiment of the past. There cannot again be a union of the States as it existed before the rebellion; for while I will not underrate Northern valor, but believe that Northern soldiers are competent to achieve anything that men can can do in the nature of things, I have no faith in the success of the army in its attempts subdue the South, while leaving slavery alive upon he soil. If any quarter is given to it, it seems to me the our defeat is just as certain in the end as that God reigns. We have got to make up our minds to one of three alternatives: either to be vanquished by the rebel forces, or to see the Southern Confederacy shortly acknowledged by the European powers; or else for self-preservation and to maintain its supremacy over the whole country, the Government must trans form every slave into a man and a freeman, henceforth to be protected as such under the national ensign (Applause.) The right of the Government to do this in the present fearful emergency, is unquestionable Has not slavery made itself an outlaw? And what claim has an outlaw upon the Constitution or the Union? Guilty of the blackest treason, what claims have the traitors upon the Government? Why, the claim to be hanged by the neck until they are "deal dead, dead" nothing else. (Applause.)
What sane man, what true patriot, wants the old Union restored-the Slave Oligarchy once more is power over the free States-Congress under slaveholding mastership-the army, navy, treasury, executive supreme court, all controlled by the traffickers in human flesh? No! No! Happily, the Government may now constitutionally do what until the secession is had not the power to do. For thirty years the Abolitionists have sent in their petitions to Congress, asking that body to abolish Slavery in the District of Columbia, to prevent the further extension of Slavery to repeal the Fugitive Slave Bill, &c., &c.; but not interfere with slavery in the Southern States We recognized the compact as it was made. But now, by their treasonable course, the slaveholders may no longer demand constitutional protection for their slave property. The old "covenant with death" should never have been made. Our fathers sinned-sinned grievously and inexcusably-when they consented to the hunting of fugitive slaves to a slave representation in Congress-to the prosecution of the foreign slave trade, under the national flag, for twenty years-to the suppression of slave insurrections by the whole power of the Government. I know the dire extremity in which they were placed-exhausted by a seven years' war, reduced to bankruptcy, bleeding at every pore, fearing that the colonies would be conquered in detail by England if they did not unite-it was a terrible temptation to compromise; but it does not exonerate them from guilt. The Union should not have been made upon such condition; but now that the South has trampled it under foot, it must not be restored as it was, even if it can be done. (Applause) But it cannot be done. There are two parties who will make such a reunion impossible: the first is the South the second, the North. Besides, what reliable guarantee could be given that, after coming back the South would not weeds within twenty four hours! The right to secede ad libitum is her cardinal doctrine Moreover, she declares that she has taken her leave of us forever; she will not unite with us on any terms.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Let me read you an extract from Jefferson Davis's last message to the Confederate Congress:-
"Not only do the causes which induced us to separate still last in full force, but they have been strengthened; and whatever doubt may have lingered on the minds of any, must have been completely dispelled by subsequent events. If, instead of being a dissolution of a league, it were indeed a rebellion in which we are engaged, we might feel ample vindication for the course we have adopted in the scenes which are now being enacted in the United States. Our people now look with contemptuous astonishment on those with whom they have been so recently associated. They shrink with aversion from the bare idea of renewing such a connection. With such a people we may be content to live at peace, but our separation is final, and for the independence we have asserted we will accept no alternative."
Now, this is open and above-board, and it ought to be resolutely met by the North in the glorious spirit of freedom, saying, "By the traitorous position you have assumed, you have put your slave system under the absolute control of the Government; and that you may be saved from destruction, as well as the country, we shall emancipate every slave in your possession." (Cheers.)
But-say the sham loyalists of the North, "there is no constitutional right or power to abolish slavery-it would be the overthrow of the Constitution if Congress or the President should dare to do it." This is nothing better than cant, and treason in disguise. I with an invading army of 150,000 men in Virginia? Is that constitutional? Did Virginia bargain for that when she entered the Union? By what right did we batter down the fort at Cape Hatteras? By what right do Northern soldiers "desecrate the sacred soil" of South Carolina by capturing Port Royal and occupying Beaufort? By what right has the Government half a million of troops, invading the South in every quarter, to kill, slay and destroy, to "cry havoc and let slip the dogs of war," for the purpose of bringing her subjection? Where is the right to do this to be found in the Constitution? Where is it! It is in this section- "CONGRESS SHALL HAVE POWER TO DECLARE WAR-"; and when war comes, then come the rules of war, and UNDER THE WAR POWER, Congress has a constitutional right to abolish slavery if it be necessary to save the Government and maintain the Union. (Loud applause.) On this point, what better authority do we want than that of John Quincy Adams? Hear what he says:-
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions and slavery among the rest; and that under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the President of the United States, but the commander of the army, has power to order the universal emancipation of the slaves.  From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, civil, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery, in every way in which it can be interfered with, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and must carry it on, according to the laws of war; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and martial power takes the place of them. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power so emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.
I hope Gen. McClellan, or President Lincoln, will soon be inclined to say "ditto" to John Quincy Adams. (Applause.) Commander-in-Chief of the army, by the law of nations and under the war power given by the Constitution, in this terrible emergency you have the right and glorious privilege to be the great deliverer of the millions in bondage, and the savior of your country! May you have the spirit to do it!
There are some well-meaning men who unreflectingly say that this is despotic power. But the exercise of a constitutional right is not despotism. What the people have provided to save the Government or the union is not despotism, but the concentration of extraordinary power for beneficent purposes. It is as much a constitutional act, therefore, for Gen. McClellan, or the President, or Congress, to declare slavery at an end in this country, as it is to march an army down into the South to subdue her-as it is to give shelter and freedom to the thousands of contrabands already set at liberty. The way is clear; and under these circumstances, how tremendous will be the guilt of the Government if it refuses to improve this marvellous opportunity to do a magnificent work of justice to one seventh portion of our whole population-to do no evil to the South, but to bestow upon her a priceless blessing, and thereby perpetuate all that is priceless blessing, and thereby perpetuate all that is precious in our free institutions! I would rather take my chance at the judgment-seat of God with Pharaoh than with Abraham Lincoln, if he do not, as President of the United States, in this solemn exigency, let the people go. (Applause.)He has the power-he has the right. The capital is virtually in a state of siege-the rebels are strong, confident, defiant-scarcely any progress has been made in quelling the rebellion. We do not know where we are, or what is before us. Already hundreds of millions of dollars in debt-blood flowing freely, but in vain-the danger of the speedy recognition of the Southern Confederacy by European Powers imminent-what valid excuse can the Government give for hesitating under such a pressure? And when you consider that slavery,-which, in itself, is full of weakness and danger to the South,-is, by the forbearance of the Government, made a formidable power in the hands of the rebels for its overthrow, you perceive there is a pressing reason why there should be no delay. 
Only think of it! Our colored population bond and free, could furnish an army of a million men, from 18 to 45 years of age: and yet, not one of them is allowed to shoulder a musket! There are in slavery more than eight hundred thousand men, capable of bearing arms-a number larger than the two great hostile armies already in the field. They are at the service of the Government whenever it will accept them as free and loyal inhabitants. (Applause.)It will not accept them! But the rebel slaveholders are mustering them in companies and regiments, and they are showing down Northern men, and in every way giving strength and success to the rebellion. Slavery is a thunderbolt in the hands of the traitors to smite the Government to the dust. That thunderbolt might be seized and turned against the rebellion with fatal effect and at the same time without injury to the South. My heart glows when I think of the good thus to he done to the oppressors as well as to the oppressed; for I could not stand here, I could not stand anywhere and advocate vindictive and destructive measures to bring the rebels to terms. I do not believe in killing or doing injury even to enemies-God forbid! That is not my Christian philosophy. But I do say, that never before in the history of the world has God vouchsafed to a Government the power to do such a work of philanthropy and justice, in the extremity of its danger and for self-preservation, as he now grants to this Government. Emancipation is to destroy nothing but evil; it is to establish good; it is to transform human beings from things in to men; is to transform human beings from things into men; it is to make freedom, and education, and invention, and enterprise, and prosperity, and peace, and a true Union possible and sure. Redeemed from the curse of slavery, the South shall in due time be as the garden of God. Though driven to the wall and reduced to great extremity by this rebellion, still we hold off, hold off, hold off, and reluctantly say, at last, if it must be so, but only to save ourselves from destruction, we will do this rebellious South the most beneficent act that any people ever yet did-one that will secure historic renown for the Administration, make this struggle memorable in all ages, and bring down upon the land the benediction of God! But we will not do this, if we can possibly avoid it! Now, for myself, both as an act of justice to the oppressed and to serve the cause of freedom universally, I want the Government to be in haste to blow the trump of jubilee. I desire to bless and not curse the South-to make her prosperous and happy by substituting free institutions for her leprous system of slavery. I am as much interested in the safety and welfare of the slaveholders, as brother men, as I am in the liberation of their poor.
<c02>
Slaves: for we are all the children of God, and should strive to promote the happiness of all. I desire that the mission of Jesus, "Peace on earth, good will to men," may be fulfilled in this and in every land.
Bear in mind that the colored people have always been loyal to the country. You never heard of a traitor among them, when left to freedom of choice. Is it not most humiliating-ought we not to blush for shame-when we remember what we have done to them, and what they have done for us? In your Revolutionary struggle they freely participated, and helped to win our national independence. The first patriotic blood that stained the pavements of Boston, in 1770, was that of Crispus Attacks, a black man. It was Peter Salem, a black man, who shot the British leader, Major Pitcairn, as, storming the breastworks at Bunker Hill, he exclaimed, "The day is ours!" Throughout that memorable struggle, the colored men were ever ready to pour out their blood and lay down their lives to secure the liberties we now enjoy; and they were admitted to have been among the bravest of the brave. In the war of 1812, when New Orleans was threatened by a formidable British force, do you remember what Gen. Jackson said when he needed their help? He did not scorn them in the hour of peril: far from it. This was his proclamation:-
"HEADQUARTERS, SEVENTH MILITARY DISTRICT,
 MOBILE, Sept, 21, 1814.
To the Free Colors Inhabitants of Louisiana:
Through a mistaken policy, you have been heretofore deprived of a participation in the glorious struggle for national rights in which this country in engaged. This no longer shall exist.
As sons of freedom, you are now called upon to defend our most inestimable blessings. As Americans, your country looks with confidence to her adopted children for a valorous support, as a faithful return for the advantages enjoyed under her mild and equitable Government. As fathers, husbands and brothers, you are summered to rally round the standard of the eagle, to defend all which is dear in existence.
Your country, although calling for your exertions, does not wish you to engage in her cause without remunerating you far the services rendered. Your intelligent minds are not to be led away by false representations. Your love of honor would cause you to despise the man who should attempt to deceive you. With the sincerity of a soldier and the language of truth I address you.
To every noble-hearted freeman of color volunteering to serve during the present contest with Great Britain, and no longer, there will be paid the same bounty, in money and lands, now received by the white soldiers of the United States, viz.: one hundred and sixty acres of land. The non-commissioned officers and sixty will also be entitled to the same monthly pay, daily rations and clothes, furnished to any American soldier.
As a distinct, independent battalion or regiment, pursuing the path of glory, you will, undivided, receive the applause and gratitude of your countrymen." 
Then again, after the struggle, he addressed them as follows:-
"SOLDIERS! When on the banks of the Mobile, I called upon you to take up arms, inviting you to partake of the perils and glory of your white fellow-citizens, I expected much from you; for I must not ignorant that you possessed qualities most formidable to an invading enemy. I knew with what fortitude you could overcome hunger and thirst, and all the fatigues of a campaign. I knew well how you loved your native country, and that you, as well as ourselves, had to defend what man holds most dear-his parents, wife, children and property. You have done more than I expected. In addition to the previous qualities I before knew you to possess, I have found among you a noble enthusiasm, which leads to the performance of great things."
What a splendid tribute!- "I expected much from you, but you have done more than I expected"!
I do not believe in war, but I do say that, if any class of men, being grievously oppressed, ever had the right to seize deadly weapons, and smite their oppressors to the dust, then all men have the same right. (Applause.) "A man's a man, for a’ that." If the right of bloody resistance is in proportion to the amount of oppression inflicted, then no people living would be so justified before heaven and earth in resisting unto blood as the Southern slaves. By that rule, any Nat Turner has a right to parody the famous Marsellaise, and, addressing his suffering associates. exclaim:-
"Ye fettered slaves! awake to glory!
Hark! hark! what inyriads bid you rise!
Your children, wives, and grandsires hoary,
Behold their tears and hear their cries!
To arms, to arms, ye brave!
The patriot sword unsheath!
March on, march on, all hearts resolved
On liberty or death!"
Thus do I vindicate the equal humanity of the slaves. Let them be emancipated under law as the flag of the Union goes forward, and they will behave as well as any other class. They are not a blood-thirsty race; they are calumniators who make this charge. The Anglo-Saxon race are far more vindictive and revengeful; but the African race are peculiarly mild, gentle, forbearing, forgiving. So much indeed do they dread to shed blood, that they cannot successfully conspire to throw off the yoke without some desires to shield his master or mistress from harm, reveals the secret! When they are set free and protected as free men by the Government, there will be little need of a Northern army at the South; for they little need of a Northern army at the South; for they will take care of the rebel slaveholders, and the rebellion will speedily collapse. (Applause.)
It is further said, by way of intimidation, that if the Government proclaim emancipation, a large portion of the officers in the army will instantly resign, and the army itself be broken up. Then they will be guilty of treason. [A Voice-"They ought to be hanged."] If such are the officers and such the soldiers, then the army is filled with traitors. But I believe the imputation to be as false as the prediction is intended to be mischievous.
There is no squeamishness at the South, on the part of the rebels, in making use of the slaves to carry on their treasonable purposes. They are used in every way, not merely to provide food and raise cotton, but to make rifle-pits, construct batteries, and perform military service. There are two regiments of black soldiers at Centerville, with more than a thousand men each, compelled to engage in the work of butchering those who are loyal to the? Union! Yet the government can have them all any hour it chooses to ensure their liberty. Refusing to do this, is not the Government itself practically guilty of treason to that extent, and making its overthrow doubly sure? This is a serious inquiry, and it ought to be answered in a serious manner.
The worst traitors are those who claim an exemption for the rebels from loss of slave property which the rebels themselves do not demand. I turn to the latter, and ask., "Do you claim anything of us?" "Nothing except to hate and spurn you." "Do you claim anything of the Constitution?" "Nothing, except the right to trample it beneath our feet." "Do you deny that we have a right to abolish slavery, if we can, since you have treasonably withdrawn from the Union?" "No-we do not deny it; we counted the cost of secession, and took all the risk; you have not only the right, as a war power, to liberate every slave in our possession, but, [aside] if you are not idiots, you will do so without delay." What if they had a similar advantage on their side? What if there were eight hundred thousand men at the North, qualified to bear arms, who, at a signal, could be made to cooperation for the triumph of secession? Do you suppose they would allow such an opportunity to pass unimproved for one moment? If they do not pretend to have any rights under the old Constitution, are they not more to be detested than the rebels who, here at the North, still insist that they have forfeited none of their rights as slaveholders under that instrument?
This struggle can be happily terminated only in one way-by putting "FREEDOM FOR ALL" on our banner. We may then challenge and shall receive the admiration and support of the civilized world. We shall not then be in any danger from abroad. No-although England has seemed to be hot, and combative, and inclining southward; although the English government has taken us at disadvantage, with a menacing aspect, in the Mason and Slidell affair; and although the London Times and other venal presses, bribed with secession gold, have indulged in contemptuous and bullying language towards the American Government; yet I think I know something of the English heart-and I hesitate not to say that, in spite of all these unfriendly demonstrations, the heart
<c03>
of the English people, the bone and muscle and moral force of the nation, beats sympathizingly with the North, rather than with the South; (applause)- though we have not secured that sympathy to the full extent, because of the manner in which we have dealt with the slavery question. I will venture to say, that any Northern man, intelligent and qualified to address a public assembly, may travel from "the Land's End to John o' Groat's House," and wherever he shall meet a popular assembly, and fairly present the issue now pending before them, so that they can understand it, he will "bring down the house" over­whelmingly in support of the Government, and against the traitorous Secessionists. (Loud applause.)
Shall I refer to one representative man of the middle classes, JOHN Bright-(reiterated and long-continued applause)-whose recent masterly analysis of this tangled American question, before his constituents at Rochdale, will brighten his name and fame as the discriminating, fearless and eloquent champion of freedom at borne and abroad! He represents the people of England, in the best meaning of that word. RICHARD COBDEN, too, stands by his side, and renders the same enlightened verdict. (Applause.) And on that side of the Atlantic, there is not a more firm, faithful and earnest supporter of this Government, in its struggle to uphold the democratic theory, and to put down the tory sentiment of the South,-for slavery is toryism run to seed,-than the calumniated but eloquent and peerless advocate of negro emancipation, GEORGE THOMPSON. (Cheers.)
Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you a thousand times over for your patient indulgence in so protracted a speech, and for the approval you have bestowed upon my sentiments. We will go forward in the name of God, in the spirit of liberty, determined to have a country, and a whole country-a Constitution, and a free Constitution-a Union, and a just and glorious Union, that shall endure to the latest posterity; and when we shall see this civil war ended, every bondman set free, and universal liberty prevailing from the Atlantic to the Pacific, we may exultingly repeat the language of one,* who, in his youthful days, seemed to have the flame of liberty brightly burning in his soul-
"Then hail the day when o'er our land
The sun of freedom shone;
When, dimmed and sunk in Eastern skies,
He rose upon our own,
To chase the night of slavery,
And wake the slumbering free!
May his light shine more bright,
May his orb roll sublime,
Till it warm every clime,
And illume from sea to sea!"-(Applause.)
CALEB CUSHING.
On Sunday morning, 12th inst., Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, after notifying his congregation of Mr. Garrison's lecture at the Cooper Institute, made the following generous observations:-
"The lecture will be on a rather novel subject for Mr. Garrison: that is to say, on Abolitionism, the Abolitionists, and their Relations to the War. Probably, outside of the Indians, there is not a man, woman or child on this continent who has not heard that man's name, and heard it cursed. If there ever was a man who, by other men's speeches, has been set upon and trodden down into the mire, it is William Lloyd Garrison. It seems a little unmanly for me to speak in his favor now, when all the community are beginning to have some sense of that heroism which has sustained him against the most violent public opinion, in the Church and out of the Church, in the State and out of the State, for more than thirty years. I recollect that twelve or thirteen years ago, when Abolitionism was not so popular as now, and when no man thought it right to express a dislike of slavery, without first preparing the car by cursing the Abolitionists. I recollect that at that far-away period, I took occasion, much to the distaste of many of you (for then you were in a very different state of mind from that in which you are now, on this subject), to say that I thought this man heroic; that I admired him all the more because I did not agree with his extreme methods. I agree with Mr. Garrison in the life-long hatred that he holds toward every form of oppression. I agree with him in every letter and punctuation of his belief, that the Bible abhors slavery, from end to end. I agree wholly with him in this, that every man who is a man ought to give whatever influence he has, of head, and heart, and money, and power, to the extinction of slavery. In regard to the practical modes and instruments by which slavery is to be reached and extinguished, and almost only in that regard, have I had occasion to differ from Mr. Garrison. But after all, differences among men as to the mere methods of carrying out principles are nothing in comparison with the value of the principles themselves. This man has stood fearless and faithful amid universal defections for many years; but the days are soon coming when men will mention his name only with praise."
GARRISON IN NEW YORK. The Nestor of Abolitionism was greeted with a hearty welcome at the Cooper Institute, on Tuesday evening last. The audience, which consisted of over a thousand persons, was one of evidently superior intelligence and refinement, quite a large proportion of whom were ladies. The clergy were sparingly represented by Dr. Tyng and some ten or twelve others whom we observed among the auditors. The lecture occupied an hour and a half, but in consequence of the numerous cries of "Go on," the speaker was induced to prolong his remarks. The lecture was a highly patriotic one, and has, we doubt not, disarmed considerable of the prejudice which has been industriously propagated against Mr. Garrison and Abolitionists generally.-American Baptist.
LIFE AND LETTERS OF JOHN BROWN
WAYLAND, Jan. 15, 1862.
DEAR FRIEND MAY:
I cannot thank you too warmly for the copy of "John Brown's Life and Letters," edited by our highly esteemed friend, Richard D. Webb. It is a book to do good through all coming tune. It is impossible to read it without being inspired with firmer trust in God, and a deeper sense of obligation to all our brethren of the human race.
The Life of John Brown, as presented in this volume, is a perpetual Hymn to God; simple, grand, and strong, like "Old Hundred." No discordant note jars on the ear throughout. The religious, moral and domestic character of the old hero predominates over all other traits; and this is the true point of view from which to judge of him. His wife, conversing with a friend, soon after his death, said, "I am sorry they say so much about him as a fighter. He believed that God called him to serve the oppressed in that way; but fighting was not all there was to my husband."
Frederic Brown expressed a similar idea to me. He said that his brother John was very kind-hearted; that he never shot even a bird; that in fact he believed he never had a gun in his house, or knew how to discharge one, till he began to feel it his duty to arm in aid of Kansas.
His character, as presented in this volume, in its just and true proportions, inspires me with more reverence and admiration than I ever experienced from the contemplation of any character in history. I know of no book I should be more desirous to place in libraries throughout the country, as a model of manhood for the benefit of coming generations.
L. MARIA CHILD.
In a private letter from Mrs. L. MARIA Child, she says:-
"I am rejoiced beyond measure that the war with England is averted. The prospect of it drove me almost to despair. Whether international law had been violated or not, was a question for lawyers to settle. Since the lawyers and statesmen, both of England and France, decided that it had been violated, and since; our own statesmen could not disprove it, it was plainly right on our part to admit that Capt. Wilkes had made a mistake. It would have been worse than foolish to have gone to blowing out brains to show that we were not afraid to fight. I have no doubt that England wants to get into a war with us, but she must; be very careful now to have an adequate cause, or the whole world will judge her to be clearly in the wrong. That seems to me a great advantage gained by our! concession to her claims.
What a magnificent speech is that of Kansas Conway! It seems to me one of the very best I ever read. I also greatly admired Boutwell's speech before
<c04>
the Emancipation League. The spirit was excellent, the views comprehensive, the statements clear and conclusive. His plans for the campaign struck me as very judicious and practical. Ah! if we only had such a mind at the head of affairs!"
THE EMANCIPATION LEAGUE.
DR. CHEEVER'S LECTURE.
The object of this League is to urge upon the People and the Government Emancipation of the Slaves, as a measure of justice, and as a military necessity. The lecture of Dr. Cheever, in the Tremont Temple last week, was the first of a course of six, to be given under the direction of the League, in Bos­ton. Its subject was "The Necessity of Emancipation."
The lecturer declared his conviction that if we do not emancipate, we cannot conquer; and that if we do not conquer thoroughly and entirely, we are lost.
In this war there have already been several op­portunities eminently favorable for the adoption of such a policy, and a speedy end might have been put to the rebellion had the Government chosen to meet it in this manner. When Fort Sumter was surrendered, a proclamation of emancipation would have been received with approbation throughout the North. But the Government wanted to conciliate the border States, and so dared not touch the question of slavery. The Hatteras expedition failed from the same cause; the neglect of a vigorous pushing of the first success, an immediate occupation of the adjacent country, and a summoning of the slaves of rebels to seek protection and take service with the United States. The treatment of Fremont by the Administration was yet worse. He would have done the work but for its active interference to forbid the only right policy. And the success at Port Royal might have had results unspeakably more damaging to the rebels and beneficial to the country, had it not been curbed by tenderness for the Slave Power.
Justice to the slaves, and wisdom for ourselves, alike demand that they shall be set free. If John Brown had commanded the Beaufort expedition, (here, at the suggestion of a gentleman on the plat­form, the audience gave three energetic cheers for John Brown,) he would have swept the State of South Carolina before this time, and would have doubled his own force by freeing the slaves.
Dr. Cheever declared, that by refraining from this policy, our Government had brought upon itself and the country two very great evils; at once chilling the enthusiasm of the North, and losing the sympathy and aid which we might have had from Europe.
He urged in a most forcible and convincing manner that, by the act and process of the rebellion itself, the slaves of the rebels had become free; that, as far as they are concerned, no additional legislation is needed; that no barrier of law now prevents their using their freedom in any honest way; that in the Beaufort district, and elsewhere where their masters have become fugitives from them, they may properly hold and possess the lands on which they have always worked, the ownership of which those masters have lost in law by their rebellion; that the feelings of justice and humanity should lead all Northern men to help them to establish themselves securely in this relation, and that self-interest joins with justice in urging the U. S. Government to favor, protect and help them.
Dr. Cheever showed most conclusively that no position of the Constitution warranted the Government in viewing or treating these men, hitherto held as slaves by rebels, in any other manner than as free men and citizens; that the Government have no right to take possession of them, or transfer them, or remove them, or make any compulsory arrangements for them whatever, least of all to hold them in trust for the rebel masters, or offer the renewed possession of them as a bribe for the return of those masters to loyalty; that, the rebel States having taken themselves, with their laws and institutions, out from allegiance to this Government, and devoted themselves to the service of another Government, the state of slavery, as far as our administration has to do with them, falls, and is annihilated; and that every consideration of interest, honor, justice and humanity now calls upon our civil authority to protect and encourage its free black citizens in those States.
The lecture was a vigorous and excellent one, and the audience gave it enthusiastic applause.
The second lecture of this course,-a forcible and admirable argument for emancipation,-was given by Orestes A. BROWNSON. He frankly admitted the very great difference between his present position and that which he had held for many previous years. He had never loved slavery, but had been willing to spare it for the sake of the Constitution, while the slave­holders were loyal to that instrument. Now that they are open rebels, they have utterly forfeited not only what advantage the Constitution formerly gave them, but all consideration and advantage whatever. As he had opposed abolition for the sake of the Union in former years, so, to preserve the Union, in our altered circumstances, he would now favor the abolition of slavery. It is certainly not abolitionism which now endangers the Union.
He urged the abolition of slavery, first as a matter of military necessity for the complete overthrow of the rebellion, next as a measure of justice to the slave, and still more as a necessity of the slaveholder. He looked upon the Union in its old form as gone, and had no wish that that form of it should be revived. The point in hand now is to save the life and integrity of! the nation. We have now to prove whether we are a nation, and when that question shall be settled, we may hope to establish a better Union.
The rebellion gives us the right to abolish slavery. Let it be abolished, not only because that measure is just in itself, but because it is the best and speediest method of quelling the rebellion. If we pretend to make war at all, let us do it vigorously and thoroughly. There has been too much false tenderness in this matter, too much precaution to carry on the war in such a manner as not to hurt anybody's feelings, especially if he is a traitor. The poorest and most in­human method of making war is to conduct it on peace principles. Let the Government proclaim the negroes free, and call on them to aid the Government. A man's complexion forms not the slightest reason against the concession to him of every human right, including citizenship. It is simply justice to the slave that he be made free. He was born of the same race as ourselves, and redeemed by the same Savior, and is destined to the same beatitude hereafter. People who talk this way have been called fanatics, but the earnest man is always a fanatic to the lukewarm. Right and wrong depend not on majorities. God will assuredly secure the triumph of the right.-C. K. W. 
Our paper goes to press too early (if we had room, which we have not) to give any sketch of the doings at the Ladies' Anti-Slavery Subscription Anni­versary, at Music Hall, on Wednesday evening; or at the annual meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society at Allston Hall on Thursday. Two additional sessions will be held this day, (Friday,) at Allston Hall; in the evening, at Music Hall, to be addressed by Wendell Phillips, Rev. Mr. Manning, Rev. Mr. Miner, and others. Admission fee in the evening, 10 cents.
Our friends, who are visiting the city this week, will doubtless be glad to be reminded of the new Life of Captain John Brows, by Richard D. Webb, some copies of which still remain for sale at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street.
YOUTH'S CASKET AND PLAYMATE; a Magazine for Boys and Girls. Filled with interesting and instructive matter, and published monthly. Each number, besides containing excellent stories, has a page devo­ted to Enigmas, Charades, Conundrums, &c. It is edited by Mark Forrester, and published by William Guild & Co., 5 Water street, Boston. Terms-$1 a year, if paid in advance, $1.25, if not.
<c05>
DEATH OF MR. FRANCIS TODD. The death of Mr. Francis Todd, of Newburyport, Mass., was announced, last month, at the age of 83. Mr. Todd was, we be-Here, a worthy man in the ordinary relations of life, beloved, no doubt, by his friends, and respected by his fellow-citizens. A single act of his life, however, gives his name a place in history, but for which be would never have been heard of beyond his narrow world of Newburyport. Thirty years ago, while Mr. Todd was an influential citizen and a prosperous merchant of large means, another native of Newburyport, who had struggled along in the world, with little aid, and against many obstacles, poor and unknown, was at work as a printer in Baltimore. His name was Garrison. In 1829 he became associated with Benjamin Lundy in conducting a little dingy sheet called The Genius of Universal Emancipation, a paper representing the Anti-Slavery party of that day. It happened that the ship Francis, of Newburyport, came to Baltimore, where she took on board a cargo of slaves for New Orleans and a market Whether it was that Garrison was moved by the fact that the ship, engaged in such infamous business, came from his native town, or whether because for that reason it came specially to his knowledge, he denounced it as "domestic piracy," and declared that he would "cover with thick infamy" all concerned in it. But the great Newburyport merchant was not disposed to submit to such criticism upon his conduct, and thereupon he brought an action of libel against the young printer; and, although it was shown by the Custom House returns that the Francis was engaged in the domestic slave-trade, and carried more slaves than Garrison had asserted, yet a Baltimore jury found him guilty of libel in denouncing such business as infamous and piratical, and in de fault of payment of a fine of $50 and costs of Court, he was committed to jail. Here he remained 49 days, till Arthur Tappan, of New York, hearing of the case, paid fine and costs, and released him. But this did not satisfy Todd. He brought a civil suit against Garrison, and obtained a verdict of $1,000 against him. As he probably only wanted to establish the fact that to engage in the domestic slave-trade was perfectly honorable, and that his own character was unsullied, the damages of $1,000 was never exacted. So Mr. Todd takes his niche in history.-New York Tribune.
FEDERAL VICTORY IN KENTUCKY. A battle was fought at Somerset, Ky., on Sunday last, between the rebel forces under Zollicoffer, and the Federal troops commanded by Gen. Schoeff, which resulted in the utter rout of the rebels, after a fight lasting all day. The attack was made by the rebel troops, but they were beaten off, with heavy loss, and compelled to retreat, leaving all their artillery, horses, ammunition, camp equipage, &c., in the hands of the Union forces, Gen. Zollicoffer was among the killed. The loss on the Union side is supposed to have been considerable, but the details have not yet been received. The tenor of all the official despatches indicates that the battle resulted in the most brilliant victory of the war. No prominent officers on our side were killed.
NEGROES FIGHTING ON THE UNION SIDE. The Martinsburg (Va.) Republican, of the 11th, appeals to the Governor to arm the negroes, saying, that at the late battle near Bath, the rebels were met by 700 negroes on the Union Ride, who killed three rebel officers, two privates, and wounded 50 members of the German Southern regiment.
STEPPING INTO THE SHOES OF SLAVES. A deserter from the rebel army makes the ominous statement that the slaves of Richmond in many instances are compelled to give up their shoes to the soldiers, and go barefoot.
We are informed that numerous houses and barns, belonging to residents of Henry county, have recently been fired and burned to the ground by the negroes, and that in consequence a general feeling of insecurity prevails throughout the entire community.-Frankfort (Ky.) Yeoman.
The Russian army at the present time is about 850,000; the Austrian, 740,000; the Prussian, 720,000; the French, 826,000; the English pretend to muster 534,000, but this includes 218,000 blacks in India, 18,000 Colonists, 64,000 military and yeomanry, 140,000 volunteers, 15,000 pensioners, and 12,000 constables.
We have a large number of communications on hand, unable to find room for them in the present crowded state our columns. Have patience, one and all!
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS.
Though by the terms of the Liberator, payment for the paper should be made in advance, yet it has not only not been insisted upon, but an indulgence of thirteen months has hitherto been granted delinquent subscribers, before proceeding (always, of course, with great reluctance) to erase their names from the subscription list, in accordance with the STANDING RULE laid down by the Financial Committee. But, in consequence of the generally depressed state of business, this indulgence will he extended from January 1, 1861, to April 1, 1862, in cases of necessity. We trust no advantage will be taken of this extension on the part of those who have usually been prompt in complying with our terms-payment in advance.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
NEW YORK STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The Sixth Annual Anti-Slavery Convention for the State of New York will be held in ALBANY, at Association Hall, on FRIDAY and SATURDAY, February 7th and 8th, commencing at 10 1-2 o'clock, A. M. Three sessions will be held each day.
The exigencies of the slave's cause in the present National crisis call for a full representation at this Convention of the friends of freedom from all parts of the State. During the past year, the slave States have dissolved the Federal Union, repudiated the United States Constitution, and organized a gigantic conspiracy in the name of a new Confederacy, the chief stone in the corner of which, it is avowed, is Human Slavery. The Federal Government, which began its career by fatal concessions to slaveholding barbarism, and has since been disgraced and weakened by numerous like concessions, until now its very existence is imperilled by the same aggressive, unscrupulous power, is still administered in a spirit of suicidal submission to the unrighteous dictation of slaveholders. Though there has been a great and most gratifying increase of anti-slavery sentiment since the outbreak of the rebellion, and a strong tide of opposition to slavery is steadily rising among the people of the North, still, in our midst, the enemies of impartial liberty, and of a truly republican government, masked under professions of loyalty, are not a few. It is no time, therefore, for Abolitionists to relax their efforts, but rather is increased fidelity called for. Special earnestness and activity are yet demanded of every friend of freedom, and of just government, to secure the speedy abolition of slavery under the war power. The present and future well-being of not only four millions of slaves, but of every inhabitant of the land, is at stake. The dangerous and fatal spell of submission to slavery must now be broken, the slaves rescued from the vile grasp of traitorous oppressors, and thus, justice having been done, an abiding peace ensue. Let all who possibly can come to the approaching annual Convention, and contribute by personal presence, and wise counsel, to render its influence mighty and effective in the service of the sacred cause of liberty.
[The names of the speakers who will attend the Convention,-among whom are confidently expected Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Parker Pillsbury and Theodore Tilton,-will be announced hereafter.]
In behalf of the Committee of Arrangements,
A. M. POWELL. 
EMANCIPATION LEAGUE.
That the people may have an opportunity to examine the reasons presented in this crisis of oar country's affairs for emancipating the slaves,
A COURSE OF SIX LECTURES
will be delivered, under the auspices of the Emancipation League, in.
TREMONT TEMPLE,
as follows:
Wednesday, Jan. 29, by M. D. COS WAY, a native of Virginia.
Subject-"Liberty, challenged by Slavery, has the right to choose the weapon. Liberty's true weapon is Freedom."
Wednesday, Feb. 5th, by FREDERIC DOUGLASS.
Subject-"The Black Man's Future la the Southern States."
Wednesday, Feb. 12th, (to be announced.)
Wednesday, Feb. 19th, (to be announced.)
Organist - - JOHN S. WRIGHT.
Tickets, admitting a gentleman and lady to the course, $1, for sale by James M. Stone, 22 Bromfield street, and by J. H. Stephenson, 53 Federal street, and at Tremont Temple.
Doors open at 6 1-2 o'clock, and the Lectures will commence at 7 1-2 o'clock.
<c06>
AARON M. POWELL, Agent of the American A. S. Society, will speak at the following places in the State of New York:-
Verbank, Friday, Jan. 24.
Washington Hollow, Sunday, Jan. 26.
Clinton Hollow, Tuesday, Jan. 28.
Salt Point, Thursday. Jan. 30.
Pleasant Valley. Saturday. Feb. 1.
SOUTH ABINGTON-PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in South Abington, on Tuesday evening. 28th inst., at 7 o'clock. Subject, (by request)-"The Philosophy of the Anti-slavery Movement."
NORTH BRIDGEWATER-PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in North Bridgewater, on Thursday evening, 30th inst., at 7 o'clock.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
Reference-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patent of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the beat combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts
Charitable Mechanic Association.
"FOUR PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These together with Parker's improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, positive and complete. The apparatus for guaging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account."
PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES have many qualities that recommend them to use in families. The several parts are pinned together, so that it is always adjusted and ready for work, and not liable to get out of repair. It is the best finished, and most firmly and substantially made machine in the Fair. Its motions are all positive, its tension easily adjusted, and it leaves no ridge on the back of the work. It will hem, fell, stitch, run, bind and gather, and the work cannot be ripped, except designedly. It sews from common spools, with silk, linen or cotton, with equal facility. The stitch made upon this machine was recently awarded the first prize at the Tennessee State Fair, for its superiority.-Boston Traveller.
We would call the attention of our readers to the advertisement, in another column, of the Parker Sewing Machine. This is a licensed machine, being a combination of the various patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, with those of the Parker Sewing Machine Company: consequently, it has the advantage of such machines-first, in being a licensed machine; second, from the fact that it embraces all of the most important improvements which have heretofore been made in Sewing Machines; third, it requires no readjustment, all the various parts being made right and pinned together, instead of being adjusted by screws, thus avoiding all liability of getting out of order without actually breaking them; and also the necessity of the purchaser learning, as with others, how to regulate all the various motions to the machine. The favor with which the Parker Sewing Machine has already been received by the public warrants us in the belief that it is by far the best machine now in market.-
South Reading Gazette, Nov. 24, 1860.
THE PARKER SEWING MACHINE is taking the lead in the market. For beauty and finish of its workmanship, it cannot be excelled. It is well and strongly made-strength and utility combined-and is emphatically the cheapest and best machine now made. The ladies are delighted with it, and when consulted, invariably give Parker's machine the preference over all others. We are pleased to learn that the gentlemanly Agent, GEORGE. LEONARD, 188 Washington street, Boston, has a large number of orders for these machines, and sells them as fast as they can be manufactured, notwithstanding the dullness of the times, and while other manufacturers have almost wholly suspended operations. This fact, of itself, speaks more strongly in its favor than any thing we can mention; for were it not for its superior merits, it would have suffered from the general depression, instead of flourishing among the wrecks of its rivals. What we tell you is no fiction; but go and buy one of them, and you will say that "half of its good qualities had never been told you." Every man who regards the health and happiness of his wife should buy one of these machines to assist her in lessening life's toilsome task.-Marlboro' Gazette, July 13, 1861.
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that-she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure is nine cases oak of ton, as she has for many yean made the hair her study, and is sore there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases, She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.
No. 31 Winter Street. Boston.
Dec. 20
The Life and Letters of
CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN,
WHO was Executed at Charlestown, Virginia, December 2. 1859. for an Armed Attack upon American Slavery: with Notices of some of his Confederates. Edited by Richard D. WEBB.- This very valuable and interesting work, which has met with a most favorable reception and ready sale in England, has been carefully prepared by one of the most intelligent and experienced friends of America in the old world. For sale at the Anti-Slavery Office in Boston, 221 Washington street. Room No. 6. Also in New York, at No. 5 Bookman street; and in Philadelphia, at No. 106 North Tenth street.
Diseases of Women and Children.
WM. SYMINGTON BROWN, M. D., and MRS. MARGARET B. BROWN, Accoucheuse,
HAVE opened an office at 274 Washington-Street, Boston, and will devote special attention to the treatment of the above diseases.
Office Hours, from 10, a. m., to 4, p. m.
Boston, Oct 4, 1861. 3m
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
JONATHAN'S APPEAL TO CAROLINE;
OR,
Mr. North to Madam South.
AIR-Jeannette and Jeannot. 
I. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
You are going far away, far away, my little pet;
There's do one left to love me now-oh, darling! you forget 
How I've always bowed to you, let you always have your way; 
Now, dearest, don't ungrateful be, and tear yourself away!- 
Think of all I've sacrificed, just for you to keep your slaves, 
And to increase your wealth and power, and make your children knaves;- 
Think, too, how I have compromised, every time you wished you know: 
Carolina, 'tis a shame to treat your loving Johnny so!
II.
Only think the gold I paid, buying all your lands and State,
And then pursued the Seminole with war and deadly hate;
Texas, too, I bought with blood, besides a heap of gold,
Because you mean that men shall be like cattle bought and sold: 
Then I've carried all your mails, letters, papers, all for you,
And from my pocket I have paid most of your postage, too;
Then to think how you have ruled, in Congress, Church and State, 
And always had your President, nor cared to please your mate.
III.
Now because, for once, my votes outdo all your swindling plan, 
You mean to break the Union up, and do what harm you can! 
Think to please you how I worked, down upon my knees I've toiled, 
While for my sake you've never once your dainty fingers soiled. 
Then you've called me wicked names, Yankee mudsill, farmer small, 
And yet I have a Christian been, and borne in meekness all; 
Yes, you know I've borne all this, and a thousand other ills, 
Just to live in peace with you, and run my cotton mills.
IV.
Then, you know, I've active been, mobbing preachers; if they dared 
Say aught against your darling sin, bard was the fate they shared: 
Then to think I've caught your slaves, when they tried to run away,
And never let them stop to rest this tide of Canada! 
Now it really makes me mad to think how foolish I have been, 
How for your sake I've lost my peace, and steeped my soul in sin! 
And yet you have a traitor proved, and stole my guns away; 
But as I have a few more left, I guess I'll stop your play!
V.
Madam, you will trouble see unless your temper soon is mended, 
And much you'll wish you'd stayed with me, before the war is ended; 
But at you the war have brought, blame yourself for all the sorrow 
That now enshrouds all hearts and homes, and fills our land with horror. 
Though I fight but for the laws, stand on the Constitution, 
Yet blame yourself if, midst the crash, down comes your institution;
And devoutly good men pray for such a consummation, 
And wise ones say peace cannot come but by emancipation.
VI.
Carolina, don't you see that we both have blinded been 
To think that God would always smile upon our nation's sin? 
Read the names of nations lost!-once they built their Babel towers, 
But sin hath swept them from the earth: will justice pass by ours? 
Madam,I am half inclined to think that good men see aright, 
That naught but justice to the slave will bring our nation light. 
God of justice, grant me sight, show to me thy path more clear, 
And grant me strength to walk therein, untrammelled, too, by fear! 
MARY STODDARD. 
From the Atlantic Monthly for February.
BATTLE HYMN OF THE REPUBLIC.
BY MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE.
Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord: 
He is trampling out the vintage where the grapes of wrath are stored; 
He hath loosed the fateful lightning of His terrible swift sword:
His truth is marching on.
I have seen him in the watch-fires of a hundred circling camps; 
They have builded Him an altar in the evening dews and damps; 
I have read His righteous sentence by the dim and flaring lamps:
His day is marching on.
I have read a fiery gospel writ in burnished rows of steel: 
"As ye deal with my contemners, so with you my grace shall deal;
Let the Hero, born of woman, crush the serpent with his heel, Since God is marching on."
He has sounded forth the trumpet that shall never call retreat;
He is sifting out the hearts of men before His judgment-seat:
Oh, be swift, my soul, to answer Him! be jubilant, my feet! Our God is marching on.
In the beauty of the lilies Christ was born across the sea,
With a glory in his bosom that transfigures you and me: 
As he died to make men holy, let us die to make men free,
While God it marching on.
From the American Baptist.
OUR FATHERLAND.
BY CRAMMOND KENNEDY.
We love our glorious fatherland, 
The master-work of Freedom's hand; 
Yea, thou of every land the trust, 
We love her very stones and dust. 
Oh! let Thy love to her flow down, 
And be of liberty the crown! 
Our mountains stand, colossal throngs; 
Our rivers flow, like heavenly songs; 
From sea to sea our vales extend, 
And o'er them Freedom's angels bend: 
This rich possession, broad and free, 
We consecrate, O God! to thee. 
As beam the radiant start of even, 
Within th' unfathomed blue of heaven, 
On Southern groves and Northern snow, 
So may the lamps of science glow. 
Our moon is Peace, our rising sun 
The Liberty our fathers won.
In discord's night, when treason shrouds 
The light of peace in thunder-clouds; 
In times of war, when empires shake, 
And slumbering kings in fear awake, 
O God! our Sovereign and our Rock, 
Let Freedom's temple stand the shock!
As, at thy word, th' effulgent sun 
Proclaimed the reign of Chaos done, 
So let immortal Freedom's light 
Rise o'er Oppression's starless night; 
And every may our country be 
The home of Liberty and Thee!
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE SWORD IN ETHICS.
NO II.
The defender of war, an abstract of whose able article in the Christian Examiner was given in last week's Liberator, sums up his argument with this sentence:-"Man may lawfully use no other sword than that which pure Heaven puts into hit hand; but the sword that Heaven gives, if he make it not sharp against those that deserve its edge, will become sharp against himself." It singularly happens, that this very sentence precisely expresses the idea held by me, an opposer of war, and a Non-Resistant. It cannot but be a profitable exercise to examine the course of an argument which leads to such a conclusion, and are precisely wherein we differ, and which of our: opposite positions is the sound one. Before commencing this examination, I must beg the reader to keep in mind that the word Non-Resistance is a title, adopted for its brevity, not by any means a definition; that the Non-Resistant is not one who allows evil to have free course, but who seeks to overcome it with good, and with good only; and that what he repudiates is, not the use of bodily strength or of physical force, but only of injurious force.
I am happy to be able freely to admit many of my antagonist's positions, and of this sort are those with which he begins his argument.
 1. "In the construction of any creature, Nature has always in mind the thought of self-preservation, commonly of direct self-defence; and works this into its organization."
Granted. I have not a word to say against either self-preservation or self-defence. Every creature has these impulses, and rightfully uses them.
2. Nature never abandons any leading idea; and man, as well as the inferior animals, finds wrought into his organization the thought and the means of self-preservation and self-defence.
Granted. But it is to be kept in mind that man, possessing a higher degree of the reasoning faculty than other animals, is able to discriminate between defence and offence, as they cannot. Moreover, being endowed with a moral nature, he is capable of distinguishing that the same great law which makes it wrong for others to injure him, makes it equally wrong for him to injure others. He is therefore bound to take care that his defence is free from complication with offence, or injury of his antagonistic fellow-man. He is bound, further, to beware of letting self-preservation seduce him into the violation or the neglect of other duties. The shipmaster who, when his vessel is about to sink, jumps into the only boat, and leaves his passengers to drown, is not excused by the world, any more than by his own soul. He has a duty, in that case, antecedent to self-preservation; and many other duties may claim precedence of that one.
3. With higher organizations, there are higher expressions of every leading thought. The provisions for defence in man partake of the general elevation, and are, for the most part, much removed from a beastly simplicity of biting and scratching. For physical defence, man has the immediate powers and cunning of the hand, and the command of natural forces conferred by understanding. For subtler encounters, he has the powers of the eye and the voice. He has body for the defence of body, mind for the defence of mind.
Granted; keeping in mind the distinction above stated.
Since, however, man possesses a higher order of weapons, why should he not trust to these alone for protection? In answer to this very pertinent inquiry, our author alleges-
4. In all defences, you necessarily use a weapon not only fit for you, as a man, to employ, but appropriate also to the foe or the danger that threatens you. The wolf is appropriately met with powder and ball. Therefore the use of the rifle is not intrinsically unsuitable to man. 
Granted.
From this he easily slides into the next question, namely-Is ever a fellow-man one of those foes against whom mortal defences may be turned? And he replies-
5. The answer is, that whenever man is a wolf, as too many men are, then weapon against wolf is weapon against him. Whenever man shows the special characteristic of the wolf-nature, in being a lawless depredator and destroyer, then he is to be considered a wolf, and killed as a wolf.
Here a most important discrimination is to be made, which our author fails to make.
It is true that man is often a wolf, a lawless depredator and destroyer. But he is never merely a wolf. Sometimes, unfortunately, he has so adopted and cultivated the wolf-nature that, to a superficial examination, there seems to be nothing else in him. The appearance is deceitful. The man also is invariably there, fundamental and permanent, while the wolf character, which has been taken on (with more or less guilt) under the influence of circumstances, is only factitious and temporary, and the ejection of it (which is necessarily to come sooner or later, since God reigns,) may be greatly expedited by applying influences of an opposite character. The wolf-man is certainly to be restrained, and kept from doing harm, while his wolf-stage lasts. As certainly, the man underneath the wolf is to be helped, even against his perverted will, to get freed from this unnatural and beastly partnership. As surely as the wolf ought to be killed, so surely ought the man to be redeemed. Let us apply ourselves to both these needful things, instead of using the vulgar, penny-wise, pound-foolish expedient of killing both.
6. But defence, our author proceeds, is needed, and is demanded by the intensest natural instincts, not only for a man's own person and rights, but for protection of those whom Nature has left in some degree defenceless; babes and children, disabled persons, weak minorities, and women. And he justly calls it an error to stigmatize these instincts as "brutal," and justly protests against the implication that an entire category of man's powers and impulses is made only to be eradicated. Natural instincts, far from being brutal in the opprobrious sense, are sacred and authoritative.
To all this I agree; only claiming, as above, that the natural should be held in subordination to the moral and spiritual. The native instincts of the immature human being are not despotically to clamor down the cultivated reason and enlightened conscience of the mature one. The fact that our safety and that of our family is threatened, does not annihilate all our other duties, obligations and relations. What I claim is, that these opposing claims shall be fairly weighed, and the decision of right and justice followed, at the expense of whatever self-denial or suffering. Has not the whole world applauded him who refused to violate his trust and betray his country, even to save the lives of his children? Let us recognize the fact, that even such sacrifices may possibly be required of us.
7. Our author proceeds to deny the assertion that "human life is inviolable"; to quote, as sufficient disproof of this assertion, the fact that if a man swallow arsenic, he dies; and to draw from this quite irrelevant fact the following conclusion:-"Nature takes life in mere fidelity to physiological law: can human life be amenable to this, and not amenable to the more sacred law of justice?"
The general strain of the article in question shows so much candor towards opponents, that I cannot doubt that its writer would have freely admitted, had this point been suggested to him, not only that his statement of the arsenic case is not just to his opponent, but that a fair statement of that very case (so far as it goes) is in favor of his opponent. Nobody ever pretended that arsenic would not destroy human life. The idea (above referred to) of some opposers of war and capital punishment, is not that human life cannot be destroyed, but that he is guilty who purposely destroys either his own life or another's. The man
<c03>
who takes poison, intending to kill himself, is guilty for so doing; the man who intentionally kills another by poison is guilty. Human beings have not been entrusted, by their Father, with the right to kill themselves or each other. The burden of proof lies upon him who affirms that they have been so entrusted. And such proof has never yet been shown.
But is not human life amenable to "the sacred law of justice"? An important question indeed. But he who would justly answer and decide it is bound to show who is the authorized expounder, and who the authorized executor of that law. For men's opinions differ very greatly, in regard not only to these two functions, but to the demand of justice itself in many particular cases.
We are told that the great Cyrus, in his boyhood, chancing to meet a small boy with a jacket too large for him, and a larger boy with a jacket too small for him, compelled them to exchange; and was surprised to learn afterwards, from his preceptor, that he had done injustice instead of justice. The question, Who is the authorized judge? is a very important one; the question, What is justice in a specified case? is yet more important, and neither of these is so easily settled as people are accustomed to imagine.
A man kills another. Clearly, justice has some function to perform in the matter; but what is it? by what human head is it to be decided? and when, and by what human hand, is it to be executed?
Most men assume at once that the murderer is to be killed; but whether by the witnesses of the murder, or by the next of kin to the victim, or by some public functionary appointed for the purpose, there has been much difference of opinion. Moreover, after what interval for calm examination, trial, and formal sentence, this retributive killing shall be done, and after what further interval for the murderer's repentance and reformation, there is much difference of opinion. People usually discover, after he has been tried and condemned, that even the murderer is a man and a brother, and temper their judgment with some grains of mercy. Even our defender of the sword and the gallows counsels long patience and for bearance, and would have justice done not only justly but humanely. If we could accomplish these things without the sword or the gallows, it would be a decided improvement. But our author makes a further statement. He says-
8. "The State and every social body is bound by sacred obligations to indicate, and to indicate with emphasis, a more precious estimation of justice, freedom, and the honor and innocence of man and woman, than of mere physical life, or of property, or of aught else; and failing flagrantly to do this, it is ere long weighed in the balances, and found wanting."
I heartily grant that the State is bound to provide, as carefully and thoroughly as possible, for the maintenance of justice, and of the freedom and security of its citizens. Perhaps these points may be found to be best guarded without the deliberate shedding of blood by its functionaries. At any rate, the failure to attempt these things is a flagrant failure in the duty of a State. But does not the entire fulfilment of that duty include one important exercise of the power of the State to which our author has not alluded, and which should come in place of his plan of capital punishment? I refer to the establishment of a place of secure detention, with an apparatus of means adapted to accomplish the reformation of criminals.
To "confront perfidy with peril" is not the whole of justice. The crime and the criminal may have many mitigating circumstances, and of these justice must take account, in favor of the criminal, as well as prevent the repetition of the offence, for the sake of the community. To kill even the worst of criminals, on mere conviction of the fact, without inquiry how he first fell into guilt, and how he might possibly be yet reclaimed, would be very gross injustice. Even allowing aggravated guilt to be proved, and a disposition to persevere in it also proved, punishment is not necessarily the main duty of the community. The disposition to treat a man as badly as he deserves is quite as nearly akin to vice as to virtue. Circumstances in the history of this very man may show him to be far more sinned against than sinning. Justice is bound to investigate these circumstances as much as to prevent a repetition of the offence; and she is also bound to make a prolonged trial of the effect of forcible seclusion from evil companionship, and the influence of appropriate medico-moral treatment, if thus possibly the bad man may be changed to a good man, before proceeding to harsher measures.
Is it denied that such reformation can be effected upon the class of men and women in question? Is it further denied that they can be arrested and placed in the house of reformation without* the use of injurious force? I reply, no government has ever attempted the latter at all, and the former has been tried only in a very imperfect and unsatisfactory manner. Men can generally accomplish what they persistently determine upon, and labor for, especially when they have the resources of a State to work with. Until these two things have been faithfully tried, no one is authorized to declare them visionary or impossible.
Our author next comes to the very essence and kernel of the matter.
9. Perhaps the final entrenchment of the extreme upholders of peace is found in the doctrine that evil should not be rendered for evil; that good should be rendered for evil, and enmity met only with love. And this is conceded to be very clear-that "the good man will do good, and not evil; not evil, but good, to all men, and under all circumstances."
I am perfectly satisfied with this concession. I ask no more than that our author shall hold to it. But he proceeds to ask-" What is doing evil? To confront perfidy with peril, is that evil? To apply the great laws of retribution, is this a doing of evil?"
I reply, the deeds here specified are needful and salutary when they are done justly, and done by the authorized power. What power this is, is the very question that we have not yet settled. Perhaps the just and full application of "the great laws of retribution" is something as much beyond the province as beyond the power of man. Who can certainly know how much peril to allot to how much perfidy. Are we so sure of doing this work aright as to take it out of the hands of the Supreme Judge? Since the records of the best intentioned Courts have shown so many instances of error, perhaps our efforts had better be directed to the prevention of future evil, by the restraint and reform of criminals, rather than to the infliction of punishment (especially irrevocable punishment) for past evil. God will assuredly take care of that; and if we do our duty in regard to the former, we shall lose nothing by leaving the latter to Him.
With the following statement of the duty of the State to its vicious members, I cordially agree:-
"The highest service that we can ever render a human being is so to breed and incite him to virtue, that flagitious thoughts shall be foreign from his heart; next to this, the highest service, lies in so bringing home good considerations to one's mind, as to dissuade him from carrying into act an evil intent, though it have been harbored in his bosom; but these being excluded, the only remaining service consists in opposing with impassable barriers a wicked will, to which considerations of reason and right are no barrier."
When the writer adds to the foregoing that, in the last resort, the criminal should be killed rather than suffered to prey upon society, I must dissent; and I offer as a substitute this: that the whole power of the State should be applied to the work of placing him under restraint, secluding him from evil influences, and bringing good influences to bear upon him; and that this restraint, seclusion and beneficent tutorship
*Those who care to see how a police force can act efficiently without the use of injurious violence, and can be so organized and used as to effect a progressive diminution of crime and redaction in the number of criminals in a community, far greater, in the long run, than that now attained, are referred to a tract, entitled-" Non-Resistance: applied to the internal defence of a community"-published by R. F. Wallcut, 221 Washington street.
<c04>
should continue as long as it seems needful; that is, until the State can return a good citizen to that community from which it took away a bad one. It seems to me that this system would not only improve society, in any given period, far more than our present one, but that all the improvement made would tend towards permanence, and would increase, in successive periods, in a geometrical ratio; constantly accomplishing more and more permanent good; constantly leaving a less number of criminals for the processes of the moral hospital.
10. Our author manfully marches up to the main difficulty of his position, and attempts next to show that the killing of a criminal who seems desperately and impersuasibly bent upon crime is an act of love, not to the community only, but to him. I think he utterly fails in that attempt. But, supposing him to bare proved it, the love shown to the criminal by my method is at once more obvious and more fruitful. For its tendency will be towards the reform of all; and if faithfully and perseveringly tried, it can scarcely fail to restore some, even of those who seemed most hardened and hopeless, to be worthy and useful members of society. And if this is true, the deliberate killing of a prisoner who lies bound and helpless in the hands of the State, without extended attempt at his restoration, will appear nothing short of murder. And I see not how one who (like our author) has demanded absolute justice, and counselled extremest forbearance, can counsel the killing of a criminal who is already under restraint, and prevented from doing further harm, instead of proposing his permanent restraint, with or without the attempt at his reformation.
Moreover, if the killing of a man desperately and impersuasibly bent upon crime be an act of love and benefit to him, why should not this service be rendered him by some individual friend, or by any person benevolently disposed, who understands the criminal's character and necessity? Is the State to monopolize the bestowal of benefits? Must we summon Sheriff, Judge and Jury before we can confer a favor upon one who stands in urgent need of it? And again, must the individual philanthropist postpone the bestowal of the great favor in question until his failure to be tow it risks the loss of his own life?
The portion of the Examiner's article which treats of the distinction between a living and a dead peace- which insists that purity, justice and freedom rightfully take precedence of outward peace, and are to be maintained even if that be sacrificed-and which stigmatizes as unworthy, treacherous and contemptible, any Peace Society which should disregard these distinctions, is thoroughly admirable and excellent. It justly declares that, for us, in this nation, a war turned against slavery would be far better than a continued allowance of the tyranny of the slaveholders. Heartily agreeing to this, I yet say that there was a third way, better than either, which we should have taken.
11. Our author next proceeds to claim for war a useful preventive function; to claim that possible war is the gage of actual peace; and that "the alternative Right or Fight secures right, and saves from the necessity of fighting."
The hardihood of this assertion, in view of the history of wars between nations, in view of the causes and the results of such wars, and in view of our experience of the tendency of elaborate preparation for war, is no less than amazing. I utterly deny both parts of the assertion above quoted.
If powerful nations were always in the right in their controversies with weaker ones, that statement would come a little nearer being true. But where there is much disparity of force, the powerful nation that offers war is almost always in the wrong; its demand therefore is-Submit to Wrong, or Fight. If the weak nation has spirit or sound principle enough to refuse such submission, it replies-Right, or Fight; and it fights and is beaten. Success is on the side of the strongest battalions, entirely irrespective of justice. Did the Seminole Indians beat us? Did the Mexicans beat us? Right is generally overthrown and trampled down in unequal wars. And to say that elaborate and systematic preparation for war secures peace between nations of equal strength, is much like asserting that the Southern habit of going armed with bowie-knife and revolver promotes quietness, good order, courtesy, and respect for the rights of others in a community. Both assertions are alike preposterous.
It is nevertheless true, as our author says, that "a nation is a nation only as it is religiously banded and bound to support a social order against all assanlt." It is true, as he further says, that right and justice are to be preserved by the ministry of "Terror serving love and guided by reason." And it is true again, as he well remarks, that" if love and reason will enlist terror in their service, they shall be served of it; but if they refuse, terror will become the soldier of confusion." Yet these truths do not imply the rightfulness or the advantage of the abominable thing called war. The nation is bound to undertake the preservation of social order, the vindication of justice, and the suppression of crime; and it may rightfully enlist terror in its service as far as terror can be rightfully used; and the whole wisdom of the State should be bent to the solution of the question-with what least amount of terror and violence can these important works be done; and at what point do the imperative voices of justice and right forbid us to use them further? For there does come a time, now not less than in the first years of Christianity, when the advocate of right and truth finds himself hedged up from acting, and when, for the time, he must reconcile himself to suffer, finding no right means by which either to evade or overcome the assailant.
The precise definition of the limits of a justifiable use of violence and terror in the service of love is very difficult to settle. Because it is so difficult, I ask for it the deepest consideration of the profoundest wisdom of the nation. My own conviction is, that the use of these means should stop short of injury to the offender. Render him good, and only good, for his evil. This good may be in the form of very unpalatable medicine. All that I demand is, that it shall be actually designed, and actually suited, to effect hts good; that the relation of the criminal to those around him as a man and a brother be not disregarded or ignored; and that the prodigal son be pitied and helped as a son, in all methods suited to bring him to a better mind, even before he has spontaneously "come to himself." If the whole wisdom and power of the State, applied to the work of devising and accomplishing such reformation, can effect it upon even a proportion of the malefactors who are now merely punished, it would be a most honorable and advantageous work. My own conviction is, that a fair trial of such means would triumphantly vindicate them, in the mind of every reasonable man, as far superior to our present system.
In like manner, since it is difficult to see how an offensive war is to be met without the use of just such barbarous and brutal methods of operation as the assailant uses, I would have the highest wisdom and goodness of the State applied to the solution of this question. In private life, the wise man does not fight, though in the course of his life he comes in contact with various insolent and injurious persons. He finds some better way, even when his antagonist wishes to fight, and offers him various provocations to that end. What I say is, that this better way can be found by nations also, if they will set themselves to the inquiry. I hold it to be one of the most important duties of wise and thoughtful men, and especially of those intrusted with the government of nations, to make such inquiry. And I am sure the time will come when the wars, and the elaborate preparations for war, of the present age, will be classed, in point of folly and wickedness, with the old "ordeal by battle," and with the Southern duels of the present day, the attempts of two men to slaughter each other, with pistol and bowie-knife, upon "a point of honor."
If Non-Resistance, the refusal to use injurious force, and thus return evil for evil, sometimes leaves the right defeated and the wrong victorious, we must remember
<c05>
that battle, whether between nations or individuals, often leaves the right defeated and the wrong victorious. Battle no more secure right than preparation for war averts war. Our writer in the Examiner, like most writers in defence of war, claims far more for its successful accomplishment of good purposes than facts will warrant. Its evil has unspeakably outweighed its good.
When the Non-Resistant fails, deliberately declining to save himself by the return of evil for evil, he has not made so utter a failure as the warrior supposes. He is the inheritor of that promise- "Be that will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it." If we are careful to follow God's methods, and to keep our bodies and spirits in subjection to his will, we may safely, yea, triumphantly, trust him with the consequences of such action. Is there no meaning in that declaration of a wise and brave man of old, that we may be "more than conquerors" after tribulation, and distress, and persecution, and famine, and nakedness, and peril, and sword, have done their worst upon us? Death is not necessarily a failure; and one of the most obviously proper times to die is when life cannot continue without some unjustifiable action or omission. An important part of our business in this world is manfully to take the risks of right acting, and of right refraining.
Finally, the frank concessions of our author respecting the moral qualities by which war itself is to be restrained, if reduced to practice, would render impossible the existence and action of any such army as now exists, of any army such as those that have hitherto made war, and of almost all the movements and methods now considered appropriate to war.
First among the duties of a State he reckons to be "a precious estimation of justice, freedom, and the honor and innocence of man and woman."-p. 9.
He declares that a right war, as well as the true peace, must be that "where justice prevails"- "where its supremacy is undisputed."-p. 15.-And the thing which he deems so indispensable that a nation may even go to war for it is "intelligent communion in justice."-p. 16.
His accepted national compact is-"We twoscore, or twoscore thousand, will uphold the law of reason and justice.....It SHALL be binding."-p. 18.-What he upholds is "the honorableness and sacredness of war in the vindication of justice."-p. 20.
As to the persons who are rightfully to be assailed in war, he says-"Only the destroyer is to be visited with destruction"; . . . "it is only the armed hand of injustice that justice with irresistible hand may smite."-p. 21.
"Finally, forbearance is to be held in perpetual honor."-p. 21.
Very well. Accepting these concessions as made in good faith, let us see what consequences inevitably flow from them to the army, and to the customary methods of war.
If the war-making power restricts itself to methods just and honorable in raising an army, its recruiting officers will be forbidden, not only to impress men into their service, but to persuade them to enlist by delusive representations of the facts and probabilities of a soldier's life. A true representation of that life would deter most persons from entering upon it.
In like manner, if strict justice and honor are to rule the operations of the army after it is formed, the meanness of falsehood must be wholly avoided. No deceptions must be practised upon the enemy, no false representations made to keep up the spirits of the army.
Again, if justice, and the honor and innocence of the citizen-soldier are to be respected, the soldier must not be required to do any act which his conscience distinctly forbids. He has no more right to sin in the army than in the shop or on the farm; and his right must be conceded to say to his officer, "I cannot in conscience comply with this command." For the same reason, if, at any time, it becomes clear to him that the main purpose of the war is an unjust one, or if, in the prosecution of it, a part is assigned to him which he considers a direct violation of justice and right, the private, as well as the officer, must be al lowed to resign and withdraw. Is an honest man, a humane man, a lover of justice and freedom, to be obliged to return men and women to slavery, or to refrain from helping them to freedom, because he is a soldier? Must he be compelled to do any vicious act because he is a soldier? Yet military law commands implicit obedience, utterly irrespective of right and wrong. Shakspeare tells us-
"It is the curse of kings to be attended
By slaves who take their humors for a warrant
To break within the bloody house of life;
And, on the winking of authority,
To understand a law."
The very thing that is here stamped as base in the parasite, is the thing imperatively required of the soldier. The act of enlistment is the formal surrender of the soldier's conscience to whatever vulgar or vicious man may chance to be his officer.
If only the destroyer is to be visited with destruction, only the armed hand of injustice smitten, no injury must be done to those innocent men whom the enemy have compelled, against their earnest remonstrance and protestation, to march in their ranks, labor on their forts, or serve in their ships of war. And, above all, the fearful process of the bombardment of towns, which mangles women and children, the aged and the sick, equally with the opposing officers and soldiers, must be repudiated with horror. It must be as carefully provided that shot and shell shall not hit the innocent, as that they shall hit the guilty.
For the same reasons, in the reduction of a town by siege, no measures must be adopted which involve women and children with soldiers in one common distress, such as the cutting off of water, or the keeping out of supplies of food, or the destruction of property, or the stopping of letters.
If "forbearance is to be held in perpetual honor," time and indulgence must be granted to the enemy when he demands it, a spirit of vindictiveness against him must be sedulously discouraged, and any particular injustice done him in the course of the war must be immediately acknowledged and repaired.
These are but specimens of what honor, justice, forbearance and a practical respect of the individual conscience would require in the formation and management of in army, and in the prosecution of war. If the maintenance of these virtues (upon which our author has insisted as indispensable) be absolutely incompatible with war, which shall be relinquished? If a general disregard, and a frequent violation of moral rules-if despotic authority in the officer, and an utter ignoring of the soldier's reason and con science-if a mingling of the innocent and guilty on the opposite side in one common destruction-if a systematic stimulation of zeal in support of one's own party, right or wrong, and of bitter resentment against the opposing party, right or wrong-if all these shall be found indispensable to success in war, does it not form an additional reason, profoundly momentous and important, for applying the highest wisdom of every nation to the search for some better method of adjusting national difficulties?-c. k. w.
CURE FOR FROSTED FEET. It is said that frozen feet can be speedily and certainly cured by being bathed and well rubbed with kerosene or coal oil for a few times at night before retiring to bed. Several persons have already tried it, all of whom unite in pronouncing it an effectual cure, which, if they are correct, is an easy and cheap mode of getting rid of a very sore and troublesome affliction. Those who have tried it inform us that the feet should be well warmed by a hot stove during and after application of the oil, and it will certainly effect a speedy cure. Persona suffering from the pain of frosted feet will no doubt do well in giving it a trial, for it is surely a very cheap ointment, and one which is very easily applied.-Norristown free Press.
THE DICTIONARIES. The Massachusetts Legislature last year rejected, by a large majority, a proposition to put a copy of Worcester's Dictionary in each of the public schools of the State. In the home of the two dictionaries, Webster seems to be the favorite, as well as elsewhere. Efforts for Worcester have also recently failed with the Legislatures of Maine and Pennsylvania.-R. I. Schoolmaster.
<c06>
MERITED TRIBUTES.
We copy the following critical notices from the last number of the Christian Examiner, which evince commendable candor and justness of appreciation in regard to the valuable publications referred to:-
Under an appropriate and attractive title,* the American Anti-Slavery Society publishes a report for the year ending May 1. 1860 which is already of much value, and will gain in value as time passes. It is a singularly clever and comprehensive resume of the position of our great national controversy a little prior to its passage into the present fiery phase. Including, as the caption would lead one to expect a spirited account of the enterprises and death of John Brown and his companions, and of the hypocritical hunt for treason, conducted by traitors, which ensued, it embraces also instructive statements under many other heads, such as Kansas and Nebraska Foreign Slave Trade; Domestic Slave Trade; Fugitive Slaves and Rescue Trials; Projects for New Slave States; Barbarism Rampant: Free colored People; Congress: Action of States; The Church &c. The Report must have been written by one who had long lived in the thick or this great controversy, and grown into an acquaintance with all its aspects. In character it may be described as standing about half-way between history and the newspaper, possessing in a good degree the accuracy the one, with the detail, familiarity, and immediate interest of the other. To the future historian it will be invaluable. And any one will find it very interesting reading, who desires to study the existing contest, not as an accident. "a causeless war," but as a great passage in history, proceeding. as great facts in history always do. from antecedents that admitted of no other result. So far as moral justification is concerned, this is indeed "a causeless war." if ever one was; but considered as the product of historical forces, it was strictly inevitable. There are fewer accidents in history than one might fancy. Effects proceed from adequate causes. It is true. tall oaks from little acorns grew," but oaks grow only from acorns. A lighted match will set a city on fire; but why? Because it is itself on fire, and so is an adequate cause for such effects.
Without intending to foreshadow any such result, this able report really does so. Whoever reads it in the light of passing events, will see that the preceding events were strictly preliminary to this. On either side the forces were marshalling. Here the reader will perceive the malignant ferment of slavery swelling against all its containing borders, raging at restriction, certain to burst forth erelong. On the other hand, he will see the love of freedom and justice, long murderously outraged and oppressed also breaking through outward restraints, and issuing in the heroic failure of John Brown and his brave followers. John Brown was the heart and conscience of the North flung before it in the fight, as the heart of Bruce was cast in advance of him by Douglas, ere he rushed to encounter the infidels. His attempt symbolizes the noble indignation, hot love of justice, the dauntless courage, which in the bosom of the North lay hidden under respect for usage and aversion to tumult and war.
It is the more desirable that such works as this should be read, because most of us but half appreciate our national position. Have modern times furnished a parallel case? Has any other nation had an evil so gigantic and so firmly imbedded to lift away? Has there been demanded of any other in order to the achievement of national success, a sympathy so broad, a faith so energetic, a reverence for its own ideas and ideal aims so deep? Would a little dimness of eye or feebleness of heart involve elsewhere results so disastrous? When before has it been said to a nation, as this war is thundering in our ears, "You must do ideal justice to a race antipodal to your own, and that in opposition to every conceivable temptation, or you must perish"?
*The Anti-Slavery History of the John Brown Year; being the Twenty-seventh Annual Report of the American Anti-Slavery Society. New York.
The able and candid Scotch missionary, Buyers, in his admirable work on India, asserts with great emphasis the identity of the moral sentiment of India with that of England. Hardly anything, he affirms, is recognized as vice or virtue in England, but is equally so recognized in India, and reprobated or commended accordingly. But the calamity is, he says, that the popular religion of Hindostan does not sup port, or supports very imperfectly, its moral feeling and judgment. It is now a very grave question how far the same complaint would be just against the popular religion of our own land. There are immense establishments, sustained at great cost. for sending missionaries to other countries: but what do these missionaries bear with them? Do they carry a divine ethics, duly enshrined, or is it only another substitute for purity and spirituality? Those who are interested to obtain a true answer to this question,-and surely there are many whom it pointedly concerns.-should rood the little book of Mr. Whipple.* It may make them sadder, but can only do so by rendering them wiser men.
Mr. Whipple's is a book of facts and citations, with comparatively little of comment. With great industry he has traced out the relation of one great missionary Board to one great moral question.-of course finding all moral questions incidentally involved. He writes earnestly, but not uncharitably; with something of the ethical rigor characteristic men who have extreme energy of conscience and clearness of understanding, but less of imagination flexibility, and interpretative sympathy, yet with entire fairness: and he is inspired by a noble homage to justice, and a frank, though not exclamatory indignation against inhumanity and trickery, which must be acceptable to all honest men.
Some of the facts he adduces are not exhilarating; but all the more they ought to be known,-especially as the Board seem guilty of disingenuous concealments. And we mistake if he who reads these pages does not obtain some help toward the conclusion, that there is room for one denomination of Chirstians in America, whose position openly is, that men are to be saved hereafter by being saved from injustice, impurity, and all unmanliness and all ungodliness here.
*Relation of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions to slavery. By CHARLES K. WHIPPLE Boston: R. F. Wallcut. 1861.
If the ultimate success of a reform depend upon the ability and fidelity of its advocates, the cause of "Woman's Rights" is on the high road to a triumphant consummation. Mrs. Dall, whose former admirable works-"Woman's Right to Labor" and "A Practical Illustration of Woman's Right to Labor"-have received our attention, offers a third book,*which, touching as it does the root and foundation of the whole matter, might well have been the pioneer in her crusade against "man's inhumanity to" woman. As with her former works, the strength of this is in the abundance and conclusiveness of its facts, which have been collected with indefatigable industry, and are presented in all their native ugliness of outline. No intelligent man can read the copious extracts from the English Common Law and United States Law relating to women, without arriving at one of two conclusions-either that the men who made the laws have acted the part of tyrants, or that women are essentially inferior to men, and must be subject to the restraints of incompetent minority.
In the majority of statutes relating to property, no argument is needed to convince any fair man of their injustice, beyond a simple statement of the law, and the presentation of a case falling under it.
With regard to the laws debarring women from office, and from voting, Mrs. Dall urges that their advocates entirely fail to make out a case. All the customary objections to their repeal she meets with frankness, and arguments which have at least the merit of being difficult to answer. She claims that the presence of women in the halls of legislation and at the polls would tend to purify those assemblies; that never till women are included on juries will a woman accused of crime be tried by her peers: that the peculiar qualities of the female mind are requisite to complement those of man in all the multiplex affairs of business, political and social life; that men and mankind lose greatly by an arbitrary limitation of woman's "sphere." We cordially commend the book for the importance of its subject matter, its wealth of material and fact, its straightforward earnestness of purpose, its purity of style, and not least, for its freedom from some unpleasant idiosynerasies, pardonable, indeed, but which marked and marred the execution of its predecessors. It has also the rare quality of eliciting from the reader a regret that there is not more of it. 
*Woman's Rights under the Law. In three Lectures delivered in Boston. January, 1861. By Mrs. C. H. DALL Boston: Walker, Wise, & Co. 16mo. pp.164.
