THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittance are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUNDJACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.” “I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that , under that state of things, so far from its being true that, under that states of things, so far from its being true that the states where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.  From  the instant that the slave holding states become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interferences with the institution of slavery, IN SLAVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN AN INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of states, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARITAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are not in marital array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J.Q.ADAMS.
WILLOY GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 50.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1862.
WHOLE NO. 1662. 
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
A TORY VIEW OF AMERICAN AFFAIRS. 
In Blackwood's (Tory) Magazine, for November, there is an article on "The Crisis of the American war," of which the following is a specimen:— 
The past month has brought us to the veritable at crisis war in America. Brought to bay, upon their own soil, the Federals in desperation have invoked to their aid the unutterable horrors of a servile war. With their armies baffled and beaten, and with the standard of the rebel army again within sight of Washington, the President has at length owned the impossibility of success in fair warfare, and seeks to paralyse the victorious armies letting loose upon their hearths and homes the lust and savagery of four million negroes. The die is cast. Henceforth it is a war of extermination. The North seeks to make of the South a desert-a wilderness of bloodshed and misery; for thus only, now, does it or can it hope to overcome the seceding Confederacy. Monstrous, reckless, devilish as the project is, we believe it will not succeed. But it at least marks the crisis and turning-the war. It shows that the North has shot its last bolt,-the effects of which we do not yet see, but beyond which there is no other. It proves what every one in this country was loth to believe, that rather than let the Southern States be independent, rather than lose their trade and custom, the North would league itself with Beelzebub, and seek to make a hell of half a continent. In return, this atrocious act justifies the South in hoisting the black flag, and in proclaiming a war without quarter against the Yankee hosts. And thus, within the bosom of civilization, we are called upon to contemplate a war more full of horrors and wickedness than any which stands recorded in the world's history.
At present the rival armies of the North and South stand arrayed against each other on the banks of the Potomac. They hold nearly the same position as they did at the opening of the war, before the battle of Manassas but strategically the position of the Southern army is somewhat better, and morally and politically it has gained immensely in the interval. It has gained several great victories, and has not been worsted in a single pitched battle. It has rolled back the tide of invasion, overwhelming the invading armies in horrible disaster. It has even made a raid into Maryland, and now stands ready to close again with the invader whenever be shall attempt to renew his advance.
In the immediate effects, and so far as regards the position of the President, the proclamation has been a success. The tub has been thrown to the whale. The Northerners can no longer account for their reverses by imputing them to the half-measures of the Government. It is extraordinary the amount of which exist among the population of the Northern States, especially among the Puritans of the New England States. The clergy, who are entirely dependent on their congregations, show themselves on this, as on former occasions, ready to pander to the worst passions of the people, and even take the lead in expressions of ferocity.
One might well be at a loss to understand the inhuman which gives vent to such sentiments. The desire to uphold the Union will not explain it. Doubtless every Yankee would prefer to belong to a State which, in his own estimation at least, could “whip all creation.” That is the only condition of existence which allows of his indulging in the unlimited impudence and braggadocio which have become part of his nature. But does any one who knows the Yankees imagine that they would sacrifice millions and millions of dollars for the sake of upholding an abstract advantage such as the Union? They do not care a straw the Constitution: they have sacrificed both legality and liberty long ago, and without a murmur. Just as little do they care the Union as a mere political arrangement. But the Union means far more than this. At first it meant a continued monopoly of the trade of the: now it means the very existence of the North itself. It is an utter mistake to think that it is the alone which is fighting for existence. The North is now in the same predicament. It was not so at first, but it has in to that position by the gradual operation of its own acts. First of all and as at the outset, if separation takes place. New York will cease to be the of the Southern trade. The “Empire City,” which has grown fat on that trade, will dwindle-will become stationary or actually decline; while Charleston, Mobile, and New Orleans will go ahead. The first act of barbarism, the choking up of the harbor of Charleston with stone-laden vessels, showed the bitter jealousy of the New Yorkers, and their desire to obliterate the very existence of a rival port in the New York must come down from its high place, half of its merchants will be beggars, if the South takes its trade into its own keeping. And what is New York, whose fall is thus threatened? It is the very heart seat of nearly all the available wealth and ready money. It is its bankers and merchants who take up his office to-morrow. And who but they have been foremost in equipping regiments, and offering bounties for recruits? Patriots? they are but of the almighty dollar.” They give their money lavishly, in order that they may retain the source from which their money comes. They do not desire nor a servile war; that means the ruin of their customers: but some of them assent to the Proclamation, in the hope that it may force the into submission, and others because if the South is to go free, and if Southern trade is to seek other channels, they will rather see the South a desert, than other cities rising into rivalry with the New York, with the gains which formerly into Yankee pockets.
As usual in republican American, the tyranny of the majority allows little scope for the expression of opposite opinions. Nevertheless, there is a section party in the North who are opposed to abolitionism, and the other extreme measures which find favor with the Government and the majority of the people. The small minority of which we speak cannot be spoken of as the Democratic party; for the old Democratic party has almost disappeared; and under the pressure of the times, the mass of it cannot, either in action or in speech, be discriminated from the majority who clamor for extreme measures. But it consists of Democrats old creed is now strengthened in their esteem by the concurrence of self-interest. The party is not entirely confined to New York, but it is only in that city that it as yet gives proof of its vitality. The views of this party are in favor of the prosecution of the war, but they are opposed to any measures calculated to destroy the productiveness of the South, or to exasperate the feud beyond all hope of ultimate They are madly in favor of the Union, but they will accept the Union, or rather re-union, upon any terms. If they cannot conquer the South, they are quite willing that the South should conquer them. Only give
<c02>
them back the Union, in order that New York may still be the emporium of the South. They have hitherto clung to the belief that, even though the South triumph, there would be no separation. With an eye to such an issue, they were willing to recognize slavery, and enact Fugitive Slave Laws more stringent than ever. But the President's Proclamation of Emancipation has well nigh demolished their hopes, by embittering the contest beyond the possibility of reconciliation, and also by rendering impossible on the part of the North concessions to the South, without which there can be no reunion.
This party appears resolved to try its strength at the approaching elections for the State of New York.
In order to propitiate the South, and retain its old commercial preeminence, it is nut improbable that, amongst the troubles consequent upon this war, we may see New York set up "on its own hook," and declare itself a free city—a Hamburg of the West— disowning all allegiance, repudiating all antipathy, and establishing itself as an independent power on "purely commercial principles!"
In a moral point of view, there cannot be two opinions in this country as to the President's Proclamation. To employ such a means of hostility as a negro insurrection is simply infamous. In a political point of view, we regard it as the greatest mistake which the North has committed. True, the policy of the North has been slowly approximating to this result; it is a natural climax to the mad policy which has animated the North from the beginning. It is the consummation of the mistakes of the North. Union in any shape is now doubly impossible. It remains to be seen, also, whether the temporary accord which the Proclamation has established in the North is not on the surface only, and whether the present lull of dissension will not give way, ere long, to dissensions still more formidable.
For England, singly, to give a formal recognition of the South as an independent State, without taking any steps to put an end to the war, would be of very little benefit to the South, and as a measure of humanity would be of no use whatever. At the same time, it would give great offence to the North, thus making an enemy without gaining a friend. But the case would be far otherwise if our Government were to act in this instance in the same manner as they did in the case of Greece and Belgium —that is to say, if they were to resolve not only to recognize the independence of the South, but to support that independence by a demonstration of force. The case has now become most urgent. For not only does international law justify our recognition of the Southern Confederacy, but humanity demands that we should take measure? to put an end to so horrible a war. No doubt it would be a <illegible> matter, and a matter also of doubtful policy, for England to intervene alone. But intervention of some kind is now urgently demanded. And if the Great Powers of Europe—or at least England, Russia, and France—would solve the difficulty which each Power separately feels, by agreeing to undertake a joint mediation, and, if necessary, intervention, they would render an important service to civilization, humanity, and mankind at large, and would show a better example of a "Holy Alliance" than any which yet stands recorded in the pages of history. 
THE SLOWNESS OF THE CAMPAIGN.
General McClellan was removed for slowness in advancing his army to Richmond. But things have receded since that officer was sent home; and from actual appearances, there will be no decisive battle for the next nine months. Burnside has much of the confidence of the army; he has experience; he has ambition to outstrip every thing that has yet been done; and the unable, unpopular, unfortunate Abraham Lincoln and his Cabinet of politicians, writhing under the public indignation, are doing all in their power to push things to a successful termination. But the war lags: the enemy is recruiting himself with great spirit in the time his sagacity wrenches from the hands of the Washington Administration; his winter quarters are already struck out; he circumvents our plans by plans that are better; and though we centuble him in all kinds of supplies, it is more than a probability that he has triumphantly eluded us for the present. We gave the President independent support for a good while; not because we approved of all his measures, or had any belief at all that he. was a splendid statesman, but from the idea that he had some intellect exclusively belonging to himself, and from undoubted signs of honest intentions in him to bring the war to an immediate end. But we have been changed; the Chief Magistrate is not realizing all our hopes; there is much legitimate room for fear that the longer he remains in office, the worse for the nation. His partiality to the Abolitionists—the real bane of his country—is in effect worse than overt disloyally: his interferences with McClellan have endangered our very existence as a people; he deserves not a quarter of the support he once got: and experience has shown that the more unsparingly he is treated, the better he does his duty. For these reasons, the late elections went against him; for these reasons, every man in the country thinks him unfit for his place; and as there is a constitutional right for questioning every thing he does, the privilege of impugning him must be allowed. Will he do something worthy of his position? When he assumed power the whole nation went for him. But he is condemned to-day by three-fourths of his countrymen, and the remaining fourth are office-holders. This is just. He owes the people great things. Let him manifest a capacity to discharge them, and the people will give him the proper return. As things are now conducted, the prospect is exceedingly gloomy. There is a fatal slowness in all the public departments. The interests of faction seem to have predominated over the interests of the public. There is one remedy—the public indignation. Indignation of that class is fermenting profoundly. Let it break out from every man's tongue, and the nation may be saved. To corruption let honesty give place; and to slowness earnest energy. These changes must be made. May God save the Republic! it is not more unfortunate in external foes that in internal blunderers.—Boston (Catholic) Pilot.
Alluding to the seeming Democratic gains at the recent State elections in this country, the infamous London Times wildly and absurdly says:—
"McClellan from that moment became too dangerous a man to be left at the head of a great army within a few days' march of the capital. What if, relying on the good will of the soldiers and the changed opinions of the people, he should seize Washington, expel the incapable cabinet, and conduct or conclude the war on the principles of his own party? Such things have been known even in republics, and though McClellan's fault is excessive caution, yet it is impossible to tell what a soldier with great power in his hands, goaded by the attacks of his enemies and led on by the encouragement of his friends, might attempt at the crisis of a great war." 
<c03>
Selections.
THE VERDICT OF EVENTS. 
No genius, art or science can set itself above the test of results. However much it may intrench itself behind professional mysteries, above the comprehension of the masses, it must eventually submit to the test of results which the ordinary mind can judge. The eighteen months of Gen. McClellan's command of the army of the Potomac, during the greater part of which he controlled the entire military power of the government, have been time enough to justify the nation in judging him by the military result. That it is a failure is not denied by his own most unscrupulous partisans. They only resort to pretexts to shift the responsibility. He has given to the rebel Confederacy the prestige of military success, and subjected the national government, and the section which stands by it, to the humiliation of an appearance of military impotence. And the national destruction, inevitable from a continuance of such military failures, has been accelerated by the enormous consumption of the national resources. It has burned the candle at both ends building up the rebellion into respectability, and prostrating the Government by the fearful waste of our resources. 
The event justifies a review of the generalship whose consequences threaten the national existence. Gen. McClellan's campaign in Western Virginia was on a plan made by Gen. Morris before McClellan took the field. He interposed long delay and a greatness of preparation in striking contrast with the enemy's force. He at last brought his army in combined force to Laurel Hill and Rich Mountain, surrounding the enemy, but leaving open the most feasible road for their escape toward the northeast. The attack on Rich Mountain was made by General Rosecrans on a plan proposed by himself to take the enemy in the rear. McClellan was to attack in front. By a difficult march through by-paths, Rosecrans reached the rear in the afternoon, and attacked and defeated the enemy's rear guard. The sound of the firing was heard by McClellan's troops, but he did not move. The next day, at nearly noon, he arrived on the ground. Garnett had precipitately retreated at daylight by the route left open. Pegram's troops, who had been scattered by Rosecrans, came in and surrendered. 
A subordinate officer in McClellan's place would have been cashiered for failing to co-operate according to the plan of the battle. Gen. McClellan telegraphed that remarkable dispitch, claiming the victory, and <illegible> it, <illegible> <illegible> that he had liberated Western Virginia. Ever since that, he has been hostile to Morris and Rosecrans. The false glitter of this dispatch, set in the dark background of the Bull Run disaster, which involved most of our leading officers, and the favoritism of Gen. Scott, whose infirmity of disposition made him hostile to all the prominent officers, made McClellan General-in-Chief. The patriotism of the volunteers, the unbounded expenditures of the Government, and the regular drill of the camp built up a great army, of which he was called the creator. He established himself in magnificent state, with a staff of forty aids, and rode through the streets surrounded by a cortege more pretentious than an emperor's; and correspondents wrote that he was constantly in his saddle, creating his army. They looked upon the regiments as they swarmed into Washington from the great patriotic Northern hive, and exalted him as the "creator" of such spirit and power.
The restiveness of the people, under the delay, was quieted by the constant promise of action, and by the iterated announcement that the army was advancing. At length it was settled for the fall by the Ball's Bluff slaughter, which, with McCall's division of ten thousand men, only ten miles off, besides Stone's adequate- force, he succeeded in having Baker slaughtered by a force of less than six thousand of the enemy. McCall, who was on the Virginia side, in a situation to have cut off Leesburg. Was ordered to the right about, and all their forces withdrawn, in a panic, to the Maryland side. This was McClellan's first demonstration of generalship on his own plan. 
The Burnside expedition to take Manassas in the rear, to co-operate with an attack by McClellan in front, was diverted by McClellan's urgent and persistent appeals to the President, and was sent to North Carolina. Gen. Burnside protested; and, conscious that no results could there be accomplished adequate to so costly an expedition, he was careful, in his report, to emphasize the fact that all he had done was on the plan of the Commander-in-Chief. The army of the Potomac was exposed to; unnecessary hardships, in the winter, to delude public expectation by not going into winter quarters. Three thousand young men went to inglorious graves, on the Potomac, in that winter encampment.
In February, the peremptory order of the President relieved the Western army from the deadlock McClellan had left on it, and it went forward and achieved successes. In March, the President notified McClellan that a plan must be evolved, implying movement, or a removal would be made. Coincidently, the enemy evacuated Manassas. When that was known, McClellan put 60,000 men in motion. Leaving their tents on the Potomac, marched them on the vacant Manassas, and then left them to straggle back by divisions, suffering great hardships from the want of shelter and of an organization for supplying subsistence on the march. The fact was developed that the army bad no organization for a campaign, and that the head was lacking. The. President then divided it into corps, and appointed the commanders.
Gen. McClellan then interposed a naval transit of an army of 120,000 men between himself and; the enemy. After months expended in this, he sat down at Yorktown for a small force of the enemy to grow great, and inconsiderable intrenchments to grow formidable. The enemy evacuated at leisure. He telegraphed the War Department that they were routed and demoralized, and that he should . " push the enemy to the wall." His advance, under Hooker, pursued and overtook the enemy, and, following the military maxim to always attack a retreating enemy, it went in, regardless of numbers, knowing that a great army was following. Gen. McClellan refused to allow Hooker to be re-enforced, and held, by his orders, thirty thousand men . within sound of the battle, by which his advance was repulsed, and the enemy's retreat secured.
Gen. McClellan, the commander of an invading-: army of one hundred and twenty thousand men, marching to the enemy's capital, then telegraphed - the Government that be would "try to hold the enemy in check"—an enemy not half his own force, and just before routed, panic-stricken, and pushed? to the wall. He telegraphed an ignorant account of the battle, doing gross injustice to the troops and officers who did the fighting, by giving the chief credit to the wrong troops. This he was obliged to modify when he had informed himself. As the en-
<C04> 
emy continued their retreat, he did not persist in holding them in check, but followed respectfully. With the command of the river and a division on shipboard, he failed to intercept the retreat, or harass it by pursuit. Retreats, regarded by military authorities as almost impossible in the face of an enemy, are safer from McClellan than his own pursuit. The retreating army went off victorious and confident. He followed panic-stricken, and prepared to hold them in check, if they turned upon him. 
Time brought this invading army to the Chickahominy. where it sat down helpless, to be destroyed by divisions. The enemy had it all their own way. The troops were wasted in digging intrenchments, only to be abandoned when attacked. An inferior force of the enemy was first precipitated on the unsupported left wing, and then on the unsupported right wing. A few hundred cavalry took his base of supplies. The heroic fighting of the troops and the subordinate commanders was attributed to the commander, who made it unavailing. He telegraphed an ignorant account of the battle of Seven Pines, disgracing a division which had borne the brunt on the fight, and dating his dispatch "On the battlefield," when the enemy were in possession of it, and when he did not reach the ground to which our troops were driven till the battle was over. 
His generalship only held the army to be sacrificed. It has always, with superior numbers, exposed an inferior force to attack. The retreat to James river sacrificed the splendid equipment of this army, and showed the difficulty of retreating before an enterprising enemy. The ability of the commanders of the corps and the heroism of the troops repulsed the enemy's pursuit. About one-half of the army McClellan tok to the Peninsula, reached the James River. The conduct of the retreat, and of the fi<illegible>t against the attempt of the enemy to cut the retreating column in two at Turkey Island Bend, and of the terrible, battle of Malvern Hill, on when the existence of his army hung, was left to the subordinate Generals. As soon as the advance reached the vicinity of the river, Gen. McClellan had business on the gunboats, nine miles below, where be awaited the issue.
On James River, Gen. McClellan was impotent for attack, and liable to be cut off from his supplies by a blockade of the river. He wished to return, but Halleck's peremptory order withdrew him. He arrived at Alexandria in time to have saved Gen. Pope by a prompt march, but waited for him to be sacrificed. Gen. Pope's defeat by McClellan's connivance resulted in restoring the Utter to the command. He took a circuit around Lee, leaving the way open for his withdrawal, and delaying his <illegible> Ferry. the key of the situation, had fallen into the enemy's hands. At Antietam he kept his reserves out of the battle, and prevented his Generals from achieving a victory. He reported that he was vigorously pursuing the enemy, and then waited four days for them to cross the river, carrying off all their Material. 
He then waited a month before advancing against the enemy, over whom he had won a complete victory, as he said. In reply to-peremptory orders to move, he alleged the want of supplies. This pretext is shown to be false. When he finally did move, it was at the rate of a day's march in a week. In this career he was cut off.
These are the chief features of Gen. McClellan's military performance. We only allude to events, leaving the expression of feeling to the reader. On these results the public has a right to judge the capacity of the commander. 
The dispatches and general orders of a commander are corroborative evidence of capacity. General McClellan's addresses to his army surpass Chinese military literature in making himself terrible by words. A foreign reader of his triumphant and terrible address to his army after taking the vacant Manassas, must conclude that we are a peculiar people. His dispatches are remarkable for an inability to tell the truth, and for puerile descriptions of what he is about to do and has done. The remarkable dispatch from Western Virginia we have alluded to. It astonished all who knew the circumstances. And Eastern journals could only account for its style by the theory that we really had a young Napoleon among us, whose genius was equal to such pretensions. 
From Ball's Bluff he telegraphed that the dispositions were excellent—the dispositions being his own, and the slaughter the result. From Manassas he dispatched a panic-stricken retreat of the enemy. From Yorktown he dispatched that the enemy was demoralized and panic-stricken, his victory complete, and he should push the enemy to the wall. From Williamsburg he telegraphed his own demoralized and- panic-stricken condition, and said he would try to defend himself. He has never been near enough to a battle to know how it was fought, and has, in two well-known instances, telegraphed ignorant and erroneous accounts of battles. At Williamsburg and Seven Pines he did gross injustice to men and officers by his ignorant dispatches, which he was afterwards compelled to modify, but this could not retrieve the effect.
He dispatched to the Government that the retreat to James river was made with the loss of but one gun and one wagon, which broke down. The traditional feats of the longbow seem inconsiderable compared with such Napoleonic performances. After the battle of Antietam he telegraphed, September 15th, that "the enemy is making for the river in a perfect panic," and that he was "hurrying everything forward to press the retreat to the utmost." And later on the same day that "information at this moment received confirms the rout and demoralization of the rebel army. We are following as rapidly as the men can move." Yet four days later no advance had been made, and he then telegraphed-: "Last night the enemy abandoned his position, leaving his dead and wounded on the field. We are again in pursuit. I do not know whether he is falling back to an interior position or crossing the river. We may safely claim a victory.
After his four days’ vigorous pursuit of the routed, demoralized, panic-stricken enemy, he telegraphed that they had withdrawn from the battle-field in the night, and he knew not where they had gone, but as they were gone he might safely claim a victory, which it seems was doubtful until the enemy's intentions were known. On the same day he sent the remarkable dispatch: "Pleasanton is driving the enemy across the river. Our victory was complete. The enemy is driven back into Virginia. Maryland and Pennsylvania are now safe." With unintentional candor he makes his victory to bang in the balance until be ascertained the intentions of the enemy. If they intended to leave, he intended to advance, and if four days after the battle they retired, his victory was complete. Are these the dispatches of a military genius which becomes a young Napoleon without smelling gunpowder? Are they evidences of military or any other ability, unless it be with that aboriginal weapon—the longbow? 
In this war, commanders hare had credit for latent military capacity on the score of their want of heart in the cause. But the logic of this will hardly bear 
<C05>
statement. That a general is treacherous to the cause he pretends to fight for is no evident that he has either military capacity or courage. These must be established by some other proof. 
It seems incredible that the destinies of this great country, where alone the popular capacity has been developed to the pitch of self-government, can have been committed to such a man for a year, while, in the sight of the whole people, it was" gliding down the rapids to the abyss. What horrible nightmare has held the senses of the people and of the authorities? The responsibility reaches beyond this imbecile instrument of national ruin, to those whose influence and power have retained him. As failure became apparent, the swift eulogies which hailed his elevation from the supporters of the Government, the expression of their hopes from him, were replaced by the praise, and clamorous defence of those who desire the failure of the Government. Every one who charged that the North was guilty of the war, that tile purpose, of the war was to destroy the Constitution, that the South were in the right, and who desired military failure that it might result in restoring the traitors to power by our submission, was, and is, a defender of McClellan.
It might have excited suspicion when the enemies of the cause were the ardent supporters of a general whose course has been a continual failure. But such was the infatuation that this was accepted as honest and loyal public opinion, and it operated to fasten this terrible imbecility on the country. Even the testimony of the enemy's officers that they regarded McClellan as our greatest general, and noted with great interest the attacks of the radicals on him, was piled up to sustain him. This was aided by correspondents of a treacherous press, sent into the field with orders to write him up. By this means we have had the stereotyped announcement in every battle: “McClellan was in the thickest of the fight, rallying the soldiers, and animating them by his presence.”
Out of this lying correspondence has chiefly grown the falsehood the popularity with the soldiers. It is impossible that a general can be popular with an army which he destroys without ever achieving a victory. 
But the most melancholy feature of the newspaper support of this terrible failure—because the weakest—is that which arose purely from newspaper rivalry; which wrote up a commander who was sinking the nation to ruin, because a cotemporary took a just view of him. It is calculated to give humanity sufficient humility to see such motives, in such a momentous matter, govern a press which assumes to transcend the ordinary weakness of mankind. 
The removal of General McClellan is the turning of a course which tended inevitably to nation destruction. It removes a horrible incubus from the national energies. It shuts up a growing chasm which was swallowing the resources and patriotic sacrifices of the people. No act that the President could do would so revive the hopes of the people. Let us hope that the Executive effort which has displaced this fatal commander will rise to a determination that the resources which the people are so generously giving to the national cause snail no longer be wasted by unfaithfulness or incapacity, and that earnestness in subduing the rebellion shall be an indispensable prerequisite for military command.— Cincinnati Gazette. 
IMPORTANT OFFICIAL TESTIMONY. 
[Extracts from the Report of the Secretary of War.] 
THE CONTRABANDS. 
It will be seen that the Quartermaster's Department upon which, under the law of 17th July, providing for the employment of colored persons, the charge of such persons is chiefly imposed, has not found itself burdened with their care, but that it has, on the contrary, derived valuable aid from their labor, and in a considerable portion of its field of operations has thus far suffered from a scant, rather than from too great a supply of such labor. In Louisiana, where, at one time, there were apprehensions of embarrassment from the number of refugees, the reserve of a tract of rich land along the railroad to Berwick's Bay opens up a territory in which many thousands can be profitably employed, if placed under proper regulation and control. At Port Royal such persons have been extensively employed in the work of the Quartermaster's Department, and in cultivating some thousands of acres of the sea islands of the coast, the products of which are used in the support of themselves and families. In the operations of the army on the James river, and upon the Potomac, in the fortifications of Washington, and as laborers, teamsters, hostlers, in the landing and shipping of stores, they have been of great service; and the demand for their labor has exceeded the supply available.
With this presentation of the past operations and the present condition of the War Department, the duty required of me by the act of Congress to make an annual report is, in a great measure, fulfilled. It is seen that a force has been placed by the people of the United States at the command of the Government to maintain its authority, more mighty in all the elements of warlike power than was ever before arrayed under one banner. How shall that force be employed? To smite the enemy on every hand, to attack his armies and strong holds, to occupy his ports, clear the great rivers of the West of his obstructions, and pause not until he is subdued, is our plain duty. Above all, it is our duty to disdain no legitimate aid that may save the lives of our gallant soldiers, diminish their labors, provide for their wants, and lessen the burdens of our people. 
No aphorism is more universally received, than that "the sole object of a just war is to make the enemy feel the evils of his injustice, and by his sufferings amend his ways, he must therefore be attacked in his most accessible quarter." The power of the rebels rests upon their peculiar system of labor, which keeps laborers on their plantations to support owners who are devoting their time and strength to destroy our armies and destroy oar Government. Whenever that system is in hostility to the Government, it is, in my opinion, the duty of those conducting the war to strike down the system, and turn against the rebels the productive power that upholds the insurrection. Rightly organized in the recovered territory, the laborers of the rebel States will not only aid in holding fortified positions, but their labor will, as in India, free the white soldier from the most unwholesome exposure of the Sooth. They will cultivate the corn and forage, which will feed our cavalry and artillery horses, and save the country a portion of the enormous burden now attending their purchase and transport from the North. This cultivation would have been of greater advantage to us on the southeastern coast than even that of the great staple of the Sea Islands. 
Probably the people who remained upon these islands, within protection of oar armies could, under wise control, have supplied all the forage needed 
<C06>
this year by the forces in the Department of the South. The full ration for a horse weighs twenty-six pounds, that of a soldier three pounds.
An army, well organized and equipped for active operations, with a due proportion of cavalry, artillery and baggage trains, will have not less than one horse or mule to every four soldiers; so that the weight of food for the animals is more than double that of the rations of the men.
How important an aid, bow mat an economy, in a long contest, therefore, would there be in raising by this cheap labor the greater part of the forage alone for the Southern Department; thus, for a greater portion of our wants, transferring the base of supplies, now at New York, to Hilton Head or New Orleans.
The Department has found it difficult to transfer this labor from one part of the seat of war to another. Local and family ties seem to be very strong with these people, and with all their faith in the power and good will of our military commanders, it was found difficult to get volunteer laborers to leave Port Royal for other depots.
A population of four millions, true to the interests of the Union, with slight assistance from the army, will, under proper regulation and government, be of the greatest assistance in holding the territory once recovered. The principal staples of the South are the product exclusively of their labor. If protected upon the lands they have heretofore cultivated, with some organization, and with support from small detachments of loyal troops, they would not only produce much of what is needed to feed our armies and their trains, but they would forever cut off from the rebellion the resources of a country thus occupied.
The rebel armies move with ea e through portions of the border States, living upon the country in which our commanders find no supplies. The people bring forth their hoards, and offer them to the rebels for sale or gift. Protect the laboring population, who are the majority in the greater part of the South, in the possession of the land and its products, and this great advantage will, for whatever portion of the country we occupy, be transferred to us. As soon as the coast is thoroughly occupied, and the people organized, trade will revive. Cotton, rice, sugar and other products will be exchanged by the producer for what he needs. Their wants will be supplied direct from the Northern factories, and the cultivation of the great staples will enable them to pay for what they use. A perfectly free trade may thus again grow up between the North and the South, and with greater or less rapidity it will spread over the whole country as our forces succeed in meeting and dispersing the rebel armies.
The <illegible> of the whole country which formerly produced the sea island cotton is now thoroughly restored to the Union. The laborers are there—the soil and climate. It needs only assurance of protection to revive the cultivation of the staple, as well as to produce vast quantities of corn and forage for our troops. Since this war must be conducted by marches and battles and sieges, why neglect the best means to make them successful, and their results permanent? It is worthy of notice that, thus far, the portions of territory which, once recovered, we have most firmly held, are precisely those in which the greatest proportion of colored men are found. By their assistance, our armies will be able permanently to operate in and occupy the country; and in labor for the army, in raising its and their own supplies, full occupation can be given them, and with this, there will be neither occasion nor temptation to them to emigrate to a northern and less congenial climate.
Judging by experience, no colored man will leave his home in the South. if protected in that home. All possibility of competition from negro labor in the North is avoided in giving colored men protection and employment upon the soil which they have thus far cultivated, and the right to which has been vacated by the original proprietors, deeply involved in the crimes of treason and rebellion. No great territory has been permanently reduced with out depriving the leaders of its people of their lands and property. It is these that give power and influence. Few men have commanding genius and talent to exercise dangerous influence over their fellow-men without the adventitious aid of money and property. By striking down this system of compulsory labor, which enables the leaders of the rebellion to control the resources of the people, the rebellion would die of itself
Under no circumstances has any disposition to servile insurrection been exhibited by the colored population in any Southern State, while a strong loyalty to the Federal Government has been displayed on every occasion, and against every discouragement. By the means suggested, rebellion may be disarmed and subdued, swiftly and effectually, and the lives of our own people saved from slaughter on the battle-field. By the occupation of all their forts on the Mississippi and the sea-coast, a market will be opened in every rebel State for the industry of our people to supply the wants of the army, and also of a loyal population, in exchange for the valuable products of their labor.
Another point of attack is by armed settlements upon the vacant government lands in Florida and Texas. Thousands in the Northern and Western States are impatiently waiting the signal of military movement to plant their homes in the best territory of this continent, and bring it back to the Union, as loyal States. So far from the Southern States being invincible, no enemy was ever so vulnerable, if the means at hand are employed against them. If your proposition for compensated emancipation and a voluntary return to loyalty be blindly rejected, still the proper application of the means at command of the Government cannot fail to accomplish the suppression of the rebellion, and a restoration of than peaceful relations which were designed to be established forever on this continent by the union at the States.
EDWIN M. STANT0N,
Secretary of War. 
THE PRICE OF PEACE. 
Extract from Rev. Dr. Putnam's Thanksgiving Sermon.
We all want peace. We all wait and watch for it more than they that watch for the morning. But what peace? How? when? on what terms? There are some, I suppose, whole word is, or at least their thought and their wish is, peace by any means; peace at any price, instant peace, whatever shall come after it. Let as see what sort of peace they would get, and at what price. 
The price of peace to-day would be a concession to all the demands of those who began the war with rebellion and secession. The country must be cut in twain; vast territories, won by the valor or purchased with the treasure of our forefathers, must be surrendered at the challenge of armed traitors, and become foreign. Our national highways-ours by geography, by treaty, by use and necessity-must pass under alien control, and be subject to alien toll, or interdict. Our river cities and the Capital itself must be held in awe by foreign cannon frowning
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
down from the opposite banks and virtually held as hostages to secure our future submission to what-ever may be demanded by an insolent and triumphant foe. We must surrender the ports and forts and strong places: the guardians of our commerce, built with our money, lost through treachery, and recovered by the powers of our fleets and armies. Monroe and Norfolk, Newbern and Roanoke, Pulaski and Key West, Pickens and Pensacola; the coasts of Texas; New Orleans, Memphis, and the river forts.
At this price, I presume we might have peace! But what a peace! Our nationality destroyed and gone; our government prostrated in the hopeless humiliation of impotence and defeat. The nations of the earth pointing to us the finger of laughing and exultant scorn at the sight of the young giant crippled, dismembered and laid low, never more to disturb their jealous fears or claim their unwilling honor and respect. The principle of secession established; the Union virtually dissolved; a premium put upon disloyalty and revolt; and every State and smaller community left free in any moment of disappointment and passion, or whenever its fancied interests may dictate, to break away, carrying whatsoever plunder it can lay its hands on, and at liberty to carry with it whatever other State or community it can seduce or frighten into its fellowship,—the government meanwhile left too weak and contemptible to exercise restraint upon its adversaries, or to offer any protection to its friends. I said a crippled and prostrate giant, but not that; but it will rather be proved never to have been any giant at all, but only the clothes of one, stuffed with bran, or inflated with gas; no giant, but a pretender, a bully and a coward, that has swaggered before the world through a few years, to faint away at the first rude touch, and collapse at the first pricking.
I think we are not ready to purchase peace at such a price.
But suppose that from Christian meekness and tender-heartedness. or rather, as the fact would be, from base pusillanimity, we were to conclude to take peace now, and such a peace, and at such a price. Pardon the insult I may seem to cast upon my countrymen, by the bare supposition that they might sink themselves to such a depth of baseness and infamy. But just suppose it for a moment, and that we had a treaty of peace engrossed on parchment to-morrow. Would it be peace after all? Surely, a peace paid for so dearly, obtained at the sacrifice of everything that manly nations hold most precious, — honor, fame, power, self-respect, the memory of the fathers, and all the traditions of a noble history,—surely it ought to be a real and a stable peace, seeing that would be all that was left to us. If it is ignominious, it ought at least to be secure. But would it be? No, not for a month. There would be many hundreds of miles of an arbitrary boundary line, and along that whole line two angry and rival nations would stand facing each other: we, hating them as the most proud and arrogant of nations, a nation that has humbled us into the dust, and made us the scorn and loathing of mankind and of our own better selves; and they, despising us as a thousand times meaner and weaker and more contemptible than they ever called us, even in the old days of their truculent boasting and defiance? Would peace continue along such a border? There would be armies scattered along from post to post, on both sides; great standing armies, almost as costly, and more demoralizing, than actual war. And then collisions must arise continually. The jeers and feuds of a rude soldiery would lead to them. The vexatious intricacies of traffic under a treaty would produce them. The escape and pursuit of slaves over the border would produce them. Everlasting intrigues, on both sides, to detach a disaffected State or county, and bring it over from one of the loose confederacies to the other, would produce them. Preferences given, or supposed to be given to foreign nations in advantages of trade, would produce them. Misunderstandings and mutual vexations about the use of those rivers and other lines of traffic and trade which must be used in common, would produce them. We cannot number the causes that would be operating every day to produce collisions. And then, all the old issues that produced the present conflict would remain unsettled, and ever ready to break into further wars. A treaty of peace would have to be more complicated than the old Constitution was. It would involve more questions of doubtful interpretation, lead to more misunderstandings, and mutual imputations of bad faith. It would be absurd to expect that if the Constitution could not preserve peace, a mere treaty could do it any better. 
So it would not be peace we should get—or only the name, not the thing. It would be but a brief armistice, in which we should have disbanded a portion of our forces, and given up all the advantages we have acquired in the posssesion of the harbors and strong places of the South, and then fighting; again and again—an everlasting, chronic, intermittent war; fighting to weariness or exhaustion, and the resting and recruiting to fight again. What a heritage of strife and hate and impoverishment to transmit to our posterity!
Is it such a peace as that that we could welcome with joy and thanksgiving? Could we celebrate its anniversary from year to year, with bonfires and salvoes of cannon, and all the demonstrations of public joy and pride? Is it such a peace as we shall be happy and proud to have recorded in our nation's history?—a peace, the first article of which would be to us eternal infamy and humiliation, and the only effect of which would be to inaugurate everlasting war? None but a coward or a traitor would think for a moment of purchasing such a peace at such a price. Humanity could not welcome it. A Christian cannot pray for it. The angels in heaven could not sing a note of their Bethlehem song to celebrate it. A righteous God could not grant it, except to a debased people, that has bartered away its heritage, and is no longer worthy to rule or to exist.
THE DEVIL IS AN ASS.
But it has been reserved for us to see the complete stultification of the evil one. He never had a fairer field for his operations than this country afforded, and he was among the very first to occupy it; he came the same year with the Puritans; he lost no time, he insinuated himself into the social relations of the people, he wormed himself into the government, he lubricated all great persons with his slime, he fascinated statesmen with his charmed eyes and glittering scales, he captivated them with his glozing tongue; so guilelessly he did it, so ingeniously, with such plausible reasoning, that before we were aware of his designs, he had gained a political, social, and even moral supremacy. He had corrupted nearly all the public men, he had the ear of the Executive, he suffed the ballot-box; there seemed to be no reason why, with prudent management, he should not become the preponderating force in the nation, why he should not at last become the one force; and he would have done it if he had not outwitted himself, if he had not incontinently showed his hand. Good men did next to nothing. God maintained his awful reserve. There was a wonderful, a prodigious silence on the part of all who might have spoken; the two or three voices that were raised were drowned forthwith in the popular clamor, or smothered by the popular indifference. It was as if the moral world stood still to see the self-conviction of evil. Underground, swift and sure, burrowed the old serpent; now and then showing his head in some outrage on civilization, but straightway drawing it in again; so cunning, so wary, so wise, so deep, so expert in covering his track, that none thought to scotch him. It was the wiliest game up to a certain point, and then it was the craziest. Every master-stroke of policy was the best thing that could have been done for God. He offered a price for the head of Garrison, and made Garrison known; he insulted Dr. Channing, and startled Phillips to his feet; he mobbed Phillips, and raised up anti-slavery orators by the score; he agonized to get the Fugitive Slave Law, and created the Republican party; he broke down the Missouri Compromise, and let the angel of the North into his dominions; he invaded Kansas, and unearthed John Brown; he hung John Brown, and multiplied avengers by the thousand At Sumter, he was idiot enough to shock the last remaining sentiment of Northern honor. Hell should have deposed him for that blunder. Pandemonium should have excommunicated him for such a piece of nonsense; the <illegible> should have put the <illegible> cap on his head. Still there was another chance; the last hour had not come. He might still mutter the black Pater Noster, and shed the hypocritical tear, and a retire to his cave for a new rehearsal of his part Nobody wanted to bruise hit his head severely; most would have been glad to see it safely sheltered in its hole,—many begged him to draw it in. But the madman, absurdly imputing this kind advice to
<c02>
fear, actually believed he had done a wise thing, and persisted. He raised his crest, and darted out his tongue, he waved his scaly tail more fiercely than ever, he spit his venom in floods, until, in self-defence, the javelin of Emancipation was driven into his heart. Slavery dies by its own hand; its worst enemies have been its friends; Gov. Wise hurt it more than John Brown; Preston Brooks dealt it more fatal blows than Charles Sumner; Floyd knocked away a more powerful prop than Wendell Phillips; and Jefferson Davis has wounded it more mortally than Garrison.
Thus, my friends, it ever is. The arch-traitor is always taken in his own trap; the father of lies always tells too many; the original murderer ends in suicide. The highways of history are dotted all along with the trees on which the devil has hung himself with his own rope. It is not so weighty a matter after all to confound the wiles of the devil!—REV. O. B. FROTHINGHAM.
WAILING IN SODOM.
The continuance of this contest involves increased suffering. The evils that follow in the train of this calamitous visitation grow more direful with every day. Other hearts than those now aching with anxiety and bleeding from bereavement are rent with grief, and the friend who sympathized with some afflicted one yesterday, to-day weeps bitter tears over his own sorrow. The iron is driven the deeper, and our burdens become more and more heavy. And though more than eighteen months have passed away since the strife was begun, the end seems more distant than it appeared to be a twelve-month since. Hope after hope has gone out in darkness, and expeditions we had fondly cherished have turned out to be miserable delusions. So often have we been disappointed and deceived, that now our faith rejects every promise, and turns away from every sign. Our foe is as active and determined and powerful as ever he was, and the agent that was <illegible> foreign nations to intervene and put an end to this wicked and infamous contest, has not been potent enough to accomplish that end.
We stand alone. Vast hosts are mustering to repeat in stronger force and with more obstinate courage the attempts that have been made, and strongholds, hitherto unattacked, will have to bear the most furious onslaughts the enemy, with his wonderful resources of ingenuity and material, is capable of making. To frustrate his well-conceived plans, to repel these terrible attacks, we have to depend entirely upon ourselves. The foe will do its utmost; military genius and knowledge, the boundless credit of the Government, the best mechanical skill—mind, money, muscle—have all combined to insure success.
And while these tremendous efforts are being put forth—while our homes are darkened by the shadow of the death angel's wing, and our bosoms wrung with anguish—while we are enduring grievous privations and hardships, and our soldiers are almost naked, we stand alone. It is true, foreign tongues mention our name with respect and admiration. It is true, our fortitude and gallantry have received abundant reward in glowing words of praise, and in warm, heartfelt wishes for success. But sympathy and admiration have afforded no substantial assistance, and all unaided we brace our nerves for the dreadful conflict.—Charleston (S. C.) Courier.
THE PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE.
It is said that once there was a man who thought that if he should run two miles, he could jump over a mountain. When, after his run, he reached the base of the mountain, he sat down to rest. We are reminded of this individual by the President's Message. Taking a hundred days' start, he nears the base of his mountain; but, it seems, is very tired, and sits down to rest. He nods. Never did wide awakes usher in a more heavy-eyed President. Here, evidently fallen asleep, he takes to dreaming of the year 1900! Is it that despairing of the present, he is turning his attention to future salvation? It will doubtless occur to many that we have about as much as we can attend to, to deal with December, 1862, without undertaking the burthens of the second generation from this. Possibly that generation may have brains of its own to deal with its own affairs. 
The President says that slavery is the cause of the war; the cause of its continuance; that we can have no peace so long as it exists. Then his proposition can only amount to a proposition to continue the war until the year 1900!
To get any gleam of hope from this Message is like trying to extract sunbeams from cucumbers; so much is said to the point of that which is nothing, to the point; but the least objectionable thing in it is that he indicates an intention to adhere to his Proclamation. The question, however, arises: if the President means to carry out his edict of freedom on the New Year, what is all this stuff about gradual emancipation?
The guns of our navy and army cover to-day one million slaves. Will the President, on that day, strike the fetters from that million now in the reach of his arm? Let him attend to that, and, for God's sake let the twentieth century alone! He is our President, not that of posterity.
The new articles for the Constitution are ludicrous, and one can hardly believe that Orpheus C. Kerr did not have his pocket telegraph on the lines, and so manage to insert several paragraphs. One of these articles gravely imports that after we have got a State free from slavery, and the slaves paid for, if that State wants to reestablish slavery, it may quietly do so, only it must pay us back our money!
One sentence in the Message strikes us as disingenuous. It says, "Some would abolish it suddenly, and without compensation; some would abolish it gradually, and with compensation." As if the idea of compensation had anything to do with the gradualness of emancipation! The President must be hopelessly ignorant if he does not know that all but a very few emancipationists in this country are in favor of striking at slavery directly and immediately; that they believe that slavery can be reached only by the war power, which, from its very nature, acts upon an exigency; and that many emancipationists favor compensation.
The fact is, the President seems to be a man of inadequate calibre; he does not comprehend his position. He has exhausted himself, apparently, in taking up the gauntlet which the South threw down. Either his theory is true, or else that Mephistopheles, Seward, is paralyzing his powers. If he can cast him off, and prove to be a man, we shall rejoice to retract this estimate of him.—Commonwealth.
LETTER FROM McCLELLAN TO PORTER.
In the course of the hearing before the court martial at Washington, in Fitz John Porter's case, on the 4th inst., a question was put to Gen. Pope, in giving his testimony, which drew out the fact that Gen. Porter showed him a dispatch to himself from of MeClellan, at a conversation between them at Fair-fax Court House, Sept 2d. Thereupon Gen. Porter produced the dispatch in the court, which Gen. Pope recognized as the one mentioned, as follows:
"WAR DEPARTMENT, Sept 1, 5:30 P. M.
Major-Gen. Fitz John Porter—I ask you, for my sake and that of the country and the old army of the Potomac, that you and all my friends will lend the fullest and most cordial co-operation to Gen. Pope in all the its operations now going on. The honor of our arms now depends upon the cheerful co-operation of all in the field. This week is the crisis of our fate. Say the same things to all my friends in the army. This is the last request I have to make—that, for our country's sake, you will give to Gen. Pope the same assistance you have given to me. I am in the defences at Washington, and will render all protection in covering your retreat, should it be necessary.
(Signed)
GEO. B. MCCLELLAN."
The production of this dispatch, it is said, created quite a sensation, and no wonder. In what an illustrious position it places McClellan!—Boston Courier.
This is a case where dates are important. The battles in which Gen. Porter failed to aid Gen. Pope occurred on the 28th, 29th and 30th of August.
Gen. McClellan's communication to Gen. Porter is dated after the battles, on the evening of the first day of September. We cannot help thinking that Gen. McClellan’s potation would be considerably more "illustrious," if it had been written and dated at Alexandria some days previous to those battles.
Being dated after the battles had taken place, Gen. McClellan, in writing and sending it, betrayed a consciousness that his "friends" in the army of the Potomac, including Gen. Porter, had failed to aid Gen. Pope as they should have done.—Worcester Spy.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12,1862.
THE TWENTY-NINTH
NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY.
In view of the colossal magnitude of the Southern rebellion, on the one hand, and of the corresponding efforts for its suppression by the American Government, on the other, the Managers of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY  have deemed it expedient to defer their ANNUAL APPEAL to this late period—not knowing what events might occur, in the mean time, to render a modification or suspension of their established plan of action desirable, and wishing to be guided by the highest wisdom in such a momentous crisis.
Reverently recognizing in this awful visitation the hand of God in righteous judgment for our great national transgression, and trusting it may mercifully end in the total extinction of chattel slavery throughout the land; believing that the Proclamation of President Lincoln, emancipating forever all slaves held in States found in rebellion on the first day of January, 1863, will, if energetically and uncompromisingly enforced, inflict a staggering blow upon that fearfully oppressive system; they, nevertheless, feel that the uncertainties of civil war are too great, and the expedients of governmental and political organizations too unreliable, to justify, for one moment, any abatement of vigilance, activity, zeal, liberality, and determination, on the part of those who have so long and so disinterestedly consecrated themselves to the godlike work of immediate and universal emancipation, joyfully "bearing the cross and despising the shame." With no personal or sectional feelings to indulge, no selfish ends to promote, no party or sectarian objects to attain, —animated by the deepest religious sentiment and the purest patriotism, —it is not for such to commit their sacred cause to other hands, to be lulled into inaction, even by the most cheering signs of the times, to regard their special mission as accomplished, or to abandon their organized efforts and efficient instrumentalities which have hitherto been crowned with such animating results. Their work is, by Divine help, the extermination of slavery, root and branch; and so long as one slave remains in his fetters, and they are able to plead his cause, that work will not have been accomplished. They must continue to be "the forlorn hope" to the end, leading the way, and taking upon themselves the brunt of the conflict, until the victory be won, the captives set free, and liberty the birth-right and possession of every inhabitant of our land, from sea to sea.
Granted, that the Anti-Slavery cause has grown from infantile weakness to manly strength—from universal proscription to respectful public consideration— from an apostolic number of adherents to a multitudinous host. Granted, that it is Slavery which is the sole cause of the Rebellion, and that the suppression of the one may necessitate the forcible overthrow of the other. Granted, that the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln, if it can be enforced, will, include nearly three fourths of the entire slave population. Granted, that the rebels themselves, despairing of achieving their independence in any other way, may proclaim freedom to their bondmen, and thus secure their loyal cooperation. Still, we have to deal, with stern realities, and must not allow ourselves to be deluded by mere possibilities which may never be fulfilled. Still, it must be remembered that no blow will be struck at THE SLAVE SYSTEM, as such, by the Proclamation; for slavery will continue to be recognized and protected, under the old constitutional guaranties, in all the so-called loyal slave States, and possibly reinstated in every rebel State, under the shield of State sovereignty, after its subjugation and the with-drawal of the Federal armies. Still, it is manifest that a powerful pro-slavery sentiment exists throughout the North, deadly <illegible> to every scheme of emancipation, defiantly claiming a strong reaction of public sentiment on its side, intent on persecuting and ostracising all who are obtaining their freedom by flight and the chances of war, and leaving nothing undone to get the control of the government, so as to make the most humiliating concessions to the South, and reconstruct the Union on a permanent slaveholding basis.
Under these perilous circumstances, therefore, there must be no indulgence given to the pleasing illusions of fancy, or to an undue exaltation of mind. The struggle for the abolition of slavery may yet be protracted for years; and, unquestionably, it will be fiercely contested to the end by all that is hostile to impartial liberty, North as well as South. We must gird up our loins anew, make a fresh consecration of our means and powers, labor with increasing devotedness, and ask for a discharge from this warfare only with the termination of our mortal life, or the liberation of all in bondage.
The Managers of the NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY give notice, therefore, that it will be held, as usual, in Boston, the last week in January, 1863; and to that annual gathering they cordially and urgently invite all who abhor treason, love liberty, desire peace and reconciliation on an enduring basis, and seek the unity, happiness and, prosperity of our now distracted, fearfully guilty, but we trust to be regenerated country—bringing with them (or sending, if they are not able to give their personal attendance) as generous contributions and donations as their means will allow, causing "the riches of their liberality to abound" even in "the abundance of their poverty,"—assured that the proceeds thus obtained will be sacredly used, under the auspices of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, as hitherto, to disseminate light and knowledge on the subject of slavery by voice and pen, through the press and by the lecturing agent—to quicken the religious sentiment, inform the understanding, stimulate the conscience, soften the heart, and so effect that mighty moral change in public opinion which is essential to the banishment of all complexional hatred and oppression, and, consequently, to the reign of universal justice and good will. It should be remembered that the pecuniary resource of the Society is largely dependant upon this instrumentality; and as its treasury is now empty, it is vitally important for its continued operations that prompt and liberal aid should be rendered in the manner already indicated.
To those every where who have so long and so generously aided us, we present our annual appeal, trusting it may be so ordered by the God of the oppressed that no renewal of it will be needed, by reason of the speedy and complete consummation of our labors and aspirations.
Mary May, Sarah P. Remand
Lydia D. Parker, Mary Willey,
Louisa Loring, Abby H. Stephenson,
Henrietta Sargent, Sarah J. Nowell,
Sarah Russell May, Elizabeth von Arnim.
Helen E. Garrison, Eliza Apthorp,
Anna Shaw Greene, Sarah Cowing,
Caroline C. Thayer, Sarah H. Southwick,
Mallie Griffith, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Mary Jackson, Sarah C. Atkinson
Evelina A. Smith, Abby Francis,
Caroline M. Severance, Mary Jane Parkman,
Elizabeth Gay, Georgina Otis,
Ann Rebecca Bramhall, Katherine Earle Farnum.
We invoke special attention to the APPEAL of the Managers of the National Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary, which, although issued at a much later period than usual, (for the reasons therein considerately set forth,) needs no long delay, we trust, on the part of the true-hearted, unfaltering friends of the cause, to ensure such a liberal response as its claims deserve and its present exigencies require. "One last, BEST effort now !"
<c04>
THE CONTRABANDS AT PORT ROYAL.
Rev. Mansfield French, who has recently been engaged in preaching among the contrabands of Port Royal, delivered an address at the Tremont Temple, on Sunday evening, before a large audience.
Gov. Andrew presided, and said that a few weeks ago, while on a visit to the national capital, he had formed the acquaintance of the lecturer of the evening, Mr. French, the Chaplain of the 1st Regiment South Carolina Volunteers. Gov. Andrew also referred to his own pleasure in assisting Mr. French in his efforts in behalf of free institutions in the South.
He said that Mr. French’s narrative had so interested him, that he could not allow him to return without out visting Boston, and laying before a portion of the Massachusetts people what the Lord himself had been doing through him. Gov. Andrew spoke in eloquent language of the comprehensive and noble views Brig. Gen. Saxton had taken and carried out, in his capacity as Military Governor of South Carolina.
Mr. French was warmly welcomed by the audience. He said that he had not come to plead the cause of universal freedom here, for this State had stood up nobly for the cause. But he would allude to his labors in the Department of the South, consisting of South Carolina and Florida, which he considered one of the most remarkable divisions of the country, and a pivot or hinge on which the future of the nation was turning.
He said when the negroes were asked when the war would be over, their ready answer was: "When the rebels are all killed." If asked when that would be, they replied: "When you give us a fair chance, massa." 
In describing the course of different military directors, he said Gen. Sherman had pursued a two-fold policy, he had addressed the fortifications with shot and shell, and they succumbed; and he had addressed the people with honied words, but he had not captured them. But Hunter had used words of fire, and though he had been compelled to retract his Proclamation, God had made it spirit and power. Mitchell had been a great, noble, and useful man, but Hunter was the man for the place, (applause,) and he was ably seconded by Gen. Saxton and Admiral Dupont. These three were agreed in their views on the true policy to be pursued, and the rights of labor.
The negroes were willing to work. There were now 20,000 at Port Royal, and but for late planting and the seven years' worm, their cotton crop would have been large. Their corn crop, however, and the vegetables they have furnished the troops with, have been of great value. They have supported themselves, and many have laid by $50 to $100 to buy themselves homes in the old Carolina. Uncle Sam's Commissioners are surveying the land for sale. (Applause.)
The religion of the contrabands was Mr. French's next topic, and he spoke of it as vital and substantial, though their real want was teachers for the intellect, and not for the soul.
The colored man as a soldier was able and willing. Gen. Hunter kept a colored regiment five months, and had to disband it for want of funds, but Saxton had now 5000 of them. The lecturer had gone along the coast with an expedition, and found the negroes eager to enlist and be furnished with arms. In the skirmishes they had with the enemy, the negroes had stood up to the work like heroes, and Captain Budd of the Potomska testifies over his signature that they had fought with almost the coolness of veterans. The lecturer, after having spoken an hour and forty minutes, closed with urging the importance of instructing the negro in the school of arms. His lecture was deeply interesting, and frequently applauded.
A WORK FOR THE TIMES. Lee & Shepherd, Boston, have just published a most racy, brave, outspoken, clear-sighted, uncompromising work, such as the times demand, entitled "DIARY, from March 4,1861, to November 12, 1862, by ADAM GUROWSKI." It is touchingly and significantly "dedicated to the widowed wives, the bereaved mothers, sisters, sweethearts, and orphans in the Loyal States”. In this <illegible> thor has fearlessly recorded what he heard and saw at Washington, and what he heard from others on whose veracity he could implicitly rely, during the time covered by it. "Perhaps," he says, "these pages may in some way explain a phenomenon almost unexampled in history,—that twenty millions of people, brave, highly intelligent, and mastering all the wealth of modern civilization, were, if not virtually overpowerd, at least so long kept at bay by about five millions of rebels.”
For sale by all Booksellers. Price $1.25.
The volume just published by Thomas Hamilton, 48 Beekman Street, New York, and R. F. Wall-cut, 221 Washington Street, Boston, entitled “THE BLACK MAN—his Antecedents, his Genius, and his Achievements, by WILLIAM WELLS BROWS,” will accomplish its purpose, which is to "vindicate the Negro's character, and show that he is endowed with those intellectual and amiable qualities which adorn and dignify human nature." Besides the personal sketches of meritorious colored persons, from Benjamin Bannaker, of astronomical repute and pure African origin, to Sir Edward Jordan, the present Mayor of Kingston, Jamaica, who in 1850 was elevated to the dignity of Knighthood by Queen Victoria, and who, in a literary point of view, is considered one of the first men of that island, it contains a graphic memoir of the author, who is himself a living refutation of all the aspersions so ignorantly or maliciously cast upon the colored race. As a public lecturer, Mr. Brown holds a prominent rank by his fluency of speech, dramatic talent, excellent elocution, sparkling, wit and humor, argumentative and persuasive power, the and range of intelligence. His former works, "Clotelle," "Sketches of Places and People Abroad," "Miralda, or the Beautiful Quadroon," &c., were, highly creditable to his literary ability, and won for him great praise on both sides of the Atlantic. For the instance, the Scotch  Independent,in noticing his "Three Years in Europe," published ten years ago, to said of Mr. Brown:—
"He is no ordinary man, or he could not have so remarkably surmounted the many difficulties and impediments of his training as a slave. By dint of resolution, self-culture, and force of character, he has rendered himself a popular lecturer to a British audience, and a vigorous expositor of the evils and atrocities of that system whose chains he has shaken off so triumphantly and forever. We may safely pronounce William Wells Brown a remarkable man, and a full refutation of the doctrine of the inferiority of the negro.”
THEODORE D. WELD. The Worcester Spy, of, the Monday, pays the following compliment:—
"The meetings of the Anti-Slavery Society, Sunday afternoon and evening, derived their chief interest from the address of Theodore D. Weld. The attendance, however, being limited in a large degree to the friends of this branch of anti-slavery organization, many citizens, to whom Mr. Weld should have spoken, lost an opportunity such as is rarely given them to enjoy. His constitutional and historical argument against secession was a clear, logical and earnest statement of the one issue between the government and the rebellion—rising at times into passages of singular eloquence, and delivered with dramatic impressiveness and power. Mr. Weld's twenty-six years' absence from the platform has not impaired the strength and glow of his faculties; and he has apparently many years of influence and usefulness yet before him. We trust that at some future time he will return to Worcester, and, under favorable auspices, give all our citizens an opportunity of hearing one of the very few able addresses which the times have produced.”
Arrangements can be made with those who would like to have Mr. Weld lecture is in their several places, of by addressing letters to Samuel May, Jr. or to Parker Pillsbury, Anti Slavery Office, Boston.
FROZEN TO DEATH. Since Saturday, the weather has become suddenly and severely cold. It is stated that six of our pickets in the Army of the Potomac were frozen to death on Saturday night, while at Camp Misery, Alexandria. Seven more died from the effects of the cold.
<c05>
THE PRESIDENTS MESSAGE.
In an admirable discourse, entitled "The New Birth of Christ," delivered by Rev. M. D. Conway, at the Music Hall on Sunday last, this idea was expressed in regard to the present duty of our country:— We must advance, from the establishment of emancipation for the sake of policy, to the establishment of universal freedom for the sake of justice.
This just and Christian idea is one to which President Lincoln has not attained even in theory. The recognition of this truth, involving a duty imperatively binding on himself, seems never yet to have entered his mind. He writes gravely, earnestly, seriously. Unless we suppose him an accomplished hypocrite, as selfishly base and false as Seward himself, we must assume that he means and believes what he says; and that his scheme of gradual and compensated emancipation really springs in part from a rude sense of justice, akin to that felt by a Turkish pacha, when he strangles a baker for giving light weight.
"Honest Abe" probably wishes to do right; means to execute justice. But when he thinks of doing justice, he thinks only of what is due to the slaveholder, never of what is due to the slave. And when he thinks of the slaveholder, be constantly recurs to that idea which he sucked in with his mother's milk, that a man has a right to his property; to his "niggers," whom he has bought and paid for, as much as to any other property. When the exigence of the State takes away this kind of property for the public welfare, it is to be paid for, just as much as the horses are to be paid for which are seized for army use; but the President (Kentuckian by birth and Illinois man by education) seems no more to have conceived the idea of anything being due to the slave from this nation, than to the horse. He quietly and firmly holds his ground against two opposite ideas, which he considers prejudices: that of the "loyal slaveholder," (so called,) who is determined to keep his slaves in spite of the opposing necessities of his country, and that of, the abolitionist, who believes the slave to have "an inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," and thus to be entitled to compensation, on his side, for the life-long robbery that has been exercised upon him. The President has one side of the shield in full view, and sees, and knows, that it is a silver shield. He has not only never looked at the other side, but he remains perfectly unconscious that there is any need of looking at it.
The President has not even attained to the view of our affairs lately reached by Rev. Dr. Putnam, of Roxbury, and stated, with sublime impudence, in a sermon lately preached and published by him. You know, he said to his hearers, that I have never been an abolitionist, and have never preached the ideas belonging to that theory. But a new state of things has arisen. "God has become an abolitionist," and who are we, that we should stand out against Him? It is absolutely necessary that we should follow His lead.
"God has become an abolitionist."! This Reverend time-server, this pillar in the Unitarian church, has no idea of admitting that God has always been an abolitionist, and that he and his sect have always been grossly culpable in their complicity with slavery. So he represents that God has changed His policy, and that he, like a faithful servant, makes a corresponding change. Dr. Putnam can read the signs of the times, and note the changes of wind and tide, as well as the American Tract Society. Unitarians and Orthodox alike feel the necessity of tacking, to avoid the breakers; but neither seems inclined either to repentance n or reformation.
But Mr. Lincoln does not yet see even that God is as an abolitionist. In every step that he has yet taken, by compulsion of circumstances, against slavery, he has spoken apologetically for his action, urging the necessity as his excuse. He probably uttered the exact n, feeling and wish of his heart when he said to the Chicago delegation that, if he could save slavery and the Union both, he would do it. Not being able to save both, he urges the superior value of the latter as his excuse for giving up the former. He acknowledges the loyal slaveholder's right to compensation. <illegible> and bones of men and women. The right of property in man is, in his view, not only valid, but sacred. He speaks regretfully of the fact that some of the Northern people disregard "the legal obligation" to give up fugitives to the claim of cruelty or lust. He fears that this tendency "cannot be perfectly cured." He assumes that the liberation of slaves is really a destruction of the property of slaveholders. He begs for compromise and concession, alike from the advocates of liberty and those of slavery, as if each stood on equal grounds of right and justice. In direct opposition both to natural probability and to the experience of the British West India Islands, he assumes that immediate liberation of the slaves would produce is more derangements and troubles than gradual emancipation. He assumes that vagrant destitution must largely attend immediate emancipation, and that this, for the slaves, would be a worse evil than continuance in slavery: an assumption at once injurious and insulting to the slaves, especially as he is able, if he will, to endow them with the lands forfeited by their rebel masters, thus administering justice, by one act, to both parties. He admits, as valid, the absurd pretence that the present generation of slaveholders are to not accountable for the continuance of slavery; and he admits the equal absurdity that the use of cotton of and sugar implicates the Northern user in the maintenance of slavery.
The President proposes two articles bearing upon slavery as amendments of the Constitution of the United States. The second of these, enacting a of measure of partial justice to such of the slaves as may obtain actual freedom by the chances of war at any time during the rebellion, he does not propose as a measure of justice, but apologizes for (in the Message) because "it would be impracticable to return to bond age the class of persons therein contemplated."
The first of these amendments, however, if adopted, would be an unspeakable disgrace and injury to the Constitution, introducing the words "slave" and "slavery" into it, (which the decency of our fathers carefully kept out,) and also formally allowing the in-definite continuance of the thing, slavery.
None of these amendments provide, either at present or in the future, for the extinction of slavery; and the first and principal one does not provide for of emancipation at all, only for compensation to the masters, if they shall think fit to emancipate within thirty-seven years. And the article provides, not only that any State may refuse its consent to this arrangement, and keep its slave system, but that any State which has relinquished slavery and received its compensation may again establish or tolerate slavery on paying back the money received. The Constitution, on receiving such an addition, would become more than ever a covenant with death and an agreement with hell.
The Colonization scheme, upon which the President insists, as important, and which forms the third of his proposed amendments to the Constitution, provides that the freedmen be colonized "with their own consent" This would seem quite unexceptionable, indeed benevolent, to a foreign observer unacquainted with the systematic injustice practised towards the colored people all through this country. There are many ways to persecute those whom we hate, and it is common enough to hate those whom we have injured. That old handmaid of slavery, the American Colonization Society, made the same verbal provision w about the "consent" of the men whom it carried off to the unhealthy coast of Africa; yet one of its agents felt constrained to testify that some of its emigrants were "as truly coerced as if they had been driven with a cart-whip." Thus it will be, to a great extent, with those who shall become free through the operation of this war. Whatever legal arrangements may be made in regard to them, many of the white people, ex-slaveholders in the South and negro-haters in the North, will do all they can to embarrass the working at of the new system; to keep up the old stigma of m caste, and to represent black as practically inferior to white. No wonder if some, under these circum-
<c06>
tances, shall be discouraged, and "consent" to their own expatriation. On the other hand, all honor to those who, seeing their own right to liberty and the pursuit of happiness in this their native country , <illegible> the utter injustice of the prejudice and presecution directed against them, and seeing that it can better be faced and lived down now than at any future time, shall stand in their lot here, persist in demanding the position which self-respect and human aspiration claim, and improve the new opportunities for now falling to them, until even prejudice itself must <illegible> from accusation. Those who patiently and stead fastly apply themselves to this work will be efficient laborers, not for negro rights only, but for human rights. They will be true benefactors of the whole family of man. And all just and can did whites should realize the duty of working with them to this end.
The president elaborately argues several of the points contained in his Message. One of these trains of argument is doubly satisfactory, being not only just in itself, but showing Mr. Lincoln to be capable of progression; capable of admitting a truth which Kentucky and Illinois yet refuse. This is the section on “"the future of the emancipated slave," in which he refutes the stupid old traditions that emancipations will flood the North with negroes, and will interfers with white labor both North and South. The truth thus stated is the more creditable to the President, as it shows the needlessness of his colonization scheme.
In other cases, however, the arguments of the Message repeat, and try to fortity, the old calumines and false assumptions of the advocates of slavery. One of these false assumptions, the preferableness of gradual to immediate emancipation, is bolstered up by two more, equally false; the assertion that a temporary continuance of slavery will "spare both races from the evils of sudden derangements." and will save the blacks from "the vagrant destitution which and largely attend immediate emancipation."
In both these cases, the probable truth is reversed by the statements of the Message. Vastly less trouble would probably ensue from an emancipation absolutely immediate and universal than from any other course; and this method also would best and most speedily relieve the "destitution" now suffered by the slaves. As to "vagrancy," so much of it is occurs among the slaves of rebels will be the greatest of advantages to the Government. That is the very state of things on all accounts most needful to be encouraged and stimulated. Let the slaves of rebels run away as fast as possible; and let the President, after directly addressing them with an invitations to join the Union as freemen, save them from vagrancy by assigning to them the lands forfeited by their masters, in all those portions of rebel States which are our armies occupy or can protect. As to vagrancy among the liberated slaves of loyal masters, (if there be any such,) that will depend entirely on the democrace of the masters themselves. In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, the freedmen will choose to remain where when they have hitherto lived, if good treatement is given, and fair, wages for labor offered, by their former masters.
As to social derangements and difficulties in the South, the worst and most dreadful of those apprehended, namely, insurrection, is that which would be most surely avoided by immediate emancipation, and most surely precipitated by a formal renewal of the legal and Constitutional sanction of slavery.
The slaves, thus far, with a patience and hopefulness which have filled their friends with admiring wonder, have abstained from violence against the tyrants, trusting to some anticipated deliverence by "the Lord" and "the Yankness." We have numerous reports of their being killed by their masters, or a refusing to accompany their flight before the Fedent armies, none of violence inflicted on the masters, or their families, by the slaves who left them. Whereas our forces have gone in the rebel country, slaves have come out to join them, and always with the same as count, that they had been waiting for deliverance, and expecting it. The slaves know that this war concerns them, and feel sure that it will work out their emancipation. Even where they are not welcomed by the Northern forces, even where they are repelled with insult, they wait in hope, trusting with sublime faith that the war will somehow result in their freedom, and always ready to work or fight for that consumption as soon as they are permitted. Whenever this patience of hope shall fade out in despair, whenever the North shall definitively take towards them a position as antagonistic as the South, whenever the action of the President or of the Congress shall show them that nothing is to be expected in their behalf from the government, or the army, or the people, then indeed. We may expect to see revenge and blood without measure. If we are so mad as to allow the President’s plans to go into effect, and allow those rebels who submit, again to resume the slaveholding position under U. S. authority, restore the Union as it <illegible>, and let the Slave Power again reign supreme, that, indeed, as in St. Domingo, massacre will follow the attempt at reenslavement. And who would wonder!
A formal prolongation of slavery for thirty-seven years, by special provisions of the U. S. Constitute would be perpetual slavery to the generation now at on the stage. The President has the amazing hardihood to assume that the expectation of freedom for their children will content them! As if one particle of confidence could be placed in the honor or honesty of a nation that robs now, and promises to become honest in a remote future; that plunders now, and engages that posterity shall pay up; that tyrannizes now, with the understanding that they will bestow liberty thirty-seven years hence! If the slaves could believe a promise so absurd, or accept a proposal so impudent and monstrous, they would indeed be the inferior race that their lying masters have chosen to represent them.
The only way of escape from a frightful waste of life, and hideous scenes of slaughter and ruin, in addition to the horrors of the present war, is to make friends, of the colored people, slave and free. And this is to be done only by frankly and promptly putting ourselves on their side, and inviting them to join our side.
The sooner and the more thoroughly this is done, the less chance will there be for derangements and troublesome complications. A Proclamation of immediate and universal freedom, addressed by the President to the slaves, and certified to them as the real act of the President by the sight of black regiments, uniformed and armed like the others, marching everywhere with our armies, would accomplish all parts of the transition needful for our safety, quicker and better than any other method.
The vacillations of President Lincoln will greatly perplex the future historian. Why, having the war power in his hands, he did not proclaim emancipation at the beginning—why, having proclaimed a restricted measure of it, he did not push that with vigor-and why, when the time for the beneficient action of the Proclamation approached, he impaired that action by a Message, running counter to it---all these are difficult of explanation. At present, we have the <illegible> spectacle of the chief of a great country, attacked by a powerful and most dangerous enemy, having in his possession a bomb which would instantly scatter that enemy's forces, first letting that bomb remain more than a year inactive, then discharging it with a three months' fuse, and after two months, making special exertions to extinguish the fuse! What but ruin can be expected in a war so managed?
It now remains to be seen if Congress also will disregard this last opportunity to save the nation.- C. K. W.
MAYOR WIGHTMAN DEFEATED —GOOD FOR BOSTON! On Monday last, the annual Municipal Election took place in this city, which resulted in the choice of Hon. Frederick W. Lincoln for Mayor by a plurality of 1,200. Mr. Lincoln was the straight Republican candidate. His opponent was Joseph M. Wightman, the present notorious incumbent, who had the nomination and support of both the Democratic and the People's parties.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
EXPRESSION OF FOREIGN SYMPATHY. 
THE CRISIS IN THE UNITED STATES.
Address of the Committee of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society.
The Committee of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society, having observed, with the deepest sorrow, the efforts which are being made to infuse into the minds of the people of this country sentiments friendly to slavery, feel it to be their duty to reiterate,and to commend to the serious consideration of their fellow-countrymen, the fundamental principle of the anti-slavery movement in England; that "slaveholding is a sin and a crime before God"; and,therefore, that unconditional emancipation, wherever slavery is maintained, is alone consistent with the Divine Law, and with the requirements of justice and humanity.
While the committee believe that the efforts referred to have not yet pervaded the community at large, the tone and spirit of certain articles in a portion of the public press, the misrepresentation and perversion of facts, the biased addresses of many men of influence, all with the manifest tendency to be-speak favour for those who are contending for the extension and consolidation of slavery, and to disparage and discourage efforts directed to its extinction, impress the Committee with the painful conviction, that in some quarters a demoralizing effect has been produced.
The Committee deplore, and regard with profound grief, the fratricidal conflict between the two sections of the American Union; but, while anxious to avoid expressing any opinion likely to be construed into an approval of a war policy, they regard it as established beyond disproof, that the South was not only the aggressor, but designedly provoked an armed contest with the United States Government, with the express, sole object of founding a Confederacy to perpetuate slavery. On the other hand, the United States Government, embracing the political anti-slavery party of the North-commonly called the Republican party-has initiated and carried into effect measures in furtherance of negro emancipation, which entitle it to the sympathy of all true friends of freedom. It has enforced the statutes against slave-trading, which former administrations, being pro-slavery, had allowed to become inoperative, and has prosecuted slave traders to conviction and punishment; it has entered into a new anti-slave trade treaty with Great Britain, conceding a right of search which former Governments, overruled by the Southern party, had stead-fastly refused; to promote the speedy settlement of the Territories, by a non-slaveholding population, it has enacted a Homestead Bill, giving a hundred and sixty acres of land to every immigrant, irrespective of his national origin; and, moreover, carrying into effect the policy of Jefferson, ratified by act of Congress in 1789, it has prohibited slavery forever in those Territories, upon which issue alone the Southern candidate for the Presidency was defeated at the election which immediately preceded the present rebellion; it has also abolished slavery in the District of Columbia; it has virtually repealed the Fugitive slave Act, by prohibiting the rendition of slaves, escaping from the rebel States to the lines of the United States army, providing compensation on account of such as may belong to loyal citizens; it has recognized and entered into diplomatic relations with the Negro Republics of Liberia and Hayti: by the Confiscation Bill--considerately made non-retrospective-it, in effect, proclaimed emancipation to the slaves in the rebel States, within a specified period; a majority in Congress has ratified the President's plan of compensated emancipation for such Slave States as may elect to take advantage of it, and only recently, the President has announced that the details of the measure will be submitted to the next Congress, with a view to its immediate practical application; lastly, the President has lately issued a Proclamation, declaring absolutely and forever free all the slaves in those States which shall be in rebellion on the 1st of January next, and pointing to the measures in progress for the abolition of slavery in the loyal States, upon the principle of indemnification.
While the Committee deprecate a resort to arms, even with the avowed purpose of promoting the extinction of slavery, they reiterate the opinion, that the friends of the slave, in the United States, under whatsoever designation, have established a just claim upon the sympathy of the friends of freedom throughout Europe.
In this spirit, and with the object of evoking such an expression of sympathy as shall encourage the, Emancipation party in the United States, in their most difficult position, to persevere in their endeavors to obtain justice for the slave, the Committee issue the present address, earnestly commending it to the favorable consideration of their fellow-countrymen, and to the friends of humanity in all lands.
On behalf the Committee,
THOMAS BINNS, Chairman.
S. A. CHAMEROVZOW, Secretary.
27 New Broad street, E. C., London, 17th Nov., 1862.
To His Excellency, ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States of America:
SIR-It has seemed desirable to the Committee of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society to issue, at the present crisis, an Address to the Friends of the Anti-Slavery Cause, of which a copy is annexed.
In directing your attention to it, the Committee would take advantage of the opportunity to assure you of their personal respect and sympathy, and of their appreciation of the exceeding great difficulties of your position. Since your accession to office, they have watched with deep interest the progress of events, and especially the gradual development of a policy tending to promote Negro Emancipation. If certain measures in furtherance of that policy, and some apparently inconsistent with it, have not recommended themselves to the approval of the Committee, they have, nevertheless, recognized the majority of them with satisfaction as conducive, in the main, to the interests of the enslaved portion of the African race.
The Committee earnestly desire that the sanguinary conflict between the two sections of the Union may cease, and that, with the removal of the sole cause of this strife, a way may open for a reconciliation upon the enduring basis of a community of interests, and a mutual forgiveness of injuries.
27 New Bond Street, E. C, London, 17th Nov., 1862. 

LETTER FROM HENRY C. WRIGHT.
The Proclamation-A Deacon voting for Slavery to put down Abolitionsim-McClellon acting in league with Seymour and Co. to drive Union Democrats back into the party.
HARTWICH, N.Y., Nov. 25, 1862.
DEAR GARRISON-I rode all day in a stage last week with some soldiers-officers-direct from the Burnside army, and from Hunters. They say the Proclamation is the great theme and hope of those armies; that the people of the North who deny that Proclamation and speak of it lightly, have no idea how much hope and determination it has infused into the army of the Potomac and the Department of the South. They say nothing has so appalled the hearts of the rebels, and that it has completely unsettled the minds of the slaves all over Virginia and North and South Carolina. They say the slaves, all over the South, know of it, and of its general import. They know and feel one fact-i.e., that all slaves of every rebel individual and rebel State, that are such New Year's day, are to be free. They say, the slaves are looking to New Year's, 1868, as a great day of Jubilee to them; when they, their wives and children, are to be free, and no more to be sold. They say that Burnside and Hunter, and the leading officers under them, as well as Rosecrans, will assuredly aid in carrying out that Proclamation, and that nothing would so surely demoralize the two armies under Burnside and Hunter as the revocation of that Proclamation.
<c02>
This is unquestionably true. That Proclamation, defective as it lamentably is it in morals, is the one great master stroke of policy in the conduct of the war. The measure was inaugurated by Fremont, followed by Phelps and Hunter; then by Congress, and now by Lincoln. What Fremont, Phelps and Hunter made local; Congress and the President have been forced to make national by the necessities of the war. The Proclamation does not claim to be based on considerations of justice to the slave, but simply on the necessities of the war. Deeply is it to be regretted that we have not a man at the head of our affairs who could issue a Proclamation of Freedom to every slave as a matter of justice and right. But we have not, and there is no hope that a politician, in or out of office, will ever do any thing, touching political or governmental affairs, as a matter of justice to the slave. But, I welcome it as a war measure. I sympathize with its object, so far as it goes-only wishing it had swept slavery all away, avowedly, as it certainly will do in fact, if executed at all. The slaves of rebels, once freed, the slaves of loyalists will not long stay behind in chains. 
It matters little what England, France, or the North, or the Generals, think of this Proclamation. The two parties most immediately concerned are the slaves and the enslavers. What the latter think of it, their newspapers, their letters, their threats, the doings of their Congress, their action in removing their slaves from all proximity to our armies and the free States, their fears of their slaves, and the almost universal laying aside of the whip, most clearly indicate. They feel that the blow is struck from which they can never recover. What the slaves think of it is also manifest by the universal anxiety and gossip among themselves about what they mean to do New Year’s Day-about the wages they mean to demand, and what they mean to do with their earnings. The influence of that Proclamation on the slaves can never be destroyed. Should Lincoln revoke it, its results on the slaves will remain. It has unsettled their minds, and they will never be the cowed, submissive chattels they have been. I believe a faithful carrying out of that Proclamation is the only way of saving the South from <illegible>ervile insurrections such as they have dreamed not of. The use of fire-arms, of pistols, rifles, knives, and lucifer matches, is becoming familiar to millions of slaves, and they will use them if they are not made free according to Presidential promise. And, if ever a people had a right to use such weapons against their oppressors, the slaves have a right to use them against their enslavers. If ever it was the duty of men to assert and defend their liberty by the annihilation of their merciless tyrants, it is the duty of the American slaves thus to assert and defend theirs. Such is fast becoming the faith of the North-as I read the progress of ideas.
Voting for Slavery to put down Abolition!-I recently lectured in a meeting-house on the Proclamation. The deacon of the church came to me and said-" You are hard on those who vote for slavery." "Yes, (I said,) if you voted for slavery, or for a man who, as you knew, would vote for it in Congress, you, individually, are responsible for all the thefts, robberies, adulteries, murders, concubinage and prostitution that are essential to the existence of slavery." "I am opposed to slavery," said he. "Did you vote for Grow, or Denison?" said I "For Denison," said he. "Did you not know that Denison would vote and act for slavery and the rebellion, if he was elected?" I asked. "Yes, (he said,) I presumed he would." "Then (said I) you voted and acted in favor of all the crimes essential to slavery and the rebellion, and I regard you as a most wicked and guilty man, the embodiment of the sum of all villany." "But, (said he,) I did not vote for slavery and rebellion, but against Abolitionism." "So, you regard Abolitionism as a greater crime against God and man than slavery?" I said. "I thought so when I voted for Denison," said he. "And you voted to perpetuate all the crimes and pollutions of slavery-to eternize 'the sum of all villany,' in order to defeat Grow and the Abolitionists, who are seeking to free the slaves-to vindicate the self-evident truth that all are created equally free-and the golden rule, "Do as you would be done by." "Yes, (said he,) I did vote for slavery, and all the crimes and villanies it contains, to defeat the Abolitionists, because I consider them greater criminals before God than slaveholders." "If you were a slave, and your wife and children, would you so regard them?" I asked. He was dumb.-"Would you not welcome Abolitionism as your only salvation?" I asked. "I suppose I should," said he. "What you denounce as villany, when done to you, you know is villany when you do it to others. You are, according to your own showing, a self convicted, Democratic villain, and according to your own showing, not mine, you ought to be shot." 
Such is the spirit that has given triumph to the Democratic allies of slavery and rebellion in Pennsylvania, New York, and Ohio. One thing is well known, to that Seymour, Wood, Rynders, Hughes & Co. were in close communication with McClellan before and after the battle of Antietam, up to his removal; and in keeping the army from pursuing the retreating rebels, he acted by the advice of the above named leaders of Democracy,-and all done that the Democrats, who were inclined to sustain the victorious Administration, might be brought back to the party when they saw that the Administration gained nothing by that battle. McClellan remained long enough to insure triumph to the Democratic allies of the South at the polls, and that was all he or they cared for. But no matter who triumphs, the Proclamation is doing its work on the minds of the slaves. Their freedom is the one thing needful.
Yours, HENRY C. WRIGHT.

LETTER FROM ST. HELENA’S ISLAND, BEAUFORT, S. C.
The following letter is from a young colored lady of Philadelphia, now a teacher of the freed people of Beaufort.
The writer is a graduate of the State Normal School in Salem, Mass., and a grand-daughter of the late venerable James Forten, of Philadelphia, whose name is not unfamiliarly associated with those of Benjamin Franklin and Rush, of the old Revolutionary days.
ST. HELENA'S ISLAND, BEAUFORT, S. C., OAKLANDS, Nov. 20, 1862.
MY DEAR FKIEHD: You will doubtless be surprised to receive from me a letter dated from South Carolina. I cannot tell you how glad I am to be here. My coming, at the last, was very unexpected. I did not know until the day before we were to sail that there was a certainty of my coming. There was a good opportunity for me to go, in case of an elderly gentleman, a friend who, with his daughter, was coming to open a store for the freed people on the island. I left Philadelphia on the 24th of October, and arrived here on the 28th. We were in a severe storm, which I enjoyed very much. But I did not enjoy the constant rocking which the good ship "United States" gave us, even when the sea was calm. I understood perfectly what it was to be “rocked in the cradle of the deep." It is only in a propeller, I am told, that one is so thoroughly tossed. St. Helena's Island, on which I am, is about six miles from the main land of Beaufort. I must tell you that we were rowed hither from Beaufort by a crew of negro boatmen, and that they sung for us several of their own beautiful songs. There is a peculiar wildness and solemnity about them which cannot be described, and the people accompany the singing with a singular swaying motion of the body, which seems to make it more effective. How much I enjoyed that row in the beautiful, brilliant southern sunset, with no sounds to be heard but the musical murmur of the water, and the wonderfully rich, clear tones of the singers! But all the time I did not realize that I was actually in South Carolina! And indeed I believe I do not quite realize it now. But we were far from feeling fear,-we were in a very excited, jubilant state of mind, and sang the John Brown song with spirit, as we drove through the pines
<c03>
and palmettos. Ah! it was good to be able to sing that here, in the very heart of Rebeldom!
There are no white soldiers on this island. It is protected by gunboats, and by negro pickets, who do their duty well. These men attacked and drove back a boat-load of rebels who tried to land here one night, several weeks ago. Gen. Saxton is forming a colored rogiment at Beaufort, and many of the colored men from this and the adjacent islands have joined it. The General is a noble-hearted man, who has a deep interest in the people here, and he is generally beloved and trusted by them. I am sorry to say that some other officers treat the freed people and speak of them with the greatest contempt. They are consequently disliked and feared.
As far as I have been able to observe-and although I have not been here long, I have seen and talked with many of the people-the negroes here seem to be, for the most part, an honest, industrious, and sensible people. They are eager to learn; they rejoice in their new-found freedom. It does one good to see how jubilant they are over the downfall of their “secesh” masters, as they call them. I do not believe its there is a man, woman, or even a child that is old enough to be sensible, that would submit to being made a slave again. There is evidently a deep determination in their souls that that shall never be. Their hearts are full of gratitude to the Government and to the "Yankees." Some of them have said to me, "We bress de Lord, ebery day we bress de Lord for sendin' de Union people to make us free. De Yankees has been good to us. We suffered bery long, missus, bery long. But de Lord will bring it all right at last." I think they are a truly religious people. They speak to God with a loving familiarity. He seems nearer to them than to most people. They are very grateful-almost too much so, for in return for the least kindness that is done them, they insist on giving you something-potatoes, eggs, peanuts, or something else from their little store.
And they would think it unkind if you refused it. Another trait that I have noticed is their natural courtesy of manner. There is nothing cringing about it; but it seems inborn, and one might almost say elegant. It marks their behavior towards each other as well as to the white people. The plantation on which we live is called “Oakland’s.” The house is in a somewhat dilapidated condition, as are most of the houses on these islands-and the fields around have a very forlorn, desolate look-very different from our flourishing, richly cultivated Northern fields. But they are encircled by a belt of beautiful woods; and our yard and garden, though neglected-looking, are rich in roses, which bloom constantly, even so late as this, and in ivy, which creeps about the ground and under the houses. I send you some of this English ivy, which has found a home in the rebellious little Palmetto State. My school is about a mile from here, in the little Baptist church, which is in a grove of white oaks. These trees are beautiful-evergreen-and every branch heavily draped with long, heavy bearded moss, which gives them a strange, mournful look. A grove of them looks like an assemblage of solemn patriarchs. There are two ladies in the school beside myself-Miss T. and Miss M., both of whom are most enthusiastic teachers,. They have done a great deal of good here. At present, our school is small,-many of the children on the island being ill with whooping cough,-but in general it averages eighty or ninety. I find the children generally well-behaved, and eager to learn; yea, they are nearly all most eager to learn, and many of them make most rapid improvement. It is a great happiness to teach them. I wish some of those persons at the North, who say the race is hopelessly and naturally inferior, could see the readiness with which these children, so long oppressed and deprived of every privilege, learn and understand.
I have some grown pupils-people on our own plantation-who take lessons in the evenings. It will amuse you to know that one of them-our man-of-all-work-is named Cupid. (Venuses and Cupids are very common here.) He told me he was "feared" he was almost too old to learn; but I assured him that was not the case, and now he is working diligently at the alphabet. One of my people-Harry-is a scholar to be proud of. He makes most wonderful improvement. I never saw any one so determined to learn. I enjoy having him and Cupid talk about the the time that the rebels had to flee from this place. The remembrance of it is evidently a source of the most exquisite happiness and amusement. There are several families living here, and it is very pleasant to visit their cabins, and talk with them. They are very happy now. They never weary of contrasting their present with their former condition, and they work for the Government now, and receive wages and rations in return. I am very happy here, but wish I was able to do a great deal more. I wish some one would write a little Christmas hymn for our children to sing. I want to have a kind of festival for them on Christmas, if we can. The children have just learned the John Brown song, and next week they are going to learn the song of the "Negro Boatman." The little creatures love to sing. They sing with the greatest enthusiasm. I wish you could hear them. 
C. F.

LETTER FROM NEWBERN.
The following extracts from a letter, written by a private in Co. F, of the 44th Massachusetts Regiment, shortly after the return of Foster’s expedition, may interest some readers of the Liberator.-C. K. W.
NEWBERN, N. C, NOV. 15th. 1862.
DEAR MOTHER,-I wrote you day before yesterday a hasty sketch of our dash. The 44th has made its mark. Its endurance on the march is the subject of praise both of officers and men of the old regiments, who say they have never had more fatiguing or longer marches. The mud was terrible, and to climb a clay hill, having to pull quite hard to raise your foot, was trying.
Three fourths of the negroes now in the eastern part of North Carolina are fugitives. I have talked with many. Not one has expressed the wish to go North, provided he could be his own man at the South. They all seem less dull than I expected to find them as a class, and some are surprisingly intelligent. It is an indispensable acquirement of darkie boys to know how to dance. For music, one darkie drums on a tin pan, or claps his knees with his hands, and one or two go through the most absurd contortions, gesticulations, toe-and-heelings, shuffles, all in the most perfect time. I have not met one who knew his letters, though all express the wish to learn to read and write. They all know how to count sufficiently for common purposes.
I haven't seen a negro wash himself since I have been here. They are very polite, frequently setting a good example to the white boors who mock them. It is probable that I have seen rather a better class of slaves (that were) than those who remain at home, since only the most enterprising run away. But those here at Newbern can take care of themselves perfectly well. One in particular I saw last night. Neat, well-dressed, intelligent, handsome, with splendid teeth,-a cook, I believe, in the 10th Connecticut.
I received a paper of Nov. 5th, for which I am much obliged. Cheers three for the old Bay State! Sumner's return is secured of course. What a delegation from New York!
FRATERNITY LECTURE. The tenth lecture of the Fraternity course was delivered to a very large audience, at Tremont Temple, by WENDELL PHILLIPS, who took for his theme, "Proclamation, or Message?" He showed strongly the higher, better, and more effective character of the former document, and the criminal success of Mr. Seward, (whose removal from his present position was strongly urged,) in obstructing and postponing emancipation.
Want of space prevents a report of his impressive remarks, which were warmly applauded.
The lecture next Tuesday evening will be given by HENRY WARD BEECHER. No doubt the Temple will be thronged to overflowing.
<c04>
MEETING AT WORCESTER. 
A quarterly meeting of the Worcester County (South Division) Anti-Slavery Society was held at Washburn Hall, in Worcester, on Sunday, 7th inst.
The sudden inclemency of the weather, together with the fact of the presence of Dr. Geo. B. Cheever of New York, to speak on the Anti-Slavery question in one of the city churches, gave us a smaller attendance than usual, although it was quite respectable in numbers, and attentive and interested in character.
Beyond the time spent in the necessary business of the meeting, and the discussion of some points of difference in relation to the position the Society should stand in towards the government in this crisis, and what form of expression should be given to that position in our Resolutions, the time was mainly yielded to the address of Theodore D. Weld, which was divided between the afternoon and evening sessions.
The address of Mr. Weld upon "The Conspirators-their False Issues and Lying Pretences," was one of masterly ability, elegant in its diction, exhaustive in its argument, massive in its logic, at times poetic and sublime in its rhetoric, and eloquent in its delivery. And although it was of unusual length, and gathered up a long array of facts, and detail of issues of past interest, yet the great power evinced in argument, and the beauty of delivery, enchained his bearers in rapt and undivided attention.
So much interest was felt by the meeting in his addresses, that the Society voted to instruct their Secretary to extend to Mr. Weld their thanks for favoring them with it, and invite him to address us at some future time under more favorable circumstances for a large audience.
The Business Committee, consisting of Parker Pillsbury, Samuel May. Jr. Theodore D. Weld, Stephen S. Foster, Lewis Ford and Sarah E. Wall, reported the following series of resolutions, viz.:
1. Resolved, That the fundamental principle of the Anti-Slavery enterprise is, that colored men are equal to other men in their creation, and in their right to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness."
2. Resolved, That our belief is still, as it ever has been, that immediate and unconditional emancipation is the right of every slave, and the duty of every slaveholder, without colonization of the one, or compensation to the other; and alike irrespective of all questions of pecuniary profit, political expediency, or military necessity.
3. Resolved, That in this crisis-hour of our national existence, when political integrity is so largely displaced by unblushing profligacy, and the religious faith treads so hard on downright atheism, it becomes us, with most unwavering constancy and unshaken fidelity, to hold fast to our original doctrines and demands, not only as the right of the slave, but also as the only possible ground of hope for the salvation of the nation itself.
4. Resolved, That the present destructive and desolating war is but the waking of that Divine Justice, which Jefferson, long ago, declared "cannot sleep forever"; and any attempt to arrest it, by temporary expedients, which leave a single slave on the soil, or the principle of slavery uneradicated, root as well as branch, will but provoke still further that now roused and righteous indignation, and ensure a more fearful overthrow, when at length its appointed hour shall come.
5. Resolved, That Presidential Proclamations to the people, or Messages to Congress, however loud or long or labored, until they are founded on Justice and Humanity,-until they recognize the slave as a man, with equal and inalienable rights of his own, and not as a mere convenience-, or nuisance, to be saved or sacrificed, as the fortunes of war, or the needs, inclinations or prejudices of the white race may require or desire,-are as unworthy of respect as they are devoid of the means and assurances of national salvation.
6. Resolved, That to embarrass the question of Immediate Emancipation with proposals of compensation or colonization, is both inexpedient and immoral; as the former is only bribing thieves and robbers into better outward behavior, without any real repentance, and the latter is but pandering to that vile and vulgar prejudice against complexion, which constitutes the main underpinning stone of slavery itself; and neither has any necessary connexion with the command, old as oppression, lasting as eternity, "Proclaim liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof." 
7. Resolved, therefore, That the mission of this Society is not accomplished; nor its position or action essentially changed toward the government; nor can be, till slavery, and the spirit of slavery, burning and raging in the popular heart against colored humanity, shall be wholly exorcised from it.
The resolutions were adopted seriatim, unanimously and without much discussion, save upon the last of the series, and this discussion arose upon the presentation, by Mr. Pillsbury, at the opening of the evening session, of another resolution, which he proposed to have placed in order between the 6th and 7th of the series reported by the Committee;-the new resolution, in substance affirming it to be our duty to maintain our old position and testimony towards the government, as it had made no such change as to entitle it to our support.
This position being strongly dissented from by one of our oldest and most devoted members, after some discussion between him and some others who were not prepared to go over to the government, or allow the Society, by a negative testimony, even to be turned over to it as it now stands, the matter was finally adjusted by dropping the new resolution, and briefly incorporating into the last of the series the substance of the controverted point; when the resolution, as amended, was passed with hardly a dissent.
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Sec'y. 

THE MESSAGE.
We are not satisfied with the President’s Message. Events have cornered him, and he has had recourse, first, to a walking backwards proclamation, and then, to a foxy subterfuge message, with emancipation in thirty-seven years-for escape.
He does not touch upon the political representation of slavery during these thirty-seven years. And his propositions are lame and impotent, when put in connexion with his confession, that slavery is the cause of the war, and that slavery must be killed, in order that liberty may live.
The attempt made in this Message to stave off the settlement of the matter for thirty-seven years, and that, too, after so much life and money has been wasted, placed in relation with the President's antecedents, with his avowed determination to bring back the old guarantee of slave political power under the Constitution, with his repeated statements that he was responsible for McClellan's doings, with his condemnation of Hunter, Fremont, and all who have been sincere enemies of the Confederates, and who desired to show it by acts, not words, does not show honesty and sincerity of purpose. His purpose is most evidently, not to strike the cause of the war a deadly blow upon the head, thus killing it at once, but, by glancing side blows, to allow it longer life.
Is there no reason for this? The monster is many-headed, and " there is luck in leisure." 
There is no reason to change former opinions-that President Lincoln will not, if he can possibly help it, be an instrument to destroy slavery.
There is no possible excuse for not doing that better now, than can be done thirty-seven years hence. If slavery is death to liberty, the slaves certainly have a voice as to the settlement of the question; and a mighty chorus of their voices would be raised now, which could not be heard after twenty years, against procrastination and compromise.
Are the education, the natural increase, the moral and religious growth of these slaves nothing? Is the carrying about this cancer upon the body-politic, covered only with a plaster of gradual emancipation, for thirty-seven years, going to cure it, which can only be extirpated by the extreme treatment of the knife and cautery?
Here is a commander-in-chief of a mighty army, and of a mightier nation, who, under the exigencies of the times, has declared martial law. A struggle for life or death is upon him and his people. He is told to put down the cause of this straggle at any cost, and twenty millions of people will uphold him. So he shuffles, spits, says it is "a big job," and invites the enemy to put down the cause in thirty-seven years-and he will pay for it to the extent of his ability!
Talk is great, but silence would be greater.
SMALL TALK.
<c05>
FRATERNITY LECTURES.
FIFTH COURSE.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully in formed that the FIFTH COURSE OF LECTURES under the auspices of the Fraternity of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society will be continued on
TUESDAY EVENING, December 16, 1862,
at TREMONT TEMPLE, when an address will be made by
HENRY WARD BEECHER.
To be followed on successive Tuesday evenings by lectures from the following persons:-December 23.-JACOB M. MANNING.
December 30.-GEORGE WM. CURTIS. 

BOSTON FUGITIVE AID SOCIETY.
A Course of Lectures in aid of the suffering Freedmen of Washington, D. C, to be delivered at Joy Street Church,
December 15. Rev. R. C. Waterston.
December 22. Frederick Douglass.

THE FUGITIVE AID SOCIETY of Boston have effected an arrangement with Mrs. LOUISE DEMORTIE, the talented young colored dramatic reader, to give readings wherever the benevolent may be willing to assist, for the purpose of alleviating the sufferings of the freedmen or "contrabands” of Washington.
SARAH A. L. MARTIN, 26 Myrtle St.,
President of the Fugitive Aid Society.
LECTURES BY THEODORE D. WELD.-Mr. Weld will give an address at MANCHESTER, (Mass.,) this (FRIDAY) evening, at 7 o’clock.
He will also attend and address meetings, in connexion with PARKER PILLSBURY, through the day and evening of Sunday next, 14th inst., in Century Chapel, at ESSEX, .commencing in the morning at 10 o’clock.
The Quarterly Meeting of the ESSEX COUNTY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held at DANVERS, Commencing Saturday evening, Dec. 20th, and continuing the next day, Sunday, 21st
THEODORE D. WELD and PARKER PILLSBURY will be present on the occasion; and it is hoped that many other earnest friends of the slave will be there, and bear their testimony. RICHARD PLUMER, President.
MARGARET E. BENNETT, Secretary.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, will lecture as follows:-
Great Falls, Friday, December 12.
Rochester, Sunday, December, 14.
ANNA E. DICKINSON will speak at HOPEDALE on Sunday next, December 14th; and in MILFORD, on the evening of the same day.
WM. WELLS BROWN will speak at the Bethesda Baptist Church, JERSEY CITY, N. J., on Sunday evening, December 14th, to commence at 7 o'clock.
Members and friends of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, who are indebted for Pledges made to the Society in January last, or previously to that time, are requested to pay the same as early as practicable, either to the Treasurer, EDMUND JACKSON, or at the Society's office, 221 Washington Street.
The very valuable and still timely tract, by Mrs. L. Maria Child, entitled "The Right Way the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the British West Indies, and elsewhere, "(108 pages,) will be sent by mail to any person requesting it, and enclosing six cents in undefaced postage stamps. Address SAMUEL MAY, Jr. 221 Washington St., Boston.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4,. P. M.

OBITUARY.
DIED-In this city, on Monday last, 8th inst., very suddenly, ANDREW ROBESON, Esq., of New Bedford, aged 74 years.
Mr. Robeson had just entered the car to proceed to Jamaica Plain, on a visit to his son, William R. Robeson, Esq., when he was struck with apoplexy, which instantly terminated his earthly life-a life distinguished for business enterprise and usefulness as a citizen, for noble liberality as a philanthropist, for moral intrepidity and rare independence as a reformer, for all those traits becoming a perfect gentleman, for the most exemplary uprightness, benevolence and integrity of character as a man. In him were conspicuously blended dignity without hateur, modesty without timidity, firmness without contumacy, radicalism without fanaticism, amiableness without weakness, and generosity without recklessness. His personal presence was handsome and imposing, his countenance habitually radiant, his manners such as true politeness alone dictates. He took an abiding interest in all the progressive movements of the age, and was among the earliest to espouse them, never holding back for fear of losing caste or popular consideration, but ever believing that
"He's a slave who dare not be 
In the right with two or three"-
yes, in the right, though standing alone in the midst of a perverse generation. Among the earliest to espouse the hated but divinely blessed cause of the oppressed in our land, he was ever ready to aid it by his purse, his testimony, and his example. An honored officer of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, for many years, we feel that a pillar of strength has fallen, and are conscious of a great bereavement. He stood high on our list of personal friends, and his memory will be gratefully and admiringly cherished to the end of life. His religion found neither strength nor solace in creeds or ceremonies, in times or seasons; but it flowered out in a trustful recognition of the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of the human race, in justice and benevolence, in love of right and abhorrence of wrong, in the highest virtues and the noblest fruits.-[Ed. Lib.
On Monday morning, November 3d, at the residence of her parents, Penmaen, Clermont Co., Ohio, ANNA P. DONALDSON, aged 23 years, second daughter of Thomas and Susanna E. Donaldson. Her disease was pulmonary consumption. She had been declining in health for about two years, suffering, most of the time, great debility, and occasionally severe pain, all of which she endured with the most admirable patience and composure; and when the hour of her departure came, she passed away in the most peaceful manner, cheerfully resigning herself into the arms of her Savior, who, she said, was her only hope and trust.
The most prominent traits of Anna's character were gentleness, patient perseverance in the path of duty, and a strong desire to do good to others,-the latter predominant during the last few years of her life. She often expressed the earnest wish that she might, in some way, live a life of usefulness to her fellow-beings. Since the war began, her sympathies were strongly exercised for the suffering soldiers, though her feeble health prevented her from doing as much for their relief as she desired to do.
She possessed a liberal education, including the accomplishments of polite society as well as the arts of domestic life, the rudiments of which were acquired at home and at Clermont Academy; after which, she pursued a full course of study in the "Western Female Seminary," at Oxford, Ohio, the "Mount Holyoke" of the West, where she graduated with honor in the month of July, 1859.
Most of her time, since her graduation, she spent at home, and among family friends, gracing every circle in which she moved, diffusing around her, upon all who were privileged to enjoy her society, the sunshine of her affectionate heart.
Her life, though short, has not been spent in vain. Her lovely spirit and gentle demeanor won for her from many a lip the epithet “angelic." Contemning the follies and ex-travaganous of fashionable life, she sought her happiness from higher sources, from good books and good deads, in the society of the loved ones at home, and that of the intelligent and virtuous elsewhere.
She was a friend and advocate of moral reform in all its departments, especially anti-slavery, always casting her influence on the side of right.
She lived to be loved, and has passed from earth to heaven to be welcomed there by loved ones gone before, and to be remembered here in affection by the numerous friends she has left behind.-[Com.
<c06>
To the Honourable, the Justices of the Supreme Judicial Court, next to be holden at Dedham, within and for the County of Norfolk, on the third Tuesday of February, A. D. eighteen hundred and sixty-three.
RESPECTFULLY represents Cornelia James, of Wrentham, in said County of Norfolk, that she married Thomas K. James, at Providence, in the State of Rhode Island and Providences Plantations, on the twenty-eighth day of July, A. D. eighteen hundred and forty-nine; that her maiden name was Cornelia Taylor; that she and her said husband, from said twenty-eighth day of July, A. D. eighteen and forty-nine, afterwards, lived together as husband and wife, at Wrentham aforesaid, until the eighth day of November, A. D. eighteen hundred and fifty-five; that on said eighth day of November, A. D. eighteen hundred and fifty-five, said Thomas K. James separated himself from her, his said wife, and has not been since lived with her; that she has at all times been faithful to her marriage obligations; that on, or about, the first day of February, A. D. eighteen hundred and fifty-six, said Thomas K. James wilfully and utterly deserted her, his said wife, without her consent; that said desertion has continued uninterruptedly from that time until the time of the filing of this libel. And your libellant further represents that said Thomas K. James now resides in or near Rochesterm, in the State of New York.
Wherefore your libellant prays a divorce from the bonds of matrimony between her and her said husband be decreed to her by this Court; that suitable alimony may be decreased to be paid her by her said husband, at such times as to this Court shall seem proper;; that she may be allowed to resume her maiden name; and that such other and further order and decree may be passed by this Court, as justice may require. CORNELIA JAMES.
Common wealth of Massachusetts.
SUFFOLK, ss.. Supreme Judicial Court,
At Chambers in Boston, Dec. 6, 1862.
On the foregoing libel, it is ordered, that the libellant give a notice to the said Thomas K. James, to appear before the Justices of this Court next to be holden at Dedham, within and for the County of Norfolk, on the third Tuesday of February next, by publishing an attested copy of said libel and of his order thereon once a week, three weeks successively, in the Boston Liberator, a newspaper printed in said Boston, the last publication to be thirty days, at least, before said third Tuesday of February next; also by depositing in the Post Office, postage prepaid, a copy of said libel and order, enclosed, directed to the said Thomas K. James at Rochester, in the State of New York, thirty days, at least, before said third Tuesday of February next, and making affidavit that this part of the order has been complied with; that the said Thomas K. James may then and there shew cause why the prayer of said libel should not be granted.
By the order of George T. Bigelow, Esq., Chief Justice of said Court, GEO. C. WILDE, Clerk. 
A true copy of said libel, and of the order of thereon,
Attest, GEO. C. WILDE, Clerk.
Decl2-3w

THE PROBLEM SOLVED.
THE RESULTS OF EMANCIPATION.
BY M. AUGUSTIN COCHIN.
Translated by Miss Mary L. Booth, translator of M. Gasparin’s Works on America.
M. COCHIN is an ex-maire and municipal councillor of the city of Paris. He has had great advantages for research among both public and private documents; and has devoted his life to the subject on which his forthcoming volume treats. He recently received the order of knighthood from the Pope, in acknowledgment of the ability displayed in this book; to which also was recently awarded the first prize of three thousand francs by the French Academy.
So little is positively known of the economical and social results of Emancipation in those countries where it has taken place, that the importance of this volume to the people of the United States, in the present crisis, can hardly be overestimated.
It was written at the suggestion of the learned Count Montalembert; is based entirely on official reports; and its statements, which comprehend every form of the question, are fully reliable.
Of the style and attractiveness of the book, the following extract from a notice of the French edition, in the Christian Examiner, may testify. It is pronounced, "among the most remarkable, fascinating, and timely books of the year. It is, at once, cautious and eloquent, can did and enthusiastic; as sagacious as DeTocqueville's work on America; and as ardent as Victor Hugo’s Legend of the Ages. It is scientific in its arrangement, accurate in its display of facts, logical in its reasoning, and clear in its conclusions.”
12mo. Sent FREE BY MAIL, on receipt of the price,-$1.50.
ALSO,
THE REJECTED STONE; or, Insurrection vs. Resurrection in America. By a Native of Virginia. 12mo. Cloth, 50 cents.
"This remarkable book,” says the Christian Examiner, "discusses the question of Emancipation as the result of the war, with a depth of conviction, a boldness of utterance, cogency of argument, wealth of illustration, and withal a keenness of satire and a fervid eloquence, which insure readers for the book.”
Another critic remarks: “This eloquent, argumentative, electric work is instinct with the passion of the South and the reason of the North.”
The Independent opens its criticism with the significant query: "Have we an American Carlyle?”
ALSO,
THE TRUE STORY OF THE BARONS OF THE SOUTH; or, The Rationale of the American Conflict. By Rev. E. W. REYNOLDS, author of "Records of Bubbleton Parish.”
With Introduction by Rev. S. J,. MAY. 12mo. 75 ets.
WALKER, WISE & CO.,
dec12-3t.is 245 Washington Street, Boston.
 
THE BOOK FOR THE TIMES.
THE BLACK MAN,
His Antecedents, His Genius, and His Achievements, with Biographical Sketches of Fifty Distinguished Individuals of the Race.
BY WILLIAM WELLS BROWN.
The work will contain about 300 pages, printed on good paper, and bound in muslin. Price $1. It will be published on Monday, Dec. 1st, by THOMAS HAMILTON, 48 Beekman Street, N. Y., and R. F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington Street, Boston; and to be had of all book sellers.
Owing to the increased number of pages of the work, and the advance in the cost of paper, the price will be $1, (as above stated,) instead of 75 cents, as at first announced. nov21tf 

A GOOD CHANCE TO MAKE 
$50 to $100
PER MONTH, AND EXPENSES.
AGENTS WANTED, immediately, to sell J. T. Lloyd's cheap and elegant Maps in Maine and New Hampshire. J. T. Lloyd's Maps of Southern United States. Map of Virginia, and Map of Southern States. Sent to pedlars and others, without delay, to any part of Maine or New Hampshire, by express.
Address H. J. L. STANWOOD & CO., Brunswick, Maine, with stamp inclosed.
dec5tf 

WEIS & ZOEBISCH.
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN 
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer.
Nov7tf 
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St.
October 24. 6m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
From the Syracuse Journal.
THE RESCUE OF JERRY.
"Jerry," arrested under the Fugitive Slave Law, October 1st, 1852,-on which day the County Agricultural Fair, and also an Anti-Slavery Convention, were held at Syracuse,- was on the same day rescued, and set at liberty by the people. It was an event not merely of local but of national importance, and will forever redound to the honor of our city and country. The following, from one who sometimes courts the favor of the Muses, is in commemoration of it:
Beneath a bright October sun,
Had come from far and wide,
The free and hardy sons of toil, 
Old Onondaga's pride.
The ploughman from the field was there, 
The thresher from his floor, 
Ceased for a time the hammer's stroke, 
Closed was the smithy door.
From farm and factory, forge and field, 
From valley and from hill, 
Where speeds the plow, or plies the loom,
Or clacks the busy mill; 
From where upon her many hills
She gives her rocky store, 
Or where from sunken shaft beneath 
Her briny treasures pour;
From busy mart, where thriving trade 
Its generous profits yield,
And from her rural hearths and homes,
Whence labor drives a field,
Come up to-day, in peaceful show, 
Strong for the True and Right, 
The People in their majesty, 
The People in their might. 
Free labor holds her festival,
Where he is honored most, 
Who honors her in heart and hand- 
Of all this mighty host.
Free labor holds her festival, 
Her gala day has come,
And thanks from grateful hearts go up, 
With songs of harvest home.
Abundance crowns a year of toil, 
And Plenty, from her horn, 
Has scattered wide her generous fruits, 
Her wine, and oil, and corn. 
But, hark! what sound is that which breaks 
Discordant on the ear? 
Why peals the tocsin bell to-day, 
This day of all the year?
Can here, within this Northern land, 
This land which freedom gave, 
Be found a dastard wretch so mean, 
That he would hunt a slave? 
Take on his soul the damning curse,
Unleash the yelping pack 
Of bloodhounds snuffing human prey 
To follow on the track? 
Too true, alas! for see, in chains
A trembling captive stands,
The fetters on his swollen limbs, 
The cords upon his hands! 
Upon his face, in deepened lines, 
Is written wan despair, 
While heartfelt groans his heaving breast 
Sends out upon the air. 
The fear of Federal power prevails, 
The shameful bribe has won, 
The threat of Webster is fulfilled,
The cruel deed is done! 
No! not yet done, not yet fulfilled, 
Not yet th' exultant yell 
Peals through the vaulted arch of Heaven, 
"The banner cry of Hell."
No hunting-ground for slaves is this,- 
And murmurs deep and loud 
Denote the coming storm, which swells, 
As swells the gathering crowd; 
And as defiance marks each tone, 
Stout hearts and hands unite 
To help a brother in his need, 
''Gainst Wrong to shield the Right. 
The blood-red hand of Power has lost 
The terror it inspired, 
The People Liberty have crowned!
With freedom they are fired!
Till like the angry sea, whose waves 
Break madly on the shore, 
They dash against his prison walls, 
Break down his prison door,. 
Strike off the fetters from his limbs, 
The cords which bind his hands,- 
A MAN again-no more a slave- 
The rescued JERRY stands!
Injustice for a while may flaunt, 
Wrong seem to hold its sway, 
But Right shall follow in their path, 
As follows night the day. 
God speed the Right! O haste the day 
When everywhere shall run
The precepts of thy Truth and Love,
The Gospel of thy Son;
When every man in every man
A brother he shall see, 
And all shall in the Royal Law 
Dwell as one family! 
Then the bright Sun, upon a world, 
Which Jesus died to save, 
"Shall rise upon no bondman, 
And shall set upon no slave."

THE FISHERMAN OF BEAUFORT. 
BY MRS. FRANCES D. GAGE.
The tide comes up, and the tide goes down, 
And still the fisherman's boat,
At early dawn, and at evening shade, 
Is ever and ever afloat. 
His net goes down, and his net comes up,
And we hear his song of glee, 
"Do fishes dey hates de old slave nets,
But comes to do nets of de free." 
The tide comes up, and the tide goes down, 
And the oyster man below, 
Is picking away, in the slimy sands, 
In the sands of de long ago.
 But now if an empty hand he bears, 
He shudders no more with fear, 
There's no stretching-board for the aching bones, 
And no lash of the overseer. 
The tide comes up, and the tide goes down,
And ever I hear a song,
As the moaning winds, through the moss-hung oaks,
Sweep surging ever along, 
"Oh! massa, white man help de slave, 
And de wife and children too,
Eber dey'll work, with de hard worn hand,
 Ef ell gib em de work to do."
The tide comes up,. and the tide goes down,. 
But it bides no tyrant's word,
As it chants unceasing the anthem grand 
Of its freedom to the Lord.
The fisherman floating on its breast 
Has caught up the key-note true,
"Do sea, works, <illegible> for't sef and God,
And so must <illegible> man too." 
<illegible> gib him do work, and gib him <illegible> pay,
For de children and wife him love,
And de yam shall grow, and de cotton shall blow, 
And him sobber, sobber reve;
For him love de ole Carlina State, 
And de ole <illegible> tree -
Oh! <illegible> him trouble de icy <illegible>,
Ef de break folks <illegible> go free.
Beaufort S. C., Oct. 21, 862.

A REFLECTION.
Still doth the coward heart complain;
The hour may come, and come in vain;
The branch which withered lies and dead,
No suns can force to lift its head.
True!-yet how little thou canst tell
How much in thee is ill or well!
Nor for thy neighbor nor for thee,
Be sure, was life designed to be
A draught of dull complaoency
<c02>
The Liberator.
LETTER FROM PARKER PILLSBURY.
CONCORD, (N. H.,) Dec. 1,1862. 
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,-The mystic utterance, "Ye must be born again," has a meaning too deep for the schools in theology, and too important to be wasted on them or monopolized by them. 
Whatever was born radically wrong in the first place, must be born again to survive, or to accomplish its purpose; if to survive be its law, or if by existence it have any important purpose to subserve. A theological dogma is, that all the human race descended from Adam, and are born dead-that is, "dead in trespasses and sins" and so "must be born again," to get into life and being. Doctrines falser than this are both taught and believed. 
But the Church applies the statement only to individuals. Where is the Messiah who shall say to nations, born wrong, "Ye must be born again"? Is there not a possible truth here also? Historically, hitherto, nations may be said to have been as good as stillborn. At any rate, none of them have had, or seem destined to have, eternal or continuous life. Some canker or consumption wastes them away, until almost every mountain peak is the grave-stone of a departed empire buried beneath it. 
That our government must be born again, or soon die, is as certain as that it was ever born. Slavery, the most vile and cruel, was in many of the States, and in the hearts of multitudes of the men who made the government. Some people believe, to this day, that it was purposely and deliberately incorporated into the Constitution itself. Washington, and all the Presidents since, seem to have thus held, and have conducted their administrations accordingly. Most of the nation has so believed, and has elected its Presidents to do that very thing. President Lincoln still adheres to that doctrine as firmly as though it constituted the very "perseverance of the saints." 
One thing is certain: the Constitution did not give freedom to the half million slaves it found on going into effect. The Revolutionary War did not break their chains. It released white men, strong Saxon men, from foreign despots and their power and sway, but it did not make free the weak, black, helpless slaves,-not even those who aided these Saxons in their bloody achievements! Neither did the adoption of the Federal Constitution.
 Slavery, in some way, was and is, and is to be, unless the nation itself die or be "born again"! In the parchment Constitution it may be, or may not be. That matters little. In the constitution of the people themselves, "on the fleshy tables of their heart," is its law written, as with iron pen, and there is the central point and power of the evil. 
And so to us as a nation, a government, there is a vital meaning in the words which first amazed that earlier Pharisee, when uttered by him who "spake as never man spake." We, too, "must be born again," or we cannot see the kingdom of Liberty, the kingdom of Salvation; in a word, "the kingdom of God."
We surely were badly born at first. The scrofula of slavery tainted our blood. Our Puritan ancestry fled from persecution to invent new and sublimer tortures for their victims here in the new world. Our Revolutionary Fathers wrote ably, fought bravely, died nobly for freedom, but left us a legacy of slavery, constitutional or otherwise, more tyrannical, more terrible, than had ever scourged humanity before. Sheathing the sword of revolution in victory, they drew the cart-whip as the sceptre of a new power, undiscovered and unheard of before in the audacity of its extent, as well as cruelty of its exercise; and the shrieks and wailings of its victims are still resounding along the ages. 
Thus are we descended; so were we born. And we have not been born again. Not yet. We do not believe in the "new birth." An excellent gentleman in New York wrote a very valuable work last spring, entitled the "Birth and Death of Nations," (I wish a million copies of it could have been circulated,) but who shall write or preach the New Birth and renewed Life of nations?-at least, of this nation? For, until the doctrine is proclaimed, accepted, and made the vital and animating spirit of our religion, and politics, and war, we cannot be saved by all the armies on earth and in heaven. 
To this hour, as a government, the North has not turned its face in the direction of success. It has got no farther than had "Dr. South-Side Adams," when he so impiously and atheistically declared, "While it [the Federal Constitution] remains, all our appeals to a'' higher law' are fanaticism!" We are still trusting in armies, in chariots and horsemen; and our success, hitherto, has been such as the gods to whom we have prayed ever give. We have not yet discovered in our terrible visitation, the hand of a righteous and avenging God. Nor have we even acted wisely under the most selfish considerations of the "lower law"- if a lower law there be. Alexander told Bonaparte, "If you come into my country with a small army, I shall destroy you; if you come with a large one, you shall destroy yourselves." He went with a large one, and the very "stars in their courses" fought against him. The tragedy of Sennacherib was trebled in him and his hosts, and with terrors tenfold multiplied and augmented. 
We, too, mass our brave young men in vast armies; but, so far, as well without head as heart, and, of course, without any decisive success. John Brown, with less than twenty-five men, and some of them black, made a conquest of Virginia, and held it till foreign interference rescued it. And his act, at the same time, sent a wave of shuddering panic down to the Gulf of Mexico. Till then, the name of Leonidas and his three hundred stood peerless among the heroes of five-and-twenty centuries. 
But John Brown had a purpose, a divine commission, and instinctively the South knew it well. And what we have wanted, these many months past, under even "lower law" considerations, is, not money, but a plan; not men, but a man. But all this is only speaking from the surface, not the centre of things. 
We do not achieve success, because we are not yet moving in the direction towards it. Religiously viewed, we are following blind, blank atheism. God, Justice, Humanity, Right, are not in all the thought, deed or purpose of the Government. This war is justice at last getting executed. The justice of that God before whom Jefferson and devils once trembled, but whose very name to-day is unheard and unknown in our governmental affairs. Well did the immortal author of the Declaration of Independence prophesy that the divine "justice could not sleep forever!"' And fearful indeed is to be the fulfillment of the prediction.
Readily enough do most men acknowledge slavery to be the cause of the war. And what is slavery, then? What is it but burning, raging hatred of a whole race of immortal men, consigning them in myriads to weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth, in lakes of fiery torment, from generation to generation! And who has done it? Where is the wholesale sinner to answer for this stunning, staggering crime? Who has elected presidents and senators, constituted supreme courts, enacted and executed fugitive slave laws, fought bloody wars for slavery, and conducted a government through eighty dreary years, until the half million slaves at the beginning are now multiplied more than seven-fold, with increase of slave territory in the same proportion? ls the South alone guilty of all this, and is the North wholly immaculate?
Or who has so interpreted the Bible as to include slavery among God's best benisons to men, hallowed by patriarchal example and prophetic approval? Who has cited the "silence of Christ" as a sanctification of the system, and consecrated fugitive slave laws forever by apostolic rendition of the slave Onesimus to his master and owner, Philemon! Had Andover, and Cambridge, and New Haven theology aught to do with it? Are the hands of Dr. S. S. Adams clean, or the robes of Dr. Lord pure from all this? Are Northern Bible 
<c03>
and Tract and Missionary Societies clear of all this "blood-guiltiness"?-blood of souls and spirits, as well as bodies of men! Well does the South deserve all she will receive, at the hands of a just God. But does she deserve it at our hand? Have we prerogative and permission to "cast the first stone," to execute the divine vengeance, 
"And deal damnation round the land"? 
Rather is not the North the fellow-sinner of the South in this focal, congerial accumulation of all the cruelty, crime and sin of all the globes and all the ages, into one? May not the North have been even the "chief of sinners," as the years have sped on? 
The law of the universe prescribes repentance, and' fruits meet for repentance," as the only way of escape from penalties ever deserved and always impending where sin is. But repentance is almost an obsolete term in our time, in pulpit, at communion, and everywhere else. Wendell Phillips can, henceforth, include it in his long catalogue of "Lost Arts." 
And, would men but believe it, here is all the mystery of our desolating war. Nature and God are now asserting their supremacy. For eighty years, our guilt has been festering like electricity in tropical skies; and now the thunder-bolts are descending, "red with uncommon wrath," and no thatched roofs of "military necessity," no pious lightning rods of "prayer and fasting," will avail to shield us, until we repent and "do justice, love mercy, and walk humbly " before the God we now defy, even in the midst of his fiery judgments. Somebody says, "One act of justice is worth seventy years of prayer." Yea, and will we not, by that one act of justice, atone for more than seventy years of sin, while we may? Well did Mr. Lovejoy say, last week, in his Fraternity lecture, " We are in God's hand now, and He will whip us until we render justice to the slave and his race." Yes, indeed! we are in the hands of God now, to be scourged until we restore to the slave (from far other than "military necessity") all his long lost rights, and lift him and his race to the level of a common humanity. In the language of an eloquent Thanks giving Sermon, the other day, in New York-(not Cheever's nor "Beecher's)-"If God is just, so huge a wrong cannot die a natural death. The day of reckoning has come. What we have been hearing for a year is but the rumbling of the world's great clock, before it strikes the hour of God's full time. God has taken this great question out of the hands of States, and statesmen, and politicians. He decrees that it should not be adjusted; and this, because he is just. Nations must remember their sins!" 
 Many rejoiced at the partial Proclamation looking forward to the new opening year. I, too, tried hard to be glad. A little glad I was. And yet, what was it, what is it, at least on one side, but a solemn pledge to the South of free, full forgiveness, even at that eleventh hour, only let her then repent? If, as the clock on the last night of this waning year strikes the hour of twelve, and knells its sealed-up record away into the eternities, -if, at that last hour of Presidential grace, the South yields and sues for mercy, may she not, in faith and hope, expect to hear, -nay, may she not claim, as guarantied by the "Proclamation," sure as the very promises of God, the pardoning benediction, "This night shalt thou be restored to the Paradise of the Union-TO THE UNION AS IT WAS! AND THE CONSTITUTION AS IT IS AND AS IT WAS shall be our covenant forever and ever!!"
Blessed be the Lord that he has indeed "taken the work out of the hands of States, and statesmen, and politicians"; yea, and of all human hands and power, and is now executing all his own pleasure! 
PARKER PILLSBURY. 

THE CONDITIONS OF PEACE.
I have just finished the perusal of a very able and (pardon the paradox) a very weak sermon, delivered on Thanksgiving day by Rev. George Putnam, D. D. It is always lamentable to think of a good heart and amiable disposition smothered, ay, literally made of no account in the great drama of life, by constitutional timidity, or checkmated by wicked and worldly conservative influences. The nobility of soul, the manliness which truth and God honor, waits not for dire calamity, and specialities in the workings of Divine Providence, to wield its power, and avow deep and hidden convictions. It makes the truest use of to-day, leaving the Infinite Mind to work out the consequences of to-morrow." 
"So man's true fame must strike from his own deeds.".
The Doctor takes his text from Psalms, cxxii. 6-"Pray for the peace of Jerusalem." With concise power he shows the fallacy of all hopes of peace in the present fearful and distracted hour. War, that unnatural state of society, that bane of all that is "lovely and of good report," sweeps away our hope of contentment and peace. Still, peace is the cherished desire of the soul. "We all wait and watch for it more than they that watch for the morning." But, then, the conditions and character of a peace gained at the cost- now exacted, is the thought alone demanding the preacher's attention. 
In fervid and eloquent strains the Doctor shows that no such price as that demanded by the rebels can be granted. It would be yielding our very nationality, and lying prostrate at the feet of a most contemptible oligarchy. We cannot, he says, purchase peace at such a price. He then quotes the following eloquent demurrer from one of the noblest of modern preachers: 
"Carnage is terrible, death and human features obliterated beneath the hoof of the war horse, and reeking hospitals, and ruined commerce, and violated houses, and broken hearts-they are all awful. But there is something worse than death. Cowardice is worse, and the decay of enthusiasm and manliness is worse. And it is worse than death, ay, worse than a hundred thousand deaths, when a people has gravitated down into the creed that the wealth of nations consists not in generous hearts, in national virtues, and primitive simplicity, and heroic endurance, and preference of duty to life-not in men, but in silk, and cotton, and in something they call'' capital.'' Peace is blessed-peace arising out of charity; but peace springing out of the calculations of selfishness is not blessed. If the price to be paid for peace is this, that wealth accumulates and men decay, better far that every street in every town of our country should run blood.." 
Dr. Putnam continues to show that any settlement of a compromising character would be wholly futile; that it would be a prelude to other more wearisome carnage and blood. "None," he says, "but a coward or a traitor would think for a moment of purchasing such a peace at such a price. Humanity could not welcome it. A Christian cannot pray for it. The angels in heaven could not sing a note of their Bethlehem song to celebrate it. A righteous God could not grant it, except to a debased people, that has bartered away its heritage, and is no longer worthy to rule or to exist."
This is good, most excellent. It must find a response in every humane and noble soul. But now the Doctor approaches the word he has long shunned, and been unwilling to pronounce it. He says: 
"I begin to think, or rather I have lately come to think, that we shall have no peace on this continent until slavery is extinct, or has got crippled and put in the way of extinguishment. A year or two ago, it would have been extreme radicalism to assert this. It is not so now; but a sober opinion, not based on the principles of a fanatical philanthropy, but on the palpable facts of the day, and on the exigencies of our civil and military position."
He finds great relief under the term "military necessity," and can afford boldly to say, that we have "two radically opposite and irreconcilable systems of society." But, dear me, what a drawback to hear our veteran brother in the service of that Master who "came to preach deliverance to the captives," avow that such thoughts have lately come to his mind! I Did he, an ambassador of Jesus, the asserter of human rights for all, need to wait for this terrible baptism of blood, ere he could announce the self- evident truth that slavery is from beneath, and liberty from above?
But the Doctor is even now fearful, that should the President's Proclamation be heeded, and the insurgent States return in time, slavery will be preserved, and then we must give it its own place in the 
<c04>
body politic. He says: "We shall have to hold ourselves bound by our old compacts, bound to stand by them, and respect them scrupulously." We are bound to do no such wicked and diabolical act. My dear Doctor, is there no such thing as a higher law? Was the old prophet a fanatic or a fool, in refusing to obey the wicked edict which forbade him to pray to his God? Were the apostles traitors and infidels, because they would obey God rather than man? Am I bound to perpetuate the wicked compromises of my dead fathers, and prove doubly false to the living God? No, Dr. Putnam, you cannot mean all that your language implies. If so, you stand on slippery places. This is not the hour to preach obedience to a compact which breaks every command of God, and blushes not to sustain the "sum of all villanies."
But even with this proviso, the Doctor feels the necessity of adding another disclaimer, and one perhaps quite superfluous; and here is the evidence of human weakness. But hear him:-
"I have never been an Abolitionist, in the usual sense of that term. The people of this country, and of the loyal part of it, have not been Abolitionists in the mass. But if now the Almighty Providence itself has become manifestly and actively Abolitionist, we shall have to follow its leadings and fall in with its purposes, whether we intend it or not, or whether we like it or not. Events are stronger than our prejudices or our wishes. God will not be crossed or defeated."
While the Doctor makes this disclaimer for himself, the people may not, as a body, thank him for including them. But is this an honored sample of courage, to fall in with that which can no longer be resisted?' Let us be glad to know that the Doctor has ascertained that God himself is an Abolitionist. "Sweet truth, and easy to repeat"; for as long as time runneth, ever since the " morning stars shouted together for joy," at the world's creation., God has been an Abolitionist. In his very nature he can be nothing else. 
The hope of the preacher brightens. With the strength of new light, and the daily conflict of our present civil war, Dr. Putnam sees no longer "through a glass darkly." He thus closes his discourse:- 
"It is evident, then, that the question between free and servile labor is now in immediate process of decision; and it can be decided in only one way. If freedom prevails in the present conflict, and slavery is removed, or put into a fair process of removal, the decision is once for all. That false system once broken, can never revive or return in this age of the world. And then what shall hinder the perpetuity of union and peace throughout all our borders? 
If, on the other hand, the slave system should conquer in this immediate conflict, it can be but for a season. The old issue will be forever presenting itself. The conflict will be renewed from year to year, or from generation to generation, till freedom prevails. The principle of freedom never tires and never surrenders. When defeated and driven back, it rallies again. It agitates till it succeeds. It has the laws of nature on its side, and the deeper and mightier human instincts on its side, and God Almighty on its side; and its final predominance is only a question of time. This nation has postponed the fearful issue as long as it could, and now against our will it is upon us, and will push us till it is decided, and decided aright. Then, and only then, will there be peace. For myself, I believe that we shall not have even a temporary and precarious peace until it is decided, and decided aright. Predictions are idle, yet I cannot but anticipate that a few months will bring the end, or at least show us the beginning of the end, and such an end that this whole continent shall be blessed in it, and universal Humanity rejoice in it.
 We cannot today give thanks for peace; we can only study the nature and conditions of the peace we want. We must still labor for it, fight for it, suffer for it, make sacrifices for it, till, through energy and zeal and courage and victory, we win it. Meantime, pray for it. Pray for the peace of Jerusalem-its true, righteous, and enduring peace. Pray for it, and let the people say Amen!"
To all this we add a most hearty assent. "The Lord reigns, let the earth rejoice!" The difficulty all along has been, that while God has intended that, out of the terrible ordeal through which the nation is passing, his people shall go free, man has devised another plan. God cannot be circumvented.
G. W. S.

BRAVERY OF COLORED SOLDIERS-THEY ARE HIGHLY COMPLIMENTED.
[Correspondence of the N.Y. Tribune.]
ON BOARD STEAMER FROM FORTRESS MONROE TO BALTIMORE, NOV. 14, 1862.
Events of no ordinary interest have just occurred in the Department of the South. The negro troops have been tested, and to their great joy, though not contrary to their own expectations, they have triumphed, not only over enemies armed with muskets and swords, but over what the black man dreads most, sharp and cruel prejudices. 
Gen. Saxton, on the 28th of October, sent the captured steamer Darlington, Capt. Crandell, down the coast of Georgia, and to Fernandina, Florida, to obtain recruits for the 1st Regiment South Carolina Volunteers. Lieut. Col. O. T. Beard, of the 48th New York Volunteers, was given the command of the expedition. In addition to obtaining recruits, the condition and wants of the recent refugees from slavery along the coast were to be looked into, and, if occasion should offer, it was permitted to "feel the enemy." At St. Simonds, Ga., Capt. Trowbridge, with 35 men of the " Hunter Regiment of the 1st South Carolina Volunteers," who had been stationed there for three months, together with 27 more men, were received on board. With this company of 62 men, the Darlington proceeded to Fernandina.
 On arriving, a meeting of colored men was called to obtain enlistments. The large church was crowded. After addresses had been made by the writer and Col. Beard, 100 men volunteered at once, and the number soon reached about 125. Such, however, were the demands of Fort Clinch and the Quartermaster's Department for laborers, that Col. Rich, commanding the Port, consented to only 25 men leaving. This was a sad disappointment, and one which some determined not to bear. The 25 men were carefully selected from among those not employed on the fort or in the Quartermaster's Department, and put on board. Amid the farewells and benedictions of hundreds of their friends on shore they took their departure, to prove the truth or falsity of the charge, "The black man can never fight." On calling the roll, a few miles from port, it was found our 25 men had increased to 54. Determined not to be foiled in their purpose of being a soldier, it was found that 30 men had quietly made their way on board just at break of day, and had concealed themselves in the hold of the ship. When asked why they did so, their reply was: "
"Oh, we want to fight for our liberty, and for the liberty of our wives and children."
"But would you dare to face your old masters?"
"Oh, yes, yes. Why, we would fight to de death to get our families," was the quick response. No one doubted their sincerity. Muskets were soon in their hands, and no time was lost in drilling them. Our steamer, a very frail one, had been barricaded around the bow and stern, and also provided with two 12-pound Parrot guns. These guns had to be worked by black men, under the direction of the Captain of the steamer. Our fighting men numbered only about 110, and 50 of them were raw recruits. The expedition was not a very formidable one, still all seemed to have an unusual degree of confidence as to its success. 
What had been done the day previous, and what was accomplished on the day of sailing, is described as follows by Lieut. Col. Beard in his report to Gen. Saxton: -
"On Monday, Nov. 3, with the steamer Darlington, having on board Capt Trowbridge's company, colored troops (62), I proceeded up Bell River, Florida, drove in the rebel pickets below Cooper's, destroyed their place of rendezvous; thence proceeded and destroyed the salt works, and all the salt, corn and wagons, which we could not carry away, beside killing the horses. Thence we proceeded to Jolly River and destroyed two salt works, with a large amount of salt and corn. Thence proceeded to St Mary's and brought off two families of contrabands, after driving in the enemy's pickets.
On Tuesday, Nov. 4, proceeded to King's Bay Georgia, destroyed a large salt work, in a creek about a mile from the landing, together with all the property on the place. Here we were attacked by about 80 of the enemy, of whom we killed two."
This was the first place where the troops were brought under fire. They had all, about 30 in number, just got into the small boats, when the enemy rushed out of the thick woods and fired upon them. Their condition was a perilous one, the enemy being not over ten rods distant, and the steamer still further off. Nothing daunted, the men loaded,
<c05>
and fired coolly and incessantly, till safe on board. A warm fire was opened at once by the men from the steamer, and one of our Parrots played well its part. It was marvellous that, under so heavy a shower of bullets, not a man was wounded, though many balls were lodged in the steamer and barricades. 
November 6. The first landing this day was on Butler's Island, from which the troops brought off a quantity of rice. The next landing was at Darien, Ga., where two prisoners and some arms were taken. The pickets fled at the approach of our troops. Lieut. Walker, of Capt. Trowbridge's company, who had been left in charge of part of the company on St. Simond's Island, accompanied by 25 men, had crossed over in small boats a few days before our arrival, and had captured, in Darien, the assistant provost marshal. One of our new prisoners stoutly objected to being marched to the small boat by his negro captors. He swore a white man was entitled to more respect; but the overjoyed negroes could not see the force of his argument.
The women and children (about fifty) taken from St. Simonds on the day previous, were now landed for safety in St. Catherines, as a more hazardous work was to be undertaken. Much of the night was spent in getting wood for the steamer, killing beeves and cooking meats, rice and corn, for our women and children on shore, and for the troops. The men needed no "driver's lash "to incite them to labor. Sleep and rest were almost unwelcome, for they were preparing to go up Sapelo River, along whose banks, on the beautiful plantations, were their fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, wives and children. Weeks and months before, some of the men had left those loved ones, with a promise to return "if de good Lord jist open de way." At 5 o'clock on Friday morning, Nov. 7, we were under way. Capt. Budd, of the gunboat Potomska, had kindly promised, the evening before, to accompany us past the most dangerous places. On reaching his station in Sapelo Sound, we found him in readiness. Our little fleet, led by the Potomska and followed by the Darlington, sailed proudly up the winding Sapelo, now through marshes, and then past large and beautiful plantations. It was very affecting to see our soldiers watching intensely the colored forms on land, one saying, in the agony of deepest anxiety, "Oh, mas'r, my wife an' chillen lib dere," and another singing out, "Dere, dere my brodder," or "my sister." The earnest longings of their poor anguish-riven hearts for landings, and then the sad, inexpressible (except by sighs) regrets as the steamer passed, must be imagined-they cannot be described.
 The first landing was made at a picket station on Chas. Hopkins's plantation. The enemy was driven back; a few guns and a sword only captured. The Potomska came to anchorage, for lack of sufficient water, a few miles above, at Reuben King's plantation. Here we witnessed a rich scene. Some fifty negroes appeared on the banks, about fifty rods distant from their master's house, and some distance from the Darlington. They gazed upon us with intense feelings, alternately turning their eyes towards their master, who was watching them from his piazza, I and toward our steamer, which, as yet, had given j them no assurance of landing. The moment she I headed to the shore, their doubts were dispersed, and they gave us such a bowing welcome as angels would be satisfied with. Some few women were so filled with joy that they ran, leaped, clapped their hands, and cried, "Glory to God! glory to God!" 
The Darlington rested directly in front of the old planter's door. About eighty men were formed in line of battle in the front yard, and some thirty were employed as scouts. The men were not all landed before the dark subjects of the patriarchal institution were rushing for the boat. It only required about fifteen minutes to gather their liberal supply of "old duds." As they were coming with bundles on their heads, children in their arms and on their shoulders, loaded also with piggins, pots, trays, chickens, ducks, and squealing little pigs, I ventured my unhallowed feet upon the piazza, when I met the planter, and a widowed daughter who!, was joint owner in the fleeing "chattels." Salutations being exchanged, I remarked to the lady,- 
"This is a sad morning to you."
"Yes," said she, "this seems hard."
"You may consider yourself fortunate in being thus providentially relieved of the responsibility of going to the judgment with the blood of these people upon you."
"If it were the wish of Providence, then let him take them by death," replied she. "But their life is worth more than their death. It is a divine institution."
" If it were divine," we replied, "it would relieve them of their rags and filth, renovate their dark and loathsome cabins, open the school-house to their children, and cease to sell husbands and wives, parents and children. You see how eagerly they: rush to us, with a thousand benedictions, while they express no kind regards to you."
The good lady had no reply, except that the negroes were all their dependence. 
After relieving the planter and daughter of twenty thousand dollars worth of humanity,-i. e., fifty-two slaves and the leather of his tannery,-we reembarked. Our boats were sent once and again, however, to the shore for men, who, having heard the steam whistle, came in greatest haste from distant plantations. 
As the Potomska could go no farther, Capt. Budd kindly offered to accompany us with one gun'screw. We were glad to have his company and the services of the crew, as we had only one gun's crew of colored men. Above us was a bend in the river, and a high bluff covered with thick woods There we apprehended danger, for the rebels had had ample time to collect their forces. The men were carefully posted, and fully instructed as to their duties and dangers, by Col. Beard. Our Parrots were manned: everything was in readiness. No sooner were we within rifle-shot, than the enemy opened upon us a heavy fire from behind the banks and trees, and also from the tops of the trees. Our speed being slow, and the river's bend quite large, we were within range of the enemy's guns for sometime. How well our troops bore themselves will be seen by Capt. Budd's testimony. 
Our next landing was made at Daniel McDonald's plantation. His extensive and valuable salt works were demolished, and he himself taken prisoner. By documents captured, it was ascertained that he was a rebel of the tallest kind. We took only a few of his slaves, as he drove back into the woods about ninety of them just before our arrival. One fine-looking man came hobbling down on a crutch. McDonald had shot off one of his legs some eighteen months before. The next plantation had some 500 slaves on it. Several of our troops had come from it, and also had relatives there; but the lateness of the hour, and the dangerous points to be passed on our return, admonished us to retreat. 
Our next attack was expected at the bluff. The enemy had improved the time since we parted from them in gathering re-enforcements. Col. Beard prepared the men for a warm fire. While everything was in readiness, and the steamer dropping down hard upon the enemy, the writer passed around among the men, who were waiting coolly for the moment of attack, and asked them if they found their courage failing. "Oh no, mas'r; our trust be in de Lord. We only want fair chance at'em," was the unanimous cry. 
The fire immediately opened upon us by the enemy, numbering from eighty to one hundred men. Our troops returned the fire with effect. Two of the enemy soon fell headlong from the trees, and several on the ground soon fell. 
Only three of our men were wounded, and they ceased not firing till the enemy had; yet the blood completely covered the face of one who had been struck by a ball in the forehead. 
Most people have doubted the courage of negroes, and their ability to stand a warm fire of the enemy. The engagements of this day were not an open field fight, to be sure, but the circumstances were peculiar. They were taken by surprise, the enemy concealed, his force not known, and some of the troops had been enlisted only two days. Captain Budd, a brave and experienced officer, and an eyewitness of both engagements, has kindly given his opinion, which we are sure will vindicate the policy as well as justness, of arming the colored man for at least his own freedom:- 
"UNITED STATES STEAMER, POTOMSKA, Sapelo River, Ga., Nov. 7,1882.
SIR,-It gives me pleasure to testify to the admirable conduct of the negro troops, (1st S. C. Volunteers, ) under the command of Lieut. Col. Beard 48th New york Volunteers, during this day's operations. They behaved splendidly under the warm and galling fire we were exposed to, in the two skirmishes with the enemy. I did not see a man flinch, contrary to my expectations. 
One of them particularly came under my notice, who, though badly wounded in the face, continued to
<c06>
load and fire in the coolest anner imaginable.. Every one of them acted like veterans. 
Very respectfully, WILLIAM BUDD,
Acting Lieutenant, Commanding <WNR><illegible> 
To the Rev. M. FRENCH, Chaplain U.S.A."
On reaching his ship, . (Capt. Budd led our retreat. It had been agreed, after full consultation on the subject, that, in our descent down the river, it was best to burn the buildings of Capt. Hopkins and Col Brailsford. Both of these places were <WNR> picket stations, particularly the latter. Brailsford<illegible> had been down with a small force, a few days before our arrival at St. Catharine's and shot one of our contrabands, wounded mortally, as was supposed another, and carried off four women and three men. He had also whipped to death, three weeks before a slave for attempting to make his escape. We had on board Sam Miller, a former slave, who had received over three hundred lashes for refusing to in<illegible> form on a few of his fellows who had escaped. He<illegible> had been the owner of several of our troops and to a their friends.
The troops landed in these places under the <w>gun of the Potomska, and quickly did their work. <illegible> the first place, a magazine was blown up. As the latter was a strong force; but the shells were too much for them. The sun had gone down when the troops landed, and the enemy, had the advantage of darkness.
Still, our men went back nearly half a mile, firing cabins, out-houses, and finally the splendidly furnished mansion of Col. B., sparing only his sword and saddle.
All this work was done in the very face and eyes of the enemy, and yet such was their <illegible> of black men armed, that they dare not make an attack. The men all reached the steamer by small boats without loss. 
I would here remark, that the men were not allowed to take any article for their own use, not indeed did they seem anxious to do so. To damage the rebels, rescue their friends, and show that they could be "sogers," seemed the one desire of their heart. It was truly surprising to see how rapidly and expeditiously they could land; after leaping from the small boats into water knee-deep, and climbing up the banks, they would rush into the woods as fearlessly as a dog after a fox. They felt perfectly at home", scouting in the woods, and were an awful terror, as we had reason to know, to the enemy. Their intimate knowledge of the rivers made them invaluable as pilots.
 On passing among the men as we were leaving the scenes of action, I inquired if they had grown any to-day. Many simultaneously exclaimed., "Oh,yes, massa, we have grown three inches." Sam said " I feel a heap more of a man."
With the lurid flames still lighting up all the region behind, and the bright rays of the smiling moon before them, they formed a circle on the lower deck, around the hatchway leading to the hold, where were the women and children captured during the day, and on bended knees they offered up sincere and heartfelt thanks giving to Almighty God for the mercies of the day. Such fervest prayers for the President, for the hearing of his proclamation by all in bonds,. and for the ending of the war and slavery, were seldom, if ever, heard before. About one hour was spent in singing and prayer.
Those waters surely never echoed with such sounds before. It really seemed, sometimes, as if we could almost hear the angels chanting over <w> the old song of Judea, "Glory to God in the highest; and on earth peace, good will to men."
 We refer again to Colonel Beard's report. He says:- 
""The colored men fought with astonishing coolnes and bravery. For alacrity in effecting landings, <w> for determination, for'' bush fighting,' I found them all could desire, more than I had hoped. They behaved bravely, gloriously, and deserve all praise."
Our steamer left Beaufort without a soldier, and returned, after an absence of twelve days, with 156 fighting colored men, some of whom dropped the hoe, took a musket, and were at once soldiers ready to fight for the freedom of others. The troops made thirteen landings on the main between Fernandina and Fort Pulaski, destroying nine large salt works, together with some $20,000 worth of salt, corn, rice, horses, &c., which could not be brought away. About seventy slaves were takes from their rebel masters, while our steamers brought back the scars of one hundred and fifty of the enemy's balls. The men entered Beaufort singing the John Brown song more heartily,. I venture to say, than it was ever sung before. The negroes now think they will be ready, when the brigade is completed, to take the job of putting down the rebellion.
 General Saxton pronounced the expedition a perfect success; but what the rebels and the people of the North will say of it, we cannot tell. We close with two regrets-first, that we found, on our return, that our commander, General Mitchel, had finished his work on earth and gone home to heaven and second, that we have been obliged to write this imperfect account en route for Washington, on board ship, and sea sick. M. F.

Lewis's Normal Institute 
- FOR- 
Physical Education, 
No. 20 ESSEX STREET, BOSTON, MASS.
[Incorporated in 1861]
THIS Institution is a pioneer in a new profession. Ladies and gentlemen of enterprise and industry will find in this field health, usefulness, and large profit. Three eminent medical men teach in the departments of Anatomy, . Physiology and Hygiene. Prof. LEONARD has charge of Elocution; Dr. DIO LEWIS of Practical Gymnastics, and the Movement Cure. The course continues ten weeks. Tickets $75. Matriculation $5. Diploma $10. These prices are reduced 25 per cent, to Ladies. Two courses during this year-the first beginning on the 2d of January, and the 2d on the 5th of July.
 For a. full circular, address Dr. DIO LEWIS, Box 12, Boston, Mass.
Dr. Lewis has solved the problem; he has marked out the way. Many eminent teachers are pursuing it with the most excellent results. We recognize the debt due Dr. Lewis; he has done us teachers and our pupils a vast amount of good.-D. B. Hagar, Pres. of the American Institute of Instruction. 
I am now satisfied that Dr. Lewis has found the true scientific process for physical development. It was my privilege to welcome Dr. Lewis at his very first arrival here, and every thing since then has only confirmed my confidence in his ability to superintend the work.- Rev. Dr. Kirk, at the first Commencement of the Institute.
Henceforth we shall delight to think of Dr. Lewis as one who holds our welfare very near his own; we shall turn to him for sympathy and encouragement in our failures, and shall love to bring our successes to him, as belonging more to him than to ourselves.- Miss May, Valedictory at the first Graduating Class.
I rejoice, Mr. President, that the Normal Institute for Physical Education has been established in Boston. I rejoice that it has at its head a gentleman so admirably qualified to give it eminent success. I believe that no individual has ever, in this country, given the subject of Physical Education such an impulse as has Dr. Lewis. He deserves the credit of it.
You may not know it, ladies and gentlemen, but this Institution is famous in every part of the land. There is not a live educator in America who is not looking to see what is to be the result of Dr. Lewis's institution in Boston. These exercises can be introduced into any schoolroom with desks. The problem is solved.
 I trust, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the commencement of a new era, and that the system taught by Dr. Lewis will be universally introduced into our schools.- Extract from a speech delivered at the second commencement of "Lewis's Normal Institute," by J. D. Philbrick, Esq., Superintendent of the Public Schools of Boston.
DENTISTRY.
D. DANIEL MANN has removed his office to 146 Harrison Avenue. He has, for the past five years inserted artificial teeth on the vulcanite base, in the use of which he has made some improvements. It is better than gold, when well made, being lighter, stronger, and more durable, and is also much cheaper. 
Dr. M. also uses a somewhat similar preparaton for filling teeth too tender or too far decayed for filling with gold. His prices are as moderate, at least, as those of any responsible dentist.
Boston, September 20 1862. 
ICH DIEN.
GLOBE HOTEL 
WILLIAM P. POWELL, PROPRIETOR,
2 DOVER STREET, (near Franklin Square,)
NEWYORK.
A. J. GROVER, 
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW, 
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., Ill.
Especial attention given to securing and collecting Claims for Eastern Merchants. 
August 8. tf.
