THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISION, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. 
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 7. BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1671.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
DEMOCTATIC TREASON IN ILLINOIS.
The following are the “secesh” resolutions introduced into the legislature of Illinois, on the 29th ult., and after a fierce debate, referred to the Committee on Federal Relations:
Whereas, Abraham Lincoln, at the commencement of the present unhappy war, declared, in every official paper that came from his hands, that the sole object of the prosecution of the war was, and should be, for the restoration of the Union and the laws as our fathers made them;
Whereas, By his subsequent acts, he has proven to every unbiased min that such now is nor his intention in the further prosecution of the war, and that he has willfully deceived the soldiers by inducing them to take arms in, as they supposed, and honorable and just cause, which he has turned into a dishonorable and disgraceful crusade against the established rights of the States;
He has declared martial law over every loyal State in this Union;
He has, without authority of law or right, imprisoned our citizens in loathsome dungeons, and refused them the right of speedy trial;
He has sanctioned the taking of the liver of innocent, peaceable, and respected citizens of these States, to atone for the acts of others;
He has, by his proclamation of January 1st, 1863, disregarded the reserved rights of these States, and attempted, by that proclamation., to equal the white and black races, and to excite servile insurrection in the Southern States, thereby involving the innocent with the quality, without reference to age of sex;
He has persisted in listening to and carrying out the counsels of men whose avowed doctrines are inimical to free government;
He has divided a State without the consent of her Legislature;
He has degraded the Union army by receiving negroes into the service of the United States;
He has forced negroes upon us, against our often express I wishes, and the constitution an laws of our State;
He has squandered the nation’s wealth, and made us a bankrupt people;
He has suppressed the liberty of the press and free speech, feared only by tyrants;
He has closed the doors of churches, and deprived citizens of the States of the right to serve God according to the dictated of their own consciences;
He proposes to involve us in as system of ruinous taxation, for the purpose of purchasing negroes, against the will and the interests of our people;
He has pandered to New England capitalists, in not using the means at his disposal for opening the Mississippi river;
He has given sanction to the measure known as the Morrill tariff, under which the East are rapidly enriching itself at the expense of the West;
Against all of which we do enter our solemn protest, and declare it to be our firm an fixed intention to submit to these wrongs and usurpations no longer; that we will, as we have heretofore, sustain the Administration in all its constitutional acts; therefore, be it
Resolved, By the House of Representatives (the Senate <illegible> herein), That, in our opinion, the time he come when, in accordance with the Constitution, it becomes necessary to call a convention our national difficulties, and adjusting the same. We would, therefore, recommend to all the States, that the Legislatures thereof appoint commissioner to meet in national convention, to be held in the city of Louisville, in the State of Kentucky, on the first, Tuesday in the month of April, A.D., 1863; and we would memorialize the Congress of the United States to obtain an armistice and cessation of hostilities now exiting between the different sections of our common country, for the purposes aforesaid.
Resolved, That the Speaker of the House be requested to transmit a copy of the foregoing preamble and resolution to each of the Governor of the States, and request that they be laid before the Legislatures of the same; also, to furnish to each of Senators and Representatives in congress from this State with a copy hereof, and request their concurrence therein.

PRESIDENT LINCOLN’S PROCLAMATION.
Seldom has brute fulmination been launched with so malignant a purpose, so trembling a hand, and so mistrustful a heart, as that which President Lincoln hurled at the South on the 1st of January, in his third and blackest proclamation. Deeply is it to be regretted, not only for the credit of the man and the interests of peace, but for the sake of the freedom which we claim on behalf of the negro race. The measure has almost every bad quality, and can have no beneficial results. It professes to be humane and is, in its practical tendency, inhuman; it purports to have the force of an enactment, and is <illegible>, null and void; it uses the language of frankness, and is transparently insincere; and it is attested by the signature of a good man, who evidently dreads the wickedness it may work. The avowed purpose of the edict is to liberate the slaves throughout those States which are “in rebellion:” deliberately, therefore, and of malice prepense, Mr. Lincoln effects to free the colored people in those parts of the severed federation which are hopelessly beyond his jurisdiction, while he abstains from any such tribute to freedom in the portion where he does exercise too much sway; so that, apart form his confessed readiness to be abolitionist or the reverse, in the effort to restore the Union, he proves by the internal evidence of his emancipatory text that manumission is not the real object of his arbitrary act. According to his own tenets, liberty is a blessing; yet he accords it only to “rebellion,” and withholds it from the provinces that remain “loyal.” How keenly he feels the hypocrisy to which he has been driven he discloses, with a truly piteous appeal, in the closing sentences of the decree. “Upon this,” he says, “sincerely believed to be an act of justice, warranted by the constitution-upon military necessity-I invoke the considerate judgment of mankind, and the gracious favor of Almighty God.” At the moment of performing “an act of justice” which denies to loyalty the boon accorded to rebellion, he finds it necessary to bespeak a “considerate” opinion-that is, one which shall make allowances, and view his conduct indulgently. On the eve of his great achievement, the hero asks pardon for what he is doing! It is, he asserts, “warranted by the constitution, “and shuts out the Federal authorities from meddling with the internal affairs of the several States. But to excuse the trespass against the law for which hopes to be judged “considerately, “he advances a plea which stultifies and belies all the others-that of “military necessity,” The new statute, then, is to serve a belligerent purpose; but how
<c02>
It can so operate only in one way. If General Halleck and his colleagues told the truth, they might confess that they wanted more soldiers; but Mr. Lincoln <illegible> means that his legislation is designed to facilitate, recruiting. It is true that suddenly to abstract so large a proportion of the property and industrial resources of Southern planters and traders might injure them; but that species of damage would scarcely affect the immediate results of operations in the field. The measure, therefore, can have only one direct purpose: it contemplates an augmentation of the Federal forces at the seat of war by adding to their numbers the revolted slaves, who are to turn upon their employers; but any such strategy amounts to nothing more nor less than a servile war. Now, let us reflect for a moment on the meaning of those words. The Federal commanders who have fought by the side of Butler. McNeil, and Turchin are to find stationed in the homes of the enemy auxiliaries, animated by the spirit of revolt, the prospect of plunder, the out-pouring of long-coveted cellars, and the most maddening orgies of rampant incendiarism and vindictive lust. On the strength of "military necessity," "honest old Abe" has been induced to do that which, if it have any practical result, must literally convert the whole South into a "hell upon earth," and eclipse the most hideous and revolting cruelties of the worst ruffians now fighting under the Star Spangled Banner.
We believe, however, that the decree will have no such consequence, for the simple reason that it will have no result at all. How is it to be carried out? No contrast between North and South is more marked at the present moment than in the readiness of the communications for the Confederates in the land of their opponents, and the exclusion of the Federals from any such facility in Secessia. The "underground railway" has completely changed sides. We have yet to learn what degree of success may attend the last enterprises in Tennessee., Kentucky, or Louisiana; but hitherto the invaders have not been able to advance very far into negro-land, and it is certain that their difficulties will be increased by a special vigilance. Even if a few colored people in the neighborhood of the camps should catch the idea, effectual steps will be taken to intercept any spread of the intelligence. The one consequence of the aggressive proprio motu must be to serry the ranks of all who are opposed to abolition. Its operation, therefore, must stand over till the advent of peace; but it would puzzle Mr. Seward himself to explain how it can then work for emancipation. Should the Slave States be severed from the Free, this arbitrary and insulting edict will stand recorded as an <illegible> of what the Southerners are not to do, unless they submit to dictation, welcome indignity, and carry out the crafty machinations of their enemies. The Williamses and Hudsons, who have found plausible arguments in vindication of the domestic institution, have received an unforeseen, potent, and eloquent confirmation at the hands of Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Seward. It is "a clencher." If, against all human probability, the efforts of Democratic pacificators should be crowned with success in a return of the seceded States, this measure will present the most embarrassing and troublous obstacle to the orderly settlement of affairs. It is illegal, as every independent judge, from Marshall to Taney, would testify, for it violates the very letter, as well as the spirit, of the constitution; yet if it should have had any practical effect—if any slaves should have snatched their freedom under its authority, or any destruction have been committed—the sufferers will have valid claim for compensation. But against whom? It is not for foreigners to answer that difficult question; but we suspect that it would puzzle the Supreme Court itself to point out who shall be held answerable in damages, or to show how facilities should be afforded for raising funds in any State acknowledging Mr. Chase's financial authority. The measure, therefore, cannot benefit the negro race; it is most likely to affect their interests very detrimentally; and that it will breed confusion among the Federals themselves, we already have proof, not only in the protests of the Democratic party, but in the conduct of the Executive and its own officers. On taking the command at New Orleans, General Banks emphatically proclaimed to the citizens that the release of the blacks from their bondage was only to be prospective, save in those States which were specifically designated as being in rebellion: that Louisiana had not been so designated: and that, therefore, Louisiana was to be exempt from the hated innovation. He had but just arrived, and must very recently have received his instructions, and such was the spirit in which he understood them; but what must be his astonishment and dismay on seeing, in the new proclamation from the White House, that, with the exception of certain "parishes," Louisiana is designated? From this marvellous discrepancy we may infer another confusion; for it confirms the reports, that to the last the President inclined to those who deprecated the issue of the document, and that he was as much in conflict with himself an he has proved to be with his representative in New Orleans. This is the reason why his hand trembled when he launched the bolt; this the reason why his heart belied his pen while he indited lines about "justice" and "sincerity; "for he doubled whether, when he invoked the sacred name of Mercy, he was not doing the work of the Devil.—London Daily Telegraph.

TREASON AT THE NORTH.
[The N. Y. Express preaches disorganization and mutiny to our armies after this bold fashion:]
When the President in his January proclamation broke his solemn inaugural pledges, equity would have demanded of him, that he relieved the existing armies, and procured the voluntary enlistment of others upon his principle of the war, viz., Abolition. Daily, we are told, there are thousands and thousands of men that believe in this fighting to free negroes; and such men ought to be in the army, while those who volunteered for other purposes should be relived.
When the proclamation put the war exclusively upon the Republican-Abolition track, the Republicans ought exclusively to be depended upon for success. The Democratic party is certainly no longer the friend of fighting under Lincoln's proclamation to free negroes. Connecticut, New York. New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois are full of traitors, two to one of the Abolitionists, nearly, if this be treason! This is the feeling of three-fifths, if not of four-fifths, of the army—of privates more than of officers, even. The soldiers enlisted to fight for the Union feel that they have been duped in being forced to fight to free negroes, as to whom, the more they have connection with them, the more unfit they see they are for any sort of freedom. Hundreds of them do not hesitate to say: We have been enlisted under false pretences, and are made to fight for abolition, which we abhor.
[Such is the daily outpouring of that seditious paper. Why is it not summarily suppressed?]
<c03>
Selections.
LETTER FROM THE AROHBISHOP OF DUBLIN TO MRS. H. B. STOWE.
Archbishop Whately has written the following letter to Mrs. Stowe:
"PALACE. DUBI.IN. January 6, 1863.
Dear Madam,—In acknowledging your letter and pamphlet, I take the opportunity of laying before you what I collect to be the prevailing sentiments here on American affairs. Of course, there is a great variety of opinion, as may be expected, in a country like ours. Some few sympathize with the Northerns, and some with the Southerns, but far the greater portion sympathize with neither completely, but lament that each party should be making so much greater an expenditure of life and property than can be compensated for by any advantage they can dream of obtaining.
Those who are the least favorable to the Northerns are not so from any approbation of slavery, but from not understanding that the war is waged in the cause of abolition. It was waged, they say, ostensibly for the restoration of the Union, and in attestation of this, they refer to the proclamation which announced the confiscation of slaves that were the property of secessionists, while those who adhered to the Federal cause should be exempt from such confiscation; which, they say, did not savor much of zeal for abolition.
Many, who have a great dislike to slavery, yet hold that the Southerns had at least as much right to secede, as the Americans had originally to revolt from Great Britain. And there are many who think that, considering the dreadful distress we have suffered from the cotton famine, we have shown great forbearance in withstanding the temptation to recognize the Southern States and break the blockade. Then, again, there are some who are provoked at the incessant railing at England, and threats of an invasion of Canada, which are poured forth in some of the American papers.
There are many, also, who consider that the present state of things cannot continue much longer, if the Confederates continue to hold their own as they have done hitherto, and that a people who shall have maintained their independence for two or three years will he recognised by the principal European powers. Such appears to have been the procedure of the European powers in all similar cases—such as the revolt of the Anglo-American and Spanish American colonies, of this Haytians and the Belgians. In these, and other like cases, the rule practically adopted seems to nave been to recognize the revolters, not at once, bat after a reasonable time had been allowed to see whether they could maintain their independence, and this without being understood to have pronounced any decision either wav as to the justice of the cause.
Moreover, there are many who say that the negroes and people of color are far from being kindly or justly treated in the northern States. An emancipated slave, at any rate, has not. received good training for earning his bread by the wages of labor; and if, in addition to this and his being treated as an outcast, he is excluded, as it is said from many employments by the refusal of the white laborers to work along with him, he will have gained little by taking refuge in the Northern States.
I have now laid before you the views which I conceive to be the most prevalent among us, and for which I am not myself responsible. For the safe and effectual emancipation of slaves, I myself consider there is no plan so good as the gradual one, which was long ago suggested by Bishop Hinds. What he recommended was an ad valorem tax upon slaves, the value to be fixed by the owner, with an option to government to purchase at that price. Thus the slaves would be a burden to the master, and those the most so who should he the most intelligent and steady, and, therefore, the best qualified for freedom; and it would be to his interest to train his slaves to be free laborers, and to emancipate them one by one, as speedily as he could with safety. I fear, however, that the time is gone by for trying this experiment in America.
With best wishes for the new year, I remain, dear Madam, yours faithfully,
RD. WHATELY."

ARCHBISHOP WHATELY.
THE ARCHBISHOP OF DUBLIN combines an eminently logical intellect with a very cautious disposition. He has published many volumes, but never one to excite the thanksgiving that mine enemy hath written a book! In fact, he cannot have an enemy. As well blame Babbage's calculating machine for its totals and quotients as the Archbishop's logic mill for what it grinds out. The art of reasoning is with him an armor of defence, not a weapon of attack. His speculations are ingenious, but never perilous. His unimpassioned intellect soars on steady wing, and ever keeps an eye to the firm earth as well as to the glittering heavens. Often does the student of his valuable writings tremble at the fancied approach of some hazardous discovery; but, however novel the process of induction, the conclusion proves quite "safe.” What would be rank heresy in an impetuous essayist and reviewer, passes but for the calm exercise of independent thought in the astute Archbishop. The Court of Arches would never entrap him into the conviction of the offence of having confounded the opinions he sets forth with the opinions he entertains.
See, now, how cleverly he parries the force of Mrs. H. B. Stowe's appeal to her old English and Irish friends. Remembering the glow of anti-slavery enthusiasm in the Viceregal Lodge and the Archiepiscopal Palace, when she visited Dublin, she sends to his Grace a private letter, with her published Reply to the message of the women of England to their American sisters. That Reply, with its personal accompaniments, will prick many a conscience and perplex many a correspondent. But let all the Shaftesburys and Bedfords take courage from the example of the Archbishop! It must have been for their sake he printed the exquisite specimen of theological diplomacy that will be found in another column. He offers to Mrs. Stowe a collection of " the prevailing sentiments here on American affairs",—which is not, we suspect, exactly what she wished. He represents the bulk of opinion as suspended between the North and the South, and the general feeling as that of regret at the expenditure of life and property that no foreseen advantage can compensate. Then comes the caveat with which we are to familiar:—"Those who are the least favorable to the Northerns are not so from any approbation of slavery, but from not understanding that the war is waged in the cause of abolition.” Other current fallacies follow in orderly succession. But the Archbishop endorses none of them. Every paragraph is introduced by a phrase that distinctly assigns to somebody else the sentiment expressed. Finally, the Archbishop expressly disclaims responsibility for these prevalent views. He washes is hands, in the
<c04>
sight of all the people, of accountability for the judgment be has pronounced in their name. It is they who dislike slavery, yet sympathize with the slaveholders-who believe in the right of secession and the duty of acknowledging the success of a rebellion that has not lasted two years—who sec in the railing of pro-slavery Northern journals against Eng-land. reason for withholding reciprocity of friendship from the Republican party—who think that the negro is very badly treated in the North, though nothing can tempt him back to the South—it is the ill-informed, illogical public who hold these views, says the Archbishop; pray do not attribute them to me. But has be none of his own? Oh, yes! He holds with the plan “long ago suggested by Bishop Hinds." The good Bishop proposed that the 'Federal Government should tax the slaves upon an assessment fixed by the owner, and have the power of ransom at the price so fixed. A very good plan, certainly; having no other defect than that the slave-owners would not listen to it. The unworldly simplicity of the scheme is beautiful—especially with the additional advantage pointed out by the Archbishop: that the slaves best qualified for freedom would be the first to obtain it—the stupid, slothful, or indocile, being left on the hands of their masters. But even the archiepiscopal sponsor for this amiable scheme confesses his fear that the time has gone by for putting it in practice. We wish he hail added—as we think so accurate a reasoner should have done—it is time to try some other plan. His "best wishes for the new year" might then have been taken to mean, best wishes for the success of President Lincoln's Proclamation and of his Emancipation scheme.—London Morning Star.

A GOOD EXAMPLE.
Congress is wrangling about the employment of negroes in the war. We do not exactly see to what purpose, since the President is already authorized to enroll them as soldiers. The rebels have no such scruples; the rebel leaders do not think it necessary to apply to the Confederate Congress, as they call it, for leave or authority to put anus into the hands of the black people, form them into companies and regiments, drill them on the parade ground, and when they are tolerably expert, set them to shooting at the Yankees.
Does anybody question this fact? Here is the proof. Dr. Steiner, an Inspector of the Sanitary Commission—and the Sanitary Commission employ only most respectable men in that service—was at Frederick, on duty, when, in September, the rebel army of invasion entered and marched through Maryland, In the hope of inducing the imputation of that State to rise against the Federal Government. His report makes an interesting pamphlet, published by A. D. F. Randolph of this city. He saw the whole rebel force inarch through Frederick, and in his description of their progress, as he witnessed it with his own eyes, says:
"The most liberal calculations could not give them more than sixty-tour thousand men. Over three thousand negroes must be included in this number. These were clad in all kinds of uniforms, not only in cast-off or captured United States uniforms, but in coats with Southern buttons. State buttons, etc. These were shabby, but not shabbier or seedier than those worn by white men in the rebel ranks. Most of the negroes had arms, rifles, muskets, sabres, bowie-knives, dirks, etc. They were supplied, in many instances, with knapsacks, haversacks, canteens, etc., and were manifestly an integral portion of the Southern Confederacy army. They were seen riding on horses and mules, driving wagons, riding on caissons, in ambulances, with the staff of Generals, and promiscuously mixed up with all the rebel horde. The fact was patent, and rather interesting when considered in connection with the horror rebels express at the suggestion of black soldiers being employed for the national defence."
The rebels have the good sense to make use of such means of attack and defence as come conveniently to their hands. They have scraped together, by their conscription, all the able-bodied men of the white race, and now they are pressing into their ranks the hardy work-people of their plantations. “Here," they say, "is a strong man, who can handle a gun as well as the best of us with a little practice. As to his complexion, it is no matter what that may be; the question is, can he fight?" In that case, neither Jeff. Davis, nor his Secretary of War, nor his Generals, think it necessary to ask the leave of any legislative body before making a soldier of him. He is a man, and can do good service, and that is enough; they put a rifle into his hands at once; they arc not at all squeamish on that point at the South. It is only when you are North of Mason and Dixon's line that you come among people of a sickly sensitiveness in regard to the employment of negroes in war. The Southern secessionists employ colored people without scruple to aid the. cause of the rebellion; the Northern secessionists raise an outcry of horror at the idea of employing them to help put it down. Your Coxes, your Vallandighams, your Ben Woods, and their associate sentimentalists—delicate creatures that they are!—are nauseated by the idea of putting a musket into the hands of the black man to defend the government to which he owes his liberty. What! is the musket a nobler instrument than the plow or the spade? We consider it no dishonor to the dignity of labor to let the black man till the glorious fields of our country, and solicit the earth for her harvests; and yet pretend to shrink from the idea of giving him a firelock or drilling him as a soldier. There never was a sillier piece of puling affectation than this.
And the Southern secessionists are right in their estimate of the serviceable character of the negro soldier. Professor Zachos, who is just from Port Royal, gives the moat favorable account of the behavior of those who have been employed therein the Union service. They delight in the imposing regularity of military movements, in military display and martial music; they are obedient, orderly, attentive to their duty, coming with alacrity at the roll-call, peaceable in camp, brave in the field. Such they are found to be at Port Royal. How are they at New Orleans? A private letter from that city, which has just been received here, says:
"Under good officers, the country wants no better soldiers. They are full of fight; no guerillas have appeared in the rear of our advanced posts. The blacks have the eyes of Argus, and full well the rebels know that they would never escape them. The natives here have a wholesome dread of them."
The writer of this letter naturally draws the conclusion that "the negro must be armed and organized in order, at least, to guard all the country; the negro must guard and keep the Mississippi river when open." Most certainly, this is a service for which we shall be obliged to depend on the black population. A part of the country we occupy in the border States is infested by roving bandits— guerillas, as they arc called—who rob and murder the defenceless inhabitants. Arm and organize the blacks in the rear of our armies, and they will gladly undertake to look to the guerillas. This should have been done before now, but it is not yet too late.—N.Y. Evening Post.
<c05>
WILL YOU SUSTAIN THE GOVERNMENT?
It is generally admitted, we believe, that our country has arrived at a most critical stage in history. Perhaps never before has it been in no much peril as at the present moment. Not only have the rebels gained most of the battles that have been fought for the last six months, but they are still in a condition to do much more desperate fighting before they will yield to the authority of the government. Although they have suffered far more in this war than the people of the loyal States, yet they are still willing to suffer in the future to an extent which we can contemplate only with horror. This is done in the boasted name of Freedom—the right to govern themselves, which, being interpreted, means the right to hold in the most abject slavery four millions of human beings. Is it possible that the civilization of the age will permit such a desecration of the sacred name of liberty? The events of the next few months will fully solve this problem.
This war must soon produce, results which will hasten its termination: Either the supremacy of the Federal Government will be acknowledged, or we must submit to a base com promise with treason. With these facts staring us in the face, it would seem the duty of every citizen to give no doubtful support to the. government, which affords him the most ample protection, and under whose mild sway he has enjoyed innumerable blessings. Is it possible that we have one solitary individual in all the loyal States who prefers the establishment of Jeff. Davis’s Confederacy to the triumph of the Union cause? Recent developments prove that we have a few of this stamp in every State—men who, when the war was going on prosperously for freedom and good government, did not show themselves to tin.1 public gaze, but now, in its dark hour, are coming forth from their lurking-places, ready to prey upon the government in its supposed weakness. They flourish best when their country is in its greatest peril. If we should be favored with two or three decisive victories, we should not be troubled again with these political hyenas until our country was again overtaken with disaster, which betokened its final dissolution.
To be satisfied that we have men of this stamp, it is only necessary to look at the recent actions of the so-called "Peace Democrats” in several States. In Illinois, they openly propose to reconstruct the government to suit the wishes of Jeff. Davis, and as New England is too unyielding in her liberty-loving principles, they are willing to leave her "out in the cold."
They endeavor to bring in false issues, which go far to embarrass our cause, not only in the minds of people of foreign nations, but also in the minds of some who do not pay much attention to political matters in this country.
In New York and New Jersey, this state of things exists to a considerable extent. The Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln is openly denounced, and while they profess to render a nominal support to the prosecution of the war, they condemn every measure put forth that promises the least degree of success; so they also condemn every officer of' the government who has manifested any vigor in the discharge of his duty. So it is throughout the country. In proof of this, witness the shabby treatment that Gen. Butler received, the other day, at the hands of the few rebel sympathizers that have found their way into the Massachusetts Legislature the present year. They denounce the administration for its lack of energy in carrying on the war, and almost in the same breath they stigmatize as a tyrant and a bloodhound every General who has been at all successful, or who has exhibited a determination to uphold the honor of the government. These traitors take their cue from the message of Jeff. Davis, which says that his enemies are about to organize another system of warfare, that "can have no other purpose than revenge and thirst for blood, and plunder of private-property." Every intelligent man knows that it has been the only object of the government since the rebellion commenced, to defend its integrity and suppress the rebellion. If certain institutions stand in the way of this, they must yield, for "the Union must and shall be preferred."
If the influence of this contemptible faction were confined to its own members, the mischief would be comparatively trifling; but it permeates, to a considerable extent, the loyal masses. The key-note is sounded by these traitors, and the refrain is taken up by those who sympathize with them to some extent, and in these times of peril and disaster, it is echoed through the loyal masses. This state of things must not continue.—Milford Journal.

ATROCIOUS CONDUCT OF COL. JONAS H. FRENCH.
ST. CHARLES HOTEL, NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 25.
On Tuesday evening last, at half-part eight o'clock, while passing up St. Charles street, in company with F. S. Schell, Esq., the artist of Frank Leslie's Pictorial, who is attached to the Banks Expedition, I was suddenly accosted by two colored women, one of whom, a beautiful mulatto, wry tastily attired, besought me to protect her from the watchmen, who,, she said, were following close behind her on the opposite side of the street, and were about to arrest her and her mother for being out without pauses.
I offered her and her mother all the protection in my power, until they should reach their home, which was but a few blocks distant, and I had but scarcely made the proffer, when two powerful and muscular watchmen came, running across the street, club in hand, and at once proceeded to arrest the women. I inquired of the officers by what authority they arrested slaves, or free colored people; they informed me that they were acting under orders received from the Chief of Police, Col. Jonas H. French.
The women begged with tears in their eyes for their liberty, that they might return to their homes, where a sister was lying dangerously ill, and towards whom they were hastening when seized by the watchmen. Being enough of a “Yankee Abolitionist " to feel a glow of indignation at this flagrant violation of human rights, and as I supposed illegal assumption of power, I proceeded to the prism or watch-house, adjoining the City Hall, from taw root of which flies the flag of freedom.
What a Right was revealed to me on my visit to that prison! Such a scene may I never be permitted to wit again. Securing permission, I went into the corridor, from which lead the cells. There I saw in one cell, 15 feet by 20 feet, fifty colored women and girls, packed like so many cattle: there were six or eight wooden berths, with pine mattrasses and oak pillows, for these poor creatures to rest their limbs upon. Of course, the most of them were obliged to stand up nightly, or lay upon the wet flooring of the cell.
I never shall forget the emotions that arose within my bosom, as I stood intently gazing upon the sorrowing faces of these unfortunates, as they cast wistful glances through the heavy iron bars of their cell, and in supplicating tones implored me to secure them 
<c06>
their release. One pretty young girl of fifteen, with a beautiful face, and whose complexion was that of a pretty Boston brunette, and with long flowing hair, slightly crimpled, was sobbing as though her heart would break, for her mother. She was terrified at the surroundings of her new position and the hideous yells of drunken soldiers, and sailors in the next tell.
There were confined in this evil, several women that in New York or Boston would pass for white women, without the slightest difficulty or suspicion. And there were many darker countenances in that cell, that were intelligent, and indicated the existence and beating of hearts beneath those tinged and sable hues. In the opposite cells were over one hundred colored men and boys, of all colors, from the ebony thick-lipped African, to the mulatto, and delicately tinged colored wan. They were there from all ages from the little child of nine years, to the aged and decrepid negro of seventy-five. There, were the dandy darkie, slave and free, the laborer, slave and free, the mechanic and waiter, slave and free.
Some of these men were the fathers, husbands and brothers of the women in the opposite cells. It was but a little while after, when the jailor having barred the door which leads into the stone corridor, I heard distinctly the swelling notes of-'John Brown's body lies mouldering," &c., and shortly after the grand chorus of an ancient Methodist hymn, ”For Jesus’ sake well serve the Lord." The next evening I visited the cells, and found that nearly all who had been imprisoned the previous evening bad been released, on paying a fine of one dollar and a quarter for free people, and one dollar and a half for slaves.
There were several likely looking negro girls still in the cell, and three mothers. All of these mother had sons in the Union army, enlisted in the colored native guard regiment. One of them had three sons in one regiment, the other bad two sons, her only children, and the third, her only child, a boy of nineteen years, was a sergeant in a colored company. These-mothers were all the property of rebels, for they told me their masters and mistresses SWORE they would “never take the oath of allegiance to the Abolition Yankee Government." I asked them how they happened to be imprisoned, and was informed that their masters and mistresses had them “sent to prison for safe keeping."
One mother told me she was always treated well until her sons joined the negro regiment, since which time she has been whipped and otherwise sadly abused. She was not allowed so much liberty at home, and her mistress had put her off on a short allowance of food, because she did not prevent her sons from enlisting.
Here is a verbatim ropy of the official order requiring the arrest, by the police, of all colored people found in the streets. Beyond the simple writ ten notice, nothing more has been made public in regard to this important matter:
OFFICE CHIEF or Police.
Lieut. J. Duan:—
Yon are hereby ordered to arrest all negroes out without passes after 8 1/2 P. M.
By order of Col J. H. FRENCH,
Prov. Marshal Gen. and Chief of Police.
Notices of this kind were sent to all the station houses, and were posted in the offices. It is a most despotic law to put in force at such an hour as this, to protect the property in the shape of human flesh and blood, in God's creatures, belonging, or owned, as they say, by the very fiends who have no compulsion at shedding the precious life's blood of our sons and brothers, husbands and fathers!
We, who profess to be Christian people, contributing blood and treasure for the suppression of this cursed rebellion, are now called upon to provide cells for the safe keeping of their slaves—Corr. of Boston Traveller.

CHANGE IN NEE ORLEANS.
The following private letter (says the New York Tribute,) from a colored man in New Orleans, canceling an order he had previously sent lo this city for a banner, may throw some light on the state of things in the Southern metropolis:
SIR,—If you have not had the banner commenced, it is useless to have it made at all, as, since the issuing of the. President's Proclamation, Jonas H. French has stopped all of our night meetings, and has caused us to get permits to hold meetings on Sunday, and sends his police around to all of the colored churches every Sunday, to examine all of the permits. He had all the slaves that were turned out of their former owner's yards rearrested and sent back, those who belonged to rebels as well as those who belonged to loyal persons. The slaves were mustered into the rebel army. He has them confined in jail to Starve and die, and refuses their friends to see them. He is much worse than our rebel masters, he being the Chief of Police. Last night, after Gen. Banks left the city, Col. French issued a secret order to all the police stations to arrest all the negroes who may be found in the streets, and at the places of amusement, and placed in jail. There were about five hundred, both free and slave. confined, without the least notice or cause—persons who thought themselves free by the President's Proclamation, from the parishes of Natchetibes, Ouachita, Rapides, Catahoula, Concordia, Aragules, Jaques, Iberville, West Baton Rouge, Point Coopee, Filiciana East Baton Rouge, St. Helena, Washington, St. Samany. Free persons of color from any of these parishes who are found within the limits of the city, are immediately arrested and placed in jail by order of Col. French. Therefore, it is useless to have the banner made, as there is no use for it since Gen. Butler has left. R. K. T.

BLACK SOLDIERS.
So far is it from being tree that the blacks as material for soldiers are inferior to whites, that they are in some respects manifestly superior; especially for aptness for drill, because of their imitativeness and love of music; docility in discipline, when their confidence is once acquired; and enthusiasm for the cause. They at least know what they are fighting for. They also have a pride as soldiers which is not often found in our white regiments, where every private is only too apt to think himself especially qualified to supersede his officers. They are above all things faithful and trustworthy on duty from the start. In the best white regiment it has been found impossible to trust newly enlisted troops with the countersign; they invariably betrayed it to their comrades. There has been but one such instance in this black regiment and that was the case of a mere boy, whose want of fidelity excited the greatest indignation among his comrades. Drunkenness the bane of our army, does not exist among the black troops. There has not been one instance in the regiment, though no steps have been taken to guard against it The only difficulty which threatened to become at all serious was that of absence without leave, and overstaying passes, but this was checked by a few decided measures, and has entirely. 
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hustle armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE YANKEES INFERNAL SCOUNDRELS- BUTLER, A HOG-HYENA.
The custom of denouncing the Yankees is becoming common. Under the soft influences of a serenade, President Davis likens them to hyenas; Gov-Letcher, in his mild way, insists that they are a heaven-deifying, hell-deserving race, and pleasantly consigns their Chief Magistrate, Abe Lincoln, to a doom more fearful than that of Devergoil. Is it to be wondered that Mr. Lincoln has had a trouble on his mind ever since this fearful doom was pronounced upon him; that he is getting gray, and finds it difficult to tell a dirty anecdote every ten minutes during the day?
The practice of villifying the Yankees has gotten into the newspapers. Editors spend most of their time in concocting diatribes against a contemptible race, whose only defect is a proneness to all that is foul and everything that is evil. Why should people so despicable be aspersed? Even this newspaper, careful as it is never to say a word that would disturb the most placid tea party, has been known to speak disrespectfully of a race, which the civilized world, with one consent, acknowledges to be "its last and vilest product."	
Reflecting persons tell us that this is altogether wrong. We should restrain ourselves, and be scrupulously polite when speaking of those abominable villains. "We should recollect that these infernal scoundrels are human beings, and bear in mind the fact that they never lose an opportunity of heaping the most ungracious abuse upon ourselves. Nor should it be forgotten that they have attained an almost inconceivable perfection and dexterity in lying, so that if it were possible for us to match them in billingsgate, we would still be at their mercy in the trifling matter of falsehood. We are told by our philosophic friends that it should serve to cool the intensity of our hatred to remember that they are hourly committing every crime known to man, and some with which even the fiends are not familiar; that a thrill of delight should pass through us, when we recall the pleasing circumstance that upwards of a million of these incarnate demons are hired by the year for the purpose of murdering us, burning our houses, killing our cattle, stealing our slaves, destroying our crops, and driving our wives and helpless children into the waste howling wilderness, in midwinter; that a genial glow of the purest love should pervade our hearts at the thought that they candidly avow their purpose to exterminate us, to kill every one of us, men, women and children, to take possession by violence; in a word, to annihilate us, to destroy us from the face of the earth, so that our names shall be no more heard among men.
There is another view which should encourage us in the purpose henceforth to cherish an affectionate regard for the accursed beings at war with us. To the well-regulated mind, the beastly practices of beasts excite no disagreeable emotion; and it is said that the scientific intellect finds a world of enjoyment in the contemplation of the disgusting utility of the lowest order of creatures. Surely, the feast of the vulture upon carrion is not reprehensible, and occasions in the beholder no special wonder, and never any animosity against the bird for gratifying his somewhat peculiar tastes. So the tiger that laps blood, and the beetle that gorges excrement, are but Yankees of the animal kingdom, accommodating the wants of nature; and it were folly to impute to them improper motives in partaking of their ghastly and sickening repasts. It follows that our feeling towards the people of the. North, the scaraboei and vipers of humanity, should be characterized neither by rage nor by nausea, but by a fixed, cheerful, Christian determination to interpose sufficient obstacles between them and ourselves; to curb their inordinate and bloody lusts by such adequate means as natural wit suggests; and as a general thing to kill them wherever we find them, without idle questions as to whether they are reptiles or vermin. A certain calmness of mind is requisite to their successful slaughter. The convulsions of passion are out of place when one is merely scalding chinches.
The foregoing reflections are suggested naturally enough by the accounts in Yankee newspapers of Butler's triumphal progression from New York to Washington, and back again to Boston. A great hue and cry has been raised at the South, because ' the spawn of Northern cities saw fit to prostrate themselves before this new Haynau, this modern Virres, returning from his conquests - this beast emerging from his cave filled with dead men's bones. Why this outcry? Wherefore assail the brute clotted with gore, or the chimpanzees that danced and chattered at his coining, and beslobbered him with praise? What had this hog-hyena done contrary to his instincts, that we should so berate him and his worshippers? He had hanged Mumford. That was true Yankee courage. He had issued a hellish order against the ladies of New Orleans. That was unaffected Yankee gallantry. He had put the Mayor and hundreds of others into dungeons. This was the Yankee conception of the proper method of administering the laws of "the best government the world ever saw." He had banished from the city more than twenty thousand people who refused to perjure themselves by taking the oath of allegiance to the United States. That was the Yankee idea of justice.
He drove these people off without a change of clothing, and only $50 in money. This was the Yankee idea of humanity. He confiscated property by millions. This was Yankee honesty. He supplied the rebels in Texas with munitions of war, and pocketed the proceeds of the cotton received in exchange. This was a smart Yankee trick. His troops were whipped at Baton Rouge while he was in New Orleans; he was never under fire and never smelt gun powder, except at Hatteras, when the long-range guns of his fleet opened upon a mud fort which had no ordnance that could reach him two miles off; and on the strength of this he issues an address as pompous as Satan's speech to the legions in the bottomless pit. This was making material for Yankee history. After indicting innumerable tortures upon an innocent and unarmed people; after outraging the sensibilities of civilized humanity by his brutal treatment of women and children; alter placing bayonets in the hands of slaves; after peculations the most prodigious and the most infamous, he returns, reeking with crime, to his own people, and they receive him with declamations of joy in a manner that befits him, and becomes themselves. Nothing is out of keeping: his whole career and its rewards are strictly artistic in conception and in execution.
He was a thief. A sword that he had stolen from a woman-the niece of the brave Twiggs-was presented to him as a reward of valor. He had violated the laws of God and man. The law-makers of the United States voted him thanks and the preachers of the Yankee gospel of blood came to him and worshipped him. He had broken into the safes and strong boxes of merchants. The New York Chamber of Commerce gave him a dinner. He had insulted women. Things in female attire lavished harlot smiles upon him. He was a murderer. And a nation of assassins have deified him. He is at this time the representative man of a people lost to all shame, to all humanity, all honor, all virtue, all manhood. Cowards by nature, thieves upon principle, and assassins at heart, it would be marvellous, indeed, if the people of the North refused to render homage to Benjamin Butler-the beastliest, bloodiest poltroon and pickpocket the world ever saw.-Richmond Examiner, Jan. 26th.
THE NORTHERN INSUREECTION.
The Vallandighams, Coxes, Seymours, and many of the Democratic papers, are fond of telling us that we of the North are to blame for the rebellion. The South, indeed, according to their representations, was a little passionate, but no more than was to be expected under the provocations we gave her!- The Richmond Whig gives a different explanation of the war, which is about as reasonable. It says:-
"We have made many errors in our treatment of the Yankees. Not the least has been in regarding them as something better than they really are They are by nature menial, and fitted only for menial duties. They are in open and flagrant insurrection against their natural lords and masters, the gentlemen of the South. In the exercise of their assumed privileges, they deport themselves with all the extravagant airs, the insolence, the cruelty, the cowardice and love of rapine, which have ever characterized the revolt of SLAVES. The former leniency of THEIR MASTERS only serves to aggravate the ferocity of their natures. When they are again reduced to subjection, AND TAUGHT TO KNOW THEIR PLACE, we must take care to put such mammals about them that they will never Lave the opportunity to play these tricks again."
Jeff. Davis says of the people of the North-"Let no mail hug the delusion that there can be renewed association between them and us."
<c02>
The Liberator
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13,1863.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBCRIBERS.
The GENERAL AGENT of the Liberator begs leave to remind delinquent subscribers-i. e., such as are owing from January 1, 1862, to January 1, 1863- that, unless payment be made by the first of April, (which is granting a longer indulgence than usual,) their paper will be discontinued, in accordance with the STANDING RULE. It is hoped there will be no longer delay on their part in meeting their indebtedness, and no occasion furnished for curtailing the subscription list.
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.,
At the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, Thursday Evening, Jan. 29, 1863.
Phonographically reported by J. M. W. YERRINTON.
MR. PRESIDENT,-I rejoice to share in the encouraging faith with which Mr. Garrison has described the progress of the Anti-Slavery idea. I have no doubt, as he has not, that in time, Freedom is to be the law of this Government. That faith sustains us under great despondency as to the immediate result. But I suppose, keeping that hope still in our hearts, it is the duty of wise men to scrutinize the probable future lying immediately before them; to endeavor to know accurately the disposition of the contending paroles. Pulling aside, therefore, for a moment, the picture which he has drawn of the ultimate future, let us consider-what no man doubts-the existence of a considerable minority in these Northern States, who, without any moral judgment, pro or con, in regard to the system of slavery itself, but acting either from old association, from fondness for party leaders, from personal ambition, or from any other cause, mean industriously, within the next two years, to apply every means, to use every argument, and pour out wealth like water, in order to restore, in the best form they can, the supremacy of the Southern States over this nation. I think any man who doubts the existence of such a party must have failed to observe the extraordinary outbreak at Harrisburg, and the disgraceful riot at Albany, which nothing quelled but the cowardice of its own chosen leaders, appalled at the storm they had raised-the fruit of their own folly. Such a one must have failed to note the honor done by the first city in the Empire to an officer just cashiered by the Government for failing to bring his troops into action, designedly, in one of the most important battles of the past year; and he must have failed also to observe, a I said this afternoon, that that unanimity of the press with which we started in this war-a unanimity s perfect that neither the Boston Post, nor the New York Herald, nor the Chicago Times dared to insult the Northern people by one word adverse to the proclamation of Fremont-is at an end, and that the Democratic press of the country now indulges in a criticism of Government, in an abuse of its supporters, in a recommendation of opposition to its laws, as distinct, unblushing, as in the palmiest days of Democratic success. Any man who looks at these signs must notice a party which the President's indecision has called into existence-the old Democratic ally of the Slave Power. Now, the question is, What are its means and plans? On the fourth day of March, a Republican Senate and a Republican House are to be changed the last very materially by the introduction of a large Democratic element; sufficient, if not to block, at least to embarrass the action of the Executive. In the course of the spring and summer, 300,000 men leave our ranks. Not the most sanguine lover of his country dreams that, at this moment, either in the East or the West, the Government can again call into the military ranks 300,000 white men. In front of us, again, is the Supreme Court. No man can tell definitely what its final judgment will be next January on the constitutionality of the recent measures of the President and of Congress. The most sanguine members of Congress are not certain that that Bench will not throw itself across the	 path of the Executive, and defy its right to use the method it is now using to put an end to the war. The men appointed by our own President, within twelve months, are not such that their own friends are willing absolutely to guarantee that they will stand by the President's proclamation. A case made up for that Court, and possibly decided against the Executive: following that, a proposal to the nation confused by this conflict between the great powers of the Government; disheartened, perhaps, by ill success on the field, and racked by party dissensions:-a National Convention-the South invited to it, and offered carte blanche:-this is the picture of a possible future. These are the possibilities which the boldest party that this country ever knew-a party which General Banks said, within two months, knew how to govern, while the Republicans had never learned the art-intend to endeavor to render actual. At any rate, with a timid party and an irresolute chief, they trust to contingencies to gain what they can in the weariness which the war begins to produce in some sections of the country. They have created between the East and the West a ripening feeling of hostility; so that this very week, one of the most radical members from the Western Stales, a man just elected to his office, told me that if there should be a separation, in any contingency, between the North and the South, blood would run in every town of his district-radically Republican as its recent election had proved it to be-on the issue whether the East should be adhered to by that section, or whether the South should be its chosen ally. That feeling the Democratic party means to use. I believe the interests of the West are a hundred fold more linked with the East than with the South. Where the Mississippi bears on its bosom one dollar's worth of Western produce, our rails and canals bring East fifty. How much the heart of the West clings to its birthplace, I need not say. Still, party clamor can for a time confuse and mislead a people against both their feeling and interest. It is useless for us, as moulders of public sentiment, to shut out of view the effect of that class of men and presses upon the immediate future that lies before us. Why is George B. McClellan received in this city? Not, certainly, because of any victories that he has gained. He is the first defeated General who was ever covered with laurels in the land he had impoverished and disgraced. He is received here as the cornerstone of a Democratic movement; as the representative of a sentiment that in due time will be used to block the Republican plans of the Administration. Wiser than his opponent, the Democrat is early in the field, and constant in his work.
With this possibility before us, what is our defence?-ranking ourselves, for the moment, with those citizens to whom at last Nationality means Liberty, and can mean nothing else. In other words, what are the means by which the policy of the Government shall be made an actual success, before these political barriers can be set up against it? Now, I value the proclamation, (as my friend Garrison does,) not as a finality. The finality will be only when, as Mr. Conway told us so eloquently from this platform, a fortnight ago, the Government "loads its cannon with broken fetters, and files them from the bastion of Absolute Justice"-(applause)-when "the Government plants itself on the absolute right of every human being under its flag to liberty as an act of justice, whether with or without military necessity. But, if you cannot have the whole loaf, half of it is a great step toward your wishes. Mr. Lincoln has given us a proclamation which covers only half the ground, but it plants the whole idea; it concedes the whole question; it adopts the entire principle. It proclaims that, after attempting, for two years, to save the Union as it was, the Commander-in-Chief has come to the conclusion, and announces it, that the task is impossible; that slavery is not merely an evil, but that it is-utterly incom-
<c03>
patible with the safety of the State; that there can be no Union, unless the negro is made the equal of the white man; and that henceforth the Abolitionist, as well as the Whip, must sail under the same standard- "Liberty and Union-one and inseparable-now and forever." To be sure, he excepts out certain parts of the South-no matter! He has planted the seed. He cannot prescribe in what directions the branches shall grow. He has accepted the idea, and the idea will bear its own fruit. He has pledged the nation; and no long as the North exists an a nation, in honor as well as in interest, it can never forfeit the pledge it has made to three million of slaves. I know this much to the honor of the President: that in a private letter to the agent of ten rebel captains-which he never intended or supposed would be seen-he commences by saying-"I have pledged the faith of the nation to three million of negroes that they shall be free, and as far as I am concerned, no one of them shall ever have it to say that I broke the pledge." (Prolonged applause.) A man born and brought up in Kentucky, whose later years have been spent in striking an average between the Republicanism of North Illinois and the border-ruffian Democracy of its South,-"Egypt," as we call it-it is not, of course, to be expected of him, that he shall be a ripened statesman, with broad culture, and an entire appreciation of the events amid which God has placed him. A State politician, standing between the weakest Republicanism and the bitterest Democracy, obliged, life-long, to conciliate each, he conies out just what that training has made him. But God has lifted him to the height of that proclamation. I do not believe that it is in his nature willingly to go back one inch from the position he took on the first day of January, 1863. (Applause.)
But the success of the proclamation does not lie in his willingness. It is not a man's motives that we have to discuss. It does not matter whether George B. McClellan was an intentional traitor or not. If he had set out, with double the intellect God ever gave him, to serve Jeff. Davis, he could not have served him better than he did. (Applause.) What need now to go behind the results of his conduct for the sake of finding out his actual motive? So with Mr. Lincoln Whether he is honest or whether he is dishonest, is a matter of very secondary importance to us. When the patient lies at the point of death, a mistake in the medicine is about equal to poison. If a Cunarder were in Boston harbor to-night, with a gale such as sometimes blows there, and the captain heard the ship's keel touch first a rock to the right, and then another to the left, would he be much comforted if Robert B. Forbes stepped up to him and said, "That man knows nothing about the channel, but he is the honestest man in Boston"? Of course not. So the mere honest design of the individual actor is a matter of very secondary consideration in a time like this. It is intellect as well as honesty we need. Now, how shall the Government be saved? No man can accurately judge the keleidoscope of the future. It is a mixed mass. We do not know what elements are to make up that future, and the wisest has been disappointed in the whole history of the war. We can only guess, with the best certainty we may, and shape upon that expectation our idea of duty. How shall the President checkmate irrecoverably this Democratic move? No doubt the plot exists. Probably none of us will ever know-our children will read, when the archives of these times are opened-how often?-more than once,-within the last twelve months, our Government has stood on the very brink of a coup d'etat, planned by generals wearing its own uniform. How shall that danger be met? It seem to me that the lately adopted policy of the Government provides the remedy. Put three hundred thousand black men on their feet in the Gulf States, and the case is beyond Democratic or any mere political doctoring. (Applause.) We are told by Butler's stuff that all the white men on the continent could not put the slaves of Louisiana back again in their chains without such scenes as have made St. Domingo red with blood to this day. Very likely. The same may be true, to some extent, of nil the slave States. The civil machinery has gone to pieces. The slave stands anxiously waiting the opening of the door for his future. This Government is to avail itself, not only of their direct military aid, but to take out of the arch of the Confederacy the key stone-its basis of labor-its four million loyal hearts-its trust that it may quit home and marshal its armies on the banks of the Rappahannock, certain that its plantation will be peace, and its labor go orderly forward. Destroy all this reliance. In other words, put tour hundred thousand black men on their feet within twenty or forty days, before anything can culminate at the North, before any traitor in the Cabinet may endeavor to appall the President by the moral opposition of a Congress in existence, though not in session, known not to be in favor of his plan.
You must remember, that with an honest President, and a Proclamation President, we have yet a President Kentucky-born. A very distinguished member of the House of Representatives said to me, when I urged the appointment of three additional judges to the Supreme bench, abolition by instinct, and by every drop of their blood as certainly as Samuel Sewall of this city,-"Gladly would I join in an effort thus to fortify the Gibraltar against which we may be brought up with the prow of the ship dashed to pieces; but I tell you, Sir, if I voted for the bill, I should have no confidence in the men whom the President would appoint under it. I would rather run the risk of the Court as it is, than with the addition of any men Abraham Lincoln would appoint under such a bill."("Hear, hear.") Now, if that be the judgment of men standing guard on the very outmost walls, how much should the Northern mind keep itself alert and awake, to see that immediately, while the time serves us, this great and irrevocable step be taken!
Is there any likelihood of its being taken? I think there is. (Applause.) Some men point with great pride-and it is a natural one-to the appointment of Hooker to the command of the army of the Potomac. (Applause.) That is a great gain. He may have mud ten feet deep under his feet-there is none on his brain. (Great applause.) He has a hot heart and a cool brain. Be patient with him-very patient. I was told by one who left Falmouth day before yesterday, that he had seen a twelve-pound cannon so deep in the mud that ten horses could not move it. Only the tops of the wheels that held it were visible above ground. Evidently, in such a case, no commander can take the field until he has provided himself against all possible contingencies. Give him lime, and the heart of Joe Hooker will beat yet on the other side of Richmond. ("Amen!" and enthusiastic applause.) But I take no great stock in Richmond. I do not believe in the supreme efficiency of battle. Doubtless would cheer the nation's heart; no doubt it would add to the prestige of our arms on the other side of the water; no doubt it would give a terrible blow to the Confederacy; but who dreams that the Southern Confederacy can ever be conquered by actual arms? Eight millions of our own race, scattered over a territory almost like Switzerland-mountains and morasses, rivers and impenetrable woods, amid which, as John Neal said, forty years ago, the nations of Europe might be hidden from each other-who can hope that any mere military success, unaccompanied by any thing else, can result in any thing but merely holding such a people in uneasy subjection? The only real permanent success lies in the Government honestly adopting the idea of the Proclamation, as I take it, which is, that Northern civilization is to-day struggling with Southern civilization for predominance on this continent, and now, having gotten the right and the power to subdue its rival, the Government should begin the process by assuming control of the territory, selling it out to loyal men, white and black, and putting school-houses and Bibles, ploughs, sewing machines, and Northern institutions upon it. I found a humane and active-minded man at Washington, begging at the doors of the Departments that the Executive would assume the ownership of the abandoned plantations within reach of the guns of
<c04>
Fortress Monroe, and allow him to place upon them a force of. Contraband laborers five thousand strong, which the Government holds to-day in its hands. Gen. Wool had generously given him the power which Dix recalled. Another mistake of the Government. The apology is-Government did not know General Dix; did not quite believe he would do so; they find he will. I will recur to this point in a moment. That is one good beginning; but there is a better still. The Government has found out another of its mistakes-and that an enormous one-by which they mistook Banks for an Abolitionist, and sent him down to New Orleans as a safer man to carry out the President's Proclamation than Gen. Butler would be. He had no sooner got there than he stationed his troops in different parts of the country under our control, for the purpose of keeping the slaves from showing what they thought about the Proclamation. If I am correctly informed, he sent one New Hampshire regiment to whip with their own hands the slaves of a plantation near New Orleans-slaves made wholesomely uneasy by the Proclamation. He used a New York regiment to overawe another plantation. The President sits in his chair, and says to his visitors, "I wonder what the black men are going to do when they hear of my Proclamation? "And, in the mean time, his last appointed General has loaded his muskets and pointed them at the blacks, to prevent their telling the President what they will do. How can gagged lips tell us their wishes? The Government acknowledges its mistake. So it does in the appointment of Gov. Stanley. But, mark! all the mistakes of this Government are on one side. They have never yet made a mistake in appointing an Abolitionist to anything. All their mistakes enure to the benefit of slavery. You know the fox said, when the lion invited him to his cave, "The footsteps alt go in; I don't see any coming out." The circumstance was suspicious, and he declined to enter. When the Government makes all its mistakes on one side, I decline to receive them as honest mistakes. 1f an intoxicated man tails impartially to the right and then to the left, you say he is honestly drunk; but if he fell always to the right, you would say he had a brick in that side of his hat. (Laughter.) The Government that makes all its mistakes on one side must have a constitutional bias in that direction. There must be somewhere a loadstone or a magnet that attracts it to one side, when it is not on the alert, when it is not bayonetted up to its duly on the other side. I say this, not very specially to blame the Government, but merely to show that you cannot expect to make bricks without straw; that you cannot expect to make an abolition statesman out of a Kentucky refugee brought up in "Egypt." But he is a very good President-as good as we could get-and certainly "available," and to be trusted, provided you watch him. At any rate, he is the best we can get; and we can have nobody else for two years; and therefore we might as well make up our minds, not only in virtue of his merits, which are considerable, but in virtue of the fact that we have no choice, to stand by him. (Applause.)
Now, the Government says that this mistake in regard to Banks shall be corrected. (Applause.) To be sure, sixty golden days, every hour of them worth a thousand lives-every hour big with the fate of the Union-every hour pregnant with evil, which his hands can neither stay nor destroy-sixty golden days are to elapse, probably, before Butler can place himself where he stood before on the soil of Louisiana; but when he does, what is he? When he stands there, with the wish of the President to put two hundred thousand muskets into two hundred thousand black hands, what does he stand there? Why, he stands the most necessary and available man that could be sent there. (Applause.) I am not here to praise him. I have not any faith to spare in converted Democrats. (Laughter and applause.) I have nothing to say,-as I just remarked of General McClellan and Mr. Lincoln,-of his motives or his principles; enough for me that I believe him heartily to accent, at this moment, the doctrine that there is no safety for the Union but in the liberty of every man within it. (Prolonged applause.) I know lie preached that doctrine at a time when nobody was watching him. It is said that last summer, in the heat of the season, he summoned some forty slaveholders into his private parlor, and said- "Gentlemen, you cherish the dream that there is a Democratic party at the North, able to make you a bridge back to Washington. You are mistaken; they mean it, but they cannot do it. I am a Democrat. I came here a Democrat-a Hunker of the worst stripe you could have found at the North-but I tell you that I, digged out of that pit, will burn every house in Louisiana, and put every black man's hand on every white man's throat, before I will pull down that banner, and carry it home to Boston. (Prolonged and enthusiastic applause, followed by three cheers for Butler.) I met a gentleman from Louisiana, a few days ago-thirty years a resident there-and he was exceedingly anxious to know what would be the reception of Gen. Butler in Massachusetts. But the value of the fact which I just now mentioned is in the meaning which underlies it. Most of our Generals have treated the rebels as if they were half right, and our own Government as if they were half wrong. Now, the whole conduct of Gen. Butler has been in marked contrast to these other cases. He evidently looks upon himself as the Government, and the other party as insurgents, with no rights whatever. England may call them "belligerents"; he tells them that if the Government stops them anywhere short of the gibbet, they may consider themselves very well used. It is the Government speaking to rebels-not one belligerent power speaking to another. His whole conduct has been of a similar character. When he first opened his court in the St. Charles hotel, it is sail-and the anecdote is only significant because it shows the position which Gen. Butler took from the first-"I am the Government; other nations may make you what they please-to us, you are traitor, and deserve the gallows; if we stop you short of it, get down on your knees and thank us "-I say, when Gen. Butler opened his court at the St. Charles, the Mayor came to him, and began some remarks. "Stop, Sir! go out and quell that mob, before you talk to me." "I can't do it," said the cringing official. "Then I will do it," said Butler. Going to the door, and getting his artillery planted, he stepped back and said, "Now, to save bloodshed, go out and quell that mob." "I dare not try," said the Mayor. "Then my vocation begins." Turning to the door, Soule advanced to make some explanation or protest. "Stay you in your chair, Sir; I saw enough of you at Charleston; consider yourself under arrest."(Laughter and applause.) That is the voice of Government addressing traitors; not the voice of one war power addressing another. I know the drawbacks; I know the exceptions, Dreadful! thank God, they rest not on our consciences! I know history will say that twenty men, on a distant plantation, hearing that a Yankee held rule in New Orleans, fought their way, with scythes and cane-knives, through every obstacle, until they reached the streets of New Orleans, and were shot down by his police. I know, also, that his associate, the commander of the fleet, having employed three thousand negroes to dig that ill-fated canal at Vicksburg, when the vessels weighed anchor, with the stars and stripes floating over them, and the poor blacks stood upon the bank, with their shovels and bundles, and begged to be taken off, they were left to stripes and bondage. (Sensation.) All true! And yet the negro forgives. He forgets the single fact, and remembers only the great current of the idolized General's decisions. He has heard, long before this, that when he reached his Northern home, he declared he knew no Union which did not cover liberty. Therefore, when Gen. Butler goes back, he goes back the symbol of an idea. He goes back the Proclamation in boots and shoulder-straps. (Loud applause.) What does the slave want? He cannot read; a thousand acts of the Government have confused him. Three thousand men returned from Vicksburg-four hundred from Corinth-perhaps twenty thousand return-
<c05>
ed in all since the war began-he hardly knows how to judge. But if there is a roan goes down there whose name has become the symbol of liberty, he trusts the symbol not the word. There is one man on this continent whose foot in North Carolina would make a thrill on the solid earth felt at New Orleans- he is the Proclamation in flesh and blood, and his name is FREMONT. (Enthusiastic cheering.)
Now, the Government sends Butler to New Orleans, with power to put two hundred thousand muskets into two hundred thousand black hands. Good! It goes to Hunter, and gives him fifty thousand muskets to put into fifty thousand black bands; and it says to him-"With the assistance of General Foster, take Charleston in one hand and Savannah in the other, and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel!"(Loud applause.) He is to begin. Doubtless, the Government that plans this, and sends down authority to execute it, is in earnest; and if its dictates are obeyed within a hundred days, the Ship of State floats in calm waters, where no democratic mutiny can
touch it. (Applause.) "We said to the President-"Complete the circle of fire that is to kill the Confederacy! Turn out this renegade Stanley of North Carolina, and send Fremont in his place! (Applause.) Make your way, with Virginia on one side and Alabama on the other, right into the very midst of the Gulf States, and there complete, by reorganization, the conquest of the Confederacy! "The answer was -"I have not heard a complaint against Stanley for these four months." Where were his paid advisers, three hundred strong, supported by Government, right in Washington to keep him informed? We must keep him informed. You and I and the great public, are never to let the protest of indignant manhood be silent for a moment, against the pro-slavery agent of a Government that dies unless it is anti-slavery. And yet, throughout the whole South, it would probably be true, in one half the cases, that the appointees of this Government are appointed on the principle that they shall be agreeable to the pro-slavery men of their own State;-as if enemies were to be conquered by pleasing them, and not by fighting them. The Government at Washington seems to have that idea-not Butler. Remember his merit! If I were he, and were to die soon, I would have a tombstone, inscribed, "I was the only Major General of the United States that ever hung a traitor; that ever, by the boldness of my action, and the method of the death, told the world it was a Government struggling with rebels, with the right and purpose to put them beneath its laws, at any cost." I value General Butler's fame just in this proportion: because, though not an Abolitionist, he has seen the policy of the Government from the right stand point. For that reason, I value, as of great significance, the willingness of the Government to correct its mistake by replacing him at New Orleans.
It seems to me that we are to urge immediate action in regard to this colored mass. Abolition, in other words, becomes the sheet anchor of the preservation of the Union. Immediately! A hundred days, and we come on to that summer which may precipitate us into Democratic resistance-possibly into foreign intervention - possibly into commercial panic, which would add still more to the dangers and disasters of our situation. Abolition, therefore, is what we need. And not merely abolition. You do not abolish a thing by simply annihilating it. You know, in the Bible, when they swept the chamber clean, and garnished it, seven devils came back-because there were no angels there. Now, if Joe Hooker should sweep Virginia clean, within thirty days of his leaving it, Jefferson Davis would come back, with seven devils worse than himself (if he could find them) and occupy it, unless you put freedom there. (Laughter and applause.) That is, unless the Government recognizes its right and the necessity of not leaving a vacuum in the Slave States, but of planting there military colonies, civil institutions, the loyalism of the white race and the black race. In other words, unless it recognizes the theory that there is but one power in this nation-the North; not the North by geography, but the element, North,-freedom,-nationality; that at the South are only soil and people, without governments; that we have the right to guarantee Republican institutions to them. We must urge on Republicans the adoption of that idea, immediately! Port Royal, Fortress Monroe, New Orleans, Louisiana, are all to be covered with freedom. Bold! BOLD! BOLD! is to be the motto of Republicanism. (Great applause.) Take the power and use it! Never falter with the idea of saving the State, a caste, a politician, or a party! Some men said to us, when we urged this doctrine at Washington, "we dare not do that, Suppose we are defeated? Suppose that, having angered all the elements around us, we go down? "Our answer was-"Go down, as the Cumberland did, every gun shotted to the lips, and every banner flying at the mast head! (Great cheering.) Go down-a party that understood itself and its enemy, and met him eye to eye, and was fairly beaten! Don't go down like a parcel of spaniels, tied neck and heels, and handed over, duped and deceived, to a wily Secretary of State, who laughed at you as he completed his treason!"
Well, how are we to reach that consummation? How are we to convince the Government of the necessity of this action? I think it is to be done by a public opinion at the North that shall rouse all your political leaders, and make them do your work. Demand of them a declaration of war against everything that stands in the way of that policy. Some of us said- would not make the whole delegation responsible for this-"Here is a Cabinet which your own Senatorial caucus has declared to be a snake in the way of our progress, an obstacle, a concealed enemy, a determined purposed foe. You have gone up to the President, and have announced your belief, privately, in his ear, and he cuffed your ears and sent you out again. Now, what do you mean to do? Sit flown? "We contended not. We said to them this: "When a man goes to Abraham Lincoln, he goes in his private capacity. If Charles Sumner enter the White House, and sits down with the President, the advice he gives is that of Charles Sumner, and undoubtedly Mr. Lincoln thanks him for it; but it I were President Lincoln, President of the United States, I would say I to him-'You want me to remove a great officer, whom you think deficient in purpose, and in under- Standing of this crisis, perhaps in loyalty, and you come here to advise me to take that responsibility officially. I am much obliged to you for the friendship. Now do your duty, as you ask me to do mine! Go out into the Senate Chamber of the Capitol, and, not as Charles Sumner, but as the State of Massachusetts, (applause,) the responsible representative of a sovereign State, tell the world the facts which you and I know, and which it is your duty to reveal. Make your own responsibility perfect-do your share-make the bridge on which I can walk over-share with me officially in the responsibility, and then I will move! In other words, let the official responsibility of the Senate concur with its private admonition, and help the President to that change in the Administration which fourteen States have declared to be indispensable.'"
The Springfield Republican said, a day or two ago, in anticipation of a lecture from me, that I had charged Mr. Seward with certain offences which his friends denied, and that it would take three men like me to make anybody believe the story. Well, rural journals are frequently green (laughter); but there are men at Washington who know every one of those (acts which I have stated, and they can put them on the record, where not even a country editor could be dull enough to deny them. I said he crushed an emancipation proclamation designedly, and boasted that he crushed it; and now, when the statement has been bruited, by private lips, half over the continent, he only condescends to say-not that he did not crush it, which his friends undertook to any at first, but that he crushed it because it was not good enough; whereas, those who have seen that first proclamation, very excellent Republicans, allege that although it was not quite up, in some respects, to the proclamation of September 22d, yet in some respects it was far beyond it, and on
<c06>
the whole good enough for them. All I contended was, that the man whose boast was that he strangled the policy which the President declares is necessary to save the Union, ought not, on the principles of Parliamentary Government, to claim the right to execute a measure, the necessity for which he had always denied; that common sense required, when the ship passed into a new channel, it should have a new place, one who well understood the quicksands and the rocks and whose whole heart was hot to save the ship. Is that unreasonable? Parliamentary life in English history has always acknowledged this rule. I think that the man who honestly and sincerely, from the nature of his mind, believes that the way to conquest the South is to coax it-to send begging messengers to Richmond-that the way to end this war is to go down on your knees at the feet of your enemy, and try to conciliate him-is not the man for the hour. Professor Rarey frightens his horse first, and then soothe him. Our Secretary of State would soothe him first and promise never to brighten him. It is the <Illegible> of common sense, that when, after two years' groping the national hand fastens itself upon the hilt of the weapon, it should have a leader in that struggle was believes, in his heart, both in the goodness of his cause and the necessity of this method. You and I will never, unless with great labor and after many months attain that consummation; but it is in the power of the men whom we have sent to create public opinions at Washington, to place such facts on record that Mr. Lincoln shall soon be surrounded by men who will uphold and not oppose him. Why, you can true Wm. H. Seward in every one of his appointments-in England, Portugal, North Carolina, and California. <illigeble> no one instance has he appointed a man who does not to day, stand blocking the way of the President, unless Charles Francis Adams be an exception and he gained his office by promising to support such a policy, and saved what honor he has left by refusing to keep the pledge.
It seems to me we have great reasons for encouragement. The President cannot stop. He is on the edge of Niagara. Seward is a chip, and if the President tries to hold by him, they will go over together. (Applause.) I do not believe in the possibility of retarding the solution of the great national problem. The slave has heard of it. Every contraband upon whom you can lay your hands knows it. Col. Higginson writes me that every one of his soldiers under stands this question as well as he dues-and we know he understands it down to the root. If that be true of Port Royal, it is certainly true of Louisiana. Contrabands brought here from the Gulf and the upper parts of Alabama allege that they understand it; and the colored men of North Carolina understand it so well, that they join in a universal protest against the burder that has been imposed upon them, in the person of Gov. Stanley. Wherever, in the slave States, you find a colored man, you find him wailing for a Under Governor, and, I believe, many white men, <illegible> Gen. Butler did one thing: he protected free speech in New Orleans every month that he was them, after the first. A gentleman from that city assured as that it has been faithfully used; that no man has feared, or needed to fear, while Gen. Butler lived in the St. Charles Hotel, to express the most anti-slavery seen meant that the human heart can conceive. The long pent-up agony of men who had lived there cowards, at last found expression; and this same gentleman assured us, that if there could be a guarantee that the nation would keep possession of that city, there is a large majority of its white inhabitants fully willing that the North should come there and break every fetter, and willing to cooperate with it, too-willing's uphold it to the last extremity; and that when Gen. Butler said two thousand men followed him to the levee with blessings, promises of support, and commendations for his official course, he by no means a aggregated the facts of the case. Well, if we have begun to plant dissent from the slaveholding aristocracy in the third capital of the Empire, there is good reset to hope. But we are not to relax our individual testimony. We are to remember, that as men we are of no account whatever-dust in the balance-ground be <illigeble> the upper and nether millstones of party into fine dust, but as righteous, honest, constant, unceasing representatives of that moral sense of the North which created the Republican party, and can alone save, it from ruin, every Abolitionist, with a twenty years' reputation behind him, is twice as good as a Brigadier, (applause,) and that's a modest estimate. The parties are fairly marshaled. A Sauternes dares to boast in Washington to-day-a Southerners who still holds his position under Government dares to boast, in the very chambers of the Capitol to-day,-"There will be a reaction within nine months; and the first man we will hang in this very duty shall be the newly elected Senator of <illigeble>." Yes, the very office-holders of the Government make that boast to-day; and that he shall not hang along; and that in every Northern State, also, unless there confederates fail them, there will be a reaction that <illegible> make the free spirit quail before the indignation on country which it has made childless and poor. They do not reckon wholly without their host. Earnest men, old men, quiet citizens, of long experience and very moderate views, would have told you, in the city of New York, last week-"Outside of the State, you don't know how near we stand, this day, to the brink of civil war, in these very streets. You don't know unless the fears of its own leaders defeat it, and unless the undeviating firmness of the Government supports us, how near we are to an exhibition of strife that would almost shipwreck the North." We tided over that danger, because the masses are not willing to fellow their leaders; and there is one ground of my hope, even if the President delay, even if the hundred thousand men do not spring into arms at the bidding of the Government. I look upon Fremont and Butler as available for one reason, no matter whether they are good generals or not. They are men who, in the course of a month, can raise more black men than any other names. That is the reason they are useful. But suppose they fail. Not impossible. Two million is a large mass. Ignorant, half-starved,-if the master starves, how much food has the slave?- if the master goes barefoot, how much clothing has the slave!-divided, disorganized, unarmed, disheartened by this waiting for two years, it .may take some months to move that inert mass. I don't know that it can be fully done for twelve months. Great masses more slowly. If it were not that the first heralding of the danger will make the knees of the slaveholder knock. I should have less hope. But to-day, there is one way by which Hooker might insure himself victory. Send Sigel down on his left flank and some other General on his right, and tell them to put a musket and a luckier match in every negro's right hand, and Lee would find himself without any base of operations. (Applause.) But the Government is not ready to have such a plan tried in Virginia. It may hesitate elsewhere. There is one hope yet. Possibly the Democratic mass will not follow its leader. There is more honesty in the people than the leaders reckon on. They start <illigeble> from the gulf to which their old leaders invite them. They see some honored and trusted names that invite them on the other side. The thing that produced Democratic successes was no the craft of its leaders, nor the disposition of its rank and die. It was because the President gave his own party no food to live on. They had neither a fact nor a principle; they had neither successes nor ideas; they had neither a past nor a future, and the party starved. Here and there, the proclamation of September and saved it. In some instances, the Republicans were defeated, because it came too Light to penetrate the mind One Ohio member told me that was his case; and another Western member assured me that it was the criss-cross, equivocal talk of the President with the ministers of Chicago, that defeated him. It got scattered over his district before the Proclamation came, and convinced the farmers that that expressed the real wish of the President; and when the Proclamation came, they thought it a mere imposture, or something forced upon him by the Abolitionists. We too may be defeated in our anticipated successes. But there as
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
another reason for hope; and that is, perhaps the maiden, however passionately wooed, will not say Yes. Possibly Jefferson Davis will not come to the banquet. He means to be independent. He really, honestly means to have the Confederacy all to himself. He knows, that no matter what the Democracy behind him promise- they may gag three hundred thousand pulpits, and a whole Capitol full of Congressmen, but there is one lip they cannot gag, (pointing to Mr. Garrison, when the audience applauded enthusiastically,) and as long as that is a fact, he knows he is not safe. He don't want to have that man for his neighbor. There is only one possible confederacy into which he will come, and that is when thoroughly humbled-not only whipped-that is one thing,-but convinced he is whipped, and that is a very different thing, he may consent to terms. As my friend the President (Edmund Quincy, Esq.,) used to say, in former years, "The Whig party of this Commonwealth must not only be killed, but killed and buried three times over before they will have the remotest idea that they are dead." And so the South must be not only beaten, but must be convinced that she is beaten, before she will accept any terms. There is no great probability of that coming within a year, and if it does not, we have another chance for safety, and that is gaining time,-which is every thing. Abraham Lincoln cannot resist the national impulse. Events, stronger than he is, are hurrying you and me, and him, also, along with the current, and, whether we wish it or not, before 1865, every slave in the Union will have received the promise of the Government of his liberty, as I believe. Already, Maryland stretches out her hands to the North, and says to the National Government, "Only let Congress, promise that, every man in the State shall have money for his slave, without inquiring what he has done in the past, if he will only promise to be a good boy in the future, and we can carry your emancipation policy throughout the State in twelve months." Maryland and Kentucky could be brought into line-nobody would dream of asking where Delaware was-and of what great importance are Tennessee and Kentucky when once the line begins to break? The only thing we have to do is to prevent the Republican leaders from falling asleep, and be careful not to trust them when they are awake. (Laughter and applause.) Remember what digged them out of the pit! The moral success of a party never silent, and claiming, in the name of a God of Justice, the freedom of the slave. Lower no demand! Spare no criticism! Spare no public officer! Demand of the President of the United States that he shall keep his ear open to the complaints of the people, and then the time will soon come, even within our day, when new commonwealths will start up on the other side of Mason and Dixon's line, whether black or white, no man caves. Sooner than you imagine. In Kansas, the miniature of this struggle, the Southern blusterer, demanding everything at twelve o'clock to-day, was on his knees at the feet of the Free State people the next day at twelve o'clock. Gas in the balloon! All out in twelve hours! It is not at all impossible that the same thing may take place in the greater camp of the Southern Confederacy. I believe
that God never lifted the nation to the sublime height of that Proclamation only to dash it down again to pieces! (Applause.)
Three years ago, you and I sat in this hall, remembering, with sad hearts, 
the fate of John Brown and his associates. We had just come home from laying his body aiming the rocks he loved. A private merchant of Philadelphia, who went to claim his body of Governor Wise, walked through insults and threats to Harper's Ferry, and stayed there, holding his life in his hand, for two days, amid the anger of the populace of that little town. To-day a Brigadier General of the United States, that man holds, and has held for many a month, the control of that district; and with infinite joy he found devolved upon him, by the necessity of the hour and the orders of his superiors, the duty of burning that part of the town, and that right hand which lifted the coffin of John Brown to its place at the station, by the orders of his Government, put the first torch to the hotel in which he was insulted! (Applause.) And the conflagration was not stopped until, with poetic justice, he commanded his brigade to spare the engine-house, the Gibraltar from which the brave old man fired his first gun at Virginia slavery. (Renewed applause.) That place stands to-day under the military orders of the friend of John Brown; and every roof that he looked upon with disgust when he went there to claim the old man's dust has vanished, except the one which Brown himself made historical and immortal-the engine house which he defended for twenty-four hours. (Voices-"Tell us his name.") HECTOR TYNDALE:-first a Colonel, now a Brigadier in the volunteer army; the man who went with JAMES McKIM to claim the body of Brown, and brought it to Philadelphia, guarding it against the mob, and giving it in peace into the hands of other friends. I think when Providence gives us, in three short years, so poetic a retribution, we may hope that the ideas the martyr loved will one day put the torch to everything in the Confederate States which he hated, and save only that which he loved. (Loud applause.)

THE BOSTON JOURNAL.
The Journal makes a characteristic fling at a petition recently presented to the Legislature, asking for the appointment of a Metropolitan Police by that body, because among fifty-six "legal voters," twenty-two were females-a mere inadvertence, unquestionably, unless the statement of the Journal is untrue.
Let a newspaper which might aptly be styled the Blondin of the press, for its dexterous balancing between affirmation and negation; which scarce ever assumed a position that it did not afterward contradict; and which never spoke a generous word for a good cause is its travail, nor hailed its triumph with rejoicing:-let such a print scout the presence of woman's name in a Petition which concerns her too nearly. Forgotten by this guardian of the public intelligence, be the ghosts of those country girls-the yearly holocaust to the passions of the city-who haunt by day as by night our crowded thoroughfares; forgotten be the exclusion of woman from useful employment; forgotten, her hard lot under the law, her removal from the ballot-box, her absence from the jury-box and the legislature halls.But you, law-makers, to whom the order and morals of the Commonwealth are entrusted. and should be dear, watching how vice trembles at the name of woman as a power in politics, and answering the wails of the brothel and the sighs from blighted homes and broken hearts, seize as by inspiration the occasion, and "extend the law of suffrage," till Massachusetts, at least, humanity shall know no sex, and the Declaration of Independence, for the first time in history, find its proper and only interpretation. - W. P. G.
The select aristocracy of Boston welcome and flatter Gen. McClellan. The same class bestowed all manner of attentions on Mason, Slidell and- Buckner when confined in Fort Warren. The same class gave Fremont the cold shoulder when he visited Boston. But the people felt differently, and went by thousands to hear him whom the aristocracy hated. Fremont and McClellan are at antipodes to one another. The former represents the popular and growing sentiment: the latter the aristocratic and declining one. 
DEATH OF NATHAN HALE. Nathan Hale, the senior editor of The Boston Daily Advertiser, died in this city on Sunday evening, Feb. 8, at the age of 78. Mr. Hale was one of the oldest journalists in the United States, and had long maintained a high reputation for knowledge, for the cautiousness and sobriety of this judgments, for his enlightened and active interest in the cause, of domestic industry and internal improvements, and for the unquestioned integrity and purity of his personal character.
Our honored friend, GERRIT SMITH, is spending a few days in Boston, in fine health and spirits. May his valuable life be greatly prolonged!
<c02>
THE MEANING OF THE MASQUERADE,
The ostentatious ovations extended to Genera! McClellan, last week, will confer no enviable reputation upon Boston. The princely hospitality of the city was never more lavishly expended. Merchants closed their stores to honor him, and scholars sought his company with fulsome compliment.
In truth, it was a sight "to make the judicious grieve." It was not less sad because many well-meaning persons lent the influence of their names and presence to swell the humiliating spectacle. Blinded by the brilliancy of the scenes, they did not discern the treasonable hands that moved them. We apprehend that a year hence, when the factious purpose which this demonstration was originated solely to further becomes developed, there will be much for these gentlemen to regret. But let us be thankful, that when sycophantic wealth and heartless scholarship united to illustrate that " complimentary flunkeyism " which has justly earned for the Yankee the hearty contempt of the South, the men high in official and judicial stations, whom Massachusetts delights most to honor, had self-respect enough to refuse the inviting bait. They saw the sharp hook protruding. They spied "the peard under the muffler."
The representatives of the moral sentiment and unquestioned loyalty of the community were not seen at the General's receptions. They neither mixed with the nibble that besieged the Tremont House, nor mingled in the gay assemblies of Beacon Street-the right and left wings of the party which welcomes McClellan as its representative man. With a silent protest of sorrow, they stood aloof, while the latent servility to slavery, which two years of the bloodiest scourging on record has not been able to eradicate, rejoiced in its own shamelessness.
We question neither the right nor the propriety of General McClellan visiting his Boston friends, nor of their receiving him most cordially. But we protest that the city government, in proffering him an official reception and municipal courtesies, committed an inappropriate and questionable act.
We can conceive a praise worthy desire to honor an officer whose fidelity and success have merited the thanks of his countrymen. But to strew laurels in the pathway of a man whose loyalty is not above suspicion, and whose career has been one of unbroken failure, is certainly unprecedented. It would be in ill-taste to compliment a man on his defeats. They had no victories to praise him for. They could nut applaud that humane caution by which a commander, though unsuccessful, saves his soldiers' lives. This man buried an army in the swamps of the Chickahominy, and accomplished nothing. There could be no genuine sympathy extended to him because of the injustice and impatience of his superiors. McClellan, for a whole year, was virtually the autocrat of the republic. He held the President and cabinet in abeyance. Only when the long-suffering patience of a deceived people grew weary, and they saw the man to whom the fate of the republic was entrusted too feeble or too indisposed to use his power against its enemies, did they clamor for his removal. To hope salvation from McClellan, after Manassas, and Yorktown, and Antietam, was infatuation. No blame, then, to his superiors. Ho let the shaggy forehead of Opportunity pass by, without an effort to grasp it, and its bald back mocked all his feeble endeavors. It cannot be said that lime was not given him to execute his plans. This General required not time, but eternity, in which to manocurve.
There is, then, hut one way to explain this factitious popularity of McClellan - his pro slavery; his well-known sympathy with the cause of the rebellion; and his known hatred of the earnest men who seek his overthrow.
Had he been an anti-slavery General, fresh from undisputed victories, who believes he would have received honors from his present managers? Nothing can he more manifest than the fact, that their enthusiasm for any General increases in inverse proportion to his success in crushing the rebellion. Butler, with the substantial and deserved laurels of New Orleans upon his brow, gets only curses and cold shoulders in Boston from these men. The Post lavishes abuse instead of eulogy upon him, and George Lunt omits to present! him with a costly sword.
It requires but little knowledge of the originators of the late display to see that the intention was to rebuke the government. They expressed hostility as plainly as they dared. By and by, as party lines among us become sharper and more defined, we shall have bolder manifestations of treason. Then it will dare to throw away the cloak of loyalty, and stand revealed in its true character. Even now, a well-known McClellan partisan avows-"I feel that every honor we extend to the General is a stab to the Government." We predict that, at no distant day, the Republicans who allowed themselves to be used by a party seeking to compass their defeat, will recur with any but pleasurable feelings to the company they kept, and the plot they helped to nurse.
For McClellan himself, we care to say little. He is only a victim. Not for his intrinsic merit, but as the representative of a bad cause, does he receive this homage. When he can no longer serve the purpose of faction, he will be quietly dropped. Commiseration for his weakness will then soften the indignation that loyal men now feel at his conduct, and, as life closes, the pregnant question of Carlyle will challenge him:-"Brief brawling Day, with its noisy phantoms, its poor paper, crowns tinsel-gilt, is gone; and everlasting Night, with her star-diadems, with her silences and her veracities, is come! What hast thou done, and how? "-W. L. G., JR.
A PETITION FOR GENERAL CIRCULATION. 
The following Petition has been prepared for general circulation in the Empire State:-
To the Honorable the Semite and Assembly of the State of 
New York:
The undersigned, citizens of State of 
New York, believing with President Lincoln (see his late message to Congress) that, " without slavery, rebellion could never have existed." and that, " without slavery, it could not continue "; that, to " save our country," we " must disenthrall ourselves "; that "the dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present "; that " the occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we must rise with the occasion; " that " as our case is new go we must think anew and act anew;" that " we (President and Congress) hold the power and bear the responsibility;" that "IN GIVING FREEDOM TO THE SLAVE, WE ASSURE FREEDOM TO THE FREE, honorable alike in what we give and what we preserve;" that while "other menus may succeed, THIS CANNOT FAIL; " that " the way is plain, peaceful, generous, just-a way which, if followed, the world will forever applaud, and God must forever bless; "-therefore, to the end that justice may be done - that our country, now greatly imperiled, may be saved-and our future be secured from unholy, murderous rebellion, we earnestly pray you to instruct the Senators and request the Representatives in Congress, from this State, (Congress "Having the power to "provide for the common defence and general welfare of the United States,") to secure, as "an act of justice, warranted by the Constitution upon military necessity," the early passage of a GENERAL EMANCIPATION ACT, forever abolishing slavery throughout the dominions of the United States.
"WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ. The greatest audience which has been gathered in Brooklyn at a lecture this winter assembled in Plymouth church, on Tuesday evening, to hear Wendell Phillips on " Our Country's Future." Not only was the house full to overflowing, but about five hundred persons turned away unable to enter. We have no room to speak of this noble speech except to say that in sentiment it was full of patriotic fervor, devotion to liberty, and more trust in Providence than in the Administration, while in style it was marked by the pleasing variety of fair argument, illustration, wit, and pathos, by which the skillful orator knows how to charm away an hour and a half, and to make everybody regret when he stops.-N. Y. Independent.
The eloquent speech of Mr. Phillips, here referred to, appeared in the New York Tribune the next morning, reported in full! In this number of the Liberator, we give his masterly speech delivered in Music Hall at the recent anniversary of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society.
<c03>
LETTER FROM MR. PILLSBURY.
WOONSOCKET, (R. I.) Feb. 9,. 1863.
DEAR FRIEND GAREISON,-The enclosed resolutions were passed most enthusiastically, last evening, in a crowded gathering of the best people of this town.
I have presented the subjects to which they relate in several large meetings here in the valley of the Blackstone, and in every case the vote en them has been roost enthusiastic, if not entirely unanimous. And so eager are the people to listen, and to act, too, as they have opportunity, that I am almost regretting my engagements made fur New York during the remainder of this month. Every corner of the field is important. Multitudes of men are powerfully impressed that the time is short. Indeed, I see among the best informed Republicans many who are preparing for the very worst, and who have no hope for the national salvation beyond the fourth of March; and so near is that, and so little done or doing by men who should be shaking the very earth with their movements against the machinations of traitors and tyrants South and North, that it is not too much to say, that many are settling down into deep despair; and you and I have yet, probably, to be among the loudest whose voices are still for war, even though McClellan lend our hosts, for a peace is fast preparing for us more dreadful than war.
If you think the Resolutions, or any part of this hasty note worth printing, please insert them.
Resolved, That while rejoicing in the President's Proclamation of the First of January, we would still earnestly hope and entreat that the good work of Emancipation may go swiftly on, until the last vestige of the slave system is swept from the American soil.
Resolved, That we hear with profound satisfaction that "on African Bureau will probably be added to the Department of the Interior," through which we trust the rights and interests of the liberated bondmen will be generously consulted and most vigilantly guarded, as some small return for the fearful outrages and cruelties under which they have so long suffered.
How are the President and the Government to know the real feelings of the people of the North? The loudest voices are all from the other side. Not only at the polls, and in the several State Legislatures, but everywhere in railroad cars, in hotels, on'Change, and wherever or whenever I meet people in numbers, it is ever the same. The Slave Power is always sure to make itself both heard and felt. And sometimes I am almost driven to doubt whether, after all, we are not mistaken, and that the majority are greatly in favor of the South and of slavery. Last night, I heard a young shoulder-strapped upstart damning the niggers right lustily, and declaring that, if the Government went to bringing them into the field, more than two hundred thousand men would lay down their arms, and come home. For himself, he declared that he would rather have his body "cut in two by a cannon ball, than see a nigger fighting for this country"!
What is the President to do? "What can he do? Congress, hitherto, has done nothing to strengthen or even to encourage him; and if the people do nothing, or so much worse than nothing, what is to become of him? of the government? of the nation? of any of us? Are we not self doomed to destruction?
PARKER PILLSBURY.

LECTURES BY HENRY C. WRIGHT.
HYANNIS, Feb. 9,1863.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-It seems desirable to say a few words, through the Liberator, of the recent brief visit of our long-time friend. Henry C. Wright, to Hyannis, and the somewhat changed aspect of the great! cause of Freedom among us, as everywhere in the land.
Mr. Wright had engaged to be here on Sunday, Feb. 8th, and I called on the Rev. Charles Morgridge, of the Orthodox church, to notify him of the fact, and ascertain if he would like to have Mr. Wright speak in his pulpit a part of the day. With the utmost promptness he replied that he would be very glad to have Mr. Wright occupy his pulpit, both forenoon and afternoon. This response, so different from the clerical answers which I have been in the habit of hearing, was of course very gratifying.
Mr. Wright did occupy his pulpit all day, and the Reverend gentleman was present, and attended to his usual devotional services.
In the forenoon, Mr. Wright gave us a discourse upon "Fidelity to our Convictions of Duty," basing his remarks upon the latter portion of the 25th chapter of Matthew. The hearers were very attentive, and evidently deeply impressed. The audience was not large, as Mr. Wright had only been advertised to
speak in the afternoon at the church.
When we came together for the afternoon meeting, we found the house packed to its utmost capacity-and all seemed to listen with breathless interest to the
forcible and impressive lecture which Mr. Wright gave us upon the subject of " Compromise." Text: "What God has put asunder, let not man put together." Mr. Wright gave us his most radical and thorough views upon this subject, and there seemed to be a feeling of assent to them all by the large and deeply interested assembly.
The clergyman said he could assent to every word of it; and at the close of the meeting gave notice that he would defer his usual Sunday evening services, so that all could attend Mr. Wright's meeting at Masonic Hall.
When we arrived at the hall in the evening, we were surprised to find it packed so closely that it was with difficulty we could get in. The subject for the evening's lecture was, "The Mission and Destiny of the American Republic"-the bearings of the Proclamation upon it, &c. Although many in the hall were obliged to stand, and all were crowded, they; heard the long lecture patiently, attentively and gladly to the end. Mr. Wright closed by singing the John Brown song-the audience joining in the Hallelujah chorus.
We then separated, and all seemed cheered with the hope of preserving our free institutions by casting out the demon of Slavery, their only enemy.
We feel especially pleased with the course taken by the Rev. Mr. Morgridge-not because he exceeded the demands of justice, but because his course and position were so high above those which are frequently followed; and which we trust is an indication of a cordial fellowship for the Abolitionists from those who profess to be the followers of Him who came to break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free.
Yours, for freedom, F. HINCKLY.

MR. FOSS IN MAINE.
To THE EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:
Thinking that you and the friends of freedom generally will be glad to learn of the success of the Agents of the Anti-Slavery- Society, I send you a hasty sketch of the efforts of Mr. Foss in this section of our State.
From the Eastern papers, I learn that he has spoken to good audiences in Bangor, Ellsworth, &c., and that his lectures were very well received.
The Hall of the House of Representatives was granted Mr. Foss for a lecture in this city on Thursday evening, January 15th. Though the weather and traveling were exceedingly unfavorable, he spoke to a very good audience. As he happily remarked in commencing,-though the physical elements were adverse, yet the moral elements were in his favor. A large portion of the Republican Representatives were present. He delivered a most able and eloquent discourse; for nearly two hours, the audience! listened closely and attentively to his noble utterances, and, frequently, the unanswerable argument, the clenching logic and eloquent appeals of the speaker, were met with spontaneous outbursts of genuine and heartfelt applause.
<c04>
At the close of the lecture, Mr. Kingsbury, of Portland, in some appropriate remarks, moved a vote of thanks to Mr. Foss for his very able, interesting and eloquent lecture, and requesting him to speak again on the following evening in the Representatives' Hall. The motion was carried unanimously, and a liberal contribution was taken up. The next day, the use of the Hall was granted him for another lecture. The evening was one of the most unfavorable of the winter, yet a medium audience assembled, and were rewarded with a very excellent lecture. It was the expression of every one, that if the traveling had been decently passable, the Hall would have been filled to overflowing. We trust that the good seed thus sown by Mr. Foss, in Maine, will in due time bear fruit alter its own kind. S.
Augusta, Me., Jan. 23,1863.

THE ANNUAL MEETING.
DEAR GARRISON-Allow me just room enough to express my satisfaction in the proceedings of our late Annual Meeting, held at Music Hall, the fulcrum of truth, that many call heresy. Think me not invidious when I say, that no speech made on that occasion revealed a clearer vision, or truer philosophy of the cause as it now stands, than that of our friend Stephen Foster. Indeed, I think it one of his best efforts. It was hopeful, yet searching and caustic.
Especially did he express a most valuable thought in reference to our loss of well-meant labor, for the want of individual application. We lose immensely by not reaching, as we can, the individual heart. The agent conies, lectures, all are pleased, but the seed is scattered like "east wind upon the rock," for the simple reason that the mass have been edified, and individuals, whose cooperation we most need, are left with nothing to do. Yes, nothing to do, and " that's what the matter is." I know of anti-slavery men and women, who will work when they are directed in reference to what is to be done.
Witness the mighty power exerted by very humble persons, through the influence of those who lay out individual labor to promote the interest of a sect or party! Here is the power-this is the place to apply the lever which will move the world in the cause of Freedom. A good speech is ever acceptable, and eloquent pleading is an ally not to be neglected, but we must have home work. We want men and women, ready in by-places, as well as were the multitude congregate, to lay upon the humblest altar the gift of the heart. Many a little gathering in the school district, with but a baker's dozen, has put the ball in motion, and kindled a fire which has been felt as a power "behind the throne greater than the throne itself."
And now, more than ever, is the time to work in every corner of our land. The ear is open, the heart is palpitating, and the soul is yearning to level to the dust the monster oppression. Let us improve the precious opportunity, and leave our children the glorious heritage of a freedom universal. We must not pass on to a higher life till the last slave is redeemed, and chains, whips and scourges cast into the bottomless sea G. W. S.

A POLTROON AND A HERO.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
The following paragraphs deserve to be placed in juxtaposition. The individuals mentioned illustrate a principle-the one of Slavery, the other of Freedom. Both are known in Boston. Jonas H. French was one of the ringleaders of the mob that broke up the John Brown meeting in December, 1860, and the Anti-Slavery meeting in January, 1861, while George W. Smalley was one of the defenders of both by word and act. Jonas H. French loitered in the corridors of the Music Hall to insult and mob Wendell Phillips when addressing the Twenty-eighth Congregational Society; George W. Smalley volunteered to become one of Mr. Phillips's defenders, at the hall, in the street, at his house. Jonas H. French was the most insolent and contumacious of the witnesses called before the Legislative Committee of 1861 upon the Metropolitan police-bill; George W. Smalley was the disinterested and unpaid counsel of the petitioners, and submitted quietly to the bravado of his opponent. French and his friends besieged Gov. Andrew to commission him as the Colonel of a Massachusetts regiment destined for New Orleans, but in vain; Smalley offered his services for any trust on the bloody field of Antietam to Gen. Hooker, and was accepted. Now, mark what difference in the conduct of these two men, representing different ideas, when clad in the panoply of war!
AN UNCONSCIOUS HERO. The notice, by the dailies, that Gen. Hooker desired to appoint George W. Smalley of the Tribune, on his staff, as an acknowledgment of the great merit of his report of the battle of Antietam, reminds us of a personal interview we had with Gen. Hooker, which, injustice to Hooker and to Mr. Smalley, we feel it to be our duty to recite. The General was laid up with his wound, but on the occasion referred to, he was well enough to he bolstered! in a chair, and was engaged in writing a letter. Our conversation soon turned to the battle of Antietam, when he referred with considerable enthusiasm to what he characterized as the wonderful account of the battle given by the reporter for the Tribune. " It was," said he, " a perfect reproduction of the scene and all its incidents; and it is a marvel to me how you writers can perform such tasks." I asked the General if he knew who the reporter of the Tribune was. "I saw him first upon the battle-field," was his reply. "I first noticed him when we were in the hottest portion of the fight, early in the morning. My attention was then attracted to a civilian, who sat upon his horse, in advance of my whole stiff; and though he! was in the hottest of the fire, and the shot and shell were striking and sputtering around us like so much hail, he sat gazing on the strife as steady and as undisturbed as if he were in a quiet theatre, looking at a scene upon the stage.
In all the experience which I have had of war, I never saw the most experienced and veteran soldier exhibit more tranquil fortitude and unshaken valor than was exhibited by that young man. I was concerned at the needless risk which he invited, and told one of my aids to order him to the rear. Presently, all my aids had left me, on one service and another; whereupon, turning to give an order, I found no one but this young stranger at my side. I then asked him if he would oblige me by bearing a despatch to Gen. McClellan, and by acting as my aid until some one of my staff should come up. He rode off with alacrity through a most exposed position, returned with the answer, and served me as an aid through the remainder of the fight. "And his name, General?" "He was a young man, recently from college, named George W. Smalley, and I am writing to him now!" Those who know the noble nature of Gen. Hooker will therefore wonder but little that one of his first acts, when placed in chief command of the Army of the Potomac, was to ask to have George W. Smalley placed upon his staff.- Wilkes's Spirit of the Times.
*One of the two paragraphs here referred to by our correspondent ii a brief but touching letter from a colored man in New Orleans, canceling an order for a Banner, in consequence of the villainously oppressive conduct of Jonas H. French toward the colored population of that city. It may be found on our first page.- (Ed. Lib.
LECTURE ON THE REBELLION, Mr. L. JUDD PARDEE, a popular reformatory speaker, announces a lecture on "The American Rebellion-its significance, and what may be expected of it as a Divine Consequence," to be given on Sunday morning next, at 10(half) o'clock, in Lyceum Hall, opposite head of School street. Those who have heard Mr. P. on this topic affirm that he treats it with great thoroughness, originality, and with a prophetic insight well worthy of the attention of thinkers and philanthropists. The lecture is free.
NEW MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington street, Boston, have just issued the following song books:-
The Golden Wreath: A choice collection of favorite melodies, for the use of schools, seminaries, select classes, &c., with a complete course of elementary instructions, upon the Pestalozzian system, &c. &c. By L. O. Emerson. 250th Edition, revised and enlarged.
Camp Songs: A collection of national, patriotic and social song's, for the Volunteers.
The Shilling Sony-Book, No. 2: A collection of the most favorite national, patriotic, sentimental and comic ballads of the day.
<c05>
GEN. BANKS AND THE PROCLAMATION.
The following is Gen. Banks's order promulgating the President's Emancipation Proclamation:-
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE GULF, NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 29,1863.
GENERAL, ORDERS, No. 12.-The Proclamation of the President of the United States, dated January 1, 1863, is published in general orders for the information and government of life officers and soldiers of this command, and all persons acting under their authority. It designates portions of the Slate of Louisiana which are not to be affected by its provisions. The laws of the United States, however, forbid officers of the army and navy to return slaves to their owners, or to decide upon the claim of any person to the service or labor of another; and the inevitable conditions of a state of war unavoidably deprive all classes of citizens of much of that absolute freedom of action and control of property which local law and the continued peace of the country guaranteed and secured to them. The forcible seizure of fugitives from service or labor by their owners is inconsistent with these laws and conditions, inasmuch as it leads to personal violence and the disturbance of the public peace, and it cannot be permitted. Officers and soldiers will not encourage or assist slaves to leave their employers, but they cannot compel or authorize their return by force.
The public interest peremptorily demands that all persons, without other means of support, be required to maintain themselves by labor. Negroes are not exempt from this law. Those who leave their employers will be compelled to support themselves and families by labor upon the public works. Under no circumstances whatever can they be maintained in idleness, or allowed to wander through the parishes and cities of the State without employment. Vagrancy and crime will be suppressed by an enforced and constant occupation and employment.
Upon every consideration, labor is entitled to some equitable proportion of the crops it produces. To secure the objects both of capital and labor, the Sequestration Commission is hereby authorized and directed, upon conference with planters and other parties, to propose and establish a yearly system of negro labor, which shall provide for the food, clothing, proper' treatment and just compensation for the negroes, at fixed rates, or an equitable proportion of the yearly crop, as may be deemed advisable. It should be just, but not exorbitant or onerous. When accepted by the planter or other parties, all the conditions of continuous and faithful service, respectful deportment, correct discipline and perfect subordination, shall be enforced on the part of the negroes by the officers of the Government. To secure their payment, the wages of labor will constitute a lien upon its products.
This may not be the best, but it is now the only practicable system. Wise men will do what they can, when they cannot do what they would. It is the law of success! In three years from the restoration of peace under this voluntary system of labor, the State of Louisiana will produce threefold the product of its most prosperous year in the past.
The Quartermaster's Department is charged with the duty of harvesting corn on deserted fields, and cultivating abandoned estates. Unemployed negroes will be engaged in this service under the control of suitable agents, or planters, with a just compensation in food, clothing, and money, consistent with the terms agreed upon by the Commission, and under such regulations as will tend to keep families together, to impart self-supporting habits to the negroes, and protect the best interests of the people and the Government.
By command of Major-Gen. Banks.
RICHARD B. IRWIN, Lieut. Col. A. A. G.

ENROLLMENT OF FREE MEN OF COLOR.
Senator Sumner has introduced an important bill for the enrollment of the freed and free men of color:-
Sec. 1 provides that every able-bodied person, between 18 and 45 years of age, made free by act of Congress, or Proclamation of the President, or by any other legal or competent authority exercised in suppressing the Rebellion, shall be forthwith enrolled as a military force of the United States, by the commanding officer within whose Department they shall be found, and shall be organized, armed, equipped and mustered into service, to serve during the present war, to a number not exceeding 300,000 men.
Sec. 2 provides that such military force be organized according to the regulations of the branch of service in which they may be designated to serve, and receive the same rations and equipments as volunteers, and a monthly pay of seven dollars, half at the end of each month, and half at the end of service; be officered by persons commissioned by the President, and governed by the rules and articles of war, and such other regulations as may be prescribed, by law; each private to be entitled, upon his discharge, to ten acres of land, and each commissioned officer to twenty-five acres of confiscated land, to be occupied as a homestead by the person entitled to receive the same, and his family.
Sec. 3 authorizes the President to order the voluntary enlistment or enrollment of every able-bodied free male person of African descent between 18 and 45, for military service, to be paid like white volunteers, the whole number enrolled under the act not to be more than 300,000 men.
It is believed that the provisions of this bill are more acceptable to the Military Committee of the Senate than are these of the House bill. This latter, in the  opinion of prominent Senators, confers less authority than existing laws.
A FEDERAL STEAMER SAVED FROM CAPTURE BY COLORED UNION SOLDIERS. A Fort Clinch, Florida letter of the 31st ult., states that a tight took place on the St. Mary's river at Scrubby Bluff, between rebel cavalry and three companies of colored South Carolina volunteers. The rebels attempted to take the steamer John Adams by boarding, but the negro soldiers beat them off bravely. The captain of the John Adams was shot, his murderer being shot immediately by a negro sergeant. Our loss was two men. We took seven prisoners. The steamer was not injured. 
PORT ROYAL, S. C., Feb. 3d. The 1st South Carolina negro regiment arrived here yesterday from an expedition sixty miles up the St. Mary's River, Ga., to the town of Woodstock, which they burnt, after having repulsed the enemy in a severe engagement. They also destroyed some extensive salt works. The regiment fought like veterans, and repulsed superior numbers.
NEW YORK, Feb. 11th. It is understood that yesterday the President nominated Brig. Gen. Phelps to be a Major General, vice Ex-Governor Morgan, of Now York, resigned, and dating his commission so that he will rank all the Volunteer Major Generals in the service, except Generals Dix, Butler and Banks.
The name of Wm. Claflin &, Co., in the list of signers to the McClellan reception, is erased by request left at the counting room of the Courier. We are a little surprised at this, because we observe the name of Mr. Claflin, who is the Chairman of the " Republican State Central Committee," mentioned in the papers among these of distinguished guests at an entertainment in honor of McClellan, at the residence of one of our citizens.-Boston Courier.

NEW YORK STATE ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION. The Seventh Annual Anti-Slavery Convention for the State of New York will be held at ALBANY, in ASSOCIATION HALL, on THURSDAY, Feb. 26th, commencing at half past 10 o'clock, A. M.
Slavery still continues in several States, and parts of States, by the license of the Federal Government. In fact, if not in law, it remains in existence mainly as hitherto in all the rebellious slave States: therefore is there need of continued, earnest, conscientious anti-slavery effort.
We rejoice in the overthrow of slavery in the District of Columbia, in the official proclamation of freedom to the three million of the enslaved, in the elevation of hitherto chattels to the position of soldiers, as in South Carolina, and elsewhere, and in such evidences as exist of an increased anti-slavery sentiment and purpose among the people. But the counsels of "conservatism" against liberty are still triumphantly prevalent. The champions of this pro-slavery "conservatism," in this State, were never more active, bitter and unscrupulous than now in their exertions to fortify and strengthen slavery and rebellion. The masses need still to be admonished that only the right is expedient, that in liberty alone is there safety and prosperity for the nation.
Let there be a large attendance of the friends of freedom from all parts of the State at this Annual Meeting. We need a public opinion which shall reach the President and his subordinates, and secure the triumph of immediate, universal emancipation, as a beneficent, life-saving, life-giving measure.
Several distinguished and eloquent speakers, whose names will be announced next week, will be present.
In behalf of the Committee of Arrangements,
A. M. POWELL.
CONVERSATIONS ON MEN AND THE TIMES. -Mr. A. BRONSON ALCOTT will give his next Conversation at the TEMPERANCE HALL in Bromfield street, on Monday evening, Feb. 16th, at half past 7 o'clock.
NOTICE.-HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture Sunday evening, Feb. 15th, in Union Hall, FELTONVILLE, at half past 6 o'clock. SUBJECT-The Proclamation- its bearing on the Mission and Destiny of the American Republic.
<c06>
OBITUARY.
DIED-In East Walpole, (Mass.,) on the 22d ult., after many weeks' suffering, CYNTHIA JOSEPHINE MORSE, stepdaughter of Rev. Edwin Thompson, aged 24 years, and 8 months.
Thus has passed early away from earth, one whose life gave promise of a noble womanhood. Gentle and loving in her nature, she was exceedingly precious to all who belt knew her. As a daughter, sister and friend, the was remarkably respectful, tender and affectionate. It may be truly raid, we have no unpleasant recollections of her. "She never gave us grief until the died." Modest and retiring in her deportment, her virtues were moat fully appreciated in the more quiet relations of life, among home scenes and family friends. Of a pure heart, she abhorred wickedness in every form.
"Yet, though spotless herself, she could sorrow for them Who sullied with evil the spirit's pure gem."
Her sympathies were with the noble reform movements of the day-an earnest friend of Temperance-a true and pitying friend of the slave-and, though a lover of Peace, a real friend to our brave, suffering soldiers. She enjoyed attending the anti-slavery anniversaries in Boston, and will doubtless be remembered by some who have attended these meetings in recent trying years.
But now that she has, as she desired, gone before us to that land where there is no more sickness or pain-
"There seems a shadow oil the day,
Her smiles no longer cheers;
A dimness on the stars of night,
Like eyes that look through tears.
Alone unto our Father's will
One thought hath reconciled;
That He whose love exceedeth ours,
Hath, taken home His child."
To the dear home circle, where she will be so missed, and to her many sorrowing friends, who " mourn not as these without hope," we would again apply the beautiful language of Whittier:-
"Not upon thee or thine the solemn angel
Hath evil wrought:
Her funeral anthem is a glad evangel-
The good die not!" E. H. C.
MECCA, (Ohio,) Jan. 26, 1863.
FRIEND GARRISON,-I wish to communicate through the Liberator, intelligence of the death of my beloved father, Dr. JOHN SMITH. He entered into his rest January 16th. He has been a man of strong intellect; but, for ten years past, he has been gradually failing mentally, until he had become a mere wreck. He lost his memory, so that he could not retain any thing but for a few moment? At the earliest agitation of the slavery question, he espoused the cause of the oppressed slave, and was always true to that down-trodden race, as these who knew him beat can testify; and even after he forgot almost every thing else, he did not forget that slavery existed in the nation, or that he was an Abolitionist. He had been a reader of the Liberator for many years. Though for a few years past he did not understand much that ho read, still he continued to peruse his Liberator; and when he laid it down, be inserted a pin that he might know where to commence again. He could not comprehend much in regard to this awful war, which is filling our land with mourning and we; but he has gone where all his lost faculties will be restored to him with new brightness.
N. E. C.
Dr. SMITH, in years by-gone, was an occasional contributor to the columns of the liberator, and always wrote vigorously and to the point. He had a deep religious nature, uncommon spiritual insight, and a brave investigating spirit, which led him out of the bondage of both Church and State. A good man has departed.)-Ed.
At a regular meeting of Syriac Temple, No. 21, Independent Order of Good Templars, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:-
Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with our brother and sister Templars, in the loss sustained by the death of P. G. W. C. T. HOSEA JEWELL. In his death we lose a valuable officer, one ever efficient and earnest in the cause of temperance, and an especial friend of our Order. He was ever active and generous, and his place cannot be easily filled by our worthiest.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be forwarded to the Grand Council, to Hawkins Lodge, (of which he was a member,) and to the family of our deceased brother. And, also, that we ask the indulgence of their publication in the Boston Journal, Traveler, and Liberator.
In F. H. & C., ALEXANDER MACY, W. S.,
Syriac Temple, No. 21, I O. of G. T
Milford, Mass., Feb. 7, 1863.
In Westford, Mass., Jan. 31st, URIAH RITCHIE, Jr., son of Uriah Ritchie, of Boston, aged 29 years.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed o a 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
 References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St.
October 24. 6m
WEIS & ZOEBISCH,
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer. nov7-3m
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
"WITHOUT SMUTTING."
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to care in nine eases oat of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one. else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all eases. She it not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
Feb 10
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
INVOCATION.
"Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low."-ISAIAH Xl. 3-4.
O, Ancient of Days!
Concealed thy winged seat of mercy stood,
Till prophet bards unveiled it, and a flood
Of mildest radiance met their ruptured gaze.
Instinct with truth and light,
Its living wheels await but thy behest
To bear from North to South, from East to West,
Of peace and love, the glory and the might.
O, Ancient of Days!
Until the mountain barriers of pride
Be levelled, and the stormy floods subside
Of human strife, thy chariot delays;
Until the poor forlorn,
Long ages taught to bend the supple knee,
And wear the yoke his haughty lords decree,
No longer bows beneath a master's scorn.
Ye lofty mountains, bow!
Claim kindred with the valleys at your feet!
And ye, earth's loveliest ones, arise to meet
Her proud ones, calling ye their brothers now!
O, Ancient of Days!
Behold, and bless the followers of thy Son,
Till strife shall cease, and all mankind in one
Bond of true brotherhood their Father praise!
Then will there be a way
On earth for thy great chariot of Love;
Earth, then akin to thy bright heaven above,
Basking, like it, in Love's eternal day!
Hastings, Sussex, England. JANE ASHBY.

SAMUEL D. PHILLIPS.
A silence in the church-a hush-an awe:
A coffin, lying with its weight of night
Before the pulpit: whitest of white flowers
Shed over it their resurrection light.
A shadow on all faces, white and black:
Grief in each heart amid the hundreds there:
Our voices faltering in the funeral hymn,
And breaking with the burden of our prayer.
"We miss thee, fellow-laborer in our work,
Truest and best," we said, "of all our band!"
"We miss thee, kindest friend!" the people wept,
"We miss thy guiding head, thy helping hand."
Well may we miss him! One strong heart the less
To beat for God and Justice, Truth and Right; -
Well may we miss him! there are all too few
To share this conflict, cuter on this fight.
"Can this be death? speak truth!" His lips grew white
With that last question. Oh! they answered thee
More truly than they knew-"This is not death."
Not death, but life! yea, immortality,
With all its hidden beauty, wondrous strength,
With all of heaven, all of holy love,
With all that man can wish of pure and good,
With all that angels have of joy above.
Oh, mother of the dead! our hearts are full
Of sorrow for thy sake. How wilt thou bear
To know what now we know, that all in vain
Has been a mother's love, a mother's care!
In vain? Not so! Thy son is further off
Than South from North, and yet he cannot be
Too far for mother's love, for that has power
To reach the circle of eternity!
The holy army, and the company
Of saints and martyrs, welcome in their own;
And leave it to the earth to dig the grave,
Smooth down the turf, and plant the funeral stone.
"He taught us of our happy home in heaven,
Last Sunday morn," the freedman's children said.
Write this upon the stone-he cannot need
A fitter epitaph, our noble dead!
St. Helena, S. C., December, 1862. E. M.

From the American Baptist.
THE FIRST OF JANUARY, 1863.
The dawning of the glorious First
Genies all the eastern sky;
And soon fad Afrie's sable sons
In chains shall cease to sigh.
Its beams arc darting through the gloom
Of Slavery's hideous night;
And man, the vassal, soon will stand
Triumphant in the Right.
Two hundred years of toil and pain-
Oppressed, borne down with care;
But now he'll bathe in Freedom's light,
For God has heard his prayer.
Oh! dawn of brighter, holier day,
When those beneath the rod
Can seek, in more congenial clime,
"Freedom to worship God"!
Oh! many gentle, loving hearts
Are moved to inciting tears;
For now they feel thy new-born light
Dispersing all their fears.
O God! with thankful hearts we greet
This dawn of jubilee;
It is through thy great love and power
Columbia shall be free.
JOHN WILLIS MENARD.
Washington, D. C., December, 1862

From the Christian Register.
NATIONAL UNITY.
A nobler unity than that which came
From out the conflict of our sires of old,
Which gave to us throughout the world a name,
Shall we, our trials past, at length behold;
A unity of Justice and of Power,
As theirs of freedom from a foreign foe;
Through the dark clouds, that o'er the nation lower,
We see its rising sun, its morning glow.
No more shall party spirit rule the hind,
But One Great Thought inspire each freeman's breast,
The rock on which alone our cause can stand,
The Love of Man and Justice for the oppressed.
Arise, O sun of Freedom, to restore
Their rights to all' Arise! and set no more! J. V.

From the New York Evening Post.
SONNET.
TO JOHN BRIGHT OF ENGLAND.
A nation greets thee o'er the wave, John Bright!
A nation not thine own, nor yet allied
In all things to it, but whose sense of pride
Soars, though on wounded wings, to loftiest fight.
We cry thee "Hail!"-loud shouting while we fight
For Honor's -vantage: aye, while lands deride,
And thy land loudest; for thy voice hath cried
Boldly and bravely in its honest might
For the great principle of Human Right.
For this we thank thee, that on Freedom's side
Thou direst to stand, and stem th’ accursed tide
Of high ranked selfishness, which would incite
To popular madness, and obscure the light
Of God's great justice, in eternal night! T.

ENDURANCE.
Within my breast there is no light,
But the cold light of stars;
I give the first watch of the night
To the red planet Mars.
The star of the unconquered will,
He rises in my breast,
Serene, and resolute, and still,
And calm, and self-possess’d.
And thou, too, whosoe'er then art,
That readest this brief psalm,
As one by one thy hopes depart,
Be resolute and calm,
O, fear not, in a world like this,
And thou shall know, ere long,
Know bow sublime a thing it is
To suffer, and be strong.
HENRY W. LNGFELLOW.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE CONNECTICUT AND SHENANDOAH 
A TALE OF TO-DAY.
CHAPTER I.
THE CHOIR AND THE CANDIDATE.
It was Whitsunday-that great Pentecostal Festival of Nature, in New England-when, under the plenary inspiration of the new life, everything through which the vital current cam flow bursts into an eloquence of beauty more thrilling, more amazing, than that of tongues; an eloquence all a-glow with praise of Him whose limitless love cares alike for the lowly violet by the brook-side, the rough brier clasping the rock, and the cultured apple-tree so emblematic of cultured, matronly womanhood, in its generous expansion of full-blown beauty and sweetness; encircled with the richest promises for the future; diffusing an atmosphere that delights and refreshes even the remote or heedless passer-by, and attracting to the affluent hospitalities of its immediate presence every bright ant joyous thing that has wings for flight, or feet for bounding.
O, the exceeding grace and goodness of the apple-tree! No way ward, wandering brunches, defying the storm or coquetting with every giddy breeze, but standing on the sunny slope of destiny, tranquilly self centered, harmoniously sphered; the circle limited and perfectly defined, but the influence unmeasured and immeasurable. Under its protecting shade, the tired and the contemplative love to find repose, the joyous frolic-play. From its fragrant bosom comes all the sunny day the happy hum of winged industry and skill; there gushes the earliest song of morning; there twitter, at evening, the sweet, low assiduities of mutual tenderness around the little, nestling cradles of Art and Love. O, the precious apple-tree! the pride and glory of Summer; the abundant fulfillment of Autumn; the wholesome, cheerful resource of Winter. What fitter emblem of a perfect, accomplished womanhood?
And would you have all apple-trees? O, no! For there are other positions needful to be occupied besides the sheltered, sunny slope of destiny; and each occupant has its peculiar grace and good; and each is cared for, in its place, by the same tenderly brooding Infinity that warms into blossom the lowly violet hidden in the damp grass, and the wild, rough brier whose home is on the rock. Yes, and on this day they all spake with tongues of varied flame, and breath fragrant with purity and truth, the universal language of love and praise. In the sterile clefts of the sea-girt cliffs, where the first foot-print of civilization, the tiny foot of the Puritan-pilgrim maiden found a firm hold; up the sacred heights made fertile by the rich, patriot blond of Freedom's earliest champions; along the streams, called from their murmuring memories a playful prattle to do the work of the actual as task-masters of countless spindles-tamed from their headlong, prodigal impetuosity to turn the reluctant mill-wheel or push the fretted saw; everywhere, everywhere-to the very verge of the snow-crown of the mountain, to the very fringe of the foam-girdle of the ocean. But no where was the great miracle more exquisite in detail, more rapturous in the aggregate, than along the varied and beautiful banks of the Connecticut: there, without measure, indeed, the spirit had been poured out-the spirit of beauty, beneficence, purity, peace, love, life.
It was Whitsunday. In the beautiful town where we shall pause, the busy spindles were still; the great mill-wheel moved not; the stream lay, deepened as in thought, tranquilly holding upon its bosom a photograph of the beaming June heaven. The last melodious waves from the belfries had floated away into silence on the fragrant air; the last foot-fall had ceased on the pathways and thoroughfares; the last bright, new ribbon had fluttered in at the meeting-house door; the last coy and questioning, coquettish and critical glances been exchanged in the porch; the last loiterer wandered reluctantly to his seat, wondering where was the soul's gain in exchanging the brooding presence of its nursing-mother, Nature, on such a morning, for the angular boundaries of church-walls, however consecrated, and the more rigid confines of church-pews, however sanctified by associations. But the organ rolled its sacred reveille above the variegated, many-motived assemblage, and the last loiterer settled himself cheerfully upon the comfortable cushions of the pew; for that summons reminded him he should soon hear a voice, which, while it told him he was a prisoner, a captive, made prison and captivity sweeter far than even the freedom of the glorious outer-world, which, but for this anticipated voice, would have been the temple of his hot heart's devotions to-day. Was it the voice of the young candidate before whom he would sit through an hour of intense soul life this blessed summer morning, that was more potent in anticipation than the tongues of living flame already speaking without? The dark eyes of the youth would have flashed angry tongues of flame in answer had we put the question to him then; better not hazard an answer now. He sits there in the minister's pew, conspicuously-the last male descendant of the good clergyman for whose departure his female companions still wear, amid the joyous array of universal resurrection, the somber badges of death. He sits there-you may study that handsome young face, frank by nature, reticent from habit; haughty yet tender; passionate, generous, determined in its expression; you may study that face, but not from the lips, voluntarily opened, will you find the secret of Edgar Horton.
The voluntary from the organ is followed by the voluntary from the choir. A long array of comely manliness and pretty girl-hood stands before the occupant of the pulpit, while the anthem swells and sinks, smges, subsides and surges again, with more of harmony than melody, except where one voice is heard through the fugue measures, sweet, clear, tranquilly sustained, yet plaintive, as if some bright spirit had dropped from its native hallelujah hymn with nature, into the minor key of human experience, bringing there its inspiration to sanctify and subdue. The young candidate felt the voice, and the courteous heed he had given the anthem became absorbed listening, while he glanced along the line of singers to localize the sound. There was one figure slightly taller than any other on that side, but it was half-hidden by a pillar, the face half-averted, too, as if the better to see the notes; yet there was a something in the unconscious grace of the attitude and the absorbed repose of the manner which corresponded with the voice. The anthem ended, and thy other exercises succeeded in their order.
A fine contrast was afforded by the two, as at the close of service, Edgar Horton stood before the pulpit, with radiant lace grasping the hand of the minister. That gentleman, a head taller than Edgar, with a fair, calm face, manly but not beautiful in detail, seemed to bend benignantly above the ardent youth, whose dark eyes flashed exultantly as he thanked the minister for the sermon to which he had listened, and urged him to be his guest at the close of the afternoon service. The more elaborate hospitality of dinner awaited the candidate at Deacon Smalley's, where he had his lodgings. The invitation was as cordially accepted as heartily given; and with a formal, unsympathising salutation to the deacon, who waited them on the steps, Edgar again grasped the extended hand, and the two young men separated.
A yet stronger contrast was afforded by minister and deacon, as they walked homeward through the June sunshine and blossom-showers. The lean, low figure of the latter seemed more than ever shrunken beside the noble outline of his companion; the sharp face contracted inwardly-the small, black, concentrated eyes fixed upon the ground-the whole aspect of the little man gave indications that he had closely folded himself in his sallow parchment against some dangerous outward influence.
The minister was not disturbed in his after-dinner retirement until summoned by the bells, for his host bad betaken himself, under a stress of manner, to his
<c03>
fellow-official, Deacon Sleeper; and the other members of the household understood too well the constraint of their head to risk a contrary demeanor, even if they had possessed tact and resource enough to warrant an effort of other than the material entertainment which had been set forth with ostentations abundance. Solitude, however, was a benefaction to the stranger; for a variety of undefined emotions, called up by the morning's experience, were agitating the usually calm surface of his soul, and the commonplaces of conversation with that family would have been an inexpressible thrall. He threw himself on the. inviting bed in his exquisitely neat apartment; half a blind was unfolded, and through the open window his large, dreamy eyes rested on a tall, stiff, factory-building with a kind of half-conscious interest; then wandered, without will, some distance beyond, where, half-hidden by the trees, stood a small, white cottage, seeming to shrink from the busy work-a-day publicity of that part of the own. These objects mixed themselves strangely with some impressions of the morning at church; they made him restless; he rose, closed the blind, seated himself at a table, and began carefully looking over his sermon for the afternoon.
Meantime, in the cool parlor of a large, prosperous looking house on a handsome street not far removed from that same factory-building, the two deacons were deep in a tete-a tete.
"I am sorry, really sorry-he is able and well-read -comes highly recommended-but this will never do of course. By the way, brother Smalley, is he from Cambridge or Mead ville?" The speaker was a round rosy-faced man, of medium height; evidently well-fed and well-to-do in the world; content to take things a they are with perfect good-humor, so long as Southern markets failed not to furnish the annual supply of raw material, and the demand for manufactured goods was unabated.
"I don't remember to have asked that question of the Standing Committee," replied the other, abstractedly, his concentrated eyes studying the carpet. Then rousing himself with a jerk, similar to that which completes the utility of a half open jackknife, and with a voice and manner in harmony with that movement-"From Meadville, of course. Cambridge don't turn out such hot-brained radicals. It takes Stearns, of Meadville, to get them up. But we don't want them. They may suit such fire-brands as young Horton, and help him sooner to the gallows he deserves-but they wont do for us, sir, they wont do for us. We want the Gospel, sir-not High-Church heresy nor Garrison-Abolition heresy. What have we to do with High-Church nonsense about Days? What is Whit-Sunday, as he calls it, to us, Congregationalists? And as if that blunder wasn't enough, the Day is made teach a lesson of emancipation! Able, sir, able? Why, the man is cither a lunatic or a fool." Thus spoke the outraged sensibilities of the church-official and civil magistrate, combined in that one small person, and more disordered and uncomfortable in their action, no doubt, by reason of their narrpw limits. The concentrated eyes had become mere virulent points, as he raised and darted them on his more composed companion, at the same time rising from his seat and moving nervously over the great tranquil bouquets of the carpet. "Yes, sir, we want the Gospel- we want the Bible-not the Church of England and the Liberator mixed up together-we want the whole Bible. That is authority for me, if it isn't for these mad Parkerites, who lecture on what they blasphemously call national and social sins, instead of preaching the Bible. Days! "Able'! "Well read'! Why, sir how has the fellow read his Bible? Everywhere there is sanction for slavery, which he denounces, and everywhere the observance of Days is condemned. 'Your new moons and appointed feasts my soul hated'-I read on the same pages where slavery is commanded by God."
Let not the reader be surprised that a New England Deacon, in eighteen hundred-sixty, should confound the stout-hearted Come-outer, Theodore Parker, with pertinacious ritual conservators, or that regal Conic outer, Isaiah, with ritual Moses. If, according to the trite adage, "None are so deaf as those who will not hear," it is most emphatically true that none are so ignorant as those who will not learn; and of all the obstacles which have retarded the progress of humanity in the individual on the aggregate, nothing has been so tough and close-knitted in fiber as Prejudice. Be it also borne in mind that the little man was wrought upon by that tangled wrath peculiar to small men of his temperament, under the influence of which it is impossible to discern the right relations of things or ideas. Had he been uttering himself in the presence of the Rev. Hugh Berkeley, whose masterly sermon had thus discomposed him, that gentleman would have, no doubt, reminded him that Mr. Parker cared for Dittos supremely, not for Days at all; that Life with him was more than Logic, even, grand Socrates of the Present as he was; that Right was the only Ritual he recognized. He would also have reminded him, without the slightest tinge of biblical arrogance, that looking a little farther "on the same pages" where he found his Scripture quotation, he would have found Divine authority for Emancipation, thus-"Is not this tin fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of wickedness, o undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke? "But he was not in the presence of the Rev. Hugh Berkeley; it was a practical man-a New England manufacturer, before whom he made this exhibition. Moreover, it was one who looked to him for opinions in these matters. Deacon Sleeper was well posted in matters of business; he took New York and Boston papers-those which had the longest columns of "Price Currents" and "Stocks," as it was natural and proper he should; but the only papers whose other columns he ever read were the New York Herald and Boston Couriers. Could he be expected to set his misapprehending brother right on questions of Scripture, Theology, or Abstract Truth? Absurd, on the face of things. As, thus, the wrathful epitome had not yet called out correction from his more equable companion, so, as yet, he had not much infected him with his own excitement. The only evidence of unrest thus far, as he lounged in his capacious, stuffed chair, was a perpetual movement of the fingers of the right han in connection with the massive gold chain that depended from his vest. But even his time was to come-a question from his own bland lips precipitated the crisis.
"But, brother Smalley, have you any idea that the Standing Committee think of giving him a call?"
"Think of it? Yes, sir, unless the church make such a clamor about their ears that they are frightened from their purpose, they'll do it. I heard one, at least, say in the porch this noon, publicly, too, that he was altogether the smartest man we've had yet; and the women are all gone mad about him, as they always are over anything new, fools as they are You know the old maid Kents are monies people, and have a great deal of influence. Why, Sleeper, in three months this society will be scattered to nothing with that fire-brand in the pulpit. And then think of its effect upon the community! "Here the speaker prepared to culminate. Stopping his nervous amble over that bright prairie of woolen flowers, confronting face to lace his cushioned companion, whom he impaled on the keen points of his bright eyes, just as, below, he had impaled a gaudy woolen butterfly with the heels of his shoes, he continued-" Encourage such sentiments as that man holds to spread abroad in the community, and in six months your factory will be closed, sir, closed, beyond your power or mine to open it. Hasn't the South been exasperated enough, vet, by these impudent fanatics, but you and I must help set them on?" (Deacon Sleeper jerked his gold chain as if it had been suddenly drawn tightly about his neck, while the color flashed from his cheeks to his brow, then flashed out entirely from his face, leaving him as colorless as if the chain had, indeed, proved fatal. The gimlet-eyes saw their advantage, but were not withdrawn.) "I tell you, sir, it is madness to think of a call. You know one candidate almost broke us up with his radical temperance nonsense; but there's reason in that, compared with this. Though I don't believe in carrying anything but the Gospel into the
<c04>
pulpit, still we can't deny that' intemperance disturbs the peace of the community and increases our pauper expenses; but, sir, slavery fills your coffers-builds your houses-increases your lands-establishes you in the community. Interfere with that, and where are you, sir?"
A question whose deadly irony neither saw, but whose two-edged steel went home to the centre. Alas for the exaggerated representations of nature, in their velvet repose, as that man of weight started to his feet; while the truant color returned in hot haste, the chain trembled us if it represented a doomed "system," and the choked words came all muffled and trembling with passion.
"NEVER! No-no-no, sir! Never shall he have a call, HERE!"
Whatever may have been the causes which agitated, temporarily, the holy calm of the candidate's soul, certain it is the opinions and feelings of the two officials had nothing to do with it. Certain it is, also, that there was almost a grandeur in the impressive repose with which he arose before his audience in the afternoon. Again he had been thrilled by that voice from the choir-less plaintive, perhaps-with more of its native triumph-note, than then; again his questioning glance was met by the half-revealed figure and the half-averted face. Again, as during the morning sermon, he was conscious of a istener in that direction, the pulses of whose whole being kept the measure of his soul's utterance; but that figure was tranquil, and that face unrevealed. Close nestling at the side of that figure, as if drawn indissolubly to the companionship, was a bright eyed, speaking little creature, who had sung as the birds sing, then sat effervescing with a new joy and wonder under the influence of that grand, smile eloquence of truth, which fell into the sweetly surprised child-heart as unexpected home voices fall into the ear and heart of the child long-time absent at school; hut that was not the soul whose response be felt, although his pieced eye often rested on the bright, happy face.
In justice to our minister, I beg leave to give a brief abstract of the sermon which has only been reported to the reader by one listener, and he hardly a competent one. Those sweet words of cheer from John, "And of his fulness have ye all received," formed the richly suggestive basis of his utterance. With a power given only to devout poet-souls to appreciate and to impart, he paid a lilting tribute to the magnificence of that morning in the valley of the Connecticut; from this the transition was gracefully natural to the first written portion of his sermon, this especial Day-its name, its legendary, its ecclesiastical and historical peculiarities-a Hedge or a Hale might have envied him his absolute control of these sources of elucidation, yet used so unostentatiously that it was only by the amount of information gained that the listener realized the profound erudition of the speaker. It was clear, too, that this was only the well cemented foundation of the superstructure; or, rather, the dry, hard trunk. bark of the blossoming tree. Not the interpenetrative Emerson, mid his classic myths and symbols, ever opened such Artesian wells of significant thought as were here disclosed, and presented, not like Emerson's in rainbow jets encircled with mist, or prismatic crystalizations, but with calm, steady, heart-glowing fluency, like waters sunned by the universal, human day. Then came the personal application and appeal-so searching, yet so tender-the baptism by the Holy Spirit of individual souls-the Whitsunday of a new life within, when conscious being clothes itself in the spotless child garments of purity; when, under the influence of this new inspiration, every sterile stem and stinted germ of good in the nature bursts into living bloom, to be succeeded by the wholesome and abundant fruits of worthy action in the world. "Of his fulness have ye all received," if ye will but startle your consciousness from its slumber. Must there be some "rushing, mighty wind from heaven," before ye can awaken to a sense of your souls' true power? Then followed the social and national appeal, with all the prophetic keenness and courage of Phillips, with something of the stately grandeur of America's greatest living statesman.
As men and women, as Christians, as New Englanders, that audience was appealed to. Nature was teaching that day the great lesson of Emancipation from every thing that enthralls. The ice-letters that, so short time since, bound the streams, and even the river, are broken, and melted away; the frozen mould every where loosed, and swelling with up springing vegetative life; the imprisoning bud-scales burst by one simultaneous outpouring from the central force; the so-called inanimate world spread all over with evidence of the "fulness received." Nor less in the animal sphere, where beast, bird, insect find limb, wing and voice, gushing, leaping, soaring with the inexpressible bliss of new-found freedom-the intense possession of the "fulness received." And how is it with you, for whom the highest, inspiration was reserved? You, who have all this, and, superadded, the inspiration to know, to will, to do; the power to receive or restrain, to accept or reject? You, who receive not only directly, if you will, this fulness, but by inheritance the accumulated stores of past generations. Sons and daughters of the enlightened, through a long line of Christian civilization, what is your social condition this day? What fetters of habit, or clogs of impurity, or weights of sluggishness, or hindrances of prejudice are you bound by still? Emancipate body, mind and soul-begin the work this hour-that ye may, indeed, know what it is to have received " of his fulness." Sons and daughters of those who planted civil freedom on the Rock, what are you doing to perpetuate their dearly-bought gift to you?. Are yon completing what they so nobly began? Are you even conserving what they so heroically and laboriously established, as they hoped? Consider well your position, your duties as citizens of a so-called free Republic, this day-consider and compare with that Past in which you do well to glory, if you do not, through indolence, or indifference, or timidity, lose sight of the momentous truth that, having received of the same fulness with those who achieved so much, you are bound to maintain, at least, if you do not perfect it. How is it with you, this day, sons and daughters of the Puritans? I will not ask you who sits in the chair of your Washington, and what are his immediate surroundings and influences, at the sirk heart of this nation; I will not ask you what five lines of your Constitution have almost paralyzed into impotency the other sublime eighty-three sections: I will not ask you what code of maxims, not principles, has pushed your divine Declaration back among the almost forgotten parchments of the past; I will simply ask you, how many New Englanders, this day, would sign that Declaration, without hesitation, if it were presented them for that purpose-if an intelligent sanction of its sentiments were thus demanded? I will solemnly ask you what miserable compromise of expediency, so called, is accepted in your churches, this day, in place of Paul's magnificent declaration of Human Rights as given from Mars Hill.
Such is a meager outline of the sermon, that, like all realities, left its impress in the shape of interests alarmed, passions frenzied, prejudices shocked, aspirations strengthened and helped upward, principles confirmed, hearts subdued and remolded; while many a stolid nature, like Deacon Sleeper's, received it in a vague sort of wonder and baffled uncertainty, until I translated by the acumen of his associate, as we have I seen.
The reception of Mr. Berkeley, at the close of the day, by the family of the late minister, was that of well-bred constraint on the part of the ladies, and en. theistic devotion from the son. But the frank grace and abundant resource of the candidate soon floated conversation into a channel agreeable total; and Mrs. Haughton found herself thanking him. with genuine earnestness, for his beautiful afternoon sermon on Prayer. Ah.' there was one heart in the assembly, that afternoon, that thanked, that blessed him for every tender, searching, soulful word of it-and he knew it only by the mystic telegraphy of feeling During the last of Buchanan's administration.
<c05>
"How do you like our singing, Sir?," asked Miss. Horton, who was seated beside Mr. Berkeley at tea.

The young lady was a type of a large class to be met with in Massachusetts; lovely in person, delicate and passionless in manner, movement and voice-a white Camilla being-exquisitely finished, but lacking color and fragrance. In other words, a life without a motive 
The gentleman addressed started slightly, although it was not, perhaps, perceived by any one at table. "You have some fine voices," he replied, with entire composure.
"Two young strangers, nieces of one of our parishioners have been added to the choir this year," remarked Mrs. Horton. "They are considered quite an acquisition."
"If your acquaintance with choirs in country churches has been very extensive, Sir," remarked Edgar, somewhat hurriedly, and helping himself to an exceedingly large piece of batter in addition to that already on his plate, "you have found them the most uncertain and unsatisfactory of associations. It their music lacked harmony as much as their methods, we should hardly tolerate it. I know that my father considered the quarrels of his singers among his most disagreeable experiences."
"Yes," rejoined Mr. Berkeley, evidently equally anxious with Edgar Horton, for some reason of his own, or from that fine tact which gave him an insight of his friend's wish, to avoid personalities, "the only lasting security from annoyances is found in a salaried quartette, or in congregational singing."
"Which of these do you prefer, Sir?" asked Miss H.
"It may in part he the result of early associations, but I certainly prefer the quartette. Brought up in the Episcopal Church, I still have a fondness for whatever there is of beauty and worth in its ritual, as I think we rind some beauty and worth in every form of worship. In coming out from it, I rejected only what trammeled." Then turning with a charming smile to the mother-" Error always trammels, madam."
"Is New England your birth-place, Sir?" asked that lady, somewhat abruptly for her. "The birth place of my sainted mother. Your beautiful valley-the valley of the Connecticut-saw her earth-life begin; it ended in the beautiful valley of the Shenandoah, which was my birth-place, and home since manhood." A shadeof profound sadness passed over the fine face of the speaker, and a sigh escaped him. But cheerfulness instantly returned, and the evening passed charmingly to all.
When Mr. Berkeley arose to take leave, the admiring Edgar, as if economising every moment of the precious opportunity, desired the favor of accompanying him to his lodgings. They went on their way, arm in arm, through the dewy, fragrant, star-gemmed shadows-the two acquaintances of to-day, as they thought yet feeling that they had always known each other and linked, without knowing it, by a common interest and mystery whose root was in the past, and its fruit in the future. They went on their way, arm in arm the way made circuitous by Edgar in order to prolong the earnest, low-toned conversation, and they sepal rated, with the affectionateness of brothers, yet each feeling that a question near his heart remained unasked.
THE BOSTON REVIEW ON SAWYER'S RECONSTRUCTION OF BIBLICAL THEOEIES.
REMARKS BY THE AUTHOR.-No.IV.
MR. EDITOR:
DEAR SIR-My intention was to close these remarks with my last article; but, on looking over the Review again, some statements yet unnoticed seem to demand attention, and I therefore beg you to give me a little longer hearing.
I. "In all this ignoring of the great facts in profane history, and in the blunt denial or special pleading against those in sacred history, we see in our author the victim of a theory and a purpose." p. 638.
The deconstructionist ignores no facts in profane history; for those facts he has the profoundest respect; nor does he go into any special pleading against those in sacred history: those, too, he freely admits. In both, he refuses to accept fictions for facts. He is willing to receive fictions, and aims lo profit by them; but he is not willing to admit fictions as facts, and deems such admissions unscholarly, unscientific, and injurious to religion. This ignoring of the great facts of profane history, and this blunt denial of those in sacred history, are all the imagination of the critic neither belongs to the author, who, instead of ignoring facts previously ascertained, is going as a gleaner over the fields of ancient history, and gathering up much that has been overlooked. According to the recon: structionist, the sacred Scriptures teach much more than according to the common views, not less, are establish important facts that previous interpreters have failed to discover.
The author is quite unconscious of being the victim of any theory that can pervert his judgment in these matters. His sole aim is to find and serve the truth; and on the truth alone his conclusions depend for success. The author's purpose in this matter is in agreement with his convictions of truth, and his faith in it as the word of God, and the instrument of man's prosperity and happiness. Can the love of truth mislead? Are the desire and purpose to serve it dangerous?
II. The thirteen papyri or books in the British Museum, comprising a portion of a sacred poem, of which Remises II. is the subject, a small fragment of history relating to the Hyssops period, several collections of miscellaneous letters, a memoir of a scribe, the advice of king Amanemha to his son, the precepts of a high officer to his son, a hymn to the Nile, a calendar of lucky and unlucky days and festivals, referred to in the Review, p. 59, in the hieratic character, prove the use of that character in Egypt at that time, about 1300 B. C If Aramaean letters had been in use for centuries in the same country, or if they were in use then, why do they not also appear? Why has no discovery reached them? They were vastly superior to the hieratic Egyptian characters, and could not have been altogether neglected by the Egyptian scribes, if they had known them. Those Egyptian books of 1300 B. C. prove the common use of hieratic letters in Egypt at that time. Nations do not use widely different systems of letters for common purposes at the same time. It requires too much time and labor for men generally to write more than one language. The number that write several languages is always small. When a nation adopts a new alphabet, it generally abandons its old one, unless for special purposes. When the English adopted the Roman letters as we now have them, they abandoned the black letter of earlier times; and yet these are but different species of the same letters. So of the English and German. Our not finding Aramaean letters among the Egyptian books and inscriptions till many centuries alter Moses, shows that they were not used by the Egyptians till later times. If they had been, where so much is found, some trace of them would have appeared.
III. "And so the Mosaic institutes are the residuum of concretions and abrasions going on under traditional processes for a thousand years. We have here no laments for what may have been lost, but many complaints over much that is saved. For aught that appears, the decalogue may originally have been more or less than ten commandments. The account of its delivery is allegorical, and allegories delight in round numbers, and in flowing and misty statements. What infallible rule of faith and practice can such a system of moral law furnish? "-Review, p. 646.
Does the Review go to the laws of Moses for infallible rules of practice? Does it find the Mosaic rules of action infallibly right? Is retaliation right -an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth 1 Is concubinaage right? Is the burning and other capital punishment of women for adultery right? There is no excuse for adulteries, either by women or men; they are great and dreadful crimes, and produce vast amounts of human wretchedness; but are these Mosaic punishments right? To pronounce them right is to belie our 
<c06>
intuitive perceptions, and destroy all just sense of what right is. Those punishments are barbarous and selecting murders, and mark the period of their being <illegible> as one of gross darkness and ignorance, as <illegible> inhumanity. From such an infallible law, we <illegible> pray the good Lord to deliver us. To call it his <illegible> is grossly to misapprehend his character, and the principles of his government. He has punishment criminals, and stripes for the back of fools, but he has mercies and compassions for the sinning, and prefers to have offenders reclaimed rather than destroys and subjected to the discipline of love, rather than a that of vengeance. To make the Jewish laws <illegible> rules of practice is to make them his and sources of infinite mischief to the human race.
God's law is indeed infallible; there can be no takes in the enactments of justice and mercy, of <illegible> and truth; but infallibility does not belong to documents that report them and need not. all <illegible> are fallible, and must be admitted with <illegible> and determination, it we would not be misled.
IV. "This getting new creeds and theories in an expensive work; and that new one must be <illegible> radical, that requires so total a reconstruct of the entire frame-work of the Bible. Would it be easier to write a new Bible or a second <illegible> p. 647. 
The above implies that the author's reconstructed of Biblical theories is the consequence of his getting a new. creed. This is not the fact; his discovery of the true significance and teachings of the Bible the cause of his getting new creed, not the else. The author has not reconstructed Biblical <illegible> the interest of a new creed, but according to <illegible> and in the interest of eternal truth; the <illegible> is, old creeds in several cases find their <illegible> gone. The deconstructionist has bee obligied to make radical changes in Biblical theories, because the errors are radical, which ages of ignorance and superstition have super induced.
New Bibles may be written, and second Korans, the critic suggests, but the old Bible can never be replaced nor superseded. It stands a vast <illegible> of ages with memories, records, allegories, engross and inscriptions, coming down from the earliest times. All before is a blank. With these books and <illegible> history begins; it begins feebly and importantly, it begins poetically and dogmatically, but is <illegible> if valuable lessons. Every word and symbol has a meaning, and demands attention. It is the part of idiot to neglect these records, and depreciate these Superstition, by endeavoring to exalt them improperly, does them vast injury. Only hones, fearless and thorough interpretation can do them justice, give than their proper place in men's regards, or allow then their due use in human culture. Rightly interpretable, the Bible is the best and most useful of books, and a source of invaluable information and instruction; incorrectly interpreted, it is sometimes made aninstrement of the most galling despotisms, and the most degrading slavery. The reconstructions aims to <illegible> it its highest and noblest uses, and to rescue it from vast abuse, and from being made an unwilling insurgent the infliction of vast injuries.
Yours, most truly, L. A. SAWYER.
SAULSBURY, OF DELAWARE, IN THE U.S. SENATE.
The Tribune correspondent gives a full account of the disgraceful conduct of this drunken secessions. In loud tones, and wildly festinating as those cracking the whip of the overseer, he declared the slavery was a blessed institution, and if any puritanical preacher-not of the Gospel of Christ. but it the gospel of hell-should come to his State og destroy the God-sent gift, he night issue his had against the comet, as the Pope had done, He <illegible> it understood that he belonged to the South and never would belong to the North; and thanked God that he lived in a slaveholding State, that he never had an ancestor who was not a slaveholder. He was a slaveholder himself, and by the help of God would die a slaveholder, and never would have slavery abolished. Growing more abusive as he grey more intoxicated, he launched forth into a counsel ride against Abraham Lincoln, till his own colleague could bear it no longer, and attempted to bring him back to the bounds of decency, when be, in substance, told his colleague to his own business; he had a right to say what he pleased, and to express his sentiments, and would be deterred by no blackguardism. He was then called to order by the Vice President, but insolently refused to sit down, and continued speaking. He declared that he knew Abraham Lincoln, and that he was the weakest man ever put into high position; that he was, in fact, as imbecile. He was again called to order, but regardless of all decorum, he went on, exclaiming that if he wanted to paint a despot, he would draw the hideous form of Abraham Lincoln.
The. Vice President ordered him to take his seat Shaking his fists, he cried out, "he should not take his seat till he was told what he had said out of <illegible>. The Vice President, thinking that enough had been borne from this specimen of chivalry, <illegible> the sergeant-at-arms to take the Senator in custody. Salisbury placed his hand in his coat pocket, dared any man to touch him on the periled his life, saying quite audibly, "that held be d-l if he would go out." The sergeant-at-arms approached him, but he refused to go, and kept on muttering his wrath and spite. At last be was partly led and partly coaxed to a sofa, when he drew his revolver, and threatening to shoot the sergeant-at-arms, he refused to budge another inch and down he sat. He was, however, induced to leave the Senate, and for a short time the business of the body proceeded in an orderly manner.
Not long after he again returned, and attempted to finish his harangue, but was called to order by Mr. Doolittle. Again, in spite of the sergeant-at-arms, he forced his way up near the speakes's desks staggering and holding on to the desks to preserve his balance. The chair ordered him to take his <illegible> Mr. Sumner rose to a point of order, that he was in the custody of the sergeant-at-arms, and could not be allowed to disturb the Senate. Putting as hands in his pockets, where he had his revolver he said be would like to see that order executed by the went cursing Mr. Sumner. Muttering to himself, he went into the cloak room, but again emerged and received to his seat. He tried to rise and speak again, but the effort was too much, and after swaying backward and forward a moment, he sunk into his seat. placed both feet upon his desk, and with disordered hair, half-closed eyes, and his head dropping over to one side, finally subsided, a sorrowful and digressed full picture of a United States Senator.
THE
SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN,
THE ILLUSTRATED SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN. the best mechanical paper in the world, commences a new volume on the first of January. If is published weekly; and every number contains sixteen pages of useful <illegible> and from five to ten original engravings of new inventions and discoveries, all of which are prepared expressly fat its columns.
No person engaged in any of the mechanical or mannish truing pursuits should think of "doing without" the Scientific American. It costs but six cents per week, every number contains from sis to ten engravings of new machines and inventions, which cannot be found in any other publication.
The Scientific American is indispensable to every inventor, as it not only contains illustrated descriptions of near all the best inventions as they come out, but each number contains an official List of the Claims of all the Patterns issued from the United Steles. Patent Office during the week previous; thus giving a correct history of the progress of inventions in this country; and also a summary of all that is transpiring in mechanical science and art in the old countries.
To Chemists, Architect?, Millwrights and Farmers, the Scientific American will be found a most useful journal. All the new discoveries in the science of chemistry are given in its columns, an the interests of the architect and carpenter are not overlooked; all the new inventions and discoveries appertaining to these pursuits being published from week to week. Useful and practical information per tainting to the interests of millwrights and mill-owners will be found in the Scientific American, which information they cannot possibly obtain from any other source, Subjects is which fanners are interested will be found discussed in the Scientific American; must of the improvements in agricultural implements being illustrated in its columns.
TERMS- TO Mail subscribers: Three Dollars a year, or One Dollar for four months. The volumes commence on the first of January and July. Specimen copies will be sent gratis to any part of the country.
MUNN & CO., PUBLISHERS,
jan2ft 37 Park Row, New York.