THE LIBERATOR
IS PUBLISHED 
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
AT 
221 WAHSINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6,
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions, Yearly and half yearly advertisement inserted on reasonable terms.
The agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper vilz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, AND WILLIAM L.GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO.29. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY, 15 1864.WHOLE NO. 1745.
<c01>
THE POSITION OF THE FREMONTERS.
The Westliche Post, of St. Louis, has the following article:-
"In order to explain to our friends the position which we have occupied since we made Fremont our candidate, we consider the following remarks appropriate:
It is the well-matured conviction-arrived at only after long observation and experience-of a large and constantly increasing number of freedom-loving patriots, who belong to all the different old parties, that under the direction of the present President, the rebellion will not be suppressed, and the freedom of the people will not be restored and confirmed. Whether owing to incapacity, bad intention or weakness, the fact lies clear before us, that the present Administration, in spite of the immense means placed at its disposal by the people in the most liberal spirit possible, has not been able in more than three years to advance perceptibly in overthrowing the rebellion. Hundred thousand sof human lives and millions of money have been uselessly sacrificed, the liberty of the people has been greatly endangered, and the sentiment of the masses of the people is in a very precarious condition at present; for we do not know whether they will sink into a lethargic state of indifference, or, driven to despair, rise up in sudden frenzy.
To obviate such conditions, and remedy such dangerous symptoms, there is only one constitutional means -the election for another President, who, with firm principles, combines that insight and energy which the cirsis in which our nation labors at present demands imperiously. The mighty party of the Administration, led by the counning-honest Lincoln, opposes such a change with all its might. Lincoln and his satellites want to retain the government at all hazards, to keep their power, and to increase their riches, no matter how many hundred thousands of additional lives are slaughtered, and however speedily the nation is plunged into sure financial ruin. One should not believe it possible that a considerable number of people allow themselves so to be duped by the egotistical mob that surrounds the men in power, as to give their votes again to the man who, within a few years, by his short-sightedness or incapacity, if not by the most abhorrent motives, has brought the nation to the brink of ruin. But it can, unfortunately, not be deemed that the office-holders, office-hunters, contractors, and all those scoundrels who fawn before power, have made such an impression on a considerable portion of the people that there is danger at present the disastrous Administration of Mr.Lincoln-who has held out the prospect already of three more years of war-may be prolonged for a term of four years. We should consider such an event as the ruin of this country and the whole people: and hence we regognize it as our duty, and that of all clear-sighted people, who have the welfare of their country at heart, to exert all our power in the effort to avert this disaster, not only from this country, but from all the world.
The next Presidential election involves a question reaching far beyond ordinary party questions. It is the question whether this Republic shall continue to exist. The radical Democracy consider Fremont the most proper man to save the country, and avoid the ruin of our free institutions. But alone, by itself, that party has not the power to avert the reelection of Lincoln. It would be folly to deny this, Hence it accepts the aid of all other party factions to attain its object; the election of that only opponent of Mr. Lincoln, who has hopes of being elected, ones though those factions should not endorse all its principles. If all those factions-of the Republican and Democratic parties-unite with us, we may hope to defeat the Lincoln party, which is daily losing some its hold on the people.
There are times when men must sacrifice some of their abstract convictions to attain a near object, which involves the future. Such is the present time. We must concentrate all our power on one decisive point, if we wish to defeat our principal opponent. All who desire to cooperate in this object should not quarrel abut other questions until the victory has been accomplished. Tosettle their disputes now, we have not time. To quarrel now about platform-paragraphs will lead to sure defeat. The question is-Lincoln of Fremont? Whoever is for Lincoln is the opponent of all of us; whoever opposes Lincoln must join the Fremont movement. For that alone can succeed.
RADICAL INGRATITUDE
If radicals of the Lloyd Garrison and Parker Pillsbury school are vinegar to the rest of mankind, they are oil of vitriol, upon occasions, to each other. Nothing can exceed the ferocity with which they turn form their common fee, conservatism, and fatten their teeth in the quivering flesh of a "brother."It is like the falling out of a pack of wolves. At these times the radicals of this particular sect are so cruel and remorseless as to arouse a sentiment of pity in the breasts of those who ought, in a spirit of poetic justice, to be disinterested lookers-on. Consider the case of Lloyd Garrison himself, for example. Here is a man who for thirty years has been laboring to destroy the Union, and drag the North and South into a war which he must have known would have cost two or three millions of lives. Circumstance have borough; this cherished dream to pass before he had expected it. He is privileged, even in his own life-time, to see this fair country almost covered with a sea of blood, and to feel it shake with the thunder of artillery, every bolt of which bears death upon its wings. It must be to him a delightful thought, that he has contributed, more than any man in the nation, to transform this once happy land into a vast battle-field and charnelhouse. We can imagine with what ineffable tranquility this sage of modern radicalism looks forth form his calm seclusion, and behold the "great work going on"' a tranquility that is not a little enhanced, probably, by the comfortable reflection that the spectator is exempt, by age, from a draft. To such a man, if to any one, is surely due the veneration of all good radicals and true.
And yet mark how this"noblest Roman of them all"is abused by the very men who ought most to love and honor him! It appears that Mr. Garrison, <illegible> with his thirty years' toil for the promotion of human discord, feels like teetering. And what place is so snug it retire to as a public office with a large salary? Mr. Garrison’s desire for an office is natural and commendable. He has earned it, if any man has, from this Administration; and it speaks poorly for the gratitude of the powers at Washington that they should have waited for ahint from the man himself. But wait they did; and sure enough the hint came in an unmistakable manner, in Mr. Garrison’s recent Boston speech. This is the interpretation that his former friends-who ought to know him best-put upon his extraordinary and 
<c02>
subservient defence of the Administration on that occasion. It was a regular partisan effort, in the best Custom House style, fall of sophistries and evasions, of ingenious apologies for wrongs of which some mention could not be avoided, and artful omissions of everything else. If there is any indignation to be expressed by his old adherents and friends, it should be vented on the Administration, which has not appreciated Mr. Garrison, and not on Mr. Garrison, wbo was thus forced into the painful necessity of asserting his claims. We have not at hand a report of the withering sarcasms, uttered aloud or sotto voce, which were launched at the speaker's head, during and after the delivery of the speech. But they must have made the blood of a fair-minded auditor curdle with horror! It is to the savage treatment that Mr. Garrison is receiving from a large portion of the radical newspaper press, that we wish just to direct attention. He is said to be "drunk with the wine of political expediency,"to have fallen,"to have "uncovered his nakedness."His conduct is denounced as infamous,""unscrupulous,"full of cool impudence."His speech is characterized as "thoroughly ungentlemanly, unfair and vindictive from beginning to end."He has sunk to be a "political partisan."He is "in his dotage."But the unkindest cut of all is the phrase "Pharisaical conceit."The idea of applying this to a man of Garrison's modesty and humility! 
And all this—and much more of the same sort— for no other reason than because this radical Nestor is said to want office! How true it is that parties, | like republic , are ungrateful!—New York Journal of Commerce. 

COPPERHEADS. 
It is truly remarkable that a party, distinguished for its treachery, impudence, and entire want of aptness in all branches of service, and which, thanks to the most audacious displays of incapacity and want of faith, has succeeded in bringing to two thirds of its accomplishment, what every one supposed impossible, namely, the triumph of the South over the North, of eight millions of men over twenty-two millions, should take upon itself to decide ex cathedra what is loyalty and what is disloyalty, and give out from its omnipotent enthronement the epithets of copperhead, traitor, etc., etc. 
For us, the first of copperheads is Lincoln, and his organs come immediately after; we shall be careful in future to restore to them the title which so justly belongs to them, whenever the melancholy obligation presents itself of busying ourselves with them, and they deserve as much from every one else.—.New Nation—(Fremont's organ.) 
Curiously enough, the Lincoln movement has fallen into the hands of tyros and neophytes, like M/r. Garrison and Mr. Tilton, and Mr. Geo. W. Curtis, and of a lot of Old Bourbon Whigs, who seem to have agreed together to conduct the canvass on the plan which made the Taylor campaign of 1848 so ruinous to the Whig party, viz: by personal abuse and the grossest detraction. Fremont and Val-landigham are classed together, and we are gravely told that the Pathfinder is not only a Copperhead now, but that he never had any Anti-Slavery character or record! Thus the folly of Gen. Clustered, who engineers the -New Nation is offset by the folly of Mr. Garrison, who now runs that Lincoln campaign sheet, the Liberator.—Commonwealth. 
The Fremont meeting at the Cooper Institute last evening was a really imposing demonstration. The Hall was crowded, and the cheering vociferous. If this gathering gives any indication of the strength of the movement, Fremont bids fair to divide the Republican vote with Lincoln. These people, however much they may be mistaken on some points, are obviously very much in earnest, and are thoroughly disgusted with Lincoln's rule. The resolutions, with one or two exceptions, are manly, sensible, and to the point. Unlike the Lincoln meeting recently held at this same place, the shoddy and office-holding interests were not represented. Altogether, the Fremonters have had a fair and favorable start.—New York World—(Copperhead.) 
Selections
ANOTHEE LETTER FROM WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
To the Editor of the N. Y. Independent:
I have no wish to answer your extended criticism on my letter. If you are content with your position, I am more than satisfied with mine, and stand cheerfully, indeed proudly, on the ground of my letter. Not that the Cleveland platform is a faultless creed or an inspired Bible, but that it was the work of Abolitionists, and is the highest Anti-Slavery idea: yet reached in American politics. 
I write mainly to protest (and, an Abolitionist I writing to an Abolitionist, you must allow me to do so with some little indignation) against your special pleading in the matter of Robert Small. His absence or presence at Baltimore does not affect the argument. I supposed him there; so did and still does the country; and the Baltimore Convention acted on the question of rejecting him and his fellow black delegates as if he were present Neither does the size of the islands we bold in South Carolina affect the argument. There are several thousand Northerners living there, owning plantations and raising crops—perhaps a million to Northern money invested there by private citizens alone. Indeed, a Yankee town has existed there more than two years. The delegates thence were summarily turned out of the Baltimore house. But Florida, without a quarter of the claim—where, indeed, we have nothing deserving the name of a settlement, nothing but camp and is appendages—is admitted to a seat Florida—where, when Mr. Lincoln wished to set up j a government, be exported a shipload of Northern-| en, and they could not get a foothold! Don't try then, to throw dust in our eyes by talking about small islands. Even* sane man knows that South Carolina was rejected because she sent black delegates. No evasion can rub that spot out of Baltimore garments, and it is of too much significance to be omitted or confused in an Anti-Slavery record. 
The only points in your reply that I object to an those where you answered my letter without reading it (for I know yon never intentionally misrepresented me); but that is a course which, considering how many will read your criticisms who will never see my reply, is a gross injustice to your correspondent (Indeed! your otter misrepresentation of the Clever land demand for f. absolute equality shows that you have never fairly read its platform, since no fair man, baring read it, could so misrepresent it.)
1st Last May, in Dr.Cheever's church. I spoke, as I have often done of the necessary despotism of government in war-time, and approved it, as our Cleveland
<c03>
platform does. The Government arrests Vallandigham in Ohio, Marshal Kane in Baltimore, a secession spy in New York, and I called such despotism "necessary, inevitable, and (therefore) not to be found fault with."In my letter, as you will see when you read it, I speak of cases like the kidnapping of Arguelles, and suppressing the functions of the Senate in the case of F. P. Blair, and say, "despotic, UNNECESSARY, and, therefore, to be found fault with."ho! you find me marvellously inconsistent! No doubt to such careless readers or no-readers my speeches seem as much at cross purposes as the swords in Tiffany's windows. Don't abuse my speeches as most men do the Bible, reading it in verses. Absorb them in generous paragraphs, and you will see they are all of a piece—using different means, but always for the same end—now speaking encouragement, and now marshaling opposition, us the occasion demands; but always with. the same unchanging purpose to make this Government thoroughly Anti-Slavery, by telling the people when it is right, rousing them to vigilance even when it is rightfully using dangerous powers, and calling them to resist when it jeopards the inalienable rights of the black man or the white. Still, if my speeches were inconsistent, it would not trouble me the least. Whenever I am scared at the ghost of Consistency, I shall conclude I am too much of a coward to speak at all. 
2d. Again, in speaking of the Constitutional amendment, you say, "It is a great unfairness in Mr. Phillips to say of the Cleveland Convention that ' from them Congress borrowed the idea.'"Indeed, I should be both unfair and absurd to say so. When you read my letter, you will see I say no such thing. I said:— 
"The Baltimore platform has but one article of any meaning or value, that relating to a Constitutions! amendment prohibiting slavery. Tlmt article would never, in my opinion, have been inserted but for the pressure of that Movement which culminated in the Cleveland Contention. The plan of amending the Constitutution was never suggested by the Administration, nor by Congress, nor by any prominent Republican Press. It was first urged, and has been since patiently pressed on public attention, by those, who originated the Cleveland Atonement. From them Congress borrowed the idea, and to their labor is due the success it has obtained"
This is strictly true, and your "counter-statement"does not begin to touch it. You attempt to answer by telling me that The Evening Post urged an amendment of the Constitution last February. Certainly—of course. Mr. Sunnier had introduced his resolutions for it very early, in the very first week, I think, of that month. Of course, it was safe ground then. One or two months before, if my memory is correct, (but of this I will not be positive,) Mr. Wilson, of Iowa, in the House of Representatives, proposed to amend the Constitution in regard to slavery: a proposal which dropped dead, and remained unnoticed in Congress for weeks—so dead and unnoticed that I have sometimes doubted whether the Congressional Report in which I read it was not a mistake. 
But the Cleveland Movement—the movement which culminated in the Cleveland Convention—began this agitation before Mr. Wilson, Mr. Simmer, or The Evening Post. You know the method of reform well enough to know that, before politicians can venture to touch a measure, you and I must, by outside agitation, create a public opinion in its favor. This we of the Cleveland movement did in the matter of the Constitutional amendment. I shall not here go into particulars. What I alluded to in my letter, and that it is sufficient for my present purpose to re-assert, is that, in the summer and fall of 1863, the Germans in the West, and that portion of the Abolitionists who have been recently deemed too radical because dissatisfied with Mr. Lincoln, turned their attention to an amendment of the Constitution. After struggling myself to launch it in certain quarters during the summer, I prepared a lecture on it in November, 1863, which was repeated, night after night, in Maine, Connecticut, and Massachusetts; WM partially reported in the shape of a criticism on the President's Message at the Cooper Institute, in December, and urged afterward four or five times a week on the Attention of the public throughout the winter. Others of us pursued the same course by pen and tongue. At the Decade Meeting you refer to, even when Mr. H. C. Wright had mentioned the suggestion as a United States Senator, as to a Constitutional amendment, the voluminous report of that meeting shows that the. only speech which afterward alluded to or demanded one was made by Mr. Aaron M. Powell, emphatically one of us, the "too radical "members of the society. Stephen S. Foster was the only other speaker who at all approached the question. The society itself never carried out that resolve till some time in January; and, as for the Senator referred to, if it was Hon. Henry Wilson, then | present, he did not mention an amendment in the whole course of his speech, there nor any where else, for a long while afterward. 
At first the Republican press and leaders, and many Abolitionists, tried to dissuade us. They pooh-poohed at our plan—it was "hypercritical"took too much time "—was "unnecessarily cumbrous,"etc., etc. We persevered, while your Baltimore friends were thinking as to this amendment just what you say they are now thinking as to negro voting, that "the country was not ready for it."We went to work to make the country ready, and have succeeded—turning Congress into a debating society on this very question. Don't let the criticising spectators now claim that they did the work. 
And here let roe make a note. When, a little while hence, the country comes up to the level of negro voting, remember that, while you were lying on your oars, and assuring us that "if the country were ready for such an issue, the Baltimore Convention would have made it,"we of Cleveland were laboring to make the country ready. When we, assisted by the honorable few whose names I know and cherish, hare done so, and you come to reap our harvest, we will welcome you to the ripe grain, and not even remind you who planted it, unless, as now, it becomes necessary in the service of the cause. 
Remember, I am not a politician, but mainly an agitator—my special work being to make party progress possible. I shall never succeed by doing, as you are now doing, filing down my protests against their shortcomings, and joining in their support. I Lincoln is reelected, and repeats for another four years the indecision, heartlessness, and infamous pan ) daring to negrophobia and the slave power which have marked his last four, no adherent of Baltimore; can rebuke him; for Baltimore has renominatec ' him with fulsome and unmixed approbation of bit - coarse. I am glad to see your protest, however slighter After another such four years, be will fairly turn to t any of them now silent, who shall then blame him . and say, "Have I not gone on to do, during my see - and term, just what you praised me for in my first?' 
Which party is best serving the country, that r which says just what it thinks—Idler, sluggard, open your eyes, wake up and work while it is day "—on the men of Baltimore, who, kneeling to a man whom - half of them believe to be idler, sluggard, and blundering, err, "How admirable your energy! how 
<c04>
faultless your policy! Please go on, and be hereafter just what you have been."
Heaven will not hold such guiltless of the evils unnecessarily brought on this bleeding land. 
Respectfully yours, WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
[Remarks of the Editor of the Independent"] 
Having no disposition for a controversy with Mr. Phillips on any subject, we certainly have no relish for one on such unimportant points as be has here made—omitting, as he docs, the graver and only important aspects of the case. Sinking side-issues, our discussion with Mr. Phillips is on two points; first, we charged that the Cleveland Platform commits him to the false and fatal position that slavery is already destroyed; and, second, that the Cleveland managers commit him to an alliance with the Copperheads for an unholy attempt to overthrow the chief loyal party to the North, on whose success the hopes of the nation hang. Giving us no reply to these criticisms, he treats us to some excellent English on other topics. But in these columns, devoted to other uses, what care we to discuss with Mr. Phillips, or he with us, the rightful or wrongful rejection of a delegation to a political convention— better left to politicians; or what is the earliest record of the proposed Constitutional amendment—fitter for Notes and Queries;' or who most deserves the crown of honor for good service to the good cause—better decided by the next generation. Nevertheless, we will endeavor to touch each point in its order, to show that Mr. Phillips is wrong, not only on the main questions, but also on the minor: 
I. Mr. Phillips still persists in giving the wrong reason for the denial of seats to the Port Royal delegates at Baltimore. "Every sane man,"says he, "knows that South Carolina was rejected because she sent black delegates."We repeat, this is not true. On the contrary, the South Carolina gentlemen would equally have been denied had they been as white as virtue's self. It' that delegation—irregularly appointed as it was, and representing not a twentieth fraction of the State—had consisted of Wendell Phillips, Charles Sumner, Henry Wilson, and Gov. Andrew, it would have been rightfully rejected, and we ourselves, had we been a member of the convention instead of a spectator, would have voted for the rejection. 
II. As to arbitrary arrests, we have never vindicated them so fully as Mr. Phillips himself has done. Mr. Seward's bell has always had a dismal sound in our ears—and, since we are not among his favorites, it may some day ring for us. When the Government lately suppressed certain newspapers in the city, we called the act "not a sensible measure."Of the Arguelles case we take the same view. Of Frank Blair's case—in which the President insulted one Cabinet officer to gratify the family pride of another —we have no better opinion. But what general rule shall be laid down covering all cases? Cleveland and Baltimore each spoke on the subject. But from reading Mr. Phillips—for, notwithstanding his doubts, we have given each of his letters what Congress gives its bills, "a third reading "—we believe that his view is more completely expressed by Baltimore than by Cleveland. Of the Cleveland doctrine of arrests, Dr. Brownson, the chief expounder of that platform, speaks thus disparagingly:— 
"We think the fourth resolution, benrine on personal liberty, is couched in terms too unqualified. It seems to us that there may be cases in which the public safety requires some restriction on the freedom of speech and the press, and the suspension of the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus, when so severe and oppressive a measure as the proclamation of martial law would not be necessary or expedient. The Constitution says that' the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, unless when, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require it.' The fair construction to this is that, in cases of rebellion or invasion, the privilege of the writ may be suspended, if required by the public safety. To hold that it can be suspended only in districts where martial law is proclaimed, would be to hold that this clause of the Constitution is either superfluous or unmeaning, for the proclamation of martial law, ipso facto, suspends the privilege of this writ, as it does of every other, since it suspends the civil courts themselves, mpA every civil process. We must not deny to Government, because it has abused or may abuse it, a power absolutely essential to the public safety that it should possess. No loyal citizen will ever wish to deprive the Government, in cases of rebellion or invasion, of the power to arrest and detain in a summary way persons who are really embarrassing it by their criminal collusion with the rebels or invaders."—Brownson's Review July. 
This is a sensible view- -a more sensible view than the Cleveland Platform gives—the same view which the Baltimore Platform gives, as witness the following statement of it in the letter apprising the President of his re-nomination:— 
"No right, for instance, is so precious and sacred to the American heart as that of personal liberty. Its violation is regarded with just, instant, and universal jealousy. Yet, in tins hour of peril, every faithful citizen concedes that, for the sake of national existence and the common welfare, individual liberty may, as the Constitution provides in cases of rebellion, be sometimes summarily constrained; asking only with painful anxiety that, in every instance, and to the last detail, that absolutely necessary power shall not be hastily or unwisely exercised."
We believe Mr. Phillips will adroit that be agrees with Dr. Brownson, and with the Baltimore letter, rather than with the too narrow rule put forth at Cleveland. 
III. He is still strenuous to show that the originators of the Cleveland movement claim the paternity of the Constitutional amendment. It is a wise child that knows its own father! We dispute the lineage —deny the claim. Mr. Phillips is in doubt about a resolution on this subject adopted at the anti-slavery decade meeting in Philadelphia, in December, 1863. We can inform him, having ourselves been present at that meeting. The resolution was offered at the request of Charles Sumner, not of Henry Wilson. Its mover was Henry C. Wright, and its defender Aaron M. Powell. Why only one defender? Because there were no opposers! The meeting was unanimous on the point. Now why does Mr. Phillips, in honorably mentioning these two gentlemen, peak of them as "recently deemed too radical, because dissatisfied with Mr. Lincoln "? Both these gentlemen, as we well know, are in sympathy with Baltimore, and never had anything td do with Cleveland except to disapprove The other gentleman whom Mr. Phillips names is Stephen S. Foster, who, indeed, was active at Cleveland, hot who, unhappily for Mr. Phillips's argument, has for years past help the anti-slavery construction of the Constitution , maintaining that that instrument needed no anti-slavery amendment! Except Parker Pillsbury, the prominent Abolitionists at Cleveland not only went not early proposes of a Constitutional amendment bat, on the contrary, were stout advocates of the r Constitution unamended. These were Goodell Cheever, Foster, Gilbert, Plumb, Alden, and others - Have we not heard Dr. Cheever shake the rafters of the Church of the Puritans with a violence of
<c05>
eloquence at the idea of casting shame upon the Constitution by such an amendment as would imply that the Constitution ever favored slavery? During the summer and fail of 1863, many minds were pondering the amendment—many drawn to the subject by Mr. Phillips's own timely warnings—many others drawn to it, a his own was, by the necessity of the case. But not one in a thousand of all these ever dreamed of the Cleveland Convention until they saw the published call for that Convention, and wondered what it meant As to the Germans, we speak on the authority of a radical German editor when we say that the great may of the radical Germans, even at the West, utterly reject the Cleveland movement—repudiating it from beginning to end! While lately at Washington, Mr. Lincoln informed us that the necessity for a Constitutional amendment prohibiting slavery became apparent to his own mind immediately on the issue to the Proclamation of Emancipation, January 1, 1863—before "the summer and fall "—and that the sole reason why be did not suggest it publicly was simply because many others were suggesting it, and the end was, in his judgment, being better accomplished in that way. So much for Mr. Phillip's facts! 
IV. We call his attention now, for the third time, to the astonishing declaration in his favorite platform, that slavery is already destroyed. Does not Mr. Phillips—or, at least, his suppositions "sane man "—know that the question is still undecided whether this Government is to destroy slavery, or slavery is to destroy the Government? To say that slavery is dead is a heresy against Freedom—a delusion perilous to the best interests of the country— a seed-corn out of which a compromise may grow; and we protest against it with our utmost earnestness, not unmingled with that same indignation which Mr. Phillips felt at the dust of the Sea Islands. One of the authors of the Cleveland Platform, writing to us on this very resolution, says:— 
"The first part of that same fifth article"is s lie. I persisted a whole hour in the committee in pronouncing; it a lie; delusive, dangerous, fatal! I have written and published three solemn protests against it. So, too, Mr. Goodell, in the same Convention, and in The Prin-eipia, made himself heard and felt in the same direction."
As we mentioned last week, Mr. Foster also made a similar emphatic protest. But Mr. Phillips has made none. We have twice urged him to make one, and by-and-by he will do it—for will be willingly stand committed to a lie? Impossible! There is a dead fly in the amber of Cleveland, and Mr. Phillips will sooner or later recover his "lost art "of picking out and damning such things. Meanwhile, however, he calls himself "more than satisfied with his position "—it is one where he stands cheerfully and proudly."How can lie have the conscience to chide our own course, saying as he does (referring to political parties,) "I shall never succeed as you are doing, filing down my protests against their shortcomings, and joining in their support"—while, at the same time, standing as he does with a party whose "shortcomings"are publicly protested against by its very platform makers—a party whose first salute to the country is a lie on its lips—Mr. Phillips "joins in its support"even without a "protest "?
Mr. Phillips scouts the idea of consistency. We honor his sentiment, within a proper range of meaning; for it is true, as Emerson says, that to call a man inconsistent is only to call him wiser to-day than yesterday. But, after all, we know of cases where "consistency is a jewel."Here is one. Mr. Phillip says that the one object of a!! his criticisms is "to make the Government thoroughly anti-slavery."Indeed! How then can he hold up against it the argument of the Cleveland Platform, that slavery is already destroyed? What right has he to his living criticisms in June upon that which was already dead in May? It is just like Dr. Brownson's inconsistency in saying that "slavery will never be extirpated under Mr. Lincoln's administration "—whereas, he and his fellow Clevelanders have already confessed that slavery lies dead under this very Administration! It is well that these gentlemen do not fear the ghost of their consistency—else they might have troublesome nights. 
V. The grain of salt in the Cleveland Platform, which makes it savory to Mr. Phillips, is the phrase, absolute equality before the law."That clause was Mr. Pillsbury's contribution. The doctrine is one which we solemnly believe, and have diligently inculcated. It will one day lie at the base of American institutions. The time will come when every American citizen, man or woman, black or white, will have a vote at the ballot-box. We have no more doubt of this than that the sun will shine on the next generation of mankind. In 1860, when the question arose in this State whether the negro should vote on the same terms with the white man, we gave our voice and pen (the little that both were worth) for the help of that cause. We have repeatedly, both in these columns and elsewhere argued with all possible zeal that the negro is entitled to the same rights as white men—that he ought to ride in the same car, sit in the same church-pew, vote at the same polls, be eligible to the same legislature, and be nominated for the Presidency by the Cleveland Convention whenever they have the courage to take him! There are people who deem us more extreme on this subject than they deem Mr. Phillips himself. It was, therefore, somewhat unjust in our friend to intimate that, by-and-by, after the country had been lifted to the level of negro-voting, we ourselves would be welcome to gather the harvest which other men had sown. We do not mean that any man shall outstrip us even in this seed-sowing—certainly not according to our ability and opportunity. 
Is the question asked, Why is it, believing as we do that negroes ought to vote, we did not insist that the Baltimore platform should have adopted such a clause, or be thrown overboard? Because, as we said last week, the country is not yet ready for such an issue.—otherwise that convention would have made it. "You know the method of reform well enough to know,"say Mr. Phillips truly, "that before politicians can venture to touch a measure, you and , by outside agitation, must create a public opinion in its favor.” Exactly so; and before a political party can be brought to vote for the equality of the negro, there- must be a good deal more "outside agitation"—a good deal more "public opinion in its favor."We are in for the agitation, heart and soul—as zealously as Mr. Phillips. But it is simply folly to push a great question to an untimely defeat at the ballot-box. Mr. Phillips holds that women ought to vote; but did he ask Cleveland to put the ballot into her hand? Yet long ago we went to work with Mr. Phillips, even on this far-ahead question, "to make the country ready."
But the Cleveland movement is not seeking to give a vote to the oppressed negro: not at all: it is rather seeking to win a vote from the Irish rioter, who hangs the negro. The Cleveland managers (by whom we do not mean the few excellent Abolitionists who were there as invited guests, but are dropped out of sight in the management of the campaign) have no such idea as Mr. Phillips has, or as f we have, of urging a discussion in behalf of negro 
<c06>
equality. The last thing the we shall hear of negro equality form Cleveland is what we have already heard, not to hear it again. The idea was buried in the platform, to have no resurrection in the canvass! Has Fremont, since his nomination, said a single word in favor of the negro? No. Dr.Brownson, who holds, Mr.Phillips to be "mad"on this subject, thus speaks in exposition of the Cleveland idea:
The paramount importance attached just now to the slavery and negro questions is itself one of our greatest dangers. It draws off attention from the action of the Administration in regard to other and more delicate questions. Let the public mind be thoroughly absorbed in the slavery and negro questions, and let the convictions be produced that the Administration in determined to make an end of slavery and establish negro equality, and it may violate the Constitution in its most vital principle, propose the most corrupt and corrupting schemes of reconstruction, trample on persona! liberty, suppress freedom of speech and the press, establish a real civil despotism, and all unchallenged. The way every people loses its liberty is by being too exclusively absorbed in the pursuit of some special good, or the removal of some special evil.
"Here is one of the serious dangers that threaten us. Convert the war, in the popular mind, into an abolition war; make it a war of the North on the South, or for imposing Northern ideas on Southern society, and the nation as a republican nation is ruined forever. Northern ideas are as much exaggerations one way as Southern ideas are another, and the people of the Northern States are, to say the least, as corrupt as the people of the Southern States.
Fremont...deems the preservation of the Constitution of greater importance than even the abolition of slavery."
Does Mr. Phillips agree with these sentiments? Are not his favorite ideas made to suffer a sea-change by this cathedra Cleveland interpretation? 
No, the Cleveland movement is not for the negro; it is simply for Fremont. Let Mr. Phillips go to Fremont ratification meeting, and speak on the "absolute equality"of negroes and Irishmen, and he will be rioted out of the house. He might better lecture on Donnybrook Fair, or propose three cheers for McClellan. We are willing to join Mr. Phillips in any new and needful labors to make the country ready for the negro's fullest rights; but the Fremont meetings are just the places where such ideas are not welcome.
In going to Chicago, Fremont and Cochrane have no notion, when they get there, of saying: "Be it known unto you, O clement Vallandigham, Horatio Seymour, and Fernando Wood, that we, the Cleveland candidates, believing in 'absolute equality before the law', come therefore into your witnessing presence, to put the hand of Smabo into the hand of Pat, asking you to bless the banns."As yet, if the lion and the lamb are to line down together, the lamb must be inside the lion. If Mr, Phillips regards the equality clause as"as the chief gem of the crown."let him once carry if for exhibition to his Democratic allies, and he will find it a pearl cast before swine, and the swine will turn and him!
VI. Our charges that Mr. Phillips is in complicity with the Copperheads, giving his right hand of fellowship to a disloyal faction under the strange hallucination that he is serving Liberty, was so fully exhibited last week, that we will not here restate the argument, but only add an illustration. What was the significance of John Cochrane's remark, (Whose lips are entitled to speak oracularly of the Cleveland designs,)that Fremont and McClellan were "twin cherries on one stalk"? We commend the following exegesis of this text t the special edification of Mr. Philips. We quote from The Worlds report of the second Fremont demonstration in this city, in front of the Metropolitan Hotel last week, Edward Gilbert presiding:
"Mr S. Wofl, of Washington, a member of the Fremont committee, being called for, was next introduced, and spoke as follows:
Rebellion crushed -our flag once more waving in its ancient lustre-Fremont, the pathfinder of radicalism, elected-we will, as in the days of yore, have an American army horeic as in the past, glorious as in the present, and the dastard feet of Austria and France shall be removed from the soil of Mexico, and the LEADER of that army shall be the present, warrior, and Christian-New York's favorite son, General GEORGE B.McCLELLAN.[Loud cheers.]
Persimmons are easy swallowing to such alum as this! We think that Mr. Phillips, who said in May that he would not for a million dollars go for McClellan, will hardly get this down without a wry face!
Our friend need not fear that our criticisms will gain a wider hearing than his letters. The Copperhead journals have already caught up his first letter, and, dissevering it from our answer just as if no answer had been made, are themselves busy like goldsmiths, gilding his name with praise! We commend to Mr. Phillips the example of that other great orator who asked himself, "What folly have I been uttering that these fellows cheer me?"If Mr. Phillips does not see the irremediable harmfulness of his present position, his friends see it, and suffer in their hearts for his sake. We are not politicians more than he-less, indeed -for we never represented our own ward in a political meeting! Nor are we champions of the Baltimore Convention: on the contrary, we have been its citric. Still less are we the laurel-crowners of the present Administration. We believe we have honestly preserved our plainspoken ness. But it is not in our hearts to grumble at everything. Mr. Phillips has for months demanded a constitutional amendment, as the one security needed to salve over the many uncertainties of the President's Proclamation. But now that the great party of the Administration proposes to accede to Mr. Phillips’s demand, Mr. Phillips turns away in scorn, and joins the enemy! ON the 4th of July, Tammany Hall passed and indignant resolve against the Government for not sinking the Alabama. After the resolution was sent to the newspapers, the news came of her sinking, and Hiram Walbridge magnanimously ran up an down in a hurry, on a warm day, perspiring round from newspaper to withdraw the resolution before it got into type! Alas that we cannot so commend, Mr. Phillips, who, after censuring the Administration for not doing what he asked, and after he finally sees granted all he asked, tacked back no censure, but only scolds the more! Unsuccessful as the Administration has proved itself, we shall not join with Mr. Phillips in any attempt to give the next term into the keeping of Copperheads. This is what Mr. Phillips is doing, and this is what we mainly criticized him for, but he makes no reply to this criticism.. Keeping silent as to the weightier charges, he files replies only on minor points. We leave the case, therefore, as it stands-a parallel to the Deacon's case in Connecticut, who, billing charge with scandalously drinking brandy and water, replied on his defense, as Mr. Phillips has replied, "Dear friends, I deny the water."
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof".
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive
management of the subject, not only the PRESEDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES....From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, a CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power....It is a war power. I say it is a W power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of inversing a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
HISTORICAL ANALOGIES.
Extract from an eloquent oration delivered at the recent city celebration of the anniversary of American Independence, at the Boston Academy of Music, by Judge THOMAS RUSSELL:— 
Next, in reviewing the early scenes of war, we stand on Bunker Hill, and share the varied emotions that belong to the 17th of June. In darker hours we have loved to remind each other that our existence as a nation dates from a lost battle. On the evening of that day, swift couriers told the country that our fathers had retreated—that Charlestown was in ashes—that Warren was among the slain. But they told of such a spirit, and aroused such a spirit, as was an assurance of final victory. So did this contest begin with a lost battle for the North. But at we saw how the tidings were received, we could not call it wholly a disaster. We raw a noble , nation not sinking in despair, but rising in defiance. The languid love of country which had slept in hours of peace, became " the live thunder " of awakened and indignant loyalty. And the people tame forward, offering their substance, their services, their lives; ready to sacrifice that which it is harder to give on, even their political prejudices, forgetting past differences, burying all partizanship, determined that while treason threatened the capital, they would know nothing but an endangered country and an insulted flag. Oh, for a return of that spirit! It were cheaply purchased by the bombardment of a Northern city.
 Again. I thought of Bunker Hill, as early on a gloomy morning in December, 1862, I stood by the banks of the Rappahannock, and witnessed the withdrawal of a brave, noble, baffled army. The dim stars looked down sadly upon our retiring troops, and the wind that swept through the valley seemed to be sighing for the defeat of a great cause and the downfall of a great nation. But as I sat by the camp-fires of the bivonac; better still, as I stood by the bedside of wounded soldiers in many a hospital, and beard men freshly borne from that lost battle at Fredericksburg longing for health and strength that they might once more follow to the field the same commander, any commander—always the same dear flag—I felt that, in spite of all that we had lost, the triumph of the North was sure. 
One lesson more from Bunker Hill: When Pitcairn mounted the rampart of the redoubt, he fell, pierced by a bullet from the musket of a colored volunteer. And do you ask, " Is the inevitable negro here, also? " Yes, he is here. He stood on Bunker Hill, as afterward he stood in the lines at Rhode Island, in the earthworks at Red Bank, as now he stands side by side with the bravest before the walls of Richmond, where the crimsoned ground gives token that he is indeed of one blood with his comrades, He is here, by no fault of his, by no choice of his, for good or for evil; for good, if we frankly accept his proffered aid with its honest, natural results; for evil, if now, when our rivers are turned into blood, and when the first-born in so many a household lies dead, we still refuse to listen to the voice that thunders from on high—" LET MY PEOPLE GO." 
After the 17th of June, the heart of the nation cried out for independence, while Congress, lagging far behind the people, delayed to speak the decisive word. Before the 19th of April, "no thinking man " breathed such a wish. The leading patriots repelled the charge of desiring it as a slander. In 1774, Congress, on the motion of a most radical member, passed a resolve, which not only excluded all idea of separation, but admitted the right of Parliament to lay taxes for the regulation of trade. And timid, honest men pointed to this vote, and; could not see that ages of progress had rolled on since it was passed. They failed to recognize the truth stated by Paine in his Common Sense, that " all plans and proposals prior to the 19th of April, i. e., the commencement of hostilities, are like an old almanac—however proper once, useless and superseded now." They did not know that in revolutionary times the wisdom of last year is folly, and the truth of yesterday is a lie to-day.
Bolder spirits said: " What was true in 1774, has ceased to be true in '75, in the presence of actual war. Concord and Bunker Hill, the burning of Charlestown and Falmouth, the fall of Warren and Montgomery, have changed our relations to England, and conferred new rights on the colonists. The land which has been enriched with the blood of so many brave men must forever be a free land. Since we must fight, it should be with every power, and for the highest price." They argued truly, that foreign nations which would care little for a technical issue of constitutional law, would be moved to sympathy when the contest concerned the freedom of a continent. These bolder counsels, and safer because bolder, finally prevailed, and our country took its place among the nations of the earth. 
I need hardly point out the parallel of our own day. In 1861, Congress, " by a vote nearly unanimous," resolved that Government had no right and no purpose to attack slavery in the States; and, as the conservatives of '75 turned to the resolution of '74, so do many worthy men cling to the vote of 1861. But the peoples have said: "Events have changed, and our rights have changed with them. Slavery is no longer a quiet 'domestic institution.' It is an aggressive force; it has become the strength of the rebellion. It is an engine of war, which treason uses against us, and which we ought to turn against treason." They have called upon our rulers to put on the whole armor of the powers with which the fact of war has supplied them. They have urged that, in suppressing rebellion, it is not only a right but a duty to wield " the State's whole thunder." And as history records that the folly of Stamp Act, and Tea Tax, and Port Bill made us an independent nation, so future historians will relate that the madness of secession and the crime of rebellion wrought the deliverance of a race from bondage. And it will be reckoned among the chief glories of our age that—
" In our councils statesmen met, 
Who knew rite seasons, when to take 
Occasion by the hand, and make 
The bounds of freedom wider yet."
GERMANS REPUDIATING FREMONT.
At a special meeting of the German Union Club of Philadelphia, held week before last, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:—
Resolved, That we accept the decision of the Baltimore Union Convention, composed as it was of the delegates of the Union party of the United States, elected and accredited in truly democratic form by the people, and that we unanimously ratify the nomination of Abraham Lincoln for President, and of Andrew Johnson far Vice President, and that we support, to the extent of our ability, the platform there adopted—the most radical platform ever presented by any party in the United States. 
Resolved, That the Cleveland Convention, inasmuch as it did not emanate from a regular election by the people, but owed its existence solely to the sell-assumed power of a small number of so-called radicals, was not competent to give an expression of the sentiments of the loyal people of the United States; and that the nomination of John C. Fremont for President, and John Cochrane for Vice President, and the organization of a new party within the great Union party, is unwise, impolitic, unpatriotic, and unworthy of American citizens.' Such action, in opposition to the clearly expressed will of an immense majority of the people, is doubly reproachable at the present time when the fate of the Union, aye, even the liberties of the whole human race, are dependent upon the united and undivided action of the North. 
If the hundred thousands of the bravest of the land shall have spilt their blood in vain in the contest for the preservation of the nation; if the widows and orphans of our defenders shall be denied the poor consolation that, by the sacrifice of their husbands, fathers and brothers, the liberties of their country have been saved; if all the advantages so dearly bought in this contest for the obliteration of the dark spot on the bright escutcheon of this great Republic are not to be irrecoverably lost, then we cannot lendour assistance to this new party. 
Resolved, That we deem it doe to oursselves, as
German adopted citizens, to declare to our American born fellow-citizens, that we have no part in the traitorous, attempts to destroy the unity of Union party, and that we have no inclination to throw overboard the principles for which we have contended for years, and that we have no wish to tear down the banner under which so many brave spirits have breathed their last, in order to form an alliance with our political opponents, before they have furnished convincing evidence of their conversion to our liberal ideas. 
Resolved, That the conduct of John C. Fremont, strongly savoring of personal hatred, and his open
<c02>
courting the affections of the copperheads, have deeply shaken the high esteem in which we have hitherto held him, and that the acceptance of his nomination on a platform which in several cardinal points makes important concessions to our political opponents, has revealed him to us in a still more suspicious light. 
Resolved, That we most sincerely call upon all liberal Germans in the United States to consider well and calmly before they allow the reproach to be cast upon themselves that they helped to destroy the great party of liberty, that they aided the copperheads to gain a victory which would jeopardize all that a terrible war of three years has gained for our cause, and that the streams of blood and the best resources of the country which we have sacrificed shall have been spent in vain. 
Resolved, To furnish copies of these resolutions to all the loyal newspapers for publication, and to send a copy of them to the Executive Committee of the German organization at Indianapolis, Indiana. 
For the German Union Club of Philadelphia, 
The Executive Committee. 
F. W. THOMAS, President. 
PAUL JAGODE, Secretary.
PROFESSOR NEWMAN.
In an able letter to Mr. Garrison, this good friend of our cause in England rather sharply criticises the short-comings of this Administration in respect to
slavery. It is his opinion that Mr. Lincoln, and Mr. Seward in Mr. Lincoln's name, have no policy but that which the country dictates to them. He thinks
it very evident that our President will do nothing mare for freedom than the people may force him to do; and that in so far he is like the British Cabinet.
There can be little doubt that the effect of Gen. Banks's coquetting with the moribund slave power in Louisiana, and the grudging aid extended to the
resolved exterminators of slavery in Tennessee, Mis Souri, and Kentucky, by the Administration, have excited the distrust and cooled the ardor of our best
friends in England. The time is coming when we shall need these friends more than ever; and we hope that such explanations and assurances will be
communicated to them as will restore their confidence in the unrelenting sincerity of our anti-slavery policy.
Professor Newman is privileged to express his misgivings freely, for he has proved the depth and steadiness of his friendship to us and our republican
experiment; and he may be sure that his warnings will find an attentive and respectful audience. He has a hearty longing for the welfare, greatness, and
glory of our country—that glory which lies in the righteousness that exalteth a nation. In his broad, expansive view, our differences of political detail do
not make us a separate nation from his own, while we not only talk the same tongue and read the same literature, but breathe the same sentiments on all our
highest interests. Ho is undoubtedly right in protesting, and we join unreservedly in his protest, against any policy which shall restore to the rebel
lious States the unlimited right of local legislation against the colored race.—Roxbury Journal.
ENGLISH FRIENDS ON THE PRESIDENCY.
Two of the most notable and influential of our English friends have lately expressed themselves upon the question of the Presidency. Their views are interesting from: he character of the men, and from their hearty sympathy in our cause. The first is Mr. Francis W. Newman, who, in a public; letter to Mr. Garrison, rebukes that gentleman for supporting the President for another term. His letter is long, but its substance is a complaint that Mr. Lincoln has not taken, as President, the strongest anti-slavery position, but has emancipated slaves not on moral grounds, but only as a military necessity. " Horrible indeed," says Mr. Newman, "is the augury for your future, when your chief magistrate dares not indulge the moralities of his heart through conscientious tremors at the guilt of violating the wicked laws of conquered rebels!" 
The total and unnecessary mental confusion evinced by such a passage as that is appalling. Mr. Newman seems not to have the least perception of the fact that the President is a magistrate bound by oath to administer a government according to a constitution, and that, while that constitution confers, under certain circumstances, the highest powers, those powers can be properly and safely exercised only with due regard to the will of the people of whom the magistrate is the agent. If now it were possible for Mr. Newman to comprehend the circumstances under which the President exercises that power, he would see that to accomplish in any degree the end for which Mr. Newman and all good men pray, it is necessary, vitally and inevitably necessary, to proceed as the President does. This war is only indirectly a moral reform. If the President, on the 14th of April, 1861, had summoned the country to arms to save the Union by abolishing slavery, the country would not have, responded. It may be our shame that we hastened to obey a call for union merely, which we should only partially and unsuccessfully have answered for emancipation; but it is no less true. The slave influence had so debauched the national mind, was so entrenched in party spirit, that the rebels would have asked nothing better than an edict of universal emancipation. The moral sentiment of the country, as well as its political consistency and fidelity, had to be educated by the war. And whatever the moral convictions of the President might have been, it would have been the extremist folly for him to have assumed them to exist in the heart and wish of the people. They were not there. He knew it. Every thoughtful man in the land knew it. The very problem was, whether the war could be waged upon the other ground, or whether, as the rebels and their Northern friends fondly hoped, the revolution was virtually accomplished before it began. 
Mr. Newman, in His letter, shows so profound an ignorance of the controlling facts of the case in which he gives so summary and decisive a verdict, that we have a right to ask him whether the very fact that he differs from Mr. Garrison, whose whole life is an act of moral devotion, ought not to suggest to him that he may possibly be in error upon some essential point. It is idle to say, that a statesman in the position of Mr. Lincoln is to do all that he may think to be abstractly right upon any occasion, without regard to times, or places, or persons. The duty of a statesman is to do all the good he can. If Mr. Newman could acquaint himself, as he cannot, as no foreigner can, with the exact condition of public affairs and the public sentiment when Mr. Lincoln assumed office, down to the opening of this campaign, and contemplate the measures of justice that have characterized his Administration, we are very sure that, instead of denouncing him with Mr. Fremont and Mr. Wendell Phillips, as betraying human liberty, he would rather cheer with the black soldiers in Grant's army, when the President rode by, for " the Liberator." It is a cruel injustice at home, it is a needless injustice in England, to revile the President for steadily walking over stones and through thorns towards the desired borne, instead of trying to fly thither above all obstacles, and dropping at once, impotent, baffled, and despised. 
Mr. Newman condemns himself in the very last sentence of his letter. If we Americans have a " ruinous national insanity—prejudice against color" —and we do not deny, but deplore, that the phrase is almost exact; it is but another way of saying that that prejudice is quite universal. How, then, can a President, who retains his common sense, affect that it does not exist? How can be, without criminal folly, disregard that fact in his administration, however heartily he may bewail it and aim to overcome it? The first duty of every citizen is doubtless to diestroy so unmanly, so mean a prejudice. But its destruction is not accomplished by passing a law which assumes that it does not exist. The law may wait, it must and should wait, until it expresses the conviction of the people. Meanwhile, our friends every where may be very sure that the President and every other good citizen will do what he can to remove the shame. Does Mr. Newman propose to chide the hand for waiting sixty minutes before it marks the hour? 
Another English friend, of greater public renown than Mr. Newman, writes in a private letter: " I shall be glad to see you safe through the crisis of the Presidential election. The feeling of your friends here is, I think, universally in favor of Lincoln, both because he seems to them, on the whole, to have done his part well, and because it would be a proof of constancy on the part of the 'fickle Democracy' of America. His recent letter explaining the principles of his conduct on the question of slavery appeared to all of as an admirable document. No State paper equal to it in sterling Qualities has been produced on this side of the water for many a year." 
Our English friends have a very difficult duty to perform. They must maintain our cause often in
<c03>
profound ignorance of circumstances, and of the details of the truth. Thus we have lately heard of Robert Browning citing the case of the colored sergeant Walker, who was shot rather than serve without regular soldier's wages, as an instance of unmatched heroism. We have not spared our word for justice to the colored troops in the matter of pay. But justice should lead Mr. Browning to correct his judgment when he learns that Walker was shot for attempting a mutiny. If every soldier is to take the righting of wrongs into his own hands, and try to persuade others to join him, the result is clear enough. We are glad to know that the mass of the friends of this country abroad agree with the great multitude of Union men at home, that the President has done his part too well to be set aside for any untried man.—Harper's Weekly.
The Liberator
Ho Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 15, 1864. 
LETTER TO PROFESSOR NEWMAN.
DEAR SIR—For your letter of the 7th ultimo, at once so kindly and so frankly expressed, I beg you to accept my heartfelt thanks; for, believing that you " have no other objects than those sacred interests, Truth and Right," and knowing how zealously yon have hitherto espoused the cause of the American Government, as upheld by President Lincoln against the Confederate treason of the South, whatever you may write concerning the terrible trial through which this republic is passing will challenge and deserve my profoundest consideration. " Faithful are the wounds of a friend "; and that you are a friend to America and its free institutions, and, consequently, an enemy to the rebellion which, for the horrible purpose of forming a Raveholding empire on this continent, is now filling our land with devastation and blood, you have unmistakably proved by your noble testimonies and acts ever since the war began. 
The tone of your letter is to me, however, a matter of surprise;—so unlike, indeed, any thing I have seen from your pen or read from your lips, that I am persuaded it was not spontaneously written, but owes its birth to the promptings of certain ill-balanced, erratic American minds on your side of the Atlantic, whose pretensions to superior vigilance and fidelity in regard to the rights of our colored population, and whose morbid representations respecting President Lincoln and his administration, have evidently affected your imagination and controlled your judgment. Mr. Conway's jaundiced views are so literally expressed in your letter, that I shall not do him or you any injustice in attributing its origin to him. And here let me say, that you will not find him a safe counsellor, or a reliable witness on public issues. Impulsive, eccentric, reckless, highly imaginative, and ambitious at this time for "radical " distinction, his flaming zeal is not always according to knowledge; and his vision is too apt to " magnify mole hills into mountains," and to " give to an inch the importance of a mile," according to his mood of mind. His extraordinary and unwarrantable correspondence with Mr. Mason, wherein he falsely assumed to be duly authorized by "the leading abolitionists of America" to negotiate for the recognition of the independence of the Southern Confederacy, provided it would in some way abolish slavery, (the sole cause of its inception and object of its existence!) should make our English friends cautious in giving credence to his representations concerning men and things in America, and admonish him that he is not specially competent to call in question the anti-slavery integrity of those whose lives have been devoted to the liberation of the fettered millions on our slavery-cursed soil. However fervent his zeal or praiseworthy his object, the course he is pursuing is well-calculated to damage the American Government abroad, and to help faction and sedition at home. 
But, whether correct in my surmises or not concerning the paternity of your letter, I am sorry to see your name appended to it. 
Before proceeding to notice its complainings, let me say that I am neither the partisan nor eulogist of President Lincoln, in a political sense. Since his inauguration, I have seen occasion sharply to animadvert upon his course, as well as occasion to praise him. At all times I have endeavored to judge him fairly, according to the possibilities of his situation, and the necessities of the country. In no instance, however, have I censured him for not acting upon the highest abstract principles of justice and humanity, and disregarding his constitutional obligations. His freedom to follow his convictions of duty as an individual is one thing—as the President of the United States, it is limited by the functions of his office; for the people do not elect a President to play the part of reformer or philanthropist, nor to enforce upon the nation his own peculiar ethical or humanitary ideas, without regard to his oath or their will. His primary and all-comprehensive duty is to maintain the Union and execute the Constitution, in good faith, according to the best of his ability, without reference to the views of any clique or party in the land, and for the general welfare. And herein lies the injustice of your criticism upon him. You seem to regard him as occupying a position and wielding powers virtually autocratic; so that he may do just as he pleases—yea, just as I though there were no people to consul:, no popular sentiment to ascertain, no legal restrictions to bind. In a strain of unmerited sarcasm you say:—
" With your President it is not the treason of the rebels, but your ' military necessity,'—that is, present and galling danger,—which alone makes his conscience easy in a deed so rash and desperate as that of giving to his innocent, injured, loyal fellow-citizens [meaning the slaves] their elementary natural rights."
Again you say:—
" Horrible indeed is the augury for your future, when your Chief Magistrate does not indulge the moralities of his heart, through conscientious tremors at the guilt of violating the wicked laws of conquered rebels!"
Finally, in reference to the sneering remark of " an eminent person" upon the Emancipation Proclamation of January 1,1863, that it was an act of " villanous hypocrisy, for the President refused to set free those whom he could, while pretending to set free those whom he could not," you say that you are ".now pierced in the heart to discover, that, however envenomed in the phrase, it was no slander at all, but a terrible truth "
' This impeachment is of the gravest character. It Implies that President Lincoln is a base dissembler, reckless of his moral duties, but anxiously concerned not to incur " the guilt of violating the wicked laws of conquered rebels," and desirous rather to perpetuate than to abolish slavery. I am compelled to say that I regard it as utterly slanderous. 
The President was similarly denounced for saying in his letter to Horace Greeley, dated August 22, 1863:— 
" My paramount object is to save the Union, and not either to save or destroy slavery. If I could save the Union without freeing any slave, I would do it; it; I could save it by freeing all the slaves, I would do it; and if I could do it by freeing some, and leaving others alone, I would also do that. What I do about slavery and the colored race, I do because I believe it helps to save this Union; and what I forbear, I forbear because I'do not believe it would help to save the Union. I shall do less whenever I shall believe what I am doing hurts the cause; and I shall do more whenever I shall believe doing more will help the cause. . . . I have here stated my purpose according to my dews of official duty; and I INTEND NO MODIFICATION OF MY OFT-REPEATED PERSONAL WISH THAT ALL NEW EVERY WHERE COULD BE FREE."
Now, in similar circumstances, this is precisely what every President, from George Washington to Abraham Lincoln, if true to the trast committed to his hands, would have been bound to say and do. " According to my views of OFFICIAL DUTY! This is the whole question in a sentence. It is not the evidence of a callous heart or a pro-slavery disposition,
<c04>
but indicates the man of integrity, anxious to know and to do his duty in a time of national calamity, and in the midst of unparalleled official trials and perils. It shows an inflexible determination to maintain the Government, if possible, in fulfillment of his oath of office, and in accordance with the powers (and only the powers) constitutionally within his grasp. Herein he deserves credit, and not reproach. Before the rebellion, he had no right to break the fetter of a single slave in any of the Slave States. After the rebellion, his right to do so was co-extensive with the nature and object of the rebellion, under the war power, and according to " military necessity." 
It is my firm conviction that no man has occupied the chair of the Chief Magistracy in America, who has more assiduously or more honestly endeavored to discharge all its duties with a single eye to the welfare of the country, than Mr. Lincoln. And his recent unanimous nomination for reelection by the National Loral Convention at Baltimore, (preceded by an equally unanimous nomination by all the loyal States in their legislative or conventional character,) after every effort of his bitter enemies, and of well-meaning but short-sighted friends of the slave, to cause his ejectment, is a splendid tribute of confidence in his honesty, patriotism and ability, and a sufficient answer to all the damaging accusations brought against him, whether by the copperheads on the one hand, or those who are so acting, under a mistaken idea of duty, as to strengthen and encourage the copperhead movement. 
To those who have struggled so long for the total abolition of slavery, and whose desires for the speedy realization of all their aims and aspirations have naturally been of the most ardent character, Mr. Lincoln has seemed exceedingly slow in all his emancipatory measures. For this he has been severely chided, in the Liberator and out of it; and, for a time, a pro-slavery purpose was attributed to him, which I am now satisfied was not his animating spirit. It was only a proof of the great circumspection which controlled his acts with reference to the formidable rebellion at the South, and the fearfully divided state of public sentiment at the North, especially on the slavery question. Ever since his inauguration, the country has been violently rent asunder—the Northern soil has been hot with sympathetic sedition—and the possibility of preserving the supremacy of the government and restoring the union of the States is still an open question. Yet what long strides he has taken in the right direction, and never a backward step! What grand and far-reaching anti-slavery measures have been consummated under his Administration! How near lie has brought us—if the Government succeed in asserting its rightful supremacy over the rebellious States—to that glad day of jubilee, when not a slave shall be found in all our broad domains to clank his fetters, nor a tyrant to wield his gory lash! 
In this connection, let me adduce the testimony of FREDERICK DOUGLASS as to his impression concerning President Lincoln, obtained from a personal interview with him at the White House, and related in a speech delivered last December, in Philadelphia, at the celebration of the thirtieth anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society—to wit:—
"Now, you will want to know how I was impressed by him. He impressed me as being just what every one of you have been in the habit of calling him—an honest man. (Applause.) I never met with a man, who, on the first blush, impressed me more entirely with his sincerity, with his devotion to his country, and with his determination to save it at all hazards. (Applause.) He told me (I think he did me more honor than I deserve) that I had made a little speech, somewhere in New York, and it had got into the papers, and among the things I had said was this: That if I were called upon to state what I regarded as the most sad and most disheartening feature in our present political and military situation, it would not be the various disasters experienced by our armies and our navies, on flood and field, but it would be the tardy, hesitating, vacillating policy of the President of the United States; and the President said to me, ' Mr. Douglass, I have been charged with being tardy and the like '; and he went on, and partly admitted that he might seem slow; but he said, ' I am charged with vacillating; but, Mr. Douglass, I do not think that charge can be sustained; I think it cannot be shown that when I have once taken a position, I have ever retreated from it.' (Applause.) That I regarded as the most significant point in what he said during our interview. I told him that he had been somewhat slow in proclaiming equal protection to our colored soldiers and prisoners; and he said that the country needed talking up to that point. He hesitated in regard to it, when he felt that the country was not ready for it. He knew that the colored man throughout this country was a despised man, a hated man, and that if he at first came out with such a proclamation, all the hatred which is poured on the head of the negro race would be visited on his administration. He said that there was preparatory work needed, and that that preparatory work had now been done. And he said, ' Remember this, Mr. Douglass; remember that Milliken's Bend, Port Hudson and Furt Wagner are recent events; and that these were necessary to prepare the way for this "very proclamation of mine.' I thought it was reasonable, and came to the conclusion, that while Abraham Lincoln will go down to posterity not as Abraham the Great, or as Abraham the Wise, or as Abraham the Eloquent, although he is all three, wise, great and eloquent, he will go down to posterity, it the country is saved, as Honest Abraham; (applause;) and going down thus, his name may be written any where in this wide world of ours side by side with that of Washington, without disparaging the latter. (Renewed applause.)"
What could be more ingenuous, or evince a more thoughtful state of mind, on the part of the President, than this frank interchange of views? How clearly it shows his anxiety to do all that he felt could be justifiably and safely done, in the volcanic state of the country, toward the extinction of slavery and the elevation of the colored race! It was neither cowardice nor corruption that led him to pause, hesitate, and carefully weigh the consequences of an untried experiment; it was not that he waited to be " bullied " into concessions to the cause of impartial freedom; nor was it because he was lacking in the feelings of humanity. But when " the elements are melting with fervent heat," and " the earth is moved out of its place "—when to transcend public sentiment so far as to outrage and defy it, is to imperil the existence of the government itself—may not something be charitably allowed for anxious doubt, cautious procedure, and deliberate action? What if the President might have gone faster and farther in grappling with the rebellion and its cause? I, for one, thought he could; he thought otherwise; and it was for him to follow his own convictions, not mine. I may have been mistaken; he may have been more intelligent and accurate as to his possibilities. At the worst, it was wiser to be slow and sure, than premature and rash, in working up to a desirable point. As early as the spring of 1862,—my friend Mr. Phillips being witness,—
"The President said to a leading Republican of New York—' Why don't you hold meetings' (it was two days before that glorious Convention in New York
which Carl Schurz made immortal by his great speech) Why don't you hold meetings, and let me feel the mind of the nation?' 'Sir,' was the reply,' we are to hold them; we hold one to-morrow.' Hold them of ten; hold many of them; hold as many as possible. You cannot creale more anti-slavery feeling ''than we shall need before we get trough this war.' (Applause.) In other words, tlie President holds out his hands to the people, and says, ' Am I right?' How far may I go?
Answer him. Tell him the ice Is thick thus far, and will be thicker an arrow's flight ahead. Tell him that if his message to the Border States leads you to say
Amen, a message to the Gulf Suites that says Liberty will have a tenfold Amen. (Loud applause.) In one sense,' we demand too much of the Government—of the
Senate and the Cabinet. They are the only portions of the government that have definite ideas, but they are nothing; the masses are everything. Struggling up to light on all sides are indications of the popular sentiment. There should be official, gave indications. Leading  men, legislative bodies, official corporations, should speak the will of the North, if it really exist, on this
question, so that the Government may feel able to trust and lean on a well assured public purpose." [Speech of Mr. Phillips at the Tremont Temple, April, 1862.]
Now this was well said and well considered, both by Mr. Phillips and Mr. Lincoln. I see nothing that has since transpired to justify the withdrawal of respect and confidence from the latter by the former, or by any other advocate of the Anti-Slavery cause; on the contrary, the President has been steadily advancing: toward the goal of liberty, and perhaps quite as fast as the altered state of the Northern mind would allow 
<c05>
him, if not beyond all that could have been reasonably expected of him. For, remember, at that time scarcely one of the numerous measures to which he has given his sanction had been executed, and which will assuredly secure for himself lasting historic renown, and cover his administration with historic glory. 
Let us see, then, what has been done. But, first, let me call to your remembrance the appalling circumstances in which President Lincoln succeeded in getting to Washington, to be duly inaugurated as President—the Capital swarming with traitors and assassins—an empty treasury—no army, no navy—the Northern house almost equally divided against itself, and to this hour so divided by sympathy for the Southern rebels as to cause serious apprehension of disastrous outbreaks and bloody conspiracies—the real abolition strength of the country numerically insignificant, and, politically speaking, of no importance: —prejudice against the negro strong and universal—a general disposition, for a long period subsequently, to avoid the issue with slavery, and to end ever to restore " the Union as it was," and even worse than it was, with all its pro-slavery compromises—and a sorcery power exerted over the popular mind in regard to constitutional obligations and historical precedents. This was all the moral and political capital Mr. Lincoln had to trade upon for the benefit of the despised and oppressed colored people; yet he has done a vast and truly magnificent business. 
Witness the emancipation of more than three millions of slaves by the President's Proclamation of January 1, 1863—a virtual death-blow to the whole slave system! Witness, as a necessary sequence, emancipation in Missouri, Western Virginia, Maryland, the District of Columbia! Witness the entire abolition of slavery in Louisiana and Arkansas! Witness its virtual abolition in Tennessee—leaving only Kentucky to be speedily delivered by the enrolment of her able-bodied slaves as soldiers and freemen, and the consequent liberation of their families! Witness the treaty with Great Britain for the effectual suppression of the foreign slave trade! Witness the consecration of all the vast Territories of the Union to free men, free labor, free institutions! Witness the recognition of the independence of Hayti and Liberia—an act which alone, at any time before the rebellion, would have caused a secession of the Southern States! Witness the abolition of all Fugitive Slave Bills, and the consequent termination of all slave-hunting in the country under governmental sanction—a measure of such signal mercy and beneficence, and so directly striking down the great protective bulwark of the slave system, that its adoption alone would justify popular celebrations and joyful illuminations throughout the country! Witness the abolition of the accursed inter-State slave trade—a trade more revolting and hideous in some of its features than even the foreign! Witness one hundred and thirty thousand colored soldiers, battling against those who would perpetuate their enslavement! Witness the admission of negroes to equal rights in the United States Courts, as parties to suits and as witnesses, even before Judge Taney! Witness, finally, the loyal sentiment of the country pledged to the amendment of the Constitution, forever prohibiting slavery in the land! Nor is this all that has been done. 
Yours, with the highest esteem, 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
PIETY VERSUS REFORM.
At an " Union Prayer-Meeting," held on the morning of the Fourth of July in the Central Church in Worcester, Rev. Henry T. Cheever offered the following resolution for the acceptance of the meeting:—
Resolved, That as a Prayer-Meeting of Christian Patriots, while we, lift our hearts in anguish before God, this day, in behalf of our suffering country, and the bereaved and stricken families of those who are dying in its defence, we are compelled to express to one another, to our rulers, and to the country, our deep conviction that the only absolute safety for a nation whose preponderating race is that of white men, lies in absolute justice to its five millions uf black men. And until this truth is recognized and acted upon in our National Legislation, and by our National Executive, establishing the absolute equality of all men before the law; and until as a nation that has been grievously sinning against the colored race, we " do justly, love mercy, and walk humbly with God," in vain will be all our prostrations and prayers in the closet, or our fighting’s in the field. 
This resolution did not prevail, either through indisposition of the meeting to favor its ideas, or through some management of the Hunker Chairman, Rev. Dr. Sweetser, preventing action upon it. Very likely, both these things combined to throw discouragement upon a statement which represents righteous action as better than formal prayer. 
Probably the prevailing sentiment of the meeting was expressed by one ot the speakers, Rev. Mr. Cutler, who said (according to the report in the Worcester Transcript) that "the end of the controversy would come when the people ceased to trust in our right arm to give them victory." 
Whatever other good or harm these prayer-meetings may do, in one particular, under their present leading, they exercise an influence actually pernicious impressing those who attend them with the idea that pious feelings and pious observances are. better than works of justice and righteousness, and that the former will by themselves secure the blessing of God, even though the latter are neglected. Such meetings, even in Massachusetts, have never inculcated justice to the negro, either upon their own people or upon the national rulers. Their favorite phraseology declares that " works of righteousness are filthy rags," and they avoid alike the inculcation and the practice of them.—C. K. W.
MONCURE D. CONWAY.
In a recent letter of Rev. M. D. Conway, in the Boston Commonwealth, we see it stated that Prof. Newman, in preparing his letter to the editor of the Liberator, took counsel of Mr. Conway among others. This, of course, he had a perfect right to do, and no one can question the ardent and genuine anti slavery principle and purpose of Mr. Conway. But we must remind Prof. Newman, that sound judgment is a very material qualification for a counsellor, and that the man, being an American and an Abolitionist, who wrote to the Confederate Agent, J. M. Mason, to ascertain the terms upon which the war might be brought to an end, and whose imagination was so strong as to lead him to represent that he was authorized and empowered by the American Abolitionists, (or by any other party in America,) to speak and act for them in the case, (when no such power or authority existed,) is not quite the man to be selected as an adviser and counsellor in so grave a case as Prof. Newman's letter covers. Be it understood, we do not question Mr. Conway's zeal for his country, or attachment to its interests and honor; but we maintain that his judgment is often unsound, and his interpretation of public events quite wide of the mark. M.
" THE BOSTON DIRECTORY, embracing the City Record, a General Directory of the Citizens, and a Business Directory, for the Year commencing July 1st, 1864. Boston: Adams, Sampson & Company, No. 91 Washington St. 1864."—Price $2,50. 
This sixtieth number of the Boston Directory contains 55,471 names. The names added to last year's list are 18,247; the names erased from it are 17,439. Other changes have been made, such as removals of residences or places of business, formation or dissolution of partnerships, changes in homes or numbers of streets, &c., to the amount of nearly 13,000. 
We find in this book, as we nave been accustomed to find in previous numbers ever since the work has been conducted by Adams, Sampson and Company, a vast amount of useful information concerning Boston, its people and its business, compiled with wonderful accuracy, and arranged to a compact and convenient form. Its price is necessarily increased with the price of paper and labor, but no book is better worth its price. It is indispensable to the active business man, and is a great convenience in every family.
<c06>
CAUSE FOR SORROW.
WASHINGTON, (D. C.) July 11, 1864.
The saddest and most discouraging events which we encounter in our humble efforts for human liberty are to be found in the treachery and abandonment of our cause by our chosen and trusted leaders. We remember with sorrow, since the movement for political action against slavery commenced, many such instances of partial infidelity, and some of entire abandonment of our fundamental principles. And now in this hour of peril, one of our most loved and trusted, and as we fondly believed, heroic and unselfish chieftains has deserted. A hard word, and harder still on account of its truth. The JOHN C. FREMONT of to-day is not the Pathfinder, is not the Leader whom we followed in '56 almost to victory—is not the man whose photograph is among the treasures of our little library in dear old Massachusetts—is not the man whose name we joyfully, hopefully gave to our dear boy, with the earnest prayer that our child might be worthy to bear his name. We can change the name of our boy. Would that God, by his redeeming power, would restore and return to us the late John C. Fremont!
THE VACANCY FILLED.
SOUTH ABINGTON, July 10, 1864.
MR. WALLCUT:
DEAR SIR—I notice in the last issue of the Liberator, a communication from Mr. Richard T. Back, of firm Buck Brother, Worcester, in which he discontinues his paper for reasons therein set forth, and will "look elsewhere for a paper more congenial to my (his) views." Nobody, of course, will question the right of Mr. B. to gratify his taste in his choice of a newspaper; but I regret for his own sake, as well as for the sake of the Anti-Slavery cause, the loss of a single subscriber, in times "that tries men's souls." I propose to remedy the matter as best I can, by remitting you the enclosed greenback, ($3,) for an additional copy of the old, tried, and time-honored sheet, that has repaid me an hundred fold for all I have ever invested in it these nearly thirty years that I have been a subscriber. Please commence with the number next after the close of Mr. B's subscription. Close up the ranks, and onward!
Yours, while slavery lasts, S. DYER.
LETTER FROM A COLORED PRIVATE.
MORRIS ISLAND, (S. C.) June 26, 1864.
WM. L. GARRISON:
SIR:—I thought you might be pleased to know that your principles were strongly represented in the detachment that loaded the 100 ponder Parrot gun, that threw the first three shells at Charleston city, S. C. No. 1 is a strong Abolitionist, and has worked well among the soldiers. This man put the loads into the gun. No. 2 is now is favor of emancipation, though he don't think the negro his equal. No. 3 was an old emancipationist, years ago, and always took your paper; and the gunner is a Republican. The other numbers seem to go with the strongest party, but believe in extirpating slavery from the land at the present time.
Some of the Boston papers say that Fort Sumter has guns which annoy the fleet and the camps on this island. This is a mistake. It has not sent a shot from its shattered walls since last August, with the exception of a few grape and canister thrown at the picket boats and storming party, from a 12 pounder bowitzer. It cannot reach Fort Putnam with this, which is the nearest point.
The rebels have some thirty batteries on James' and Sullivan's Islands, mounting about 75 guns. From these they throw shot and shell at us, now and then, but not very often, as our men are, by far, the best gunners, (notwithstanding they are mudsills,) and send them back with interest. Charleston might be taken without a great loss of life at the present time. I don't think there are more than one thousand men on James' Island just now.
O! for some MEN, who have not been brought up under the enervating influence of slavery and rum and who have not breathed the pestilential air o Washington too long to be honest, to lead our army and navy in this Southern Department now!
I have been in this State almost three years, during which time I have seen many a golden moment slip away, I think, and many a blunder made. Causerum, and a lack of principle.
I am a private, and have no right to express an opinion, or to think; therefore you will excuse this, if you think it impertinent; and believe me your friend while you demand freedom for all throughout the land.
Extract from a letter from Dr. DANIEL MANN, dated Folly Island, (S. C.):—
"The papers and patriots speak of the necessity of retrenching the expenses of this war, and yet forget one vast expense and loss which should be the first thought of,—WHISKEY. It is an evil of horrid magnitude to the army. I cannot tell the money cost; but I have several regiments which consumed in each regiment several barrels each month. I suppose most all regiments do the same. The aggregate cost for a year, at the present price of whisky, must be immense. But this is the smallest part of the loss. Accidents innumerable, involving loss of life and (I believe) loss of armies, occur from its use. Several officers have been cast hence for drunkenness on the field of battle, and some have been accused of being the cause of the loss of the battle by their misconduct—being drunk. Some of these accusations, at least, are doubtless true. There are ten officers drunk where one is court-martialed for the offence. The men are demoralized and made unfit for duty by its use. It is customary to give each of the pickets a gill of whiskey on coming in from duty. it is a gill of death; never doing good—always injury. Please publish the testimony of the one hundred physicians of Boston (some thirty odd years ago) in this subject. All out teamsters, &c., are drinkers, and vast amounts of public property are destroyed by this means. I saw, last week, a fine team of horses backed off from the wharf at Pawnee Landing, and drowned. Whiskey did it! It is doing horrible things. STOP IT."
A REMARKABLE ANNOUNCEMENT.
MR. GARRISON! DEAR SIR—What should you say to the statement made (or said to have been made) by Dr. Stebbins, that "ministers, as a class for saw and announced" the doom that must fall upon our nation for its great injustice to the African race! As he says, the ministers have been "applying the law of righteousness to the sin of this nation for the "last thirty years," I conclude that I must have been indulging in a sleep more profound than that of Rip Van Winkle himself. Will you assist in awakening me to a sense of the true state of things, and let me know on whose ministrations I could have at, tended, had I been wide enough awake to listen to an anti-slavery clergyman in a pulpit? Before Mr. Parker's day, I remember only Mr. John Parkman of Dover, Mr. Stetson, once Medford, and Mr. John Pierpont of Hollis street fame. What does Mr. Stebbins mean? Yours,  B. S.
<Illegible> The following is the remarkable assertion alluded to above, contained in a speech of Rev. Dr. Stebbins, recently delivered at a Unitarian gathering at Meadville, Penn., as communicated to the Boston Journal:—
"As an illustration of his position, he referred to our great national struggle and its consequences, and declared not only the right and sacred duty of the minister to preach the law of righteousness and apply it to the sin of the nation, but asserted as a fact that, during the last thirty years, the ministers, as a class, foresaw the consequences of our dalliance with the great national sin, and with prophetic foresight announced the solemn doom which awaited this trampling down of the indestructible rights of man. In this respect there had been more true vision in the pulpit than the State." 114

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A NOVEL NEWSPAPER.
CARROLLTON,(La.) June 6, 1864,
CAMP PARAPET,14 N.H.VOLS.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR—I enclose to you a news paper gotten up entirely by colored soldiers. The commander of the regiment (Col. Viall) has a small press and a collection of type for printing regimental orders. The soldiers unassisted by any of the white officers, got up this paper and printed it in the regiment with the type and press that I mentioned above. This explains the variety of type used. It also shows the inclination of covered people; when they have a change of using their brains in freedom. I take the liberty of sending you this paper, knowing that all evidence in favor of this down trodden race is gratifying to you. My husband is Colonel of the N. H. Vols. He has had several regiments under his command since coming in to this Department, and none have given him more satisfaction for good soldierly conduct than the "Black Warriors." They are all eager to learn and col. Viall has a school in his regiment for all to attend when off duty, which they do in preference to going away from cap. Col Wilson is surprised at the intelligence, good behavior and progress of the negro although he has been a "horrid abolitionist" for years, and our white regiment (the 14th N.H.) are absolutions. When we first left N.H., there were 280 Democrats in the regiment, real negro haters. When we all went home on a furlough, last March, we had nine—a few had died, and the rest had been converted! Our men go on duty with negro soldiers of other regiments; and I think they like the negroes better than they do the white troops of this and other South man States. New England boys don't like half-way loyalty.
Very respectfully,
MRS. R.H.WILSON.
The number sent to us is a truly unique sheet and a typographical curiosity. We make the following extracts from its editorial columns;—
"It is the aim of this paper to promote discipline and good order in our camps; to incite the soldier in that efficiency which is the result of a through knowledge of his duty; to raise the status of the colored troops by proving their capability of appreciating, perceiving and defending the-principles of liberty, either gee pen or sward; to sustain our government, under whose banner we have enlisted, by moral as well as physical force, and to war against copperheads and traitors".
THE POOR PILLOW AFFAIR. We are not at all surprised at the barbarity manifested by the rebels at the capture of Fort Pillow. It was not expected by us that savages whom the existing laws of the land once climed as gentleman, and whose whole lives have been spent in inventing Trocios and exquisite tortures for the punishment of their slaves should go get their early lessons, or forget to practice them whenever opportunity offered. What is the murder of 300 or 600 soldiers to ruffians whose hands are red with the blood of hundreds of thousands sent to their graves without provocation for their sport during the last twenty years? What are the sensibilities of men who can enjoy the agonies of a mother victims burnt at the stake? The fact is they had so hidden the most odious features of their system from the public notice that many were fain to believe them impossible of their guilt when exposed. Consequently, the murder of the garrison at Fort Pillow was but the unmasking of the principles. The daring desperate fighting of the black warrior has caused the rebels to fear his prowess; therefore they seek by this means, where ever successful, to immediate them from enlisting. They have flunk down the gantlet; we accept it. The reception of scenes like Fortson Pillow may cause the re enactment of the sense of the Carnatic by Hyder Ali.

DRINKING IN MODERATION
SOUTHRORO, July 5, 1864. DEAR MR. GARRISON—I so seldom meet with anything in the Liberator, outside of the Refuge Oppression to which it seems proper to urge an objection on moral grounds, that I wish enter my protect against a sentiment put forth by your correspondent "Nathan," in the Liberator of July 1st Here follows a portion of the objectionable passage:—
"The last-named malum in se is intemperance. If the young men realy meant what their language signifies, this is indeed taking a dangerous bull by the horns worthy of all praise. But a skepticism arises in the mind, whether it is not after all, the now stale performance of the ass of total abstinence, braying about in the skin of the lion virtue of temperance."
Now this seems very much like the talk of tipplers thirty years ago. How often have I heard men stammer and hiccup over the virtue of temperance, and laugh and jeer at the folly of total abstinence from intoxicating drinks!
The drinkers in the earlier days of the reform insisted that in order to temperate, we must use some n intoxicating liquor. "Nathan" seems of the same option. And since in all times it has been found that a certain proporation of habitual users of intoxicating drinks became drunkards, I do not think it strange that "Nathan" should regard any attempt at temperance, according to his notions of that sterling virtue, as "talking a dangerous bull by the horns." men who are striving to bring the milder intoxicating drinks "with the range of everybody's purse," seeing the free use of such drinks are the first steps to drunkenness, may well regard any efforts in behalf of temperance as "talking a dangerous bull by the horns."
Here are two classes of men, both claiming to wish drunkenness out of our world. One party goes for the free use of the milder forms of intoxicating drinks; but these, for some thousands of years, more or less have always been the precursors of drunkenness, and during all these years drunkenness has been a constant attendant upon the custom.
The other party, numbering its hundreds of thousands, during a half century or more, finding by actual experiment tat intoxicating drinks in their mildest forms, are, to say the least, useless, have refused them in all their forms, and so far banished drunkenness from our world.
I am quite willing that the discriminating lovers of righteousness and progress in the world should decide to which of the parties the long ears belong.
Very truly yours, for total abstinence from intoxicating drinks, D.S.WHITNEY.
THE DIFFERENCE. In accordance with their uniform practice in all controverter cases, both the Liberator and the Anti-Slavery Standard published entire the first of Mr. Phillips to the Editor of the New York Independent, with the Editor's reply; but the Commonwealth, the Principal, and the New Nation, (Fremont organs,) copy only the letter, but not a word of Mr. Tilton's reply. Is that fair dealing? It would not have been deemed so if the Liberator or Standard had copied only the reply, and not the letter. We perceive that the letter alluded to has been eagerly published by the Boston Courier, the New York World, and other copperhead journals; but, of course, as in the other cases, no part of Mr. Tilton's rejoinder is <illegible> to be seen by their readers. They clutch at any thing that promise to divide the loyal ranks, cover the President with odium, break down his administration, and make it possible for them to come again into power.
ANOTHER DARING INVASION OF THE NORTH!— The past week has been full of excitement in consequence of another daring raid into Maryland by a large portion of Gen. Lee's army, represented to be 40,000 strong menacing Baltimore and Washington, approaching within a few miles of both cities—capturing Frederick, Hagerstown, and other places—destroying bridges, and railroad and telegraphic communication, and a great deal of property—stealing an immense amount of supplies of every kind, and safely conveying them into Virginia—burning Gov. Bradford's residence, with its contents, within a short distance from Baltimore—stopping railway trains, and plundering the passengers, making capture of General Franklin, one of the number—and, as yet, driving back the military forces hastily gathered to meet the invaders. But the end is not yet.
<C02>
LETTER FROM THE ARMY OP THE POTO MAC. NEAR PETERSBURG, June 30.
The Editor of The Boston Journal:
I have been out this forenoon surveying the line of works taken by the 18th corps on the night of the 75th. While there, a veteran soldier came up, looked at the redoubt by the Dunn house, first at the ditch ten feet deep, then at the glaces and rampart, then at the plain over which for a mile the line moved to the attack, swept by eighteen pieces of rebel artillery. "I don't see how they did it," was his remark. It was a free and frank expression made by one who has Been hard fighting. Neither do I see how it was done. Gen. Hinks' division of colored troops had the extreme left of the line. Gen. Brooks had the centre, and Gen. Martingale the right. The line of advance brought Hinks' division under an enfilading fire. His division had carried the works near Bailee's house in the morning, losing a hundred and fifty men, but at the word of command they went over the open plain right up to the redoubts, leaped into the ditches, climbed the glaces, rushed over the high entrenchment, not a man faltering Hinks' division took seven guns, Brooks' five, and Martindale's two. It was twenty minutes' work, but there were from three to four hundred colored troops lost in that one charge, which shows how well the works were manned, how determined the resistance, how irresistible the onset. It was one of the most splendid charges on record, and reflects great credit on the commander, and imperishable honor on those who thus carried the works scientifically planned, elaborately onstructed, and commanding the city of Petersburg. There has been a great change of opinion relative to the efficiency of colored troops. I hear no vile epithets applied to them. They are equals, and are treated with respect There has been considerable romance about their fighting. One correspondent says that they kissed the cannon. I do not find, upon inquiry, that they made any such extravagant manifestations. One, I am informed, leaped upon a gun, exclaiming. "This is mine!" He had for an example "Old Put," who had a pet mortar in the siege of Boston, as Foruthingham informs us in his history, if my memory serves me, though I think the sable soldier who mounted the gun as if it were a horse, never heard of the old wolf killer's doings.

HUMANITY OF THE COLORED TROOPS.
It has also been said that the negroes take no prisoners, leaving it to be inferred that they remember Fort Pillow, and are bent on having relentless retaliation. It is not so. I have made diligent inquiry, and have yet to learn that they have in a single instance retaliated upon prisoners falling into their hands. On the contrary, General Hinks informed me that he saw two wounded colored soldiers helping a rebel wounded worse than they to the hospital! It is evident, however, that the rebels think that they are to receive no mercy at the hands of the negroes. A guilty conscience needs no accuser. But how will it look in history—this barbarity on the one side, and this exhibition of forbearance, humanity and Christianity on the other? Which will shine brightest? It is hard to wait for the coming years—for the time when such forbearance will be appreciated. When I read of Fort Pillow, I am ready for an exhibition of vigorous Christianity—a use of the bayonet; but who does not admire the leniency and mercy of the colored troops in contrast? Little do the rebel cotton lords, who have prided themselves on their plane of civilization, comprehend their position when set against that of their slaves—slaves once, but no longer—their damning shame—their barbarism now and forever held in abhorrence. The colored men of America are making swift advance. The rebels are their best helpers just now—helping through their inhumanity.
I would not wish to have it understood that I think a negro better than a white man. God is the creator of all. They are men, and are showing their manhood, just as thousands of soldiers from New England and the whole North are doing. To make first rate soldiers they need discipline and instruction. To make good citizens they need education. They are receiving it. They have begun, and will go on. General Smith, commanding the 19th corps, speaks in high praise of their conduct. "They were subjected," said he, "to a six hours' shell fire, losing constantly, and they did not flinch. I was astounded at their good behavior." This is high praise, freely accorded. CARLETON.
NEAR PETERSBURG, July 7.
To the Editor of the Boston Journal:
Day and night, night and day, the contest goes on in front of the 9th and 18th corps. The 5th and 21 and 6th are quiet. The enemy shows no disposition to keep up a constant picket fire upon those corps. By this discrimination? Because in the 9th and 18th corps "there are colored troops. That is the reason. They are determined to maintain bitter hostility toward the colored troops, and toward all who are immediately connected with them. It is systematic hostility—ingrained, bitter, revengeful, relentless. They show no mercy toward a colored man found in arms. They will not recognize him as a prisoner of war, neither as an enemy toward whom they are to be lenient in the least degree. Long ago slavery proclaimed that the colored man had no rights which a white man is bound to respect. They carry out the infamous opinion of the time-serving judges who pronounced it. For the colored soldier there is nothing but victory or death— death in its horrible forms—murder, slaughter, massacre!
There are about thirty killed and wounded every twenty-four hours In the Ninth Corps, simply because the rebels hate the colored troops. There is a steady flow of blood upon the ground—a constant sacrifice of life, a mangling of men by this Moloch of our own generation, it pains me to say that there are those in the army and out of it, who are not willing that the colored man should be recognized as a man.
"The negroes ought not to be allowed to fight," said a Massachusetts Captain last night.
"Why not, sir?" 
Because the rebels hate us for making them soldiers!" was the reply.
He added, "I don't know but that they have souls, but I look upon them as a lower order of beings than ourselves!"
The old prejudice remains. We are not willing to do justly. We are not ready as a nation to recognize the negro as a man. We ask him to fight our battles, but we pay him only half wages.
The rebels slaughter the colored troops like sheep. They are deaf to alls of quarter, refusing to receive them as prisoners of war. They outrival the Indians in barbarity, but nothing is done about it. We are losing an average of thirty soldiers a day for no other reasons than these; because the rebels hate the negro, and because our government is too pusillanimous to take measures severe enough to command respect from the rebels for colored troops.
From my seat here at the foot of a pine which casts a-graceful shade over this dusty, broiling day, I have a full view of the rebel line of works where, on the 15th of June, the colored troops of the 18th corps won for themselves a fame which will have a record among the many splendid achievements of the Union army. There is the wide plain, the fallen trees over which they advanced; there are the redans of the enemy, the deep ditches, the connecting curtains, the embrasures from whence eighteen guns belched their flames, sweeping the ground with grape and canister. It is the field of victory. Without faltering, without flinching, the colored troops of General Hinks' division moved with the steadiness of veterans upon those formidable works, and carried them at the point of the bayonet. There, at the Dunn house, enclosed by a strong redan, is the hospital. Walk through those wards with me. There are several hundred soldiers, all of them colored, torn by shells, by grape, by minie bullets. They bear their wounds patiently. A few rods distant there is a row of graves, newly made. They who had no home, no country, nothing, have found a home, a country, an inheritance at last upon the battle-field. Their country is not here, but beyond our sight, to be revealed when we join them. But are not their comrades who remain, who are now in the trenches, where, as I write, I hear the rattle of must kits and the bunting of bombs—are not they deserving of a country here? The flag that floats above them is not theirs. It means nothing. To us it is a home, comfort, blessings innumerable and inconceivable; it is life, the symbol of everything worth living for, but to them it is not the symbol of a vague, undefined, I blind hope of something in the future. They cannot fight for home, for country, for institutions. Standing here upon the ground yet strewn with the wreck of battle, broken muskegs, cannon balls, unexploded shells—the scene of their victory, my cheek burns when I recall the words uttered by a Massachusetts captain last night, and remember that our government and the nation are not ready to be just or generous to the colored race.
Punishment is corrective as well as retributive. It sharpens the conscience. So, perhaps, when we have suffered enough—when hundreds and thousands more of our brave brothers have fallen—we shall not only demand from the enemy a recognition of the colored troops as soldiers on equal looting with other troops, but also be willing to recognize the colored man and entitled to the same privileges which we enjoy under the flag of our country. CARLETON.
The tone of "CARLETON" it greatly exaggerated. Because full justice is not yet meted out to the colored soldiers, it is preposterous to say that they have no motive to engage in the struggle, and that the flag which waves over their heads is of no value to them. They know better than this. Under that flag the most of them have obtained their personal liberty, with their wives and children, and the bestow <illegible> of that rice less boon is the promise of better things to come. How the rebels regard it U obvious!
<c03>
EMANCIPATION IN MARYLAND.
The loyal residents of Elkton, Maryland, a place that has been ridden of its Secesh inhabitants, had a very happy and patriotic gathering on the Fourth of July in honor of the day and of emancipation in "My Maryland." If there are any Copperheads remaining in that place, they are as fangless and as harmless as in the city of Baltimore. At early dawn, salutes were fired and the gay flag of America was hung to the breeze. The people were determined to have a fine celebration, and well did they succeed. Everybody was cheerful. Men, women, and children came for many mites; delegations from every part of the Eastern Shore were present, and all seemed in earnest in the support of the recent State Convention that burst the shackles of slavery, and gave freedom to the bondmen. My Maryland now takes rank in the progress of civilization. Its soul is marching on. The celebration of yesterday will be renewed on every Fourth of July until time shall be no more. These were the general sentiments of the people there, and particularly those of Cecil county, who, as a body, were always in favor of the old flag.
The celebration of yesterday took place in McCullough's woods, which spread their grateful shade a short distance north of Elkton. Dinner was served up at one o'clock, in which ladies and gentlemen participated. After the closing of the festive scene, the meeting was called to order, front seats being reserved for ladies. 
The proceedings were opened with prayer by the Rev. Mr. Curtis, who addressed the Throne of Grace in an eloquent and appropriate manner. After this came music from the St. George's band and Elkton band, and the surrounding woodland and vales reechoed back again the soul-stirring strains of the Star Spangled Banner.
Colonel Ash presided on this occasion. In a few pertinent remarks he introduced John Perkins, Esq., who read in clear and distinct tones the Declaration of Independence.
The orator of the day was A. B. Sloanaker, Esq. In the course of his eloquent oration he said:—
Emancipationists of Maryland: You have done well in choosing this day for the interesting ceremonies in which we are engaged. It argues well for your loyalty, and also for the practical love in which you hold the principles of universal freedom, that you have selected the birthday of American Independence, a day which, in common with the birthday of our National Constitution, ought to be most sacred in the hearts of the American people. Maryland Emancipationists! there is something in your name that I like, for it goes to my heart. It speaks to me of nothing narrow or sectional in your organization. It tells me of your devotion to the Union and the blessed free labor system of the loyal North, which at last has so justly won the admiration of the masses of your people. It assures me that your bright star shall never be torn from our glorious national banner; that you will ever be found on the side of the Constitution and the laws; that you will ever carry the flag and keep step to the music of the Union. (Applause.)
This ensign of human liberty which is now leading our brave boys to victory in support of the national authority, whose policy has been the advocacy of those godlike doctrines of universal freedom, which you, as a people of a State, are now about giving new birth to in the Constitution of your Commonwealth, and for which principle all the people of the loyal States are now fighting in all the battle-fields and naval engagements of this rebellion, is freedom's ensign of the Union. (Great applause.)
Emancipationists in Maryland!. friends of radical freedom in America! allow me, before I take my seat, to beseech of you not to forget the teachings of the lessons of this hour, and guide yourselves in obedience to the necessities of the events of the war, so that in sincerity and in truth you can ever say—
"Forever float that standard sheet,
Where breathes the foe but falls before us;
With freedom's soil beneath our feet.
And freedom's banner waving o'er us."
Mr. Sloanaker retired amid the most enthusiastic demonstrations of applause and waving of handkerchiefs.
Impromptu speeches were delivered by Attorney General Tolbert, Hon. J. A. Jones, Governor Cannon, of Delaware, Amos Briggs, Esq., and others.
Letters were read from Hon. Simon Cameron, Hon. H. Winter Davis, and other prominent emancipationists, regretting that circumstances were such as to preclude the possibility of attendance. At 8 o'clock in the evening, there was a grand display of fireworks, and thus closed an eventful day in "My Maryland."—Phil. Press.
PRESENTATION TO THE PRESIDENT. The colored people of Baltimore, desirous of testifying their appreciation of the distinguished services of President Lincoln in the cause of human freedom, are about to present him with a copy of the Holy Bible, which is a masterpieces of art and taste. It is the imperial quarto of the American Bible Society, bound in purple velvet, with heavy gold mountings, appropriately engraved, and enclosed in a walnut case lined with white silk. The total cost of this elegant gift is $580 75. The inscription upon the presentation plate is as follows:—
To
ABRAHAM LINCOLN,
President of the United States,
The Friend of Universal Freedom,
From
The Loyal Colored People of Baltimore,
As a Token of Respect and Gratitude.
Baltimore, July 4, 1864.
Intrinsically valuable as this gift may be, it is of little account in comparison with the sentiment it represents or embodies. It will be properly appreciated by the great champion of Emancipation; it will take its appropriate place in the history of his efforts toward the accomplishment of that grand consummation in which Maryland has taken a leading part. It will form one of the best and proudest memorials it has ever fallen to the lot of any public man to transmit to posterity. This expression of the "respect and gratitude" of our colored citizens is highly creditable to them, and we are glad to chronicle so noteworthy an occurrence.—Baltimore American.

THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT.
The Richmond Enquirer, of July 4, publishes an extremely long and prosy address from the Virginia Legislature to the soldiers from that State now in the field. It rehearses the history of the country from old Colonial times, shows how the anti-slavery spirit grew up in the North, alludes to the John Brown raid, and says:
"It was at this critical juncture of our history, in November, 1859, that Abraham Lincoln was chosen President of the United States. He was an obscure man, but little known at the South, whose life was a chequered book from which texts of various and conflicting significance could be drawn to puzzle public expectation.
But there was one text graven on the pages of this book that admits of but one reading. Mr. Lincoln was the author of that hideous sentiment, that the States of the Union could not remain part free and part slave States, but, on the contrary, they must he wholly free or wholly slave. And as the Southern States had never evinced a desire or design to impose their institutions on the free States, it followed, as of logical sequence, that Mr. Lincoln thought the free States were bound, by a manifest destiny, to crush out the slavery institution in the South. This shocking sentiment, which could only be made practical through seas of blood, endeared Mr. Lincoln to a people already educated to that cruel issue.
The Richmond Enquirer indulges in much glorification over the pursuit of Wilson's expedition. It says the Yankee loss in the fights at Sapping Church and Ream's Station was over two thousand in killed, wounded and prisoners. We have also taken fourteen pieces of cannon, six hundred horses, and many wagons and ambulances, besides seven hundred negroes recaptured who will be restored to their owners. Our loss from all causes is very small
THE NEXT PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION. The passage of the bill by Congress which takes from the States formally declared to be in rebellion the right to participate in the next Presidential election will reduce the votes in the electoral college to be chosen next November to two hundred and forty-one. The States thus excluded are Virginia, North and South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas, Tennessee and Florida—eleven in all, comprising eighty-nine electoral votes, were they in a condition to cast them. Three territories have been authorized to form State governments, but none of them will have time to do so in season to vote at the next Presidential election, and one of them (Nebraska) has already declined this tender of the privilege of becoming a State. The following, therefore, are the Stales which will participate in the next November election, with their respective number of electors:—
STATES ELECTORS. STATES. ELECTORS.
Maine, 7 Ohio, 21
New Hampshire 5 Induana 13
Massachusetts, 12 Illinois 16
Rhode Island, 4 Michigan, 8
Connecticut, 6 Minnesota, 4
Vermont, 5 Iowa 8
New York, 33 Kansas, 3
New Jersey, 7 Kentueky, 11
Pennsylvania, 26 Missouri, 11
Delaware, 3 California, 5
Maryland, 7 Oregon. 3
West Virginia, 5 Wilconsin, 8

Total, 24 States, 241
<C04>
THE McCLELLAN ECHO. There are many locallties in the world famous for their echoes, bat we do not remember any account of a more remarkable echo than their heard at the Fremont Ratification meeting at Cooper Institute, on Monday night of last week. John Coehrane, the Cleveland nominee for Vice-President, who was present on the occasion, and calling very loudly, as it would seem, for the express purpose of awakening echoes, suddenly heard one clear and distinct, and at once informed the meeting thereof. John gave the information thus?
"I hear from yonder direction the name at Geo. B. McClellan—(enthusiastic cheering and a voice— ' I will spend a hundred dollars on him myself')—and yonder, as the echo of that name, I hear the name of John C. Fremont. (Great applause.)"
This, although it may not settle the question what McClellan is, or what be may become at the Chicago Convention, settles what Fremont is, and what he was at Cleveland. We have it now from the lips of the prospective Vice President, that John C. Fremont is nothing but the echo of McClellan. Being so, and all the cheering on that Monday night when the echo was heard, being for McClellan, there must have been some mistake in calling the Cooper Institute gathering a Fremont meeting. It was a McClellan meeting, and the next place where Fremont will naturally again be heard as nothing but the echo of McClellan will be at Chicago. Of what name is John Coehrane himself the echo? He once said that he "would rote for the infernal devil if held up by the Democratic party." There must have been an echo then, and it would have been a most extraordinary one if the word returned was "saint."—N. Y. Statesman.
LINCOLN AND FREMONT IN MISSOURI. It seems that Fremont's strength in Missouri has been pretty much dissipated by his recent extraordinary course. An indication of this is thy fact that there is not an English paper in St. Louis to support him, and efforts are being made to start one for that purpose.
On the other hand, the St. Louis Democrat, the leading Radical organ of the State, gives a list of twenty-one papers, published in the interior of Missouri, which have hoisted the name of Lincoln and Johnson. It adds: "This list is not quite full. When completed, it will comprise about three-fourths of the entire press of the State. It shows the unanimity of the great Radical party of Missouri, and puts beyond question the triumph of that party at the November election."—Toledo Blade.
THE DEMOCRATIC "HOLLER." In the hurry of writing last week we omitted a point, too good to be lost, in the speech of Mr. Claiborne of Missouri, at the Fremont Ratification Meeting. He told his auditors, it will be remembered, that he was a Democrat and a delegate to the Chicago Convention. He said he had made a rapid journey from Missouri, losing his sleep for several nights, in order to attend this meeting, and to feel the pulse of the Democratic masses of New York. "I know, said he," that I have the Democracy here before me; I have attended Democratic meetings all my life, and I know a Democratic. 'holler' when I hear it. You can't cheat me." This remark was followed by cheers and yells worthy of old Tammany herself! Mr. Claiborne was right; the meeting was composed chiefly of Democrats, and its spirit was Democratic, using that word in its worst sense. The Abolitionists present were few, and they were there, not as participants, but as mortified and indignant spectators.—A. S. Standard.
Mr. Heinzen, editor of the Boston Pionier, a German paper, gives an account of a recent conference between General Fremont, Wendell Phillips, and himself, upon political matters. General Fremont was especially earnest as to the necessity of combining all the elements of opposition in order to defeat Lincoln; and of these elements he said: "The Democratic party furnishes the largest contingent." The substance of General Fremont's declarations, as given by Mr. Heinzen, is: He is opposed to Lincoln; he is in favor of negro franchise; he is opposed to Lincoln; he is in favor of qualified confiscation, more or less, as the Democracy will consent; he is opposed to Lincoln; he is in favor of a union of all who are opposed to Lincoln; he is opposed to Lincoln. Negro suffrage is the only plank in this comprehensive platform which the Democrats have not already accepted; and it will be easy to make arrangements by which the "Radical Democracy" will go for it, and the Hunker Democracy against it, while both vote for the same man.
GEN. GRANT AND THE PRESIDENCY. In commenting upon the possibility of Gen. Grant, in a certain contingency, accepting a nomination for the Presidency, the Milwaukee Sentinel says:—
"We know from perfectly reliable sources that Gen. Grant has peremptorily refused, in advance, any offer of the Presidency. He replied to those who were seeking to learn his views on the subject, that while the war lasted, no earthly inducement could take him voluntarily from his present position, and that even should the war come to a speedy conclusion, he would be the most ungrateful of men to run against Mr. Lincoln. This declaration conies to us through the most trustworthy sources, and affords us conclusive proof that Gen. Grant has fully decided not to enter the political arena. And those who know him, know that he is not apt to waver when he has made up his mind one way or the other.
We have seen a letter from the army which says not a man in the regiment desires Lincoln's reelection.—Boston Post.
We have seen a letter from the army in which it is stated that the hope of the country is in the re-election of Mr. Lincoln, and adding, too, that, "such is the feeling among the boys."—Newburyport Herald.
The following absurd exaggeration in regard to the Fremont ratification meeting in St. Louis appears in Wilkes's Spirit of the Times of last week .
"The reports which reach us by telegraph state that over twenty-four thousand citizens bearing torches, and many of them mounted, were in the Fremont procession, and that the masses went to the place of meeting, chanting the Marseliaise. A perfect frenzy seemed to prevail throughout Missouri for the Pathfinder, and there cannot be a doubt that the State will go for him by an immense majority."
The author of that telegram could have been no other than Moss, "the wild man of Iowa."—Missouri Democrat.
The assistant whom Blondin was wont to carry on his back across the Niagara was a Milanese, who, breaking down in his affairs, resolved to commit suicide. Blondin got him to be his assistant in the perilous feat by the following logic:— 
"If we are drowned, very good; you are drowned according to your intention. If you arrive safe on the other side, the fortune of both of us is made.
"The terrible feat was accomplished, and the two friends have since been inseparable companions.]
This is the argument which Cleveland addresses to Chicago. But though General Fremont may be able to carry the great weight of Mr. Coehrane, it is impossible that he should also sustain McClellan and Vallandigham.—Philadelphia Press.
THE NEW YORK INDEPENDENT. No one doubts the radicalism of the New York Independent—The odore Tilton's paper. It has lead in the van in every progressive movement upon the slavery question which has of late years been made, with a perception so clears to make it a most safe and competent pilot. Its views, therefore, in the present confusion upon the Presidential question are entitled to great respect, and the subjoined extracts, which we take from the last number of that paper, indicate a great deal of penetration and good sense. They are true in every word and letter; and we would ask for them a careful reading on the part of every Radical man who has not yet got his eyes open as to the true meaning of what Tilton defines as "the Cleveland stratagem." Taken in connection with the developments made at the late New York Fremont and Cochrane ratification demonstration, they must carry conviction to every reasonable mind.—Missouri Democrat.
RADICAL COPPERHEADISM. This epithet may seem ungracious, but it is eminently just and fitting. We have not seen in any Democratic Copperhead paper a passage more false and malicious that the following, from the New Nation, the Fremont organ in New York, which abuses Grant quite as ferociously as it does the President:—
"If Grant does not take Richmond by the 4th of July, it is clear that the Administration, with a guilty design, has abused the credulity of the people, and that Grant, through stupidity or malice, has been the accomplice of a disloyal maneuver, with the aim of assuming the supreme command of the army, and of procuring in exchange Lincoln's reelection; in this case, good sense and the loyalty of an indignant people will dispose of two guilty persons, in spite of the gold of contractors and executive patronage."
The Iowa Tribune, the leading German paper of Southern Iowa, repudiates Fremont, and raises the Lincoln and Johnson flag.
FERNANDO WOOD. The rare disgrace of being overwhelmed with hisses from the floor of the House was woo by Wood when he begged God to forgive him for the crime of having aided to send soldiers into the field to fight the rebels. Several democratic members denounced the sentiments.
<C05>
GEN. LEE'S LAND. The Washington Republicans says:—"A happy thought has occurred to the Secretary of War, which it gives us pleasure to record:
 First. He ordered Col. Green to organize the Freed-man's Village, for the protection of the Mack man and his family, upon the Arlington estate, belonging to the rebel Gen. Lee.
Secondly. He has himself recently selected a site upon the same estate for a national cemetery for the burial of loyal soldiers who die in Virginia from wounds inflicted by Lee's orders.
Gen. Meigs has been directed to supervise the laying out of the grounds. How appropriate that Lee's lands should be dedicated to two such noble purposes —the free living black man whom Lee would enslave, and the bodies of the dead soldiers whom Lee has killed in a wicked cause. Let this record stand to the everlasting credit of Secretary Stanton. We cheerfully award it.
Rev. Calvin Fairbanks, recently released from prison in Kentucky after a captivity of twelve years and fire months, where he was confined for assisting slaves to escape, was married on June 9th, at Oxford, Ohio, to Miss Mandana Tileston, daughter of the late Cornelius Tileston, of Williamburg. When he was imprisoned twelve and a half years ago, these parties were about to be married, and preparations for the wedding were made. Through all his long captivity, Miss Tileston remained faithful to him, and never relaxed her efforts to secure his release. She visited the Governor of Kentucky more than once, and personally pleaded that he be set at liberty. They were married in church, which was filled with spectators on the occasion, the public schools, in which Miss Tileston was a teacher being closed. Her pupils presented her with a beautiful album on this interesting occasion, and a large gathering of people, moved by sympathy for the released captive, followed the couple to the depot to bid them farewell. Mr. Fairbanks came out of prison apparently a wreck, physically, but he has recuperated wonderfully since breathing the air of freedom, and is now quite well. He and his wife intend to reside in Williams burg.—Northampton (Mass.) Free Press.
DEATH OF ADJUTANT HENRY W. HALL. Intelligence has been received of the death of Henry W. Hall, Adjutant of the 51st Illinois regiment. Adjutant Hall was the oldest son of Rev. Nathaniel Hall, pastor of the First Church in Dorchester, Mass. He was prepared for college in the high school in that town, and was one of the four pupils who left it, as its first graduates, to join the class of 1860 at Harvard. He remained one year at Cambridge, and afterward finished his collegiate studies at Antioch College. He chose the law as his profession, and was in Chicago, fitting for the Bar, when the war began. He at once connected himself with the 51st Illinois regiment, and soon became one of its Captains. He resigned his position to take that of Adjutant,—declining promotion, and hold that office to the last. He possessed fine mental and social endowments, which made him admired and beloved by all who knew him, and his whole heart and soul were in the contest for the supremacy of the old flag, for which he has laid down life.
Ex-Governor Andrew H. Reeder, who recently died at Easton, Pa., will be remembered as one of the territorial Governors of Kansas. Appointed by President Pierce under the belief that he would aid in the iniquitous scheme for bringing Kansas into the Union as a slave State, to "maintain the balance of power" between the North and the South, Gov. Reeder became thoroughly disgusted with the atrocities of the Border Ruffians, and, failing to carry out the programme of the slavery propagandists, a pretext was found for his removal. Gov. Reeder became convinced by his Kansas experience of the thoroughly pro shivery character of the Democracy, renounced his allegiance to the party, and continued a Republican to the day of his death.—Boston Journal.
VOTE ON THE ENROLMENT BILL. Mr. Smithers's Bill, repealing the commutation clause, was carried in the House by a vote of 79 to 73. All the yeas were Republican Unionists. Of the nays, 6o were Democrats and Border State pro-slavery, and 7 were Unionists, viz: Blaine, Brown of West Virginia, Franck, Scoffed, Stevens, Webster and Whaley.
Mr. Sujnner's amendment to the Appropriation bill, providing that in the courts of the United States there shall be no exclusion of any witnesses on account of color, passed the Senate, June 25th, by the following vote:
YEAS—Messrs. Anthony, Brown, Chandler, Clark, Conness, Dixon, Foote, Grimes, Hale, Harlen, Harris, Hicks, Howard, Howe, Lane, (Indiana) Lane, (Kansas,) Morgan, Morill, Pomeroy, Ramsay, Sherman, Sprague, Sumner, Ten Eyes, Trumbull, Wade, and Wilson—27. 
NAYS.—Messrs. Buckslew, Carlile, Cowan, Davis, Hendricks, Johnson, McDougall, Powell, Riddle, Saulsbury, Van Winkle, and Willey.
HENRY WILSON. Senator Wilson has not escaped the criticism of some members of his own party, while he has met the incessant abuse of the opposition, for his course as Chairman of the Military Committee of the Senate. We do not now remember any instance, however, in which there has been a question raised of his honest and patriotic devotion to his duty. It is not at all singular that, at times, the prudence of his speech or the expediency of some recommendation of his may have been doubted. We are certain that every member of the Senate has, more or less frequently, thus fallen under the censure of friends. But Henry Wilson has, from the day he entered the Senate to the present moment, in our judgment, and we believe in the judgment of the great body of the people of the State, been an honest, faithful, hard working, and certainly an able public servant. No man has been more laborious in the committee room, more ready in the Senate Chamber, or, we believe, more single-hearted and unselfish in purpose to sustain the government in its trial hours, than Henry Wilson; and we hear but one opinion expressed by the Republicans of this section, in reference to his reelection the coming winter. Of his return to the Senate for another term, we think there is no question.—New Bedford Mercury.
A well-merited tribute.—[Ed. Lib.
THE FIRE AT LOUISVILLE. The Louisville papers say that the fire by which the government storehouse and other buildings in that city were burnt last week was undoubtedly the work of incendiaries. The hospital stores, in charge of Dr. Magruder, purveyor, were first destroyed, including five thousand ounces of quinine, a complete assortment of drugs, sixty thousand blankets, mattresses, etc., to the value of $300,000. Other government property was destroyed, making the whole amount $800,000, which is a total loss. The loss to private parties in buildings, flour, to has, whisky, &c, is estimated at over $400,000, on which there is only $160,000 insurance, of which $10,000 is in the Etna of Hartford.
The new Conscription law abolishes commutation; provides a bounty of $100 for one year's service, $200 for three years' service, and $300 for three years' service for every volunteer; requires a notice of fifty days before a draft; allows recruiting in all rebel States except Arkansas, Louisiana and Tennessee, and allows drafted men to procure substitutes. Messrs. Alley, Blaine; Macy, Patterson, Rice and Rollins, were the only New England members who rooted against the bill.
Sergeant J. H. Harris, (of the Mass. 54th,) a respected colored citizen of Abington, writes to a friend that he has had some tough times, but thanks God that he has got through them safe and sound; and says if he likes to get home, there will be no period he shall be so proud of as the time he gave to this country for her preservation. "This, and this alone," he says, "was what I came for; and I am glad I shall have the pleasure and the great satisfaction of knowing I was one of that noble band which has helped to sare this glorious country from destruction."
CAPE MAY, July 11. The captains and crews of the barques Galanda, Berry, Greenland and Salinda, numbering fifty-six men, left here to-day for Philadelphia, to be followed by fire of another vessel. All these vessels were captured and burned on Friday last by the pirate Florida, off Capes Henry and Charles.
BALTIMORE, July 11. Gen. Baldy Smith arrived here this morning with the 13th Army Corps, to look after the raiders.
BALTIMORE, July 11. The rebel cavalry burnt the residence of Gov. Bradford this morning. It is only four miles oat from this city, on the Charles street road. A squad of ten rebels set it afire. They ordered out the Governor's family, permitting them to take only a few valuables, and then set the building on fire. The furniture and everything in it was destroyed. The Governor was in the city at the time, and therefore was not captured.
The first anniversary of the battle of Gettysburg was celebrated by the people of that place on the Fourth.
A NATIONAL FAST DAY APPOINTED BY THE PRESIDENT. The President, pursuant to the recommendation of Congress, appoints the first Thursday of August as a day of humiliation and prayer.
The rebels have adopted a new plan of surprising and capturing or outposts near Fredericksburg. They advance toward our pickets with arms at a trail, indicating a surrender, but when within a few yards of our men they recover arms and fire. One day last week they practised this game, and succeeded in wounding and capturing about sixty men.
<C06>
GEORGE SUMNER ALLEN]
LOWELL, July 11, 1864,
Mr. GARRISON,
DEAR SIR—Our friends, Mr. Nathaniel Allen and wife, desire me to communicate for the information of anti-slavery friends the sad intelligence of the death of their son, GEORGE SUMNER ALLEN.
He was wounded in the battle of Coal Harbor, near Bethesda Church, on the 30th of May last, and died the 31st. They have just received correct accounts from the only surviving officer in the company, having been all this time in most agonizing suspense. They have another son, who has been wounded, but recovered, and returned to the scene of warfare, to be sacrificed, they fear, like the other.
Thus is this terribly cruel war drinking up the best blood of the nation, and still crying, "Give, give!" Mr. Allen was one of our earliest abolitionists, when to "side with truth, through noble, was only to share her wretched crust," and subject one's self to all sorts of unscrupulous abuse and reproachful scandal.
They have apparently spent the best part of their lives in the most self-sacrificing devotion to the moral warfare against slavery; and who shall say it was their duty to make this last great sacrifice of these noble and almost idolized sons to the demons of Slavery and War? 
Yours, &c., SARAH CLAY.
DIED— in New York, Gen. GEORGE P. MORRIS, well known for many years as one of the editors of the New York, Home Journal, and author of the famous song, "Woodman, spare that tree."
In Baltimore, a colored woman, named PHEBE DIPE,
aged 116 years. She recollected occurrences of the Colonial period, and is supposed to have been the oldest person in Maryland.
LIBERTY FOR ALL.—WM. WELLS BROWN will speak on the above subject as follows:—
At Easton, Mass., Sunday, July 17.
N. Easton, Sunday, July 24.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M.D., has removed to 2 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.—Luther Clark, M.D.; David Thayer, M.D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
The True Temperance Platform.
BY R.T. TRALL, M.D.
THE best and most scientific temperance document ever published.
The errors of Temperance Reformers and the medical profession, and the effects of alcohol on plants, animals and man, are here for the first time plainly pointed out.
Price, per mail—paper, 60 cents; cloth, 85 cents.
MILLER & BROWNING,
15 Light Street, New York.
July 15. 3m
MR. AND MRS. D. MACK'S
Family Boarding-School for Young Ladies 
AT ORCHARD HILL, BELMONT, MASS.
THE School will commence the last Monday of September.
Circulars and references when requested.
July 8. 3m
MASON & HAMLIN'S
CABINET ORGANS.

Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN
At a very moderate cost—$85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.

THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as wello as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is assented with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the grear and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N.Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zoned of Mr. Bleacher’s Church, Braun, Wells, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Serrano, &c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Starkest, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars. Free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston, 7, Mercer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26 6m
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand shoul do send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 1, seven cents; Nos. 1 and 2, twelve cents. No. 2 explains the Phonographic Alphabet, given above, and all the more general principles of the Art. All interested in Phonography, the best Shorthand, should send for No. 4 of the Phonographic Visitor, 7 cents. Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 now ready, 22 cents. Address
ANDREW J. GRAHAM, 491 Broadway, New York.
June 24. tDee.1.
A.J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
Sr. PAUL, MINNESOTA.
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants.]
References:
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston.
A.L. PAINE, Esq., Suffolk Bank,, do.
FARWELL, FIELD & Co., Chicage, Illinois>
STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D. C.
May 20. tt.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
COMMENTS.
BY BAYARD TAYLOR.
AT ST.PETERSBURG, AUG. 11,1862.
I. 
Hear me, oh Fatherland, nor bear unheeding,
When love and fear commingled swell the cry: 
In all thy children's wounds thyself art bleeding— 
Thou dar'st not die.
Thou turnest, shuddering, from the swamps of slaughter; 
Thou dropp'st hot tears upon the mounds of slain; 
Thy tens of thousands pour thy blood like water, 
Oh God! in vain.
And still the pale ones, stricken down with fever, 
Pray with weak arms, that once were strong, for thee, 
That thou, irresolute and half deceiver, 
Thy Savior be!
The hour has come: on God's eternal dial 
The fateful shadow pauses at thy name: 
Choose thou to live, redeemed through sorest trial, 
Or die in shame!
Choose thou to be a light among the nations, 
Sheathing in justice power they else might dread; 
Or hear them mock thy children's lamentations, 
That thou art dead!
Choose thou to win forever Freedom's graces, 
In union chaste and pure, that none shall break; 
Or vilely stoop, and still to thy exbraces 
The Harlot take!
Dallying with her, the path thou vainly seekest 
To stable peace and honored victory; 
Call to thy soul the courage of the weakest 
That fights for thee!
Call to thy brow the sternness that o'erpowered 
The threats of kings, ere yet thine arm had grown— 
That smote the wrongs they wrought: nor be a coward 
To thine alone!
The hour has come : turn not away unheeding: 
A Million voices lift with mine the cry; 
From stabs of traitors, North and South, thou'rt bleeding— 
Thou dar'st not die!
II. 
AT CEDARCROFT, PENN., JUNE 1, 1864. 
This hot south wind, that, from the Blue Ridge blowing, 
Dies here in peaceful Pennsylvanian vales, 
Still Menu to surge from Battle's ebb and flowing, 
And burning gales.
But fainter, day by day, the fierce vibrations, 
As south wand move our armies, closing in 
To that last struggle which shall crown our patience, 
And crush the sin.
Not vainly have we sighed, not vainly striven; 
Oar heroes' hearts have not been pierced in vain; 
God has upheld our hands, and to them given 
His sword again!
The Nation turns no more with spirit pliant, 
To court the Evil, on its falling throne: 
Free, and for Freedom now she stands a giant, 
To shield her own.
Her brow is bathed with dew from Heaven's own fountains;
Her lips repeat the ancient rallying-cry; 
She stands erect, majestic on her mountains— 
SHE WILL NOT DIE. 
—Our Daily Fare.
HOME-NEWS IN BATTLE-TIME.
Dying! Along the trodden bloody field, 
Along the field where still the tide of battle ran, 
The Night came down with naming spear and shield,— 
Came down with starry legions mourning in our van; 
Came down and touched the rows of mangled dead, 
Across the knolls and by the little ridges lying, 
With loving smile, and silent bowed her head, 
Like some pale mourner o'er other brave ones dying.
Just on the edges of the stormy fight, 
As the soft night came down, a group of soldiers knelt 
Around a comrade, lying calm and white: 
A stain of flowing blood upon his bayonet-belt. 
Close by him, on the trampled meadow grass, 
Beside his musket, an unopened letter lay— 
A message from the home, which now, alas! 
Must be forever dark, because of this sad day.
"Read to me, corporal," he said at last; 
"Read to me what Mary says—I shall die happier so;" 
Then, while across his face a spasm passed, 
He sadly moaned: "It only came to-day, you know; 
Just at I came a-field 'twas given me; 
I could not pause to read it then; but, comrade, hark!
I'm going now—the long dim way I see—
Read me what Mary says; 'twill cheer me in the dark."
They read him, as he wished, the precious lines—, 
The words of love, of brave encouragement and cheer— 
Read him how Mary, 'mid her household shrines, 
Was hopeful and content; how baby, "little dear," 
Had learned to walk; how Tom had won the prize 
At school, last term; how he, the dear one, far away, 
Was prayed for nightly; how, with straining eyes, 
They waited his return, as for a festal day.
They ceased. Upon the pallid, vacant face, 
A deeper shadow fell, and, with a weary cry, 
The dying soldier sobbed—" Give them Thy grace, 
Oh blessed Father! shield them till the storm goes by!” 
His voice grew faint, then ceased—but one who bent 
Close to the fading lips heard this: "Good-night, my
dears!" 
At if with death's cold chill and pains were blent 
Sweat memories of home-dreams of life's brighter years.
And still the battle throbbed along the hills, 
And still the dying and the dead in billows lay 
Along the slopes and by the crimson rills— 
The night-shades folding all in mantles dun and gray. 
There, where he fell, they scooped a shallow grave, 
And with her letter on his heart, so cold and calm, 
Left him to wait the roll-call of the brave, 
The summons to receive the victor's crown and palm.
SAFE.
BY ALICE CARY.
Ah, she was not an angel to adore, 
She was not perfect—she was only this: 
A woman to be prattled to, to kiss, 
To praise with all sweat praises, and before 
Whose face you were never ashamed to lay 
The affections of your pride away.
I have kept Fancy travelling to and fro 
Full many an hour, to find what name was best, 
If there were any sweeter than the rest, 
That I might always call my darling so; 
And this of woman seems to me the sweetest, 
The finest, the most gracious, the completest.
The dust she wore about her I agree 
Was poor and sickly, even to make you sad, 
But this sad world we live in never had 
An ornament more excellent than she; 
The earthy dress was all so frail that you 
Could see the beauteous spirit shining through.
Not what she was, but what she was to me, 
Is what I fain would tell—from her was drawn 
The softness of the eve, the light of dawn; 
With her and for her I could only see 
What things were sweet, and sensible, and pure; 
Now all is dull, slow guessing, nothing sure.
My sorrow with this comfort yet is stilled: 
I do not dread to hear the Winter stir 
His wild winds up—I have no fear for her; 
And all my love could never hope to build 
A place so sweet beneath heaven's arch of blue
As she by death has been elected to.
SOW BESIDE ALL WATERS.
O, could our inward eye but view,’
Our hearts but feel aright,
What faith, and love, and hope can do,
By their celestial might, 
We should not say, till these be dead. 
The power of miracle is dead.
<C02>
The Liberator.
PHRENOLOGICAL CHARACTER
OF
GEORGE THOMPSON. 
Given by L. N. FOWLER, of New York, while in Glasgow, (Scotland,) in April, 1863.
GEORGE THOMPSON—You have naturally a fine tone of organization, are very ardent, emotional, and susceptible of a high degree of culture; also a strong and vigorous constitution, favorable for the enjoyment of health and long life, but, in consequence of long, severe and continued mental labor, you may have injured or impaired its tone. At the present time, you do not appear to have much vital power; the brain and nerve system has the ascendency; you lack physical strength, have weak circulation of the blood, and the digestive organs are not in a healthy condition; yet you have so much recuperative power that, by complete mental relaxation, your system could rally, and regain its primitive vigor. The mental temperament is exceedingly active, and your strength is mental rather than physical. Your brain is of full size, but it is developed in the coronal rather than in the basilar region. This conformation gives elevation to your mind, and power to your intellect. You live in your sentiments and emotional nature rather than in the gratification of your passions and propensities. The phrenological developments indicate very distinct conjugal love, strong attachment to children, very deep and lasting friendships, permanent and abiding love of home and place, with a fair amount of passionate love. Continuity is not large; your mind it adapted to variety of thought, and you can attend to many different things in a short space of time without confusion. Combativeness is an active organ, and it the most propelling power in the base of the brain; you quickly resist any interference or opposition with your ideas, readily overcome all impediments in your way, are liable to be positive, distinct, and decided in your remarks. Destructiveness, however, it only average in development, and your mind would be better balanced if the faculty were larger; it would give you more executiveness, in a worldly point of view; you have not severity of mind, are kind and genial in your character; it affords you no pleasure to cause pain, or to mar the happiness of others; the weapon that you use it the sword of truth, which comes from your mouth. You have naturally a fair appetite. Your sense of property is only average; you may, from necessity, have cultivated the faculty of acquisitiveness, and rendered it more active than its size indicates, but it is not naturally a vigorous quality of mind, and you value property not so much for its intrinsic worth, but as a means by which you can become independent in spirit, supply your daily necessities, and do good to others. It would be well for you to cultivate economy, and the saving disposition of strength as well as money. Secretiveness is not large; all your tact and management come from experience and discipline of mind. Your natural organization is that of an open, frank, free-minded, candid person. You have scarcely enough cautiousness; are prudent, but have not much sense of personal danger, and are never restrained by feelings of timidity when you have a purpose to accomplish. Approbativeness it developed to a full degree, but you never sacrifice a principle merely to please others; you are not unmindful of praise and approbation, are gratified when your efforts are appreciated, but you have more of the elements of pride, manliness and general dignity than of display, vanity, or affectation of mind. Firmness is large, and has a distinct influence on your character. At times, when firmness and combativeness are joined in action, you manifest great decision, determination and positiveness of manner. These elements are greatly modified by your gentleness and pliability of disposition. The coronal brain is large, giving great moral power. Benevolence is the ruling moral organ, and monopolizes in its action. You have more than the ordinary degree of sympathy, tenderness of feeling, expansiveness of soul, and generosity of mind. It would be very difficult for you to pursue a course that would result in misery to others. Veneration is large, giving respect, deference, a consciousness of superiority when manifested by others, and the feeling of dependence upon a Higher Source. Spirituality is large, and its action is greatly increased through the influence of you highly-wrought mental temperament. You are more easily moved than the majority of men, and your best thoughts are those which the occasion suggests on the spur of the moment; they come unsought, without effort, and give you great earnestness, emotion, and impressibility of mind; in fact, you derive your greatest power from the spiritual medium, for your moral eye is as keen and clear-sighted as the physical, when you feel in a good vital condition, and your mind is not over-fatigued. You have deep spiritual communings and a new light frequently dawns upon your ideas; the source from which it comes being sometimes mystery to you, and yet you know it to be a reality. Sometimes, when you are not in a "good mood," it is difficult for you to express your ideas to your own satisfaction on a subject perfectly familiar, when at other times you can speak as freely and copiously as you desire, without the least premeditation. The organ of language is well developed, and you are seldom at a loss for words in conversation or writing. Your hope is large, and you are naturally sanguine and buoyant in feeling. Your anticipations are bright, and you are seldom gloomy, unless you are too ill to labor. Conscientiousness is large, and has a regulating influence on your conduct to stimulate you to do what you consider your duty. You condemn wrong deeds, and are prompt to defend the right. You are not only kind and humane, but just and upright in your dealings. You may be a little too censorious if others do not approximate to your standard of right and wrong. You have much imagination, scope of mind, and versatility of talent. You easily become impressed with reference to subjects of an ideal and imaginative nature. Your thoughts expand, and you frequently have more to say when you have closed your remarks than when you commenced. You can enlarge, embellish and portray the subject in flowing language. You are particularly fond of the sublime, and delight to contemplate subjects in their grandest and most important aspect. You can imitate, but not mimic very well. You enjoy mirth and wit highly, and, like Sheridan, are disposed to be practical, direct and personal in your style of joking. Your intellectual powers are remarkable; you have an unusual degree of observation, and capacity to accumulate knowledge. You are very much interested in physical phenomena, and generally are well posted with reference to the news of the day. You remember forms and faces very well, and can judge correctly of proportions and outlines. You are a good judge of the laws of gravity, and, as a business man, would have taken correct views of things, their qualities and general condition. You have a superior memory of places and localities; you can describe very graphically any place you have visited. Your memory of facts it good, and yon can recall-many of the transactions of life, especially as connected with your own experience, but you cannot remember dates and the succession of time. You enjoy music and appreciate the arts, are fond of poetry, and much of your prose is blank verse. Causality is fully developed, and aids much in comprehending principles, but your forte is in your power of illustration, discrimination and criticism. You are particularly successful in analyzing, and in rendering a subject clear and plain. You readily discern the characters and motives of others, and can adapt yourself to a variety of circumstances and different social grades. You understand human nature quite well; are naturally youthful, and can make yourself agreeable and acceptable to those with whom you choose to associate. You possess one very distinctive feature of mind, that of perceiving front the first glance of a subject what its termination will be.
<C03>
This is a prophetic gift, and the more harmoniously your mental and physical powers are blended, the clearer are your perceptions. The Central portion of your brain, from the root of the nose to the recipital spinalls, is well developed, which gives great power to the intuitive qualities of mind. You come to your conclusions at once, without stopping to reason from cause to effect. You require to be in a good physical condition to enable you to do justice to yourself or your subject. You need to have all the surroundings of an exhilarating or stimulating nature, in order to excite your sentiments, bring out your sympathies, and rouse your moral qualities; for your character is of the emotional kind. Having large language, individuality and comparison, you have the power, far superior to most persons, to give utterance to the emotions you possess. Your real sphere of life is that where you can do good, promote happiness, and guide others into spiritual channels, as a preacher or philanthropist to devote yourself to the improvement of the race.
WEISS'S LIFE OF THEODORE PARKER.
[From the Christian Examiner for July.]
THEODORE PARKER was an American of Americans. No man in the nation was more penetrated with the idea of the national life; none was either more intrepid and assiduous, or more efficient in its propagation. It seems, therefore, somewhat less than fitting that his Life should come before the American people only as a re-impression, slightly mutilated, from foreign plates; above all, when the peculiar circumstances of the republic are taken into account. We could have wished, also, these goodly volumes might issue from the city that will be associated with his name so long as either endures,—the city which gave so much both of love and of reproof,—the city that first afforded him a hearing and a publisher,—the city that, with all its faults, has done more to nourish ideas than all the other cities of America together,—from conservative, radical, earnest, indispensable Boston. 
But we are thankful for the book, come whence it may, and are not ungrateful to the love and labor which have given it to the world. 
It is a book of much positive merit and of marked imperfection. It is evidently the work of a man whose abilities are brilliant, whose heart was in his labor, who has courage to speak his mind, and whose fitness for this particular task is in some respects peculiar: and one would give evidence of prejudice not to bestow upon it and on the writer some cordiality of admiration. 
But Mr. Weiss's nature differs radically from that of Mr. Parker; and though his capability of dramatic sympathy is quite unusual, it cannot perfectly bridge, or rather no more than bridge, the dissociating space between them. Parker kept the broad, beaten highway of humanity, always and inevitably; Mr.Weiss is fond of separate and select ways Parker was plain, direct, sometimes bold and blunt; Mr. Weiss is nice, curious, fanciful. Parker, with all his immense learning, was solely intent on moral and practical results. In him the tastes of the scholar were to the man as one to a thousand; he lived and loved more than he learned, and the eye of his hope and endeavor was ever on the life of mankind; so that his place is less among men of letters than among the great workers,—the men who aim at effects in history, and who hardly know how to value their own lives save with reference to these effects. Mr. Weiss is an intellectualist; the tastes of the scholar and man of thought arc in him predominating forces. 
This difference appears in the styles of the two men. Parker's style may be compared to a soldier on a campaign, making forced marches to meet the enemy; the beads of sweat are on his brow, the dust is on his garments, attitude is not considered; he is intent only on keeping his place, getting over the ground, and reaching the goal in season; manner is nothing, result everything. Mr.Weiss's style may be compared to a soldier on dress parade, who is there legitimately, is not incited by vanity, but with whom manner is itself the, chief result. His style has point and brilliancy, but lacks the capital merit of simplicity. Its point is not simple and effective, like that of a sword, but multiple, like the facets of a diamond on which the lapidary has labored. Hence the spirit of the two men is unlike to the last degree; and only Mr. Weiss's social geniality, and his remarkable power of placing himself in mental positions foreign to his own, enable him to enter as he does into the character of his subject. 
Again, Parker had a genius for letter-writing his broad and warm nature bred confidence; his salient action made him conspicuous; and his correspondence is, accordingly; full and rich, to the point of wonder. But it followed, of course, from this that much was intrusted to the public. His own heart, moreover, was very near his lips, so that all its moods and heats were reflected in his speech. And as moral irascibility was one of the market features of his character, his heart-beats were sudden and great. Hence his biographer finds great wealth of material, but also great demand for discretion in its use. This demand we think he does not fully meet. A little more of kindly and judicious reserve might have been brought to Mr. Parker's letters, and the privacy of his correspondent might have been more respected. Yet the principle upon which Mr. Weiss acted, that of a brave frankness, is one which healthy feeling and sound literary taste must alike approve. 
The method and arrangement of the book we cannot praise. The abandonment of the chronological order, and the attempt to distribute the correspondence under topics, would be of doubtful advantage in any case, but seems strictly inadmissible In the present case. It might be judicious when the writer was personally of small consequence, and where his circumstances gave to his letters an importance which belonged not to himself; but we cannot think it judicious where the subject of the biography is personally worthy of a biography. We wish to know Theodore Parker; we would gladly trace his spiritual progress from year to year; but in the present work one obtains a total picture of the man at any given time only with extreme difficulty, only by collating passages from the full extent of two volumes. However, the author had a right to adopt the plan which seemed to him best, and criticism of it is, after all, matter of opinion only. But when chronological order is needlessly sacrificed the case is different, and we are obliged to confess our inability to see why the letters from the West Indies, for example, (one case out of many,) should not have followed the order of time. In truth, and to make a clean breast of it, we find the work in this respect not only unsatisfactory, but a little exasperating, and must need wonder that man of Mr. Weiss's quality should have suffered it to assume sometimes a shape so nearly chaotic. 
There are those who find the tone of the author nettling, irritating. Mr.Weiss, doubtless, will feel this complaint to be wholly groundless; but it is not so. He habitually argues sarcastically, and his sarcasm is rather stinging than crushing. It is no made grave and warm, like Parker's, by being saturated with moral passion, but is a kind of cool and gay torturing of his opponents. He presents their position as contemptible, and that is what men are least disposed to endure, and least bettered by enduring.
These faults would have spoiled the work of most men; they leave Mr.Weiss's work still attractive, in some respects admirable. His mind, to say the least, borders upon genius; and his intellect is so bright and vivid, his interest in his task so generous, his understanding of Parker's theoretical postion so clear, and his dash and daring make him so brilliant at a charge, that his pages enchain even those whom they displease. Between his own character and that.of bis subject there is antipodal space; but be has a large infusion of the prope biographical genius,—the ability to assume and realize the mental position of another, and thus the distance is well bridged, though beneath the bridge roll deep sundering seas. In fine, his book is one which electrifies, delights, instructs, and vexes his readers.
"Here lies our good Edmund, whose genius was such, We scarcely can praise it or blame it too much!" 
MR. PARKER AS A SOCIAL REFORMER.
Parker must apply his doctrine alike to past ant present, alike to belief and action, alike to church and state, or else must forfeit the total significance of his life. But the application of it to the living present became more and more the absorbing interest of his soul. "In his own country," says the English Churchman, Farrar, "he is chiefly know as a social reformer."
<C04>
In this effort, again, to establish all modern life on a basis of sacred and universal truth, he is more and more confronted by one great enemy, African slavery in America. His contest with this became to him a symbol of the whole struggle. The dragon recognized its antagonist, and addressed itself to the battle, breathing out flame. The sequel all men know. All men know that our hero-priest gave not back from the encounter; that he advanced upon the advancing monster, and proved abundantly his weapon, whether or not it were of heavenly steel and temper. Life failed him at last; but courage, duty, and clearness of soul failed never; he died, and only by faith knew that he had conquered. He had conquered. Inwardly and outwardly he was victor. Inwardly; for he had faithfully and intrepidly wrought according to his light, and had faithfully opened his eyes to all the light that came. Outwardly; for the spirit of the age wrought with him, and continues his work. Happy the merchant who is a copartner with Destiny! He belongs to a firm that is somewhat older than the world, and which has never yet known in any smallest degree to approach insolvency! Happy he whose divine tasks, even because they are divine, go on to accomplish themselves with growing prosperity, when the faithful hands that began them become cold, and the heart that warmed these to their labor has hushed its beat to hear the coming footfall of the angels! 
In connection with his warfare against slavery it should be said that Mr. Weiss errs in supposing him ignorant of John Brown's plans. He was not ignorant. We have information from one, perhaps the only one, who knows. He conferred with Brown, and the designs which the brave old man sought to execute were jointly matured between them. Why not? If peace can be had, accursed be he that hinders. But what if peace cannot be had? What if the seemings of peace are only wombs, in which death and hell are matured? He is a murderer who needlesly causes the shedding of blood; what is he who centuples bloodshed by cowardly reluctance to recognize an indubitable fact as fact? 
We were of those who regretted Brown's attempt, while honoring his life. Parker was wiser. He had more both of practical penetration and acquaintance with the facts. He saw with clear sight, and knew with sure knowledge, that the struggle must come, and that the sooner it came, the better for the North and for humanity. He dreaded nothing so much as the delay which would put too many Floyd and Buchanan bloodsuckers upon the veins of Northern strength, and deplete disastrously its means, both moral and material, of maintaining the contest. We thought otherwise then; we believed the controversy could be brought to a peaceable, yet sensible termination. Our thoughts were folly; events have dishonored them; events have vindicated the stern prognostic, and therefore the stern action, of this prophet-priest. 
And has the nation considered—has it half considered—what it owes to him and those who wrought with him? "He precipitated the contest," cry Cox and Wood. He did! It is for that very act that the nation is indebted to him. What if the North had been but a little more weakened? The plot to weaken it was proceeding fast, to weaken it by division, destruction of its faith in freedom and in itself. What if the plot had proceeded a little farther? Is not our struggle hard enough, our soil red, our skies smoky and lurid enough, even now? We esteem it beyond question that, but for the moral preparation of the people and the quicker ripening of the contest, which Parker aided powerfully to effect, a war would have ultimately fallen upon the nation of which our present woe furnishes hardly a suggestion. 
Here, then, was truly the travail of a great soul. Our common humanity is honored by the spectacle of such duty, such disinterestedness, such bounty of nature. On what project of selfish advantage did ever this man expand any considerable thought? Here was incredible engagement of mind, here was sleepless labor, here was a burning of the oil of life which consumed more than two years in one. For whom? For what? For himself? For money for place, for fame? He earned money but to expend it for others; so far from seeking a place, he sacrificed his social estimation; he pushed aside the labor which would give him the only fame be valued, and wore out his life in obscure lecture-rooms. What man ever elected more simply and wholly to make burdens of humanity his own? Who has lived more for ends of general good? Who has more entirely forgotten to seek private advantage in his absorbing devotion to public benefit? Like a great river his life rolled, draining off the marshes and stagnancies of his century, converting what else would have been infection and impoverishment into wholesomeness, service, and beauty, and ending but in itself, but in the common sea of man's good.
The impression of his moral self-forgetfulness is enhanced by the slight contrast of that touch of intellectual self-consciousness which belonged to him. Something French, it seems. "Tend this head well," says Mirabeau, on his death-bed; "it is the greatest head in France." "God gave me great powers," says the dying Parker, "and I have but half used them." The same self-consciousness: in all else what difference! This child-colossus recognizes his powers but to devote them,—recognizes them only to confess that they are not his, but Heaven's. 
Love and duty, that are deepest in him, come forth to glorify his last hours. Love and duty, ever secretly throned in his soul, put openly on in these hours the crown and assume the sceptre of their royalty, and shake down their imperial purples as curtains about the couch of the dying hero. That babbling, when his mind wandered, of his work and of old friends whom he imagined near,—is it not the coo and prattle of the baby-angel that is already born in his bosom? Dutiful, dutiful and loving, even in his delirium! Therein spoke the Theodore Parker that the world knew il!, but God knew well. These fancies are the spent billows of his spirit, of that great inner ocean of love, falling afar, and murmuring in dying ripples on the earth-shores that soon they will reach no longer. Truly, ice marble are warmer than tears, and softer than baby lips, compared with the hearts of those who, in coldness and hardness, muttering anathemas, can stand by his bed when, all unaware, he betrays the hidden tenderness and truth of his soul. 
To the world a warrior, iron in armor and terrible in fury of battle, he was to those who knew and understood him the tenderest and devoutest of souls. But his was a soul in travail, wrought upon by the anguish and expectation of its hour. But interest in him as a man, warm as it may be, yields to respect for him as a force in history. He was a cardinal worker. Vast doors into the believing, and, as we trust, blessed future, were opening upon him; he bore the burden of the time's inheritance and expectation even more than that of its sorrow. Vast doors opened upon him; and he is surely not best understood by those who only beard the creak of the hinge under the weight it supported, while they neither discerned the moving gate, nor found in their hearts any hope which looked for the new worlds of faith and freedom that lay beyond.
THE LATE JOSIAH QUINOY, SEN.
The New York Tribune, of the 4th inst., contains a very full and highly interesting biographical sketch of the late venerable JOSIAH QUINCY, Sen. of Boston, from which we take the following extracts:—
While the passions of the majority and the policy of the Government were preparing for the war with England which soon followed, another question came up for decision by Congress and the country, with which Mr. Quincy's name is inseparably connected. We refer to the act for enabling the Orleans Territory to erect itself into a State. At the time of the purchase of Louisiana, in 1804, Mr. Jefferson had hesitated at completing it without the authorization of an amendment to the Constitution. His strict construction principles were directly contravened by the proposed acquisition of territory outside of the original thirteen States. But he was persuaded to yield his scruples in view of the apparent advantage of the scheme, and the purchase was, in fact, a coup d'etat, which altered all the previous relations of the different sections of the country. The principle was then established, which governed the history of the country for fifty yean, that "strict construction" means that the Constitution is to be strictly construed to concede everything that the slaveholding portion of the country demanded. In January, 1811, the Enabling Act was introduced into Congress. Mr. Quincy resisted its passage in the most resolute and impassioned manner. He utterly denied the right of Congress to erect States out of
<C05>
territory not within the boundaries of the original thirteen States, and denounced it as a fatal breach of the original compact of the Constitution. It shifted the balance of power in favor of the slave States, and produced a change in political relations such as the framers of the Constitution never contemplated, and such as were fatal to the objects it proposed to secure. It was in his speech of the 14th of January, on this subject, that he made his famous assertion that it was "his deliberate opinion that, if this bill passes, the bonds of this Union are virtually dissolved; that the States that compose it are free from their moral obligations to maintain it, and that, as it will be the right of all, so it will be the duty of some to prepare definitely for a separation—amicably if they can, violently if they most." This, it is said, was the first assertion of the right of secession on the floor of Congress. But it was a very different doctrine of secession from that preached in later times. The right of resistance to an admitted violation of the fundamental compact is to be very clearly distinguished from that claimed to break up the Government on questions of imports, or on the election of a President not to the mind of the minority. Mr. Quincy's secessionism was a vindication of the rights of freedom against the unconstitutional aggressions of slavery; that of Jefferson Davis the vindication of the rights of slavery against the constitutional restrictions of freedom. He declared that he had thus strongly denounced this measure to preserve and guard the Constitution, and not to destroy it—not for agitation, but for warning—not from hostility to the union, but from an earnest wish to preserve it. He affirmed that the true cause of terror was not the declaration he had made, but the deed proposed. He warned the majority of the consequences of their lust for territory, which, he prophesied, literally enough, "would not stop short of California and the Columbia River." He concluded his speech with these words: "I oppose this bill from the deep conviction that it contains a principle incompatible with the liberties and safety of my country. I hare no concealment of my opinions. The bill, if it passes, is a death-blow to the Constitution. It may afterward linger; bat, lingering, its fate will, at no distant period, be consummated." Whether he spoke in a spirit of true prophecy, let the history of the succeeding fifty years answer, in the long supremacy given to the Slave Power, chiefly through the operation of the principle of the bill, and in the convulsion which followed the first successful resistance to its absolute sway and unlimited extension. He himself adhered to the opinion thus expressed, that the moral obligation of the old States to remain in the Union was released by that action, to the day of his death. 
The remainder of Mr. Quincy's Congressional career was a continued thorn in the side of the Administration. Being in a hopeless minority, the Federalists had no duty to perform but one of constant protest against the action of the majority. As the boldest and most effective speaker they had, he was the most conspicuous and most feared. Every method of interruption and intimidation was essayed to silence his keen invectives, his bitter sarcasms, his clear expositions of the purposes of the war, of the reluctance of the Administration, and of the insolence of "the half-hatched politicians, fluttering and cackling on the floor, the shell still on their heads, and their pin-feathers not shed," which overrode it. His friends considered him in danger of personal assault, and there was more than one rumor that he had fallen in a duel. But, though he at times went armed, and was at all times ready to defend himself against attacks, he made it perfectly clear from the beginning of his Congressional career that he would in no case engage in a duel. And he held that he owed his strength on the floor in a great degree to this circumstance. Many of the prominent Federalists did not take this ground, but professed their readiness to accept an appeal to the "tribunal of twelve paces" when duly made, and, consequently, were very cautious as to what they said that might provoke one. Mr. Quincy did not put his determination to forego the duello on any grounds of reason or religion, which would be thrown away upon those likely to invite him to the field of honor, as much as a demonstration by logarithms or the differential calculus upon a Hottentot. He would say to them on this subject, "We do not stand on equal grounds in this matter. If we fight and you kill me, it is a feather in your cap, and your constituents will think all the better of you for it. If I should kill you, it would ruin me with mine, and they never would send me to Congress again!" This reasoning they could comprehend, and the consequence was, he never was challenged, though the general report has so run. His Federal compeers, though no more afraid of taking the chance of a pistol-shot at twelve paces than their Democratic opposites, were afraid of encountering the rebuke and condemnation which would be sure to meet them at home, and hence they lacked that perfect freedom of speech which Mr. Quincy exercised. The most remarkable attack made on him was that of Mr. Clay, who was selected to demolish him, and descended from the Speaker's Chair for the purpose, as one of his friends told Mr. Quincy, of reducing him to the alternative of a duel or disgrace. This speech lasted two days, and was unparalleled, in those days, as an example of political objurgation and personal abuse. It was marked by fulsome laudation of the Administration, insolent attacks on New England, and coarse invective against his opponent. As, however, he did not deny a single statement nor reply to a single argument of the speech to which it professed to be an answer, (that on the Invasion of Canada, Jan. 5, 1813.) Mr. Quincy deemed ten sentences all the notice it required. His personal and political friends, at least, considered this replication as one of the best things he ever did. After alluding to the fact that the Speaker had left the Chair "to do what no other member was willing to undertake or was deemed competent to perform," he rested his character as a public man on the truth of the facts he bad stated, and of the principles he had applied to them. "Whoever refutes these principles or disproves these facts," he went on, "I honor. He who misrepresents or mistakes either the one or the other, has my pity or my contempt, according to the imbecility of head or corruption of heart to which such mistake or misrepresentation is due. I cannot put myself on the level of retort. That J have never passed the fair limits of parliamentary discussion is manifest, as the Honorable Speaker has never called me to order himself, nor permitted others to do so. As to any personal reflections which have been cast upon me, individually, by him or others, they are free to use their full liberty of speech. Such as my reputation was before Billingsgate opened its floodgates, such it will remain after the nauseous flood shall have passed by." During the eight years of his parliamentary life, Mr. Quincy formed many friendships which lasted during the lives of both parties; but perhaps the oddest of all was the intimacy which he contracted with John Randolph of Roanoke. The eccentric Virginian, who was a Virginian and nothing else in his politics, had parted company with Mr. Jefferson, owing to hit refusal to appoint him Minister to one of the principal Courts of Europe. He went into violent opposition; and though he was never identified with the Federalists in principle, he generally acted with them in their resistance to the policy of Jefferson and Madison. No two men could, apparently, be more diverse than he and Mr. Quincy, and yet a close intimacy sprang up between them which was never interrupted. It is said that Mr. Quincy was the only friend with whom Mr. Randolph did not quarrel at time period of their connection. After the former retired from Congress, a correspondence was kept up between them. Mr. Randolph's letters are most curious and characteristic, and, if ever printed, will be seen to afford in style and thought indications of the success he might have attained in literature had his erratic genius taken that direction. 
Mr. Quincy was eminently handsome at all periods of his life, even down to extreme old age. Three first-class portraits remain of him. One by Stuart, taken in 1806, when he was "in the prime of manhood where youth ends," in the earlier and highly finished style of the artist. The second, also by Stuart, taken in 1826, in his later and freer manner. And the third by Page, in 1842, as President of the University, in the first greenness of his old age. He was not fluent of speech in his later years, though we have heard that his utterance was swift enough in the fiery days of his Congressional conflicts. But though not a rapid talker, whenever engaged in conversation which excited his mind, his words were full of wise thought, illustrated by long experience. He was very happy and ready in impromptu speeches, and an admirable presiding officer at public dinners, during his prime. His interest in public affairs remained unabated to the last; and he was one of the few examples of a man keeping at least abreast with his time to extreme old age. The convulsions and disturbances which slavery has produced of late time he had foreseen and prophesied from the begin-
<C06>
ning as its inevitable fruits, though he had not expected to live to see them ripen. The part which he took in the Fremont campaign is not yet forgotten, and his interest was as great, though his active participation was less, in that which ended in the election of Mr. Lincoln. Far from being east down by the disturbance of public and private affairs consequent upon the civil war which succeeded, he looked upon that war as the most hopeful sigh that he had seen during his long life of the future of his country. He used to say, after the war had begun, that he now believed that we were going to be a great nation, of which he never felt sure before. The respect and veneration in which he was held by all descriptions of men, during his later years, were the just reward of his long life of disinterested public service. He was never even accused by his worst enemies of any by-ends or self-seeking. His public spirit was real, and his disinterestedness perfect, and though he might have reached higher political distinction by a less straight forward public life, it could never have been crowned with a more approving conscience, or a more universal reverence and affection, accorded to him as the patriarch of the public men of America.
RUINED OR NOT?
"Gold is 190, and the property of the country will be destroyed, " says Mr. Faintheart.
"Gold is going to 200, and I shall be broke," says Mr. Weakness.
"I am ruined ! My bank balance is worth only fifty-five cents on the dollar," says Mr. Neverthink.
Let us stop a moment, gentlemen, and look into this matter. Facts are better than fears, and principle is better than prejudice. You are suffering–yes, suffering, there is no other word for it— under in the delusion that the amount of gold and silver coin in the country is an equivalent of its wealth. Now, do you know that the highest financial authorities have never estimated this amount at over two hundred and fifty millions, and it is probably much less, even in time of peace. But suppose we admit that it is three hundred millions; and now do you know that, according to the United States Census of 1860, the wealth of the country—its real and personal property—was estimated (rather too low than too high) at fifteen thousand millions? If you will just take your pencil, and cipher out the proportion that three hundred millions in specie bears to fifteen thousand millions of property, you will discover that it is—what? fifty per cent? No! Twenty-five per cent? No! but exactly two per cent—that is, the whole amount of specie in the country never was two per cent, or a fiftieth part of the specie value of the property; and if, at any one time, the which property of the country had been forced to sale for the specie in the country, it would not have brought two cents on the dollar of its actual specie value.
Specie, or the currency that may stand for it, is only the convenient and recognized medium for making an exchange of products. It represents property in the market, property in transit, but never the fixed property of nation. Money is the lubricator. It don't make value; it simply lubricates the machinery, and keeps the wheels of commerce running smoothly. When too abundant, the wheels run too fast; and when scarce, there is too much friction.
And now, Mr. Faintheart, can you pick a flaw in our statement? Is it not absolute truth? But what shall we say to Mr. Weakkness, who is afraid of bankruptey, and Mr. Nerverthink, who is only afraid of his bank-balance? If Mr. Weakkness is in debt, it is now easy to get out. Pay up while money is plenty, and be happy.
If a mortgage on your land will be due next year or any year, provide for it now while you are getting high prices for everything you sell. But Mr. Never think, you have—say, a bank-balance of $20,000. You are afraid that gold is ging up, or paper going down about out of sight, and you wish to invest this balance in some productive property. Will you buy a house worth only $10,000 in specie, and pay for it $18,000 in currency? Suppose you wish to sell that house after the resumption of specie payments, it will bring you only $10,000, and you will have lost exactly $8,000. Will that be a shrewd operation? We think we can "put you up" to something better—something by which you can make your bank-balance or currency not only worth its face in gold, but a premium besides. Invest in Government Bonds. Buy the 10-40's. After the war is over, they will be worth par in gold, and something over—and they pay a liberal gold interest from the beginning. If they are not safe, then no property is safe. The same spirit of anarchy that would repudiate your property in the national debt, would repudiate it in your house. If the law will not protect you in one description of your property, it will not in another, and your greatest safety as well as profit is in maintaining and strengthening the Government that maintains and supports the law.—Philadelphia Telegraph.
A NOBLE TRIBUTE FROM A KENTUCKY SLAVE-HOLDER RESPECTING HIS NEGRO MAN WHO WISHED TO ENLIST. The Louisville Press of Saturday says: The following letter, from one of the most loyal men in South-Western Kentucky, was presented by a colored man yesterday to the Board of Enrollment of this district. When a noble commentary this letter is on the miserable policy that would exclude such a man as this colored recruit is from military duty!
The loyal master may rest assured that John Hendry is in food hands. He is in the hands of Col. J. H. Hammond, who spares neither time nor labor in training the colored troops for the destiny before them. We risk nothing in saying that Col. Hammond's large camp of colored troops, in the suburbs of this city, is as neatly kept and as well managed as any camp in the United States. His recruits are the best drilled men, for the time they have been in service, that we have ever seen. We were in the camp with Gen. Burbridge last Tuesday, and the opinions we have expressed were expressed by him:
GREENVILLE, Ky., June 19, 1864.
DEAR SIR: The bearer of this, John Hendry, who bears my name, will volunteer as a soldier, and I write this letter to state that I have raised him from a child. He is trustworthy, honest, trusty, and truthful. Should any accidents happen him in the casualties of war, advise me. In order that you may be assured of the writer's character and loyalty, I refer you to Gen. T. L. Crittenden or Gen. Burbridge. I would like for John to have such position in the regiment as his conduct proves he deserves in his future action.
Respectfully.
COLORED SCHOOLS IN NASHVILLE. There are a number of colored schools in Nashville, in a flourishing condition. When first started, great efforts were made to crush them; but they were protected by Gen. Johnson, and now they have become so numerous, and the attendance so large, that all open opposition to them has ceased. I can still, however, see rebels, both grown and juvenile, scowl at the little colored urchins, who, book and slate in hand, pass their door. This little species of bravado is all the revenge that the rebel natives can now exercise. A large number of grown people of color, also, attend these schools—especially females; as the men, who are compelled to labor for the support of their families, are determined that their wives shall possess the rudiments of an education.—Chicago Tribune.
Gen. McClellan has turned speech-maker, and in that capacity is as slow and tiresome as he was in the capacity of General-in-chief of the army. In his oration at West Point, the other day, he expressed his regret that a new Demosthenes or Pericles could not arise and take his place. If we had had an <illegible> or an Alexander in his place two years ago, we should have been better off; but we have but little use for orators now. However, the General can do no mischief by speech-making; that is one consolation. He is described by a correspondent of the Boston Journal as having been unexpectionably dressed, and as wearing white kids. His costume in this respect seems to have been the same as that which adopted while dealing with the rebellion.—Concord (N. H.) Monitor.
A Cincinnati journal makes this pertinent comment upon Vallandigham and his martyrdom:
Vallandigham seems also to have changed his mind on another subject; at least, there is a wide difference between him and "his friends" concerning it. In his speech at Hamilton, the exile declared that he was the "only victim of despotic power in the country." Now according to the way his friends have talked for sometime past, there should be a large number of such victims. What becomes of the rest of the "blessed company of martyrs"?
A negro cook on one of the river beats <illegible> Kansas City shot an Irish hand, who demanded some potatoes of his in an insulting and threatening manner, killing him instantly. The crew and passengers immediately seized the unhappy wretch, and <illegible> first beating him, dragged him on shore and shot him at once.


