THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT-
221 WASHOMGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS —Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI.NO. 2. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1569.
Refuge of Oppression.
GOV. BANKS ON THE PERSONAL LIBERTY
BILL.
Extract from the Valedictory Address of Hon. N. P. BANKS, late Governor of Massachusetts, delivered before both branches of the Legislature, January 3d, 1861:-
During the first, year of my administration, I recommended to the Legislature the revision of the Act for the Protection of Personal Liberty, by the repeal of some of its objectionable features. I limited my objections to such provisions as imposed serious disabilities upon the citizens of the Common-wealth, in derogation of their rights and its duties to them.
The amendments I suggested relieved our own citizens, who, in the pursuit of their own lawful pursuit or under the orders of the government itself, might contravene its provisions, and subject themselves to expensive prosecutions, or dishonorable discharge from public service. It was all I was then able to obtain from the Legislature. Since this period, the pendency of legislation in harmony with the original law has prevented recurrence to this subject. The important events of the time now imperatively demand further consideration of the statute.
Legal advice is sometimes sought for the purpose of ascertaining to what extent prosecutions can be avoided or impeachment prevented, rather than the discovery of what is just and right. Adopting rules of construction which would govern States standing in jealous or hostile attitude, this Act, as it now stands, although operating in an unfriendly spirit against one of the laws of the United States, and pressing the rights of the States to the extremest limits, might be said not altogether to transcend the powers of the Legislature. But there is one provision of the habeas corpus Act which cannot, within any reasonable rules of construction, be so regarded. I refer to the sections relating to, and regulating, the trial by Jury.
The Constitution of the United States declares that "the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion the public safety may require it" It is a writ, therefore, to which resort may be had in all cases.
There are offences, for the punishment of which provision is made by State and Federal governments, and, in such cases, whenever any person is brought before the courts of this State, it is the province of the court to recognize the jurisdiction of that government having the offender in its possession by priority of arrest or prosecution; but where the process, statute and jurisdiction is exclusively in either government, the other must surrender any claim to control the procedure, or qualify the final judgment.
By the Constitution of the United States: "No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such labor or service may be due."
The Legislature of this State has not attempted by legal enactment to give effect to this constitutional provision. It is true, that the statute authorizing the writ of Personal Replevin provides, that in proceedings under such a writ, if it appears " that the defendant is entitled to the custody of the plaintiff as his child, ward, servant, apprentice, or otherwise, he shall have judgment for a re-delivery of the body, to be held and disposed of according to law."
But this statute was not intended to carry into execution the constitutional provisions for the rendition of fugitive slaves, neither would it be admitted that the courts to which such writ should be returnable would be required to return a fugitive slave to the person to whom his labor or service might be due. Such a disposition would not be "according to law" of this State. We have, therefore, no statute law to give effect to this provision of the Constitution, and we cannot under our own legislation even claim, as in some other cases, a common jurisdiction to be determined by precedence of arrest or other cause.
The Supreme Court of the United States has decided that the power of legislation upon this subject is exclusively in Congress. It declares that the clause of the Constitution contemplates the existence of a positive, unqualified right on the part of the owner of the slave, which no State law or regulation can in any way qualify, regulate, control or restrain."
This opinion was pronounced for the Court by Mr. Justice Story; it has been approved by the Legislature of this State, and confirmed by its Supreme Judicial Court. Congress has exercised the exclusive power claimed for it, and it must be admitted that its enactment upon the subject of fugitives from service or labor cannot be annulled, restricted, or controlled by State legislation.
I ask then, Senators and Representatives, to look at the operation of the sections of the chapter of the General Statutes, relating to the writ of habeas corpus, to which I have referred.
In the first place, they refer to fugitive slaves. No presumption shall arise, in behalf of the claimant, it is said, "from proof that the alleged fugitive, or any of his ancestors, had been actually held as a slave, without proof that such holding was legal." ($ 21.)
"When it appears by the return of the officer, or otherwise, that the person, whose restraint or imprisonment is in question, is claimed to be held to service or labor in another State, and to have escaped from such service or labor, the court or justice shall, on the application of any party to the proceeding, order a trial by jury, as to any facts stated in the return of the officer or alleged, and may admit said person to bail in a sum not exceeding two thousand dollars." (&19.)
"If one jury disagrees, the issue may be submitted to another jury, or continued to the next term." ($ 20.)
In every case of disagreement, another jury may be summoned and qualified "forthwith, or at a future day." ($ 20.) The court or justice is authorized to admit the person whose service or labor is claimed, to bail. ($ 19.) The jury is authorized to decide "as to any facts stated in the return of the officer or alleged." The words "or alleged" must be understood to mean, alleged by any party to the proceeding: for the jury may be demanded by either party. The construction of a law for the protection of personal liberty should be in favor of personal liberty. No construction of a statute which defeats its obvious ends, can be authorized or just when a different construction. equally accordant with the words and sense, will enforce and protect them. The proceeding opens to the jury every question involved in the general issue, even to the " proof that the alleged fugitive or any of his ancestors was or had been held as a slave, and that such holding was legal: and the jury, by special provision, is invested with the power of juries in criminal cases, to decide both the law and the fact."
<c02>
It may be that cases may arise to which these provisions may be constitutionally applied, but it does not seem to me that it can be held, in any view, not to interfere with and control the course of procedure, under a constitutional provision and statute which the Supreme Court of our own State, and that of the United States, hold to be exclusively in the power of Congress.
It is not my purpose to defend the constitutionality of the Fugitive Slave Act. The omission of a provision for jury trial, however harsh and cruel, cannot, in any event, be supplied by State legislation.
While I am constrained to doubt the right of this State to enact such laws, I do not admit that in any just sense it is a violation of the national compact., It is only when unconstitutional legislation is enforced by executive authority, that it assumes that character, and no such result has occurred in this State.
No State on the Continent has been more faithful to her constitutional duties as a government, and especially under the Fugitive Slave Act. Her judicial tribunals and her Legislatures have acquiesced in and confirmed the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States, in the case to which I have referred. 
Her highest court has enforced the law of Congress passed in pursuance of that decision, unnatural and unjust as some of its provisions seem to be. She has upheld the decisions of her own courts, recognized the degrees of the magistrates of the United States, and the rights of claimants of other States, which deny to our citizens their lawful rights. She has sustained them all by the strong arm of executive power, though the struggle has chilled her warm and generous heart. She has honored, indiscriminately with other citizens, those who at the bar enforced the rights of claimants, or as soldiers protected them in the possession of property to which they had legal rights, but no power to hold. It is true that she has not thought it expedient that important offices in the State and national governments should be filled by the same man at the same, time, and I cannot but approve her wisdom. 
Not only the courts, but juries, have given unimpeachable evidence of their devotion to the law. When the master of a vessel kidnapped a colored man in one of the maritime counties, and sent him, without authority, precept, or officer, into slavery, so tenacious was a Massachusetts jury of the rights of parties, and so true to their duty as men, that under the instructions of a Judge whom I thought worthy of the highest judicial commission, they acquitted the offender, upon the technical plea that the crime was not committed in the same county where the cause was tried, seeking to put upon the files of the court a verdict that the accused was "not guilty, by want of jurisdiction."
It is doubtless true that violence and crime have sometimes attended the performance of these harsh duties. It is equally true, that the same manifestations attend, at times, the execution of our own laws, by our own officers. 
It became my duty to recommend to the Legislature of 1859, the modification of the law of 1858, relating to the high crime of murder, so far as to include the murder of an officer in the discharge of his duty, by express enumeration, in the class of murders of the first degree, and I understand the Attorney-General renews the recommendation in his report the present year. It is not remarkable that a single officer of the government of the United States should incur the dangers that surround our own. It was in consequence of' these crimes, occurring in the execution of National and State legislation, that the change in the criminal code was suggested. I do not hesitate to say, that as a government, in every sense. Massachusetts has been faithful to her constitutional duties.
It is because she has been thus faithful, that I desire to see her legislation in harmony with her acts. It is because I do not like to see her Representatives in Congress, and her sons everywhere, put upon the defensive, when they have just cause to be proud of her acts; it is because, in the face of her just claims to high honor. I do not love to hear unjust reproaches cast upon her fame, that I say, as I do, in the presence of God, and with a heart filled with the responsibilities that must rest upon every American citizen in these distempered times, I cannot but regard the maintenance of a statute, whether constitutional or not, which is so unnecessary to the public service, and so detrimental to the public peace, as an inexcusable public wrong. I hope by common consent it may be removed from the statute book, and such guarantees as constitutional freedom demands, be sought in new legislation.
It is said, I know with some reason, that no change would satisfy men engaged in treason and rebellion. We ought to remember, however, that South Carolina presents this class of laws in her counterfeited Declaration of Independence, as the first great wrong her people have suffered, and that removal will obviate her first cause of complaint which is made the basis of every other cubontative griovance 
It is said also, that the time is not propitious, that it does not become Massachusetts to act under threats. Every State maintains its own dignity by doing what is right. A State that under threats of coercion does what is wrong, does not greatly suffer in comparison with another, that under similar plea, refuses to do what is right; there is a difference in process, but the difference in results is not worth contest. Besides, this is not an accepted American doctrine. 
When France refused to pay an indemnity secured to us by treaty, under the pretence that she had been threatened with war by a President of the United States, her excuse was not received as a sufficient explanation. The President threatened her again. Congress supported his declarations by a war appropriation, and England, as arbitrator, compelled France to fulfill her treaty stipulations. In fact, the comity of States furnished no good reason for not doing what is right; and rulers are permitted less than others to swerve under the influence of bribes or menaces from the direct and exact line of right. 
The topic presents considerations of policy also. The difficulty in government, as in life, is to ascertain what is right. It is easier to follow the line of right, than it is to divine it, as wisdom is a higher quality than courage; and the world is full of proofs that an obstinate adherence to that which is impracticable, indefensible and immaterial, often compels the truest and boldest men to surrender that which is just in itself and vital to their cause. Our experience in this regard will not differ from that of other men. 

ANOTHER BASE RECOMMENDATION.
The Hon. George Ashmun, of Springfield, Mass., who presided over the convention that nominated Mr. Lincoln for the Presidency, has written a letter to Hon. R. C. Winthrop, in which he uses the following language:— 
* * * "I say, then, without hesitation, that in my judgment the enactments of our Legislature, which are intended or calculated to impair the force and effect of the fugitive slave acts of Congress, are
<c03>
wholly unconstitutional and void. They should never have been passed, and ought not to be permitted to remain on our statute book. I denounced them when they were first projected, and have never failed to feel and express a deep regret that any of our people should have been led, by acts of injustice on the part of any of our sister States, to retaliate, by an act of indefensible wrong on our own part."
* * * "Let us, in coming before the august tribunal of public opinion, and asking for the best judgment of the civilized world and of posterity, strip ourselves of every impediment which may embarrass us in the conflict. Let Massachusetts stand erect, conscious not only of the righteousness of her cause, but of her fitness for its advocacy."
THE GOVERNOR OF MAINE CONTRIBUTING FUNDS TO AID IN STEALING AND RUNNING OFF NEGROES! We clip the following from the Rockland Free Press and Democrat:-
"Previous to the September election, a gentleman in this city, a Democrat, and doing business as a merchant, was accosted in his store by one of the Governor's Council of this State. It happens that the merchant to whom we refer has a partner who is a Republican, and the Hon. Councillor made the sad mistake of taking the Democrat to be the Republican, and addressing him by the name of the latter, introducing to him a Mr.-, of Syracuse, N. Y. Mr.-opened his business by saying that he was an agent for the Underground Railroad, that during the past year 1,000 slaves had been run off from the South into Canada, and that as the business was becoming expensive and required a large fund to carry it on, it had become necessary to solicit subscriptions from Republicans for that purpose. Mr.- then produced a book in which were the names of subscribers, and told our Democrat to examine it, which the latter did. To his surprise he found that it contained the names of leading Republicans in this city and State, and other States. Among them were
JOHN A. ANDREW,….$25 00
LOT M. MORRILL,…. 5 00."
Here were the subscriptions of the Republican Governor elect of Massachusetts, and the present Governor of Maine, to aid in stealing slaves, and Mr.-was going about among the Republicans for further subscriptions. Unless Republicans of this city will perjure themselves, we can prove every word of this from their own lips. They had the documents shown to them, and some of them contributed.
This is not the first time that every respectable citizen of Maine has been put to the blush by the conduct of Lot M. Morrill during his Governorship of this State. That pilfered Fast Day Proclamation has not yet been forgotten.
What think you of this, citizens of Maine? How does it comport with your honor and dignity to have your Governor secretly contribute funds to aid in stealing and running off negro slaves? How far will the repeal of obnoxious Personal Liberty Bills go to restore harmony to a distracted country, when Northern Governors and Governors elect are found secretly contributing money to thieves and robbers to violate, plain provisions of the Constitution'?
This Lot M. Morrill is now a candidate for the United States Senate, to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Hon. Hannibal Hamlin, and with more than an even chance of an election. If his election were doubtful before, this last act of his will undoubtedly recommend him so highly to the Republican members of the Legislature that his success before that body can no longer be problematical.-Bangor (Me.) Union, Dec. 29th. 

SECESSION MEETINGS.
A secession meeting was held in Orange county, Va., on the 27th ult., at which the following resolutions were passed:—
Resolved, From the proceedings in Congress, and other sources of information, we believe the policy of the Republican party will be the coercion of seceding States.
Resolved, That the union of the South is the safety of the South.
Resolved, As the opinion of this meeting, the cotton States will secede; that their destiny is our destiny; and that Virginia should retire before the 4th of March next, and place herself at the head of the column.
Resolved, That every slave State should secede before the 4th of March, and co-operate afterwards. 
Resolved, That, with a united South, Abraham Lincoln will not make war upon fifteen States; but should he do so, may God defend the right!
Resolved, That- be a committee to raise a thousand dollars to assist in the equipment and purchase of arms for the county of Orange. 
A meeting of the advocates of immediate and separate secession was held in New Orleans on the 25th ult., and was largely attended. The following resolutions were passed:— 
Resolved, That the people of Louisiana tender to their brothers of South Carolina congratulation and God-speed in the glorious career upon which they have entered, and in hailing their noble State as a new and independent power, send her this word from the Commercial Emporium of the South:-
"We are patriots, treading fast in your honored steps, and shall co-operate speedily with you in building up a new confederation, which shall bring us safety and honor, from the crumbling materials of the old one, which now seeks to degrade, dishonor and oppress us, when we have SECEDED from it, and can meet you as only sovereign can meet a sovereign."
Resolved, That the guns of old Fort Moultrie and those of the plains of Chalmette, which spoke so eloquently in 1776 and 1815, in behalf of liberty and independence, will speak again louder and deeper and in unison, should the integrity of Southern soil be menaced. 
Resolved, That as Napoleon said of the Empire, the Confederation of the South is PEACE-peace by every exertion of moderation, forbearance and patriotism: peace, until the last resources of argument are exhausted; but come unhappily the other alternative, of which there are at times threats, it will not find unprepared a people
"—— Who know their rights,
And knowing dare maintain."
SECESSION CONSUMMATED.
Yankee Doodle took a saw,
With patriot devotion,
To trim the Tree of Liberty,
According to his "notion!"
Yankee Doodle on a limb, 
Like another noodle, 
Cut between the tree and him,
And down came. Yankee Doodle! 
Yankee Doodle broke his neck,
Every bone about him, 
And then the Tree of Liberty 
Did very well without him!
—New York Journal of Commerce. S. D.
<c04>
Selections.
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
UNHAPPY MAN! And is this to be the end of the disgraceful Administration with which, for our ins, you have been permitted to curse this longuffering people? Is it not enough that by your sismanagement millions have been lavished in futile expeditions, that by your corruption untold amounts of the public money have rewarded your political partisans? And now, as the day hastens when you are to resign the guardianship of the Temple of American Liberty, with which you were foolishly entrusted, will you pull down its pillars, and bury us in its ruins?
I shall not attempt to confute the transparent <illegible>ophistry by which you, in your Message, and the Attorney General of the United States-I mean the Attorney General of James Buchanan-would <illegible> an outraged people. Is any man so foolish as <illegible> suppose that you deceive yourself by your false issues of "War against a State," and other such assumptions?
You have nothing to do with "States,"—you are required to punish TRAITORS! But not only would you try to persude us that you have no authority <illegible>punish treason, but, doing as much as in you lies <illegible> destroy the last hope of the Nation the courage and energy of Congress-you strive to emasculate our National Representatives by terrifying them <illegible> the mortal tremor which convulses your own <illegible>august person. Nor do you stop here! You fling " Parthian dart " behind you, in your ignominious light, aimed at the next Administration, by declaring that unless those States which are alleged to have passed laws deemed by some unconstitutional, hall repeal these laws, the Southern States will be justified in resisting the Federal Government! 
Monstrous doctrine! As if every well-instructed school-boy did not know that it is the province of the Supreme Judicature, not that of any particular State, to decide whether laws are or are not unconstitutional! And yet, almost in the same breath, you tell us, despite these local laws, that in every case which has occurred under your Administration, be Fugitive Slave Law has been enforced! If it be right for two or three hands to contribute to the manufacture of a document signed by one person, surely it is not unreasonable to ask that the signer hall at least read what has been inserted into his special "Message" by others:—otherwise, strange contrasts of fabric, texture and color will be apt to strike unpleasantly the public eye. 
Sir! have you not lent yourself-I should say your high office-to the purposes of one portion of the Confederacy in antagonism to the other? Have you not demanded certain concessions by the North, with the threat—" Give them this, or they will destroy your country, and I will let them destroy it!" But, not to enter into a consideration of this phase of the question, may I be permitted to ask-Who is it that with Pharisaical scrupulosity refuses to use an item of power with which, as he untruly asserts, he is not clothed by law? Listen, ye disciples of Grotius, of Wheaton and Vattel! It is the same man who, in the famous (I mean infamous) Ostend Manifesto, openly advocated the robbery of Cuba from Spain, provided that robbery were deemed by the United States essential to their interests! He would break all laws, divine and human, national and international, to steal territory, but he would not deviate from the code-no, not "in the estimation of a hair—to save thirty millions of his fellow-citizens from the peril of anarchy and civil war! But we ask no use of unlawful authority. Not only are you fully invested with authority to punish traitors, but you have solemnly sworn that you will do so. When, unhappily for yourself, your country, and the cause of liberty throughout the world, you were raised to the Presidency of these United States, you took this oath:-
"I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the office of President of the United States, and will, to the best of my ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States." 
A pretty defender, forsooth, you proved yourself to be on the only-or, certainly, the most important -occasion which has ever called for your active interposition! Do you ask for your warrant to repress the Rebellion which is now raging in South Carolina? Here it is, in language clear as a sunbeam:—
"The President shall be Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States, when called into the actual Service of the United States."—Constit. United States, Art. II., Sec. 2. 
Therefore, he has power to call upon the Army and Navy of the United States, the Militia of each State, and every man in every State, to aid him in punishing offences against the United States.
What is the intended offence of South Carolina, and perhaps of other States? Treason-according to the explicit definition of the Constitution of the United States:-
"Art. 3, Sec. 3. Treason against the United States shall consist only in levying War against them, or in adhering to their enemies, giving them Aid and Comfort," &c
Now is it not certain that "TREASON AGAINST the UNITED STATES, i. e., that LEVYING WAR AGAINST the UNITED STATES, has occurred in South Carolina, and that traitors are openly enlisted to resist the laws of the United States? And is it not equally certain that it is the duty of the President of the United States (who is now leaving a few hundred of his own soldiers to be murdered by a mob!) to immediately despatch an armed force to punish every traitor in that State, or in any other State? Do you tell us that it is for Congress to decide when the time has arrived to use force in suppression of treason? I answer that the Constitution and the Supreme Court of the United States tell you otherwise:—
"Article I., Section VIII., Clause 15. To provide for calling forth the Militia, to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections and repel invasions." 
Judicial Constructions.- "The act of 1795 which confers powers on the President to call forth the Militia in certain exigencies is Constitutional; and the President is the exclusive and final judge whether the exigency has arisen."-Martin v. Mott, 12 Wh. 19. 
Towle's Hist., and Analysis of the Constit., pp. 128, 129.
Now, as you have already declared that traitors in South Carolina are, or soon will be, in a state of open rebellion against the United States, it will not answer to pretend that the exigency has not arisen. Never in the history of Rebellion was there a clearer case of duty,-never a more cowardly or criminal neglect of duty! And what is the consequence of the miserable submission to treason preached to us by the COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF OF THE ARMY AND NAVY OF THE UNITED STATES? Other States-
<c05>
no, traitors in and representing other States-now openly avow their intention to "secede" from a Government which (and it is no marvel!) they despise; and traitors in, and representing New York, avow their intention to cut off the city of New York from the State of New York! Let Congress act, and that with vigor, and if our representatives falter, for fear of not being able to find an executive arm to carry out the laws if President and Vice President refuse to obey the orders of Congress lawfully expressed-let us, in our hour of peril, be cheered by the public declaration of the General-in-Chief, hoary in the service of his country, that as the President of the United States has abandoned the Constitution, and practically deserted his post in the hour of trial, he, WINFIELD SCOTT, GENERAL-IN-CHIEF OF THE ARMY AND NAVY OF THE UNITED STATES, stands ready, at the bidding of Congress, to carry out the laws of the United States! For it will be seen that the wisdom of our Fathers provided for just such an emergency as that which is now upon us. Section I., Article 2, of the Constitution, enacts that- 
"In case of the removal of the President from office, or of his Death, Resignation, or Inability to discharge the Powers and Duties of the said Office, the same shall devolve on the Vice President, and Congress may, by Law, provide for the case of the Removal, Death, Resignation, or INABILITY both of the President and Vice President, declaring what Officer shall then act as President, and such officer shall act accordingly, until the Disability be removed, or a President shall be elected." 
"INABILITY" to discharge the powers and duties of his office, the nominal President of the United States has already pleaded. Then let the Constitutional remedy be at once applied. Let General Scott be clothed by Congress with authority to execute the laws, and punish treason and traitors wherever found in this Republic! 
And as for you, unhappy old man! well had it been for your long-abused and now betrayed country, that you had never been born, or had remained in peaceful obscurity, engaged in the unostentatious discharge of those humble duties for which alone you are fitted! But obscurity, alas! can never more be yours! Should the United States now perish, by your treachery, be assured that when the history of this once glorious Confederacy shall be written-this once happy Republic, the blessings of which were designed by our fathers for us, for our children, and our children's children,—it shall be told to those children-—perhaps distracted by anarchy, or manacled by despotism-that when the citadel of Constitutional Liberty was intrusted to your care, you, on the first approach of danger, not only deserted your post, but bound your country hand and foot, and basely delivered it to its enemies! 
Think not, unhappy old man, "to escape the just judgment of God," the indignation of the world, the scorn and loathing of posterity! Surely, if any sufferer since the hour of bitterness of the first fratricide can take up his lamentation, you may well exclaim with him, even as regards this world only, " My punishment is. greater than I can bear! "
But, oh, the "something after death "! The meeting with the shades of the great Apostles of Liberty, who founded and cemented with their blood and tears, the Republic which you are about to permit to perish before your eyes! How will you meet the awful gaze, the dread reproach, of Washington, of Franklin, of Hamilton, of Jefferson, of Jackson, when the story of your shame, and the destruction of your country's liberties, shall be rehearsed in the solemn convocation of the departed! How can you anticipate the damning record of history:— 
AFTER EIGHTY YEARS OF PROSPERITY ACHIEVED by the LABORS, the SUFFERINGS and the BLOOD of THOUSANDS, the AMERICAN REPUBLIC fell, without a blow, through the cowardice and treachery of its fifteenth President, James Buchanan! Let it not be added—" and through the criminal supineness of the thirty-sixth Congress!" 
ANDREW JACKSON. 
STAND FIRM. 
The time is rapidly approaching when that which is noble, just and true, shall be applauded and accepted joyfully by the people. Wicked rulers and political demagogues will then, each and all, be consigned to their own place, without influence or power. We wait now patiently through the present raging conflict, trusting in the Supreme Ruler of nations, knowing that all things shall work together for our good. We appeal, therefore, particularly, to every business man in the nation who has faith in moral principle, in humanity, in justice, in God, to stand firm in this hour of trial. If you waver, if you are afraid of the loss of business, of the wasting of property, of the fall of stocks, or even of bankruptcy, you are not worthy of the inheritance of our Pilgrim Fathers. They were willing to forsake houses and lands, wife and children, and every earthly good and poured out their life-blood in order to secure the blessings which we hitherto have enjoyed.. Shall we imitate their example, or shall we with ignoble purpose surrender forever all they so gloriously achieved, and lay ourselves on the altar of injustice, and be a willing sacrifice to the arch enemy of freedom? NEVER-we say, NEVER! There were traitors in the days of the Revolution, and there are traitors now; and history will point to James Buchanan, the present Executive of the nation, as the traitor-in-chief of our glorious Republic. He shall be classed with Benedict Arnold, but shall have a lower place than he, for as our President, he has sworn to be our protector; he has solemnly covenanted before God and the people that he would enforce the laws, support the Constitution, and be a minister of justice to all. He has broken his oath, he is a self-convicted perjurer before God and man and as such his name shall be branded with infamy, henceforth and forever. No earthly power can prevent it. He is forsaken by his own counsellors, his own friends, and his own party, throughout the length and breadth of the land. Never have we heard any ruler, of any nation, so universally condemned. His character-and we wish it distinctly understood that we speak of him only in his official relations-is execrated and despised from one end of the nation to the other. He does not please the North nor the South, the East nor the West-nobody. Thank God, the days of his madness, his timidity, and his folly are nearly ended. Till he shall make his exit from the Executive chair, we implore patience and kindness, but a firmness which shall be as immovable as the Alleghanies or the Granite Hills. Though countless millions be lost, though property depreciate, though stocks and bonds continue to fall, though civil war shall rage, and our enemies force us into blood, and the nation be turned into sadness and mourning-rather than to do wrong, to permit injustice, to countenance oppression, to forsake our principles, let us be willing to imitate our Fathers-glorious names of the Revolution-and, if need be, lay down our lives. If it is possible, we will have peace, for we love our country. Every foot of its territory is dear to us, and the Union shall not be
<C06>
torn asunder by our hands. We love the people, North and South, and will not invade the rights of a single human being. "We love the bond as well as the free, for all are made in God's image, and all are to assemble, at last, before the same tribunal of impartial justice, to receive their own reward, whatever it may be, without regard to name, color, or anything except their true moral character. Reader, if you desire real prosperity, stand firm for the right; if you desire real peace, stand firm; if you desire this nation to rise to superior grandeur, stand firm; if you sympathize with the whole world, now groaning and struggling for freedom, stand firm; if you desire God's blessing, stand firm. Stand firm though James Buchanan and a whole cohort of other traitors should cry out compromise. Stand firm in the face of threats and denunciation. Stand firm though your own friends turn against you. Stand firm though recreant ministers call upon you to yield "just once more" into the arms of the slave power. Stand by your principles. Stand by those who will be strengthened by your example, by those who have long been co-workers with you in the cause of human rights; by those who have long been praying, "Thy kingdom come." Stand by the men who will soon be called to our highest places of trust and of power. Stand by the noble, honest, true-hearted President elect, who needs your support, your influence, and your prayers. In the name of the oppressed and of the down-trodden of earth, of the poor and the weak, in the name of struggling humanity the world over, we beseech you-STAND FIRM!-New York Independent.

NOTES FROM THE CAPITOL.
BY D. W. BARTLETT.
WASHINGTON, D. C., Dec. 31, 1860.
We are in the midst of a revolution. Every day and every hour unfolds fresh treason and new traitors, in the very Government itself. Enough has already transpired to make it absolutely certain that the Administration anticipated revolution in the slave States previous to the Presidential election, and there can be no doubt of the fact that prominent members in it three months ago began to make preparations for the treasonable movement. The Southern forts were purposely left defenceless, the arms of the United States were sold to the slave States at nominal prices, and the most unblushing traitors were left in some of the most important Federal offices. That the President knew revolution was coming is now evident, as well as the fact that he sympathized with it, and neglected to take the proper steps for the defence of the public property in the cotton States. I have just seen a gentleman who has been spending a fortnight in Charleston, having left there two or three days since. He says that the people of Charleston boast that they have in their possession letters from the President, in which he openly pledges himself not to re-enforce Major Anderson.' The letters, it is said, were given to Messrs. Miles and Keitt several weeks ago, and the President is in continual terror lest these proofs of his complicity with traitors should get into print. Within two days of the writing of this a Southern Senator, enraged at the recent movement of Major Anderson, threatened the President to his face that, unless the gallant Major was recalled, the White House should be burned to the ground! Entirely different were the words of the venerable Gen. Scott. Said he to the President, "Sir, Major Anderson has saved the country's honor, and yours with it!" The South Carolina Commissioners demanded the recall of Anderson, and for long hours the President hesitated whether he would comply with that demand or not! The Cabinet sat for six hours on Friday night, and was about equally divided. Was ever imbecility like this known in any civilized government? These traitors demand of the Government against which they have rebelled, that it shall dismantle its fortresses-and that Government discusses the demand for hours! Messrs. Holt, Toucey, Black, and Stanton were very firm in their support of Anderson, while Floyd, Thompson, Thomas, and Mr. Buchanan were for either recalling him or ordering him back to Fort Moultrie. So the matter stood at midnight on Friday, and Secretary Floyd threatened to resign his portfolio if Anderson was sustained. A second Cabinet meeting was held early on Saturday morning. Meanwhile, the President held another long consultation with Gen. Scott, who was almost vehement in his defence of Anderson. It is rumored that he went so far as to tender his resignation if Anderson was reprimanded or ordered away from Fort Sumpter. When the Cabinet was convened, Mr. Buchanan sided with the Northern Members, and the vote stood five to three in faver of sustaining the gallant Major who commands at Fort Sumpter. Floyd, the Secretary of War, instantly resigned. By doing so he has saved himself from the consequences of an official investigation into his conduct for two years past. That he is mixed up with the corruptions of the Administration, no candid man will doubt.
That there is a wide-spread conspiracy to prevent the inauguration of Mr. Lincoln, can no longer be doubted, and so general is the belief in it, that many Northern and Western Members of Congress have written home for advice, and if needs be, military aid to defend the President-elect. A Northwestern Democrat, a Member of Congress, asserts that the determination of the secessionists to prevent Lincoln's inauguration in Washington, has led them to take secret measures for carrying into effect their murderous and treasonable purposes, and that more than one free State Democrat is engaged in the conspiracy. A well-known Western doughface, in Congress, was recently in Richmond, and came back here boasting that the Republicans would never inaugurate their President in Washington. It is known here that Ex-Governor Wise is at the bottom of this base plot to take possession of the Capital, and drive the Northern Members of Congress out of the District. It is only carrying out the idea which he promulgated just before Mr. Buchanan was elected; and the Richmond Enquirer, edited by his son, issues its appeals daily, to the lawless people in Virginia and Maryland, to make good the Ex-Governor's threats. Undoubtedly, a secret organization exists with this sincere purpose, and some of the coolest and shrewdest Republicans here believe the danger to be so great as to demand immediate action on the part of the people of the free States. No reliance can be placed upon the present Administration, to make any preparations for the occasion, to ward off the danger. Instead of this, every element of mischief will be let loose. Howell Cobb purposely ruined the credit of the country, so that today it is paying twelve per cent,. interest for money. I believe the present Secretary of the Treasury laughs in his sleeve over the condition of his department. The Government is paralyzed, the Federal arm broken, and the country disgraced in the eyes of the world. This is the object of the Seceders. They wish to break down the existing Government, and the Administration is doing it as rapidly as possible. In a very few weeks more, there will nothing be left, worth fighting for, below the slave line-New York Independen.
The United States Constitution is "a covenan with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of law than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the hair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind.... It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-- no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of person. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
MESSAGE OF GOV. ANDREW.
Extracts from the Address of His Excellency John A. Andrew, to the two branches of the Legislature of Massachusetts, January 5,1861.
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT.
The punishment of offenders is perhaps the gravest responsibility of civilized society, and in modern times, the utmost attention of the sincerest thinkers and observers has been bestowed upon the philosophy and the phenomena of crime. In order that the laws may be both just and humane, it is necessary that detection and punishment shall be speedy and sure, and also that prevention and reform shall be secured in the largest measure. The progress of civilization steadily diminishes crimes of violence, and also steadily discourages punishments of a violent, cruel, or sanguinary character. The infliction of the penalty of death as a punishment for crime will one day be discontinued among civilized men. Already, philosopher, jurists, and statesmen, in large numbers, possessed of the most comprehensive experience of human affairs, and clothed with the highest authority, have pronounced against it; and it will initiate a new era in the progress of Massachusetts when she shall conform her penal legislation to the most enlightened principles of criminal jurisprudence, and consult her truest safety by its abolition. Whenever that event shall occur, whether as a private citizen, or in a public capacity, I shall respect the intelligence and assent to the policy by which it will be accomplished.
THE PROVISIONS OF THE STATUTES CONCERNING PERSONAL LIBERTY.
I cannot, however, forget, at this moment, some recent impeachments of our legislation providing safeguards for personal liberty: but it is impossible for me to compress within the restricted space allowable for the purpose, a review of the objections alleged against that legislation, or even of the reasons by which it commends itself to good citizens who believe in its propriety. The subject opens too broad a field of juridical inquiry and erudition to be mapped out on this occasion. But I think that if it could be remembered that the liberties of white men and of their children are involved in its consideration, and if it could be forgotten, in the discussion, that people of color have an existence, some advance would thereby be made towards clearing a vision now too easily beclouded, touching all matters which concern the African race.
The governments of the United States and of this Commonwealth have coordinate jurisdiction, within its own sphere, over the same territory. When either, by its appropriate officers, has obtained actual and lawful custody of a person or of property, for the purpose of legal inquiry into the title to the property, or the right to hold the person, or in order to try that person for crime, the person or the property, until that investigation shall be completed, is withdrawn from the exercise of the corresponding jurisdiction of the other government. This is implied from the very coexistence of the two governments in federal relationship, and it is rarely expressed in the statutes of, although it applies with equal force to both. It does depend upon any supremacy or preference of the one government over the other, but upon the naked question which of them first acquires jurisdiction of the subject-matter to be determined.
The application of this principle to the provisions of the General Statutes of Massachusetts concerning the writ of habeas corpus relieves them from all constitutional objection. Although our Statutes in terms require this writ in all cases, except of imprisonment or restraint by a sheriff or similar officer of the Commonwealth, to be addressed to the sheriffs and their deputies, (as being the appropriate officers to execute the process of the Commonwealth,) and to direct them to take the body of the person alleged to be restrained of his liberty, as well as to summon the person who is alleged to restrain him; yet, if the person so restrained is held by a marshal of the United States, by virtue of a lawful warrant from a judge or other authorized officer of the United States, for the purpose of conducting any legal inquiry, he cannot be taken out of the custody of the United States until the hearing upon that question has been finished, and the result declared. The most that can be done is to summon the marshal to appear and show the cause of the restraint; and this summons the marshal is bound by his duty as a citizen and a subject of the State to obey. If he shows a process issued by lawful authority, valid to hold his prisoner, the State Court cannot take the prisoner from his custody for the purpose of a further exercise of its jurisdiction. But if the process, being produced, proves to be invalid or insufficient for the purpose for which it is proposed to be used, or if an alleged fugitive is not in the custody of an of the United States, but in that of a private person, there is nothing in the Constitution or Laws of the United States to prevent the trial by the State Courts upon habeas corpus, or other appropriate process, of the right of restraint alleged; and in such cases, the modes of proceeding and rules of evidence are to be determined by the Constitution and Laws of the State.
By the Massachusetts Declaration of Rights, "each individual of the society has a right to be protected by it in the enjoyment of his life, liberty, and property, according to standing laws," and "every subject of the Commonwealth ought to find a certain remedy, by having recourse to the laws, for all injuries and wrongs which he may receive in his person, property or character. He ought to obtain right and justice freely, and without being obliged to purchase it; completely, and without any denial; promptly, and without delay; conformably to the laws" The legislature, in conformity to the spirit of the Constitution, and knowing that obscure and friendless inhabitants of the Commonwealth are most in danger of being unlawfully deprived of their freedom, have taken measures to secure to every person seized or in danger of being seized as a fugitive from service, a fair and impartial trial; and have also imposed an adequate punishment upon any one who shall undertake to remove from the State any person in the peace thereof and not a fugitive from his service, "on the pertence" that he is such a fugitive, "or with the intent to subject him" to slavery. By the well settled principles of the criminal law, and the ordinary rules of construction of penal statutes, the unlawful intent must concur with the unlawful act, in order to subject any individual to the penalties of this statute.
In 1842, the Supreme Court of the United States, in the case of Prigg vs. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, declared that" every State is perfectly competent, and has the exclusive right to prescribe the remedies in its own judicial tribunals, to limit the time as well as the mode of redress, and to deny jurisdiction over cases which its own policy and its own institutions either prohibit OR DISCOUNTENANCE." And again, the Court in the same case says, that" the States cannot be compelled to enforce them, [i. e the provisions for the surrender of fugitives from labor and it might well be deemed an unconstitutional exercise the power of interpretation, to insist that the States are bound to provide means to carry into effect the duties of the Government, nowhere delegated or intrusted to them by the Constitution." And again, the Court says, in allusion to the powers conferred upon State magistrates by the fugitive act of 1793, that as to the authority" conferred upon State magistrates, while a difference of opinion has existed, and may exist still, on the point in different States, whether State magistrates are bound to act under it, none is entertained by this Court that State magistrates may, if they choose, exercise that authority, unless prohibited by State legislation."
This decision not only frees the individual States from all action in the matter, but also expressly recognizes the power of the States to prohibit action by their officers under the acts of Congress. Accordingly, this Commonwealth, soon afterwards, in 1843, enacted the statute popularly known as the" Latimer law," and made it penal for any of its officers to aid in the capture or detention of a person claimed as a fugitive from service; and. in 1855, it enlarged its legislation upon this subject, by the addition of more comprehensive and stringent provisions, framed in the same spirit and for the same purpose. But in 1858, in order to prevent any confusion or uncertainty in the minds of the militia, which might arise from the idea of a divided duty, it imposed the responsibility for violations of these Statutes by the militia, solely upon their commanding officers, by providing that their prohibitions and penalties shall "not apply to any act of military obedience and subordination performed by any officer or private of the militia." The prohibitions thus addressed to the civil and military servants of the Commonwealth, of course do not and cannot apply to them in their private capacity as citizens of the United States.
<c02>
It is certain that the legislation of Massachusetts is intended to be constitutional; and I am bound to declare my belief that it has proceeded upon principles of the strictest constitutionality. If, however, any party to any legal proceeding shall deem himself aggrieved by anything found written in our Statutes, we are consoled by the knowledge that he has access to judicial tribunals which will bestow most intelligent and conscientious attention to his complaint. Whatever legal truth the judicial mind may perceive in this or in any other regard, will be declared, because the judiciary exists, not to make the law, but to expound it.
There can be no doubt that the first and most sacred duty of government is to protect the lives and liberties of subjects. I believe that every person who is prima facie free, being in possession of his liberty and claiming title thereto; that every parent being in possession of his child; or guardian having custody of his minor ward, has a right to a judicial vindication of his rights in that regard, whenever and wherever they are practically drawn in question. And I do not think that a certificate issued to authorize a person from California to seize and carry away, as and for his fugitive apprentice, the child of a white inhabitant of Massachusetts, (which certificate may, under the Fugitive Act of 1850, be issued without any previous notice to, or hearing of the child or its parent.) can bar the right of such child or parent to a determination, by a competent tribunal, of the right of the child to be retained in this community, from which, perhaps, he may never have departed since the hour of his birth. So, too, I deny that a certificate so issued to a person from Massachusetts, authorizing him to seize and carry away, as and for his fugitive apprentice, the slave of an inhabitant of Georgia, (which certificate may, under the Fugitive Act of 1850, be issued without any previous notice to the master,) can bar the right of such master to a determination, by a competent tribunal, of his right to retain his slave under the local law of Georgia; and the trial may, in either case, be had in any competent forum within the jurisdiction where the person may thus be seized. The Constitution of the United States, while it provides for the surrender of persons charged with crime, who have fled from one State into another, nevertheless, when it speaks of fugitives from labor, expressly restricts the authority to surrender to the instances of those only who were held to service or labor and who did flee; and the right of a person to reclaim an alleged fugitive from his service must always be subordinate to the original, prior, indefeasible right of every freeman to his liberty,-to its preservation, to its instant and constant assertion and to all the defences of it which pertain to the institutions of the Common Law. The proceedings under the Fugitive Act of 1850 are not judicial and they are not adapted to determine the questions of right which arise whenever a free man or the wrong man is innocently seized, or recourse is had to the arbitrary provisions of the Act itself by mere kidnappers, for nefarious purposes. On the propriety of exerting all the constitutional power which we possess, (but none, other than that.) for the protection of the liberties of the people of the Commonwealth against kidnappers, there can be no debate; and its necessity is illustrated by the surrender of persons claimed as fugitive slaves under the Act of 1850, who are known to have been free. In one case which I recall, the Commissioner denied to the accused person time to send for his free papers, and declared that they would not be admissable on such a hearing. In another instance, the person carried off was found by the claimant, as soon as he saw him, to be the wrong man and was honestly allowed to regain his liberty. In still another, a who is ascertained to be of unmixed Caucasian blood, with her daughter and grandson, were saved by ransom, only, from the operation of a decision directing their rendition into slavery. And, I may add, that, in at least one in this Commonwealth, a man was sent out of our jurisdiction, as a slave, the warrant against whom did not appear on its face to have been issued by any magistrate authorized by the Act of Congress.
Suggestions are sometimes urged that great concessions should be made as matter of comity between States. But I do not understand that any State demands, or that any State can consent to, the rendition of free persons into slavery. This whole matter, however, involves no question of comity or inter-State politeness. It is a naked question of right between private persons, and of duty between the Commonwealth and its subjects; and all such rights can be protected by preserving a logical consistency, and not assigning to the certificate of a Commissioner a character to which it does not even pretend, viz: that of a record of a judgment settling the contlicting rights and titles of contending parties.
Supposing, however, that our legislation in this behalf is founded in mistake, the Legislature will only have endeavored to perform their duty towards the citizen, whom they were bound to shield from unlawful harm. The power to obtain the judgment of the Court affords ample redress to all claimants. Should a critical examination disclose embarrassment in raising and reserving questions of law for the appropriate tribunals, the Legislature will readily repair the error.
In dismissing this topic, I have only to add that, in regard not only to one, but to every subject bearing on her Federal relations, Massachusetts has always conformed to her honest understanding of all constitutional obligations-that she has always conformed to the Judicial decisionshas never threatened either to nullify or to disobeyand that the decision in one suit fully contested, constitutes a precedent for the future.
I submit these remarks and the subject to the wisdom and candor of the Legislature.
MASSACHUSETTS AND VIRGINIA.
A suit is now pending in Virginia, arising out of an Act of her Legislature by means of which a citizen of Massachusetts was subjected to the forfeiture of his vessel while trading at the port of Norfolk, a few years since. By that Act our coasters are annually large pecuniary sufferers. This Commonwealth has heretofore made the needful appropriations for the defence against the suit referred to. It was argued before the Court of Appeals nearly a year ago, but a decision there has not yet been reached. In the opinion of eminent counsel in Virginia, the Statute in question violates both the Constitution of the United States, and also that of Virginia herself. I recommend an appropriation to detray the expense of a writ of error, and an argument thereon before the Supreme Court of the United States, if the cause shall be decided against the defendant in the courts of Virginia.
WHO HAVE DONE IT.
It is not the agitation at the North which excites our slaves and alarms our citizens. It is the agitation of the subject in the South which we have cause to dread. The Democratic party is the true source of our present troubles. It is the Democratic speeches and papers which have excited our negroes.They never hear anything from the Northern Abolitionists. Their notions of freedom have been gained through Democratic sources. They hear the Democratic speeches, they read the Democratic papers. These teem with incendiary assertions about negro suffrage and equality which the success of the Republicans would bring about. We know that, in this county, the Democrats have repeatedly declared, upon the stump and in the presence of negroes, that if the Republicans were elected, the negroes would be set at liberty, be permitted to vote, and would marry our daughters. It was only a few days since we heard the very leader of the party in this county declare, in our public streets, and in the presence of some negroes who were standing by, that the Republicans intended to let the negroes vote. Those who hear the incendiary declarations of these men, communicate them to the rest of their color, and when their expectations are so excited that they become aroused to violence, we are told that the Republicans have done it that Northern agitation is the true source of our trouble. Let the responsibility rest where it belongs. The Northern agitators have had no hand in the matter. The agitation might go on at the North until doomsday, without any injury to our slaves. Our negroes never read the Northern papers, nor hear the Northern orators. They read these things from Democratic papers, and hear them from Democratic speakers. We fasten upon them, therefore, the charge of being the authors of our calamities.-Cambridge (Md.) Intelligencer.
GENERAL WOOL ON THE CRISIS. The Troy Daily Times contains two letters from Gen. Wool, taking strong ground in favor of the Union, and in favor of sustaining Anderson in his position at Fort Sumner, and earnestly urging that a firm ground be adopted to put down rebellion.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1860.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.
Delinquent subscribers for the past year,-that is, from January 1, 1860, to January 1, 1861,-are respectfully requested to remember our STANDING RULE, by which their papers will be discontinued after February 1,1861, unless payment for the same be previously sent in. We shall be extremely sorry to lose a single subscriber in this manner, especially at this crisis in our national affairs; but, as our printed terms indicate that payment is to be made in advance, we are sure if, instead of rigidly exacting it, we allow (as we do) a credit of fourteen months to delinquents, they can have no cause of complaint when their papers are stopped for omitting to make settlement; yet, with all this indulgence, we have known various instances in which such persons have taken this treatment almost as a personal affront! What ideas have they of the sacred-ness of contracts? And, surely, our subscription list is always too limited to make us willingly lose a single subscriber. Exceptional cases there will be, calling for special consideration; but it is absolutely necessary that we should abide by the rule we have laid down, to prevent losses which cannot be borne.
ANNUAL MEETING.
The Twenty-Ninth Annual Meeting of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held at the TREMONT TEMPLE, in Boston, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, January 24th and 25th, commencing at half past 10 o'clock, A. M.
The members and friends of the Society are urgently requested to make the attendance on their part larger than ever before seen since its formation. In view of the position of the Anti-Slavery cause, and of the state of the nation, it will be the most important anniversary the Society has ever held. Troublous as is the aspect of things, it is a sure indication that the cause of impartial freedom is moving onward with irresistible power, and that the day of jubilee is rapidly approaching, to be succeeded by universal joy, peace and prosperity. For nothing disturbs the repose, deranges the business, assails the interest, dishonors the character, and imperils the existence of the republic, but SLAVERY. Freedom, and the love of it, and the advocacy of it, and the uncompromising support of it, without regard to color or race, can never work ill to whatever is just, honest, noble, humane, and Christ-like. It is not the Abolitionists, who simply espouse the cause of God's poor and needy and oppressed, that it may go well with our land, but the Southern slaveholders and slave-breeders, who traffic in human flesh and enslave even their own blood-kindred, and who hate every thing that savors of liberty, who have brought the nation into its present distracted and distressful condition; for theirs is the spirit which chooses" rather to reign in hell than serve in heaven."
Come, then, friends of freedom, to the Anniversary, strong in the righteousness of your cause, serene and undaunted in spirit, and resolute in your purpose to seek the speedy removal of the cause of all our national suffering and danger!
Able and eloquent speakers will be present as usual. [The list will be given hereafter.]
In behalf of the Society,
FRANCIS JACKSON, President.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Secretary.
ERROR AND CORRECTI0N-PROPHECY AND FULFILMENT.
The agitations of this period, and the increasingly desperate position of the Slave Power, have of late brought out a crop of actively pro-slavery sermons from Northern clergymen. I propose here to notice one of the many and monstrous misrepresentations in a sermon of this sort, preached on Sunday, December 9th, in the First Presbyterian Church, (O. S.) at Brooklyn, N. Y., by its Pastor, Rev. Henry J. Van Dyke.
Mr. Van Dyke quotes a passage, speaking reproachfully of the Abolitionists, from a work" published in the year 1836," by Rev. Dr. Channing, of Boston," whose name is a tower of strength to the Abolition cause, and whose memory is their continual boast."
This is plausible, and well suited to mislead the reader, because few persons keep dates accurately enough in mind to be aware that Dr. Channing, whose name afterwards" became a tower of strength to the Abolitionists," was in 1836, and for some years after, their decided opponent He was a moderate and very cautious man, and, though always a disapprover of slavery, he came very slowly to a conviction of the energy and directness with which a disease so desperate should be treated. Dr. Channing became thoroughly converted to coincidence with the principles and methods of Abolitionists only in the last year of his life, and this coincidence may be plainly read in his Address at Lenox, before the Anti-Slavery Society there, in 1842.
After quoting the paragraph referred to, of censure against the manner in which Abolitionists opposed slavery, Mr. Van Dyke proceeds:-
" Such is the testimony of Dr. Channing, given in the year 1836 What would he have thought and said if he had lived until the year 1860?"
This question is very easily answered. Dr. Channing, if permitted to speak to us in the close of 1860, the date of Mr. Van Dyke's sermon, would have said that the prophecy was fulfilled which he uttered in 1837, and which may be read on page 47 of his" Letter to the Hon. Henry Clay, on the Annexation of Texas to the United States," as follows:-
" My interest in the South strengthens my disire to avert the annexation of Texas to the Union. That act, I feel, will fix an indelible stain on the South. It will conflict with the generous elements of character, which I take pleasure in recollecting there. The South will cease to be what it was. In the period to which I have referred, slavery was acknowledged there, to be a great evil. I heard it spoken of freely, with abhorrence. The moral sentiment of the community on this point was not corrupt. The principles of Mr. Jefferson in relation to it, found a wide response. The doctrine that slavery is a good, if spread by the seizure of Texas, will work a moral revolution, the most disastrous which can befal the South. It will paralyze every effort for escape from this enormous evil. A deadly sophistry will weigh on men's consciences and hearts, until terrible convulsion,-God's just judgments-will hasten the deliverance which human justice and benevolence were bound to accomplish."
How much support is gained from Dr. Channing's opinions, for Mr. Van Dyke's position, may be seen by comparing with this extract the creed of the latter gentleman respecting slavery, which is given on page 14 of his sermon, as follows:-"I cordially incline to the current opinion of our Church, [the great Presbyterian Church, numerically third in importance, in the United States] that slavery is permitted and regulated by the Divine law, under both the Jewish and Christian dispensations, not as the final destiny of the enslaved, but as an important and necessary process in their transition from heathenism to Christianity."
Thus it appears that Mr. Van Dyke's sermon is part of the fulfilment of Dr. Channing's prediction in 1837.-C. K. W.
ESSEX COUNTY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
We learn that the Essex County Convention at Lawrence, Sunday, December 30th, was very fully attended. Three sessions were held; in the evening the meeting was crowded to overflowing. C. L. Remond and A. T. Foss spoke. Good order and spirited enthusiasm prevailed throughout. The following Resolutions, introduced by Mr. Foss, were passed by a majority of three to one in a hand vote.
Resolved, That the Union of these States was formed by a compromise of the rights of man, and was therefore self-evidently wrong in its inception, and could only be disastrous in its progress, and sure of an ignominious end.
Resolved, That a union of slavery and liberty is impossible, and we rejoice in the prospect of a dissolution of that abortion called the American Union.
<c04>
FUGITIVE SLAVES AND THE LIBERTY ACT.
NUMBER II.
It is said by the Court, as I noticed in my last communication, that it is perfectly competent for one State to stipulate by a treaty with another to deliver up the fugitive slaves of the latter, who may come within their dominions. It seems to me this doctrine is not sound, and would not be maintained, if. there were not some lurking notion in the mind of the Court, that though slavery is held by them to be" contrary to natural right and the plain principles of justice" in Massachusetts, yet it is not so in the slaveholding States themselves; that what is essentially wrong in some places is essentially right in others. If slavery is "contrary to natural light and the plain principles of justice" in South Carolina as well as in Massachusetts, a slave would have a perfect right to make his escape from the former State into the latter one, and we should not have the right, by an obedience to the authority of the national Constitution on this subject, to send him back again to a State where he would again be reduced to the condition of a slave, and be deprived of all his rights. The slave owes no allegiance to the State that holds him as a slave, neither is he bound by its laws made for this purpose; for it is a well settled principle, laid down by all jurists, that where protection is not afforded by a government to any of its citizens, no allegiance is due from them. And, certainly, persons who are deprived of all their rights, whether personal, domestic or civil, as slaves are, cannot be considered as protected by the government under which they are living. This being the case they have a perfect right to make their escape from the State holding them in bondage, and no State or individual has the right, under any constitution or provision of law, to place them back again in this state of bondage; but, on the contrary, have a perfect right to assist the fugitive to make his escape; for it is a self-evident proposition, that what one man has a right to do, another man has the right to assist him in doing.
But, further, the slave, owing no allegiance to the slave State, and receiving no protection from it, is thrown upon his natural rights, one of which rights is, the right of defending his life, his liberty and his property from any assailant by violence, and even by the death of the assailant, if necessary, whether he be an officer of the law or any other individual, who endeavors to deprive him of his liberty; for, as the law will not protect him, he must protect himself, if necessary, and cannot be held accountable by any law for any violence which he may practice which is necessary to effect this purpose. He is in the same condition that a person would be in, who was living in a state of nature, as savages, for instance, before a civil government was organized.
It is true, that in giving their decision in the case before it, the Court say, that "such a stipulation (to return the fugitive slave agreeably to the Constitution) would be highly important and necessary to secure peace and harmony between adjoining nations, and to prevent collisions and border wars. It would be no encroachment on the rights of the fugitive, for no stranger has a just claim to the protection of a foreign State against its will, especially where such a claim to protection would be likely to involve the State in war; and each independent Suite has a right to determine by its own laws and treaties who may come to reside and seek shelter within its limits."
There are two distinct propositions involved in the language here quoted, and it is necessary to examine them separately. One is, that a stipulation in a treaty to deliver up fugitive slaves might be necessary to prevent wars. The other is, that every State has the right to determine what class of persons it will permit to come and take up their residence with them.
As to the first, the necessity of such a stipulation to prevent wars. If each State has a right to determine its own institutions and laws, and what class of persons shall be permitted to come into its dominions, and be admitted to the rights of freemen and citizens, it is obvious that its determination to receive a certain class, and admit them to these privileges, as, for instance, those who have been accounted slaves in another State, cannot be any invasion of the rights of this latter State, or be a just cause of complaint or of war on its part; for one state, as Massachusetts, for instance, has the same right to determine what particular class of men, as the colored men, shall be freemen in Massachusetts, as South Carolina has a right to determine that they shall be slaves in South Carolina. And the former State has also the same right to decide that it will allow these colored men to come and reside among them, with the privileges of citizens, as the latter has to determine that these colored men, while within their boundaries, shall be considered slaves, and treated as such. I am now speaking of the political rights of States, and not of their moral right, for, according to the latter, I do not believe that the institution of slavery can he sustained in any State whatever. If these remarks are sound, as I think they are, there is no just cause for war in the case, for there would be no encroachment of one Suite upon the rights of another.
The second proposition advanced by the Court is, that a State has a right to determine what class of persons it will permit to come and take up their residence among them, and have, as a consequence, the right to exclude fugitive slaves. Now this, as a general proposition, and without limitation or qualification, I should dispute, when regarded in a moral point of view. There may be cases which would justify a State in refusing to allow a certain description of persons to come into its dominions and reside within them. It may refuse to allow paupers to come into it from another State, when they will become chargeable within it or it may refuse to allow a class of persons who are known to be inimical to its government and laws, and who might endeavor to subvert its government and laws. But, in my apprehension, it never has a right to exclude a class of men mserely on account of their being persecuted in their own country, or their being subjected to unjust disabilities of any kind, whether political, personal, or religious. Mankind have a right to take up their abode in whatever part of the world they please, so long as they will conduct as good citizens, and be obedient to the government and laws, and be in no way chargeable to the government for support: and if they are subjected to unjust disabilities and privations in one country, the greater is the reason why they should remove to another, where they will be relieved from them: and the greater is their claim on the score of humanity and sympathy, that they should be received into the latter State, and permitted to reside in it: and it is the preeminent and perpetual boast in this country and in this State, that it is the asylum for the poor and oppressed from every clime and every nation on the face of the earth. Surely, the mere fact of a difference of color ought not to stand in the way of the exercise of such axalted and general philanthropy.
But, even admitting the principle enunciated by the Court in this case to be a sound one, to its fullest extent, and without qualification or limitation, that "each independent State has a right to determine by its own laws and treaties who may come to reside or seek shelter within its limits, and to prescribe the terms," will this principle sanction and justify the provision of the national Constitution in reference to fugitive slaves? This provision does not say that slave shall not come from any other State into the bounds of Massachusetts, and that if they do, they shall be compelled to leave the State; and by so doing, treat them as the members of another political community, whom the State has a right to forbid from coming or remaining within its limits. But it recognizes the right of one portion of the people of another State to hold another portion in slavery, and provides that the former shall assert and maintain that right within the territory of Massachusetts, all whose laws, principles and feelings are hostile to this institution; and that the slave shall be delivered up within this State to his master, to be returned to the State whence he fled, again to be plnnged into slavery. This provision of the United States Constitution recognizes the binding force
<c05>
of slave laws within the State of Massachusetts, the relation of master and slave, and the right of property in man; and it does this in opposition to the first article of the Bill of Rights of this State, which declares that "all men are born free and equal, and have certain natural, essential and inalienable rights, among which may be reckoned the right of enjoying and defending their liberty.' This article was considered by the Court in this very case as abolishing slavery in Massachusetts; and yet, notwithstanding this tact, the Court here recognizes the right of one man to consider another man his slave within the bounds of Massachusetts, and, as such, to remove him from this State. If the Constitution of Massachusetts declares that all men are free and equal" it declares in effect that no man shall be considered and treated as a slave within its limits; and it is in direct conflict with the provision of the national Constitution authorizing the return of fugitive slaves as slaves. It will also be recollected, that the Constitution of Massachusetts was adopted before the national Constitution, by this State, and therefore debarred, by the terms of it, the State of Massachusetts from giving its assent to the provision in the latter relating to fugitive slaves.
If it was considered against the welfare and sound policy of Massachusetts and the other free States, that slaves should be allowed to come from the slave States, and reside among them, this object could have been effected by a simple prohibition to this effect in the Constitution and, in this way, they could have been prevented from coming or remaining here. In such a case, when they made their escape, they could have sought refuge in some more congenial and hospitable State, where they would be protected and allowed to remain. Or, if they came here and were not suffered to remain, instead of being delivered up to their master, they could have been allowed to betake themselves to Canada, or some other foreign territory, where such a law or provision is not in operation.
It seems to me, therefore, that the principle laid down by Judge Shaw,-and I say it with the utmost respect,-will not bear him out in the vindication of this provision of the national Constitution, as coming within the asserted right of a State to exclude any class of persons that it sees fit from coming or remaining within its territories. W. S. A.
REV. MR. MANNING'S FAST DAT SERMON
The Boston Journal of the 5th inst. gives the following report of the Fast-Day Discourse of Rev. JACOB M. MANNING, of the Old South Church:-
The text selected for the occasion was- "Can two walk together, except they be agreed?"-Amos 3: 3.
After introductory remarks, he spoke first of the two sections of the Republic before they were united; next, the events in which the National Union originated; of the benefits to liberty which had resulted from the Confederacy; of the perils to freedom which would follow dissolution.
He then discussed the question of the hour as follows: We come now to inquire what we can do and what we cannot do to save the Union from dissolution. If I had no distaste for personalities, I might speak in a very interesting manner of what has not been done. We are astounded at the imbecility of the acting Government. We hope its passive acquiescence does not deserve a harsher name. What a page in history it will be, two hundred years hence, that a great nation allowed certain of its people to revolt against it; that it was at no pains to protect loyal citizens from desperadoes; that it permitted its avowed enemies to arm against it; that it took a conspirator into its councils, who, when he could no longer remain, received a kind adieu; that Representatives and Senators, having resigned their seats for the declared purpose of heading the rebellion, were not imprisoned, nor even detained and questioned, but allowed to depart with Executive blessings on their heads! Where is that chorus of Union-saving sentiment which swelled and reverberated through the land a year since, when one poor man, made mad by oppression, was heedless of Federal authority in his zeal for the slave? The hanging of traitors has gone out of fashion with remarkable suddenness! Then the provocation-which was a moral wrong-could not excuse the criminal. Now the provocation, which is a moral and political right, gets all the censure! "Look on these wrathful secessionists, "is the cry; "behold them subverting the Government, and see what you Republicans have done!"
But I am not a man of blood. The Master I serve bids me discourage any resort to the sword. This is the general ground of a minister of the Gospel; but of course there is one grand exception. When certain great principles of liberty, on which the happiness of future generations depends, are entrusted to us, it is our duty to protect those principles against any assault, and if need be, to lay down our lives for the sake of them. The fault of the National Executive for the last eight years, as it seems to me has been in not showing a determination to repel any violence offered to its sacred trust. The last experiment of liberty must not be permitted to fail; if it should, a sigh would go up from Nature, as when Adam fell, and the blast, full of hopelessness, would settle on our world. We must keep this political Pharos: we must guard those holy waters gushing forth to all people, out of the rock on which the Pilgrims prayed. There are some objects for which human life ought to be sacrificed-never for pride-never for national aggrandizement or glory- not in self-defence even, but always and freely in the true martyr spirit, where the rights of men and God's cause are imperilled.
Fully convinced, as I am, of the legal power of the Government to preserve its integrity by force of arms, loving my country as every citizen should, and indignant at the least dishonor cast upon it, I still deny, save in the extremity just named, the moral right of war. I would rather see all the slave States out of the Union, and the Southern Confederacy an open fact, than feel that the Republic has blood on its skirts. Let our brethren go, if they are resolved to, provided they take with them only that which is their own; and if there is reason to believe that the sacred cause of freedom would not be permanently weakened, but rather, strengthened by their departure-if even the fiery little planet Mercury resolve to secede from the solar system, I think the other members of that Confederacy cannot do better than quietly stick to their orbit, and see what becomes of the undertaking.
We cannot, for the sake of the Union, turn our backs on those whom we have chosen to offices of high responsibility. That would be a singular proceeding, hardly equalled by the abandoning of a weak garrison to its foes. We cannot apologize for daring to elect a President holding the political views of Washington, in a manner prescribed by law. That 6th of November is a historical fact. If we would, thank God, we never can, erase it from Freedom's calendar! Shall we go down on our knees with halters about our necks, take back every word spoken, and blot out all the Christian deeds we have performed? We have been honest throughouts this long struggle, and it were base to deny it now.
When defeated, we have borne the reverse patiently -not rushing to arms, but trusting to the justness of our cause. Who shall persuade us by working on our fancy and raising false alarms, to yield back the victory we have won? We might do this, if it were a question only of honor and emoluments, but not when the God-given rights of a great people for all coming time are concerned. We cannot give up any advantage which we gain, but must hold on to it in the name of God, and pray for strength to meet what may lie beyond.
Let us devoutly hope that our Representatives in Congress will have courage to maintain their ground. Let us not withhold from them any convictions of ours, which might reinforce their calmness and faithful adherence to the right, in this time which tries their souls.
We cannot admit the idea of property in man to come into the Constitution. We cannot plead for the repeal of laws which we regard as founded in righteousness. We cannot aid in the enforcement of laws which seem to us to contravene the laws of God.
<c06>
We cannot abandon the faith that this whole land is destined to be liberty's inheritance and home. We cannot consent to any arrangement which would despond us of our manhood, and bring on us the just indignation of the civilized world. Anything else which statesmen in their wisdom may propose, if it be not palpably hostile to our Christian conscience, that we will gladly do. Those of you who know the inside history of this matter, who have looked in on the little circles, where Northern and Southern hearts bleed with a common grief over this terrible iniquity, need not be told that to them property is nothing- to them pride of opinion is nothing.
You will not charge them with wantonness or prejudice against the South, where you see the hot tears falling, and the iron entering into their souls-while you see all the tendrils of their nature reaching forth after the graves of kindred, and sacred memories and best loved friends. Offer them any plan which promises to remove this appalling sin, and they will give you every earthly hope and the last farthing they possess, to have it carried out.
It seems to them at times that slavery is a common burden, but the accidents of birth and climate, in part, at least, have made it Southern, rather than Northern; that so far as it has been a source of wealth, the free States have had an equal, if not the lion's share; that any wise scheme of emancipation which should rest with an even pressure on an even portion of the Confederacy, would at length be made acceptable to all, and thus the integrity of the nation be preserved 
Only let the North make an advance on this high and Christian ground, and it seems to them that the South would not long keep back. Let the matter be in the hands of the General Government; let there be another Cabinet officer, styled Secretary of Emancipation, with power to appoint as many subordinates as the business might require; let a high tariff be laid, and the public land be consecrated to this holy work; let private gifts go in from both North and South, and the credit of the nation be used to obtain necessary loans and thus, without impoverishing the master, or suddenly crippling the industry of the South, the incubus of slavery might gradually be rolled off.
The strong arm of the Executive might at once be interposed between the two races, securing the rights of both, and protecting each from the other. The work of enlightening the blacks might begin at once, under faithful teachers employed by the nation; the blanks acting, meanwhile, as the paid laborers of the whites, the Federal Government holding their liberty in reversion for them, till they shall be fitted to take it fully into their own hands. I know this would be a stupendous undertaking. yet there is nothing impracticable in it, and it would be the sublimes achievement ever recorded under the heavens. It would make this Republic the glory and the envy of all other nations. Our America would become the Holy Land of modern times.
I see no other plan, no compromise which leaves out the idea of emancipation, that can possibly perpetuate the present Union; Congressional committees may cry" peace, peace," but there will be no peace; emancipation or two Confederacies is the only alternative before us, and no power on earth can save us from it. If it is settled that the slave States can never be made free States, everything I have hinted at failing, then the Christian freeman, instead of chinging to the restive slave owner, waiving the political right to coerce him, can only say as Abraham said to Lot- "Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me;" while the doctrine of property in man, that great gulf between them, is adjourned to the Court whose decisions are final and impartial.
The Old South was packed to its utmost capacity- the upper as well as the lower galleries and the passages being completely filled. The sermon was repeatedly applauded, the sacredness of the place not being sufficient to restrain the feelings of the audience. At its close, one gentleman, whose head is whitened by seventy winters, sitting in font of the pulpit, evidently forgetting the occasion and the place, rose, and called for three groans for Buchanan! The only response was a fervent prayer from Rev. Mr. Manning that God would bless the slave and his master, and all people in this, our whole country.
SLAVERY PROPAGANDISM IN MASSACHUSETTS.
As the Bell-and-Everett party have no longer even a possibility of coming into power. it must be from pure love of slavery that they are continuing their labors against liberty. The gutters up of the "Address to the Citizens of Massachusetts" which appeared in our papers a few weeks ago, signed with the names of Lemuel Shaw and a dozen or twenty others, have now commenced an attempt to enlist the elergy in their favor, and use their influence against the Personal Liberty Law. They have sent the subjoined circular to every clergyman in this State, and efforts in accordance with the requests therein made are now going on among the people of many parishes It remains to be seen whether the people will stand fast for liberty, in spite of the solicitations of priests and politicians. The call of duty to resist such influences is as strong now as when the apostles and the first disciples were urged, by chief priests and rulers in concert, to abandon the exercise and the advocacy of Christian liberty.-C.K.W.DEAR SIR,-The popular excitement in favor of Disunion has steadily increased in the Southern States for several weeks past. It seems to be prostrating before it every conservative element in the States of South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana.
It is gaining ground in the more Northern slave States. In these, there still remains a Union party, who will resist secession by every means in their power. But they find themselves weekend by the position which has been taken by some of the free States in antagonism to the Constitution.
This false position of ours strengthens those whose design is to overthrow the Constitution.
Shall the People of Massachusetts, through their Legislature, place this State on the firm basis of justice and of Constitutional law?
If you are in favor of a repeal of such laws as are unconstitutional. will you place in the hands of some of your active parishioners, who will obtain the signatures of their townsmen, petitions to the Legislature in such form as you may choose to write? If you have any doubt about a legal form, the following may be used:-
"We, the subscribers, legal voters of the Town of -, respectfully request the Honorable, the Legislature of Massachusetts, to repeal the Personal Liberty Act, and those portions of the Habeas Corpus Act which are in conflict with the Constitution of the United States."
But that form which best expresses your own views, and those of the citizens who will be requested to sign, is the best. As soon as the signatures are obtained, please to direct that the petitions may be sent to your Representative in the Legislature, to be by him presented at the earliest day possible.
By request of the Committee chosen to distribute the "Address to the Citizens of Massachusetts, "by Lemuel Shaw, and others.
ABOLITIONIST MOBBED.-The Springfield Republican says that Charles Burleigh, a rabid Abolitionist, delivered a political address at a school-house in West Farms, Westfield, Thursday evening, and uttered sentiments so offensive that a mob gathered and broke up the meeting, and celebrated their triumph by making a bonfire of the school house and its contents.
This prargraph is from the Journal. It is thus coelly that this paper, and the Springneld Republions, and many others, speak of occurrences utterly disgraceful to Massachusetts. How can we call this Free State, while the freedom of speech of the wisest and best of its citizens is overthrown and trampled upon at the dictation of the slave power? Is this the Westfield where a manufactory of literal slave-whips is in operation?
The characterization of so excellent a man, and so clear and sound a reasoner as Charles C. Burleigh, as "a rabid Abolitionist," and the stigmatizing of senuments and arguments against slavery as "offensive." shows the degeneracy to which Southern influence has abased our newspaper press. The maintenance of our own liberties can be secured only by an utter overthrow of the slavery which has wrought this demoralization -C.K.W.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
CHURCH ACTION ON SLAVERY.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
In your extra Liberator, Dec.31st, you published a Preamble and five Resolutions passed by the South Congregational Church in Georgetown, condemning President Buchanan's Proclamation for a Fast, as an act of hypocrisy and spiritual usurpation, declining to comply with his request, and calling upon the people for repentance of their actual sins, "especially of the sin of slavery"; and you prefaced these proceedings with the remark-"All honor to the Georgetown church, and its pastor, Rev. Charles Beecher, for the testimony below."
In the Atlas and Bee published on the Fast-day in question, Jan.4th,I find the following counter statement by the Clerk of that church, in behalf of others of its members:-
THE GEORGETOWN RESOLUTIONS RESPECTING THE PRESIDENT'S FAST.
Seeing some resolutions passed by the Congregational Church in this place, I have thought it best to send you the following correction and protest, handed to me for record: 1st, A certificate signed by fourteen members that were there and voted against them, the published number being fifteen in favor and twelve against. 2d, The following protest, signed by twenty three (23) members of the church.
Georgetown, Dec.28,1860.
Whereas, the Congregational Church, the 22d of December, passed resolutions condemning the President's Message to Congress, and using that as a reason why we should not keep the Fast proclaimed by him "at the request of pious and patriotic citizens and associations."
We, the undersigned members of said church, without in any way endorsing the sentiments of the message, desire to enter our protest against them for these reasons:-
1st They breathe not the spirit of Him who has commanded us to pray for our enemies, to pray for all men, to pray always, and that "without wrath."
2d. We believe that Christ did not, by his example or otherwise, teach the impropriety of public fasting in times of great national distress or public calamity."
3d.We believe them to be insidious, wrong in spirit, evil in tendency, and pernicious in their results.
A true copy, attest, H. PERLEY, Clerk of the Church.
P.S. Many persons here express a doubt as to the truth of the statement, that there is an overwhelming majority outside the church in favor of the resolutions. H. P 
It appears that the vote upon the set of Resolutions first published was fifteen to fourteen; a vote which, no doubt, justifies the statement of the pastor that these Resolutions were adopted by the church. Nevertheless, the second statement gives us a more accurate view of the condition of things in that church than the first did.
Even this, however, does not show the whole case. As the fourteen dissenting members, on canvassing the parish, found enough like minded brethren to increase their number to twenty-three, so the fifteen who voted with the pastor, on searching diligently among the members who were absent from the particular church-meeting in question, might enlarge their number to twenty-four, thus keeping, for the Resolutions, the majority originally claimed. I, for one, am perfectly willing to take this for granted. The point to which I wish to call attention is, that the actual state of Mr. Beecher's church shows something very different from the aspect of union and vigor in radicalism presented by the Resolutions first published.
In Mr. Beecher's sermon- “The Antichrist of New England” -preached in September last, he boasts that the church of which he is a member twenty years ago adopted some Resolutions (there quoted) bearing a "solemn testimony" against slaveholding in all its forms, admitting that it is a duty faithfully to reprove the oppressor, admitting that it is a sin to hold communion with slaveholders as Christians, and declaring that they "will not hold fellowship or communion with any one who claims the right to hold, or holds, his fellow-beings as property."
It would be interesting to know whether these Resolutions also were passed (Jan.4,th, 1840, by a vote of fifteen to fourteen; whether the absence of any protest against them by a large minority was owing to the fact that they were allowed to slumber quietly in the clerk's book, without being printed in any sermon or newspaper at the time; and whether the quietness with which Mr. Beecher's church has passed along during the intervening twenty years, surrounded by pro-slavery churches of the same denomination, (as well as of other denominations in the group called "Evangelical,") be not owing to the fact that they have kept this two-edged sword carefully sheathed, laid up in a napkin, and kept in a dry place.
This information, I say, would be interesting. But, in fact, we do not need it The history of Dr. Cheever's church for the last five years shows us what happens what would be sure to happen in nineteen churches out of twenty in all the Northern States-when either the minister gives slavery its appropriate place among his warnings and exhortations on Sundays and other days, or when the church lives such Resolutions in its daily life, instead of "passing them " by a bare majority, and then "passing them by on the other side."
No minister in New England could give the subject of slavery this appropriate place in his preaching and in his life, without being reproached and maligned for it as Mr. Parker was! No church in New England could unitedly and vigorously live out such Resolutions as Mr. Beecher boasts of his church having "adopted," twenty years ago, without being worse censured than Dr. Cheever's church now is! for that church has always had an opposing minority, and Dr. Cheever has been greatly limited and hampered by their want of sympathy with him. It is certain, then, that the undisturbed unity in which Mr. Beecher and his church have lived with the pro-slavery ministers and churches of this State, results from their not! having lived an anti-slavery life; and it is certain, from the fact that Mr. Charles Beecher has not, for twenty years past, (until the publication of the Resolutions above quoted,) been protested against as a disturber of the peace of the church, that he has not spoken and acted for those in bonds "as bound with them: ”just as it is certain that his brother, Rev. Dr. Edward Beecher, is largely accountable for the guilt contracted by Park Street Church in this city, when, as their Pastor (in 1830) he presided over the deliberations of several church-meetings, in which they voted, first to rob a colored man of his church,pew, bought and paid for, in the broad aisle of their church, and then to adopt a rule by which all colored people might be thus excluded 
from the equal purchase and occupancy of their pews-a decision still held and acted on by that church without opening his mouth in condemnation of this wickedness, or in defence of God's oppressed poor!
On page thirty-first of Mr. Charles Beecher's sermon above-mentioned, at the close of a note in which he brings out the Resolutions which have been drying twenty years in the clerk's book, he adds this exhortation:-
"I would embrace this opportunity to urge every 
member of a Christian church, into whose hands this page may tall to examine whether, in the church to which he belongs, something more may not be done, and done in earnest, and done soon, for the immediate overthrow of slavery. May the great Head of the church unite the hearts of all his people in a direct and faithful work upon this weighty matter."
I embrace this opportunity to urge Mr. Beecher to examine whether, in the church to which be belongs and ministers, something more may not be done, and done in earnest, and done soon, for the immediate overthrow of slavery. "The great Head of the church" needs no exhortations. He will be sure to perform His part. If those who call themselves "His members" will do their, the work will move on rapidly towards accomplishment.- C. K. W
he N. Y. Commercial Advertiser says the secessionists, by acting against the Federal Government, at once vitiate their claims, under their policies, which are estimated to amount to twelve millions of dollars. In the provisions of the policies of American life insurance companies, the insured forfeit the policy in consequence of treason or for making war upon the United States.
<c02>
THE NEGRO QUESTION.
The New York World of December 20th, 1860, contains some extracts from 
a work on the subject of slavery by Sidney G. Fisher, of Philadelphia, in which 
it is predicated that the slavery question must at no distant day give way to the negro question; but which the author has already settled, according to the process of logic common to the amphibious class of writers of which he is a prominent representative. He is, on the slavery question, clearly of the Henry Clay school, confounding rule and law, and endeavoring to reconcile contradictions. His morals are of the Nehemiah Adams type, which, to be understood by the readers of the Liberator, need only to have that fact declared.
The writer deals with assumptions as axioms, and paralogism as legitimate deductions, although it is manifest that some of his premises seem chosen for the purpose of arriving at a foregone conclusion, and he foresees from this stand-point the "manifest destiny " of this nation, and of the white and black races, as an inevitable necessity which no power can avert, but a which he yet calls upon the Anglo-Saxons to consider, for prepare for, and postpone as long as possible.
The premises assumed are that the white race is, historically and de facto, the superior race, which "creates civilization." The black race is "essentially barbaric, and never able to originate, maintain, or comprehend civilization."
"There are certain mental, moral and physical conditions, tending always to keep the original races intact, and making new ones impossible." By a law of nature, "The two races cannot live together except as masters and slaves." "The superiority of the white race makes it a necessity that it must govern
the negro, whenever the two live together." "The two races can never amalgamate,(!) although mulattoes will always exist, because constantly renewed."(!!) How! "Each race has a tendency to occupy exclusively that
 portion of the country suited to its nature."
From these premises, the author argues that the spirit of caste, which drives the negro and colored persons out of churches, theatres, hotels, rail cars, steamboats, &c., or assigns them a separate place therein, is an uncontrolable, or at least a natural instinct, which operates without statutes, without concert or design, without unkindness or cruelty; but unconsciously, simply, because " it cannot help doing so." This is a divine law, "which executes itself in spite of party combinations, or fanatical legislatures, or philanthropic enthusiasts, or visionary dreamers about human perfectibility and the rights of man." The evidence of all this is, that the same sentiment in regard to the negro is 
found among the slaveholders of the South and the free-soilers of the North, and therefore the superior race may rightfully and morally enslave the inferior, whenever the two are found occupying the same soil, and that it is our duty as a nation to maintain slavery, and, if possible, meliorate, improve and perfect it. The slave is not by the divine law a thing, a chattel, to be Used merely as merchandize, but a man to be protected, entitled to humanity and justice, and the dominant race is responsible for his well-being and happiness. The laws of the- South and the Dred Scott decision, which chattelize the negro, are unnatural and unjust, and the system should be established upon its normal basis of master and governor to protect and humanize, and servant or slave to obey and be happy; and the duty of the North is, to the men of their own race at the South, to assist heartily and cordially in the difficult task of governing a subject race, whose increasing numbers threaten at no distant day to break down all barriers of restraint: for the proper region of the white race is the North, and the proper region of the black race is the South, and white men at the South are out of place, bearing the burden and responsibility of governing the 
black race, thus preventing or retarding the inevitable march towards barbarism, which the existence of the black race in the South renders inevitably certain some time or other.
The tendency of slavery is to cause the white man-who takes upon himself the humane and generous task of retarding the progress of barbarism for so small a compensation as the labor of the negro produces-the tendency of slavery in a warm climate, where the white man cannot labor, and where the black man can -the tendency of slavery where it can only return any profit—-is to cause the white man to dwindle and decay, and if his place is not filled by immigration from the North, the white race must soon disappear, while the negro can thrive and multiply without the introduction of fresh blood from Africa, which he is nevertheless constantly receiving. But as the South have not established and do not seek to maintain slavery upon the divine basis recognized by Mr. Fisher, but have made him a chattel, the North ought to sustain the South in their position as it is, until they can be influenced by some means or other to see the subject in its true light, and set about reforming the present imperfect system.
But whereas, notwithstanding, nevertheless, as there are already four millions of blacks-with a sprinkling of mulattoes produced some how without amalgamation, which is instinctively abhorrent-and this number secures beyond a peradventure their perpetuity in the South country about the gulf, and as they will be in twenty-five years eight millions, and in fifty years sixteen millions, and in seventy-five years thirty-two millions, doubling always in twenty-five years, and with this progressive increase the white race must perish utterly from amongst them, and cannot be perpetuated by immigration and the infusing of new blood into the superior race, because there will not continue sufficient motives to induce them to remain with the benevolent object merely of governing this mass of barbarism, therefore the South must at length be abandoned to become the "Africa" of the Western continent, where civilization, arts and science, industry and prosperity must forever be strangers.
As the destiny of the subject race depends not on itself in any degree, but on the will of the superior race, and as the Saxon South and the Saxon North disagree on this question of ultimate consequences and mutual interests, and as the Saxon North claims all the vast regions of uncultivated territory exclusively for the benefit of the Saxon race, and refuses to allow the Saxon South to carry the negro with him into these virgin territories, the will of the Saxon North must prevail in settling this particular question, and therefore the sentiments of the Northern people must rule the Government inevitably, without effort on its own part, but by an irresistible instinct.
Mr. Fisher also maintains that as each race ought to inhabit a congenial clime, that slavery whether perfected according to his idea or continued on the chattel principle, should be restricted to its present limits, because wherever the white man can labor, he claims the soil for himself and for his own race alone, and where he cannot labor he claims it. and takes the negro to labor for him, all through the force of instinct; and instinct is divine right: because the negro is fitted for that lot and no other, and will not fulfil his lot unless by compulsion.
The principles of this philosophy are found in the Constitution, and the Constitution grew out of these principles, and by its provisions covers the whole ground "as if inspired by prophetic wisdom." So long as we abide by the Constitution and the Union, we may reap what good can be derived from the negro and slavery, and so postpone the dark day of disunion and decline of the South for with such an event the ultimate disenthralment of the negro from the dominion of the white man is brought nearer at hand, for he cannot control the negro without foreign support in the Union or out of it. and when that support is with drawn the negro will throw off the yoke, and the region-where he now serves the cause of industry, civilization, refinement, morals, religion and law-must become the sole possession of him who has so long, toiled as a subject of another's will on the same soil.
We commend the above considerations to South Carolina and her supporters North and South, and also to that class of Abolitionists who persist in the support of the Union, while the actual beneficiaries of its advantages are striving to rend the chain which binds us in their hands.
<c03>
Whether Mr. Fisher's conclusion, that freedom to the negro must result in his essential barbarism be true or not, the argument that the dissolution of the Union must result in the freedom of the slave, appeals so logically consequent upon the fact, that we long to see the South successful in maintaining secession, for the same reason that Mr. Fisher deprecates it; and while we cannot help feeling disgust and contempt at beholding James Buchanan manifesting the vacillating weakness of Louis XVI., and the perverseness of James the Second, we rejoice to have it so, and should consider the actual prevention of the inauguration of Abraham Lincoln in Washington, the most fortunate event that could occur in behalf of liberty both at the -North and at the South. D. S. G

HOW TO SAVE THE UNION.
In the present excited state of the country on the slavery question, there seems no prospect of a peaceful adjustment of difficulties. All propositions, brought
forward by Northern members of Congress as alleviatives and pacificators, have failed to appease the Slave Power; and the demands of that power will not be acceded to by the North-at least, there is little fear of it. It is also quite apparent, that if they were complied with, the effect would be but temporary. The causes of present disaffection still existing, of course, similar effects must follow.
Now, the whole trouble seems to emanate from the Fugitive Slave Law and its non-execution by the free states. If it were faithfully complied with by all the North, it is doubtful whether the result would be at all satisfactory to the slaveholders, for this reason. Every fugitive who has been caught and returned to bondage has proved a difficult fellow to manage, as he is more or less tinctured with ideas of freedom, which, if he does not act upon himself, he will instill into those with whom he associates, thus generating discontent, and so far paving the way for a host of runaways in future. It is self-evident, that fugitives do not approve the system, or they would not leave it. Now, if a plan could be devised whereby the disaffected negro's place could be supplied by one who would remain contented and pleased with his lot, one great cause of the present difficulty would be removed.
Suppose, now, the Fugitive Slave Law should be so altered or amended that when a "chattel" escaped to another State, his place should be supplied by some white pro-slavery advocate of that State. By this plan, the new incumbent, instead of being troublesome, would be in a better position to strengthen the Slave Power by quieting all tendencies toward liberty by his fellow-slaves.
Thus, whenever another Thomas Sims or Anthony Burns escapes to Massachusetts, let his place be immediately filled by a rabid lover of oppression-say Rev. Nehemiah Adams, Geo. W. Blagden, or S. K. Lothrop, or some editor of like proclivities, Charles Gordon Green, of the Boston Post, for instance. Perhaps, if these gentlemen were not considered exactly safe and "sound on the goose," Richard S. Fay, or the Hon. Caleb Cushing might be selected for the distinguished honor. Perhaps the Hon. Edward Everett would volunteer his valuable person, in case the Union was in great danger. How charmingly this scheme would work! The Rev. Divine, after being thoroughly whipped into submission, could exhort the other slaves to obedience and submission, and pray to the pro-slavery god to spread his protection over the dear system, and keep all quiet and harmonious. How very pleasant for the Rev. Nehemiah (after a hard day's work, hoeing tobacco) to indulge in the agreeable recreation of writing sermons, proving, from the Holy Bible, slavery to be a divine, God-ordained, and therefore heavenly institution, to be implicitly obeyed by all who love the Lord, and fear to break his commandments!
Then the said Nehemiah might be hired out, at so much per Lord's day, to deliver sermons, exhorting servants to obey their masters. Should his proprietor 
think proper to go on a speculating tour to the free States, he might enter the pulpit with a chain and ball attached to his leg, thus practically exemplifying 
the beauty and desirableness of bondage. A few stripes on the back would heighten the effect.
The editors could write leading articles for the Richmond Enquirer or Charleston Mercury, after working hours, proving the entire constitutionality of slavery and its absolute necessity to a free, and enlightened nation, thus making their influence felt where it is most needed, more than in their present position. The Hon. Caleb might be let out by his owner during the election season, to deliver Union speeches, vilifying and degrading free men and free institutions, extolling tyranny and oppression, lauding such fellows as, Calhoun, Clay 
and Wise as profound statesmen, and denouncing the Czar of Russia for banishing serfdom from his dominions. 
The Hon. Edward, of the New York Ledger, might be carried about by his master or owner to deliver eulogies on Washington, Webster, or other great men, immensely to the pocketary emolument of the said master. A hundred thousand dollars could be much easier earned in this way, than by threshing rice or packing tobacco.
In this manner, the Slave Power would have its servants more directly under its absolute control; the slaveholders would be pacified and satisfied, at the same time, their Union perfected.
By this plan, these men would be placed in a sphere they so much admire, for others, and the free States be gradually rid of this non-progressive, pestiferous class of minds, who now only seek to obstruct all humanitary tendencies, which seek a higher and nobler civilization, tainting with a fatal miasma whatever moral atmosphere they come in contact with. Then shall the freedom-loving portion of the people find themselves delivered of those foul obstructions, that but impede all ONWARD AND UPWARD PROGRESS.

MEETING OF COLORED CITIZENS OF BOSTON.
On the evening of Tuesday, January 1st, 1861, a large audience convened at the Twelfth Baptist Church for a purpose of which, for prudential reasons, only a few had been fully informed, but which, in due time, was made apparent by the announcement that Osborne P. Anderson, one of the companions of Capt. John Brown at Harper's Ferry, who had been a so journer in this vicinity recently, was now about to leave the city.
In view of this fact, some friends had taken the responsibility of calling the meeting, that ways and means might be devised for an expression of feeling—-a legitimate exponent of which would be "material aid”-for their brother, identified with them in complexion and condition, who had in so signal and heroic a manner testified his irrepressible love of freedom.
Remarks were made by Rev. J. Sella Martin, Rev. Leonard A. Grimes, Geo. T. Downing, Robert Morris, Esq., John J. Smith, Wm C. Nell and others, embodying earnest appeals, statements of facts, and interesting incidents, with readings from Mr. Anderson's book just issued, entitled " A Voice from Harper's Ferry." It was stated that some anti-slavery friends in Boston had promoted the publication of this book, which it was hoped would obtain a wide circulation, both as a means of imparting the only authentic information of these memorable scenes, and of assisting the author, who, from a combination of causes, now happened to be in need.
The exertions of an impromptu financial committee of ladies and gentlemen, resulted in a contribution of about forty dollars, which was considerably increased, we believe, by the proceeds of a Levee in the Vestry-the refreshments for which were generously furnished by Mr. Downing-together with other subscriptions, sales of book, &c., which, considering that no notice, of an appeal for funds had been given, will perhaps be regarded as an acceptable New Year's present.
Mr. Anderson has left Boston, but his book can be obtained at the anti-slavery office for 15 cents each, or $10 a hundred. W. C. N. 
Boston, Jan. 8,1861.
The Editor has been too ill to be able to give any attention to the Liberator this week.
<c04>
OUR NOBLE GOVERNOR.
God bless our noble Governor of the Old Bay State! Such is the natural exclamation of the humane heart, after reading the high-toned and excellent Inaugural of Governor Andrew. For breadth of philanthropy, righteous philosophy, and true Christian courage, it is a model document; and all the more to be admired for the pregnant hour in which it was uttered. What a refreshing contrast it presents, when placed in juxtaposition with tile the sycophantic and time-serving Valedictory of ex-Governor Banks-the "puff-ball" of a day! This tells the story: the one emanates from a true and manly heart; the other is the cunning bait of a trickster and ambitious politician.
Let us thank God and take courage, that while madness rules the hour in South Carolina, and other Cotton States, Massachusetts is sober and thoughtful for human weal. At least, at her helm is a man, who dares place Freedom in the vanguard, as a boon too precious to be sold for cotton. But then, WILL IT BE DONE? Will our Personal Liberty Law be repealed? This, with Abolitionists and every true friend of the oppressed, is the momentous question. We well know that efforts base and mercenary will be used to effect this object. The word has gone forth from interested politicians and timid hirelings, that this, righteous act, instituted in the hour of need to protect to our own citizens from the prowling kidnapper, shall be obliterated from the Statute-Book. We confess we feel the danger, and earnestly beseech our brethren to double their diligence.
Last year, it was much easier to get signatures to our petition against slave-hunting than this. Many of the Republicans-and those, too, who are counted the most faithful-stand back with trembling knees, and beg to be excused. Our number will be greatly diminished; and yet, in our righteous warfare, there was never a time when with more alacrity we should give our names and influence in this work-never. We have now the hope to cheer us, that Gov. Andrew will not fail-will not, like his predecessor, veto our prayers for enslaved millions. Besides, the fresh barbarism and unabated violence of the Slave Power-its demon spirit of ruffianism toward every man of Northern birth-its demands, so many and degrading, bid us to be " up and doing, with a heart for any fate."
And nearer home is the incentive for action more marked than ever. Base tools of the South are trampling on the right of free speech. The threat has gone forth that the "golden lips " of our own Phillips and others shall be sealed. This is no hour for truce. No; let us say, by the living God, who reigns to bless, we will bear it no longer. This " last straw shall break the camel's back." We 'may live as vassals or die like freemen. Shall we hesitate to make our choice? Whether we be resistants or non-resistants, we cannot debase our manhood, stultify our souls, and willingly wear the tyrant's chain. The word of Revolutionary times should echo from every true heart “Give me liberty or death." G. W. S. Milford, Jan. 6, 1861.

THE SENSE OF A CONNECTICUT CHURCH ON SECESSION. 
The following resolutions were adopted by the Jewett City Congregational Church, Rev. Henry T. Cheever, pastor, at the public service on Fast day:-
1. Resolved, That this church and congregation, assembled on the 4th day of January, 1861, according to the Proclamation of the President of the Nation and also of the Governor of this State, to keep a season of fasting and prayer on account of the distress of the Nation, deem it proper, while humbling themselves before God, to put on record their judgment of the exigency that has called for such a proclamation.
2. Resolved, That we deem it owing, under God, solely to the existence and audacity of Slavery;- and we deem it to be the manifest and imperative duty of the President of the United States, in this exigency, as "the minister of God who beareth not the sword in vain," promptly to enforce the laws, and to put down the rebellion and treason which have been plotted and perpetrated in South Carolina, by the use (if need be) of the whole disposable force of the army and navy of the United States.
3. Resolved, That we further declare and put upon record our deliberate opinion that all the Christian people of the country should, and that an overwhelming majority will, patriotically sustain the President in such a decisive and vigorous suppression of the rankest treason and rebellion. 
4. Resolved, That we declare, finally, that if, as being the executive head, and expressing the collective sovereignty of a great Nation, the president does not do this, but allows a treacherous conspiracy of rebels to have its way, that it is due at once, both to the safety and dignity of such a people, that he be forth-with impeached at the bar of the Senate of the United States.

THE REPUBLICANS AT WASHINGTON.
The Republican members of the House caucused in the Post-Office Committee room again, on the 5th upon the present state of affairs. Speaker Pennington in the chair. There was a full attendance.
The unfinished business of Friday was resumed, being the report of Mr. Hale of Pennsylvania, from the sub-committee of the border Suites, who said that he believed the members of his committee representing the border States would agree to his proposition, that all the territory of the United States north of thirty-six degrees thirty minutes should be free, and all south of that line to remain as it is, with liberty to the people to organize into States whenever they please, with or without slavery. He was of opinion that it might be better for the North to take this proposition than to precipitate the country into war.
Mr. Howard of Michigan, said he objected to any compromise, because he believed it to be an acknowledgment of an error, which he would not concede. He defended the motives of the Republicans in the Committee of Thirty-three, and expressed the opinion that they had done nothing that could be interpreted as a surrender of their principles. Those who understand Mr. Adams's position do not believe this.
Mr. Lovejoy of Illinois, speaking of the malcontents of the slave States, and the proposed compromise of dividing the territory between freedom and slavery to the Pacific, said, " There never was a more causeless revolt since Lucifer led his cohorts of apostate angels against the throne of God; but I never heard that the Almighty proposed to compromise the matter by allowing the rebels to kindle the fires of hell south of the celestial meridian of thirty-six thirty."
This outburst of the eccentric member from Illinois created a deal of sensation and some merriment.
Mr. Sherman stated that, as a member of the border sub-committee from the border States, he could not vote for the proposition proposed by Mr. Crittenden, to restore the Missouri line and extend it to the Pacific. He was also opposed to the compromise to prevent the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia. While he did not wish to abolish it now, he opposed the yielding up the right of Congress to do so at any future period.
Mr. Grow of Pennsylvania, expressed himself decidedly opposed to all compromises. He asked what better platform the North or the South could have to stand upon than the Union, the Constitution and the laws? The Republican party has elected a President in accordance with the forms of the constitution, and is entitled to, fair play. If his administration of the government is resisted by those opposed to Mr. Lincoln, the crime will be theirs. When the Republicans took their position, before the election, they knew they would have to meet this state of things, and now they should not put the burden upon posterity.
Messrs. Hickman and Stephens of Pennsylvania, and Case of Indiana, opposed all compromises in speeches couched in unmistakable language.
Mr. Petit of Indiana, from the sub-committee of border States, said he had opposed all the propositions in that committee except the one proposed by Mr. Hale, upon which he did not vote. He defended the border States for their efforts to arrange matters.
Mr. Beal of New York, inquired why his State was not consulted.
Some one then asked why Arkansas and North Carolina were invited to join the sub-committee.
Mr. Stanton of Ohio, and Mr. Nixon of New Jersey, expressed themselves in favor of some compromise.
The caucus unanimously agreed to press the business of the country in the House. 
Mr. Dawes of Massachusetts, moved that no vote be taken on any of the propositions, and that the caucus adjourn sine die, which was carried.
<co5>
THE SECESSION MOVEMENT.
The Mississippi Convention met January 8th. The Commissioners from South Carolina and Alabama were invited to take seats in the Convention. A resolution was adopted to amend the Constitution of the State, so as to authorize the borrowing of money for the purpose of military defence. The Standing Committees were appointed, including one to prepare a secession ordinance. A dispatch was received stating that Georgia was determined upon immediate secession. Adjourned to to-morrow, when a secession ordinauce will be reported.
At a military parade to-day a flag with fifteen stars was carried. "There was a mimic battle, skirmishing, &c.
An ordinance for immediate secession has been unanimously agreed upon by the Committee of Fifteen. It will pass the Convention to-morrow in secret session.
The Alabama Convention is in session at Montgomery. Mr. Calhoun, Commissioner from South Carolina, addressed the Convention on Tuesday. His speech was well received. Dispatches to the Governor from Virginia, Florida and Mississippi were read to the Convention. They excited much enthusiasm. A committee of thirteen was appointed to report a sessions ordinance. The Convention determined to hold secret sessions by a large majority.
A special dispatch from Richmond, Virginia, to the New York Herald, says that the Committee of the House of Delegates of Virginia would report a bill for a Convention on the 9th. The election of delegates is to take place on the "7th of February, and the Convention is to meet on the 18th. The question relative to increasing the military force of the State was referred to a Committee. A resolution proposing to appropriate ten millions of dollars for that purpose was also referred. It is the general opinion that Virginia will secede about the 20th of February.
The correspondent of the New York Times, writing from Washington, January 2d, says: "A gentleman arrived this evening from Charleston, in company with Com. Shubrick. Both say the panic which prevails there is unparalleled. There is a great lack of food; business is prostrated; the people are idle; the patrols are wandering up and down to preserve order. On the day Com. Shubrick left there was unusual excitement, and upon inquiry he found that news had been received that the steamer Macedonian was on her way with eight hundred troops to bombard the city and- reinforce Major Anderson. He could not convince them to the contrary, and expresses the opinion that they cannot long hold out in their present condition, unless Georgia comes to their relief. No vessel entered or left the harbor while they were there."
It is also said that the merchants, alarmed for their property, have removed their valuable goods to the interior. Business is at an end, and some of the stores are closed; traders are the first and greatest losers by the secession movement. The hotels at Charleston have few patrons, and their business for the winter is ruined.
Much disaffection exists among the German and Irish volunteer troops at Charleston, who are taken away from their business and homes to perform military duty, while the secession leaders are enjoying the luxury of treason comfortably, and without any personal exposure.
The rumor that the steamer Star of the West has sailed for Charleston with reinforcements for Major Anderson is ascertained to be a fact.
The Government is hourly expecting intelligence of a startling character, as the people of Charleston have threatened to prevent the landing of troops at Fort Sumter.
It is expected that the steamer will be sunk, if the traitors possess sufficient force to accomplish it; but they will doubtless be obliged to encounter a stern resistance, not only from the military on board the steamer, but from Major Anderson's garrison in Fort Sumter.
A private letter received in New York, dated Columbia, S. C , Jan. 1, contains the following: “We are this day drafting our quota of men to go to Charleston to fight. All the other Southern States are sending men to us daily, and the prospect is we shall have serious work soon. All the men over sixty are forming a regiment to mount guard at Columbia, during the absence of our regular troops and artillery."
The <illegible> in Congress, upon the resolution approving the course of 
Major Anderson, and sustaining the President in not recalling him, is regarded by the Southern men as indicating a majority favorable to the passage of a force bill. They -are intensely excited, and threaten vengeance if a force bill is attempted to be passed. The Republicans also regard it as showing a majority in favor of such a measure.
The Senators of the States which have called Conventions have adopted the following resolutions:-
“First, We recommend to our States immediate secession
Second, We recommend holding a Convention at Montgomery, Alabama, on a day not later than the 15th of February, and establishing a Southern Confederacy."
Another resolution was passed, considered confidential, but understood to pledge the Senators to remain at Washington, and defeat army and navy appropriations and other bills, if proposed.
Mr. Thompson, Secretary of the Interior, resigned on the 8th, on the ground that troops had been sent to Charleston by the steamer Star of the West, when, as be he alleges, there was a distinct understanding on the 3lst of December that none were to be ordered to the South without the decision of the Cabinet.
The U. S. arsenal at Mobile was taken on the morning of January 4. It contains six stand of arms, 1500 barrels of powder, and 300,000 rounds of cartridges,. No defence was made. Fort Morgan was also taken during the night, and garrisoned by 200 Mobile troops.
CHARLESTON', Jan. 5. A. B. Longstreet, President of the South Carolina College, issues a pamphlet entitled "Shall South Carolina Begin War?" He earnestly desires that the Collector on board the Harriet Lane be allowed to land, be treated politely, introduced to Mr. Colcock, and every means used by the two Collectors to settle their respective claims in a spirit of courtesy and kindness.
If the forts were reinforced, there would be an unfair conflict; hundreds of our sons would be slain, Moultrie would become deserted, and the wrath of the United States be brought on our devoted city. He implores his fellow-citizens to let the first shot come from the enemy.
Reports from Charleston state that the troops are suffering severely from sickness and exposure. There is no business doing. The city is in the hands of a mob.
The Governor has received a telegram from Mayor Mouroe of New Orleans, stating that New Orleans fully sympathized with Charleston in the perils to which she is exposed, and will not fail to support her when occasion requires.
AFFAIRS AT THE SOUTH AS REFLECTED FROM PRIVATE SOURCES. A gentleman recently from Charleston, and who has resided there for several years, says the people at the North can form no idea of the excitement which exists in that city. He believes that the people are as much insane as most of those who are in our mad-houses, and nothing but a sound drubbing will dispel their illusions. They have the most exaggerated notions of their own strength and importance, and the most ridiculous ideas of Northern dependence upon there countenance and favor. They acknowledge the business stagnation in their own city, but seem to take a patriotic pride in their pecuniary sufferings, believing that the distress and destitution at the North is tenfold greater. It is the universal belief that the danger of bread riots in the large cities of the North is imminent -that the manufactories are all stopped-and that the operatives are starving. They express a great deal of sympathy for our poor, but say they have nobody to blame but themselves for their abject condition. They laugh to scorn the idea of coercion on the part of the General Government, and say the first blow struck will be the signal for a civil war at the North, in which the Democratic and Bell-Everett parties will throttle the Republicans, and insist that the independence of the slave States shall be acknowledged.
In short, like the fly on the chariot wheel, they entertain the most exaggerated ideas of their own importance and power. These ideas are fanned by the leaders of the mob-for the control is virtually in the hands of the mob-and whatever can be gleaned from Northern papers to strengthen the delusion is diligently circulated. As their own papers do not show the business stagnation and the destitution which exist in Charleston, they imagine that the Northern press is also prudentially silent upon the social and business condition of the free States. They are expecting every day that the North will come down on its knees to South Carolina, and beg her to remain in the Union.
How the delusion of the citizens of the Palmetto State is to be banished cannot now be anticipated, though time and the thickening dangers about them, will probably solve the problem,-Journal
SLAVERS CAPTURED. The U. S. steamer Mohawk, Lieutenant Craven, has recently seized two vessels fitted out for the slave trade, while cruising off the Cuban coast. One was the brig Iowa, and the other the barque Mary L. Kimball, of New Orleans. They were taken to Key West and placed in custody of the U. S. Marshal.
A large meeting was held at Hamilton, C. W., on Wednesday evening, in relation to the Anderson fugitive slave case. Speeches were made justifying Anderson's escape, and resolutions were adopted to use every exertion to prevent his rendition. The Canadians are greatly excited about this matter.
Several slaves have been arrested at Manchester, near Richmond, Va., on the charge of insubordination, and conspiring to form an insurrection.
<c06>
SOUTHERNERS IN WASHINGTON. The Washington correspondent of the New York Times says:-
“There is already a considerable number of Southern men here. Many of them, but almost invariably such as appear to be under age, wear the blue cockade, which is the fashionable badge of treason. Their number and power were attested by the uproarious applause which greeted the treasonable speech of Renjamin on Monday last. Men of this stamp have no hesitation in threatening the overthrow of the Government; and would put Hannibal to the blush by their fluent discourse upon the art of war.
But let me not underrate the importance of these threats. It is said that revolutions are always precipitated by the daring of a few leaders, backed by a minority of the people: and the history of the world proves that a hundred men, armed and organized for war, are more than a match for thousands of brave citizens who are peaceably going about their business. Weak as are the Secessionists, therefore, in point of numbers, when compared with the great mass of law-abiding people, of all parties, it would be a fatal mistake to rest in quiet security, without an effort to counteract their machinations. They are not wanting in courage and audacity, and there are men among them who are not unfamiliar with military science."
HORRIBLE MURDER BY SLAVES. Lucius Woodruff, a wealthy citizen of Weldon, Northampton County, N. C., has been murdered by his slaves, under horrible tortures. The negroes, with the exception of the ringleader, have been arrested. There are rumors (of course) that Abolitionists are at the bottom of the crime. A determination is expressed to hang all the slaves concerned in the affair, immediately.
A meeting was held at Norfolk, (Va.) on the 7th inst., which favored secession, the arming of the State, and denouncing coercion.
NO COMPROMISE WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.- Conventions, in the State of New York, to be addressed by Rev. Beriah Green, Rev. S. J. May, Aaron M. Powell, Susan B. Anthony, and others, will be held as follows:-
Rochester, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Jan.11, 12, 13-
Utica, Monday, Tuesday, Jan. 14, 15.
Rome, Thursday, Friday, Jan. 17, 18.
Cortland, Saturday, Sunday, Jan. 19, 20.
Fulton, Tuesday, Wednesday, Jan. 22, 23.
Oswego, Thursday, Friday, Jan. 24, 25.
Port Byron, Saturday, Sunday Jan. 26, 17.
Syracuse, Tuesday, Wednesday Jan. 29, 30-
Auburn, Thursday, Friday, Jan 31, Feb. 2.
Peterboro', Saturday, Sunday, Feb. 2, 3.
The sessions of the Conventions will be afternoons and evenings, at 2 and 7 o'clock. Afternoon sessions free-Evening sessions, 10 cents.
 Let there be a grand rallying of the People.
The friends in the several places will give free entertainments to those in attendance from the country.
NEW YORK STATE CONVENTION.-The Fourth Annual New York State Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at Albany, in Association Hall, Monday evening, Tuesday and Wednesday, afternoon and evenings, Feb. 4, 5, 6. Hon. Gerrit Smith, Lucretia Mott, Rev. Beriah Green, Ernestine L. Rose, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Oliver Johnson, Rev. S. J. May,
Aaron M. Powell, Susan B. Anthony and others will address the Convention Afternoon sessions will commence at half-past 2 o'clock. Admission free. Evening sessions at half-past 7 o’clock.
WOMAN’S RIGHTS -The Second Annual New York State Woman's Rights Convention will be held at ALBANY, in Association Hall, Thursday and Friday, afternoons and evenings, Feb. 7 and 8.
Lucretia Mott, Ernestine L. Rose, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Hon. Gerrit Smith, Rev. Beriah Green, Rev. S. J. May, Aaron M. Powell, Susan B. Anthony, and. others, will address the Convention.
Afternoon sessions at half-past 2 o'clock. Admission free.
Evening sessions at half-past 7 o'clock. Admission 10 cts.
SIXTEENTH COURSE -The Seventh Lecture before the Salem Female Anti-Slavery Society will be given by Miss SALLIE HOLLEY, of Rocbester, N. Y., on Sunday evening, Jan. 13, in Lyceum Hall, at 7 o'clock. Admittance
five cents. CAROLINE BALCH, Rec. Sec.
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at
Groton, Friday, Jan. 11.
Pepperell, Sunday, " 13.
MEDFORD -Miss SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak at Medford, Thursday evening, Jan. 17.
MANCHESTER. N. H. -A. T Foss, HENRY C. WRIGHT and J. M. HAWKS will speak in Manchester, N. H ., Sunday, Jan. 20, day and evening.
 FREE DISPENSARY, for Women and Children, 274 Washington street, Boston. Open every day, from 12 to 1 o'clock.
The above institution (in connection with the LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY) is now open for the gratuitous treatment of Women and Children, and for Surgieal Patients of both sexes. Difficult cases may have the benefit of a, Consultation on Wednesdays, at 12 o'clock.
MIDWIFERY. Attendance by duly qualified female practitioners will be provided for the poor, at their own homes, free of charge.
BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D., No. 34 Auburn Street, Boston. Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases. OFFICE HOURS from 11, A. M., till 2, P. M. Nov.23-3m
SITUATION WANTED.- A lady who has had large experience in matters of house-keeping, and who is eminently qualified satisfactorily to discharge the duties connected therewith, desires a situation either as house-keeper, or matron of some establishment, either in this city or vicinity.the The best of references given. Address X., Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington street.
The British Reviews,
AND
Blackwood's Magazine.
1.
THE LONDON QUARTERLY,(Conservative.)
2 
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, (Whig.)
3.
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, (Free Church.)
4.
THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, (Liberal.)
5.
BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, (Tory.)
TERMS.
For any one of the four Reviews, $3 00
For any two of the four Reviews, 5 00
For any three of the four Reviews, 7 00
For all four of the Reviews, 8 00
For Blackwood's Magazine, 3 00
For Blackwood and one Review, 5 00
For Blackwood and two Reviews, 7 00
For Blackwood and three Reviews, 9 00
For Blackwood and the four Reviews, 10 00
N. B.-The price in Great Britain, of the five Periodicals above-named is $31 per annum.
Republished by LEONARD SCOTT & CO.,
54 Gold Street, New York.
Dec.28 6w
SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE Fourth Edition
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from scripture; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Fourth Edition. Price 13 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. Sold by all liberal booksellers, and by the publishers,
A. J. DAVIS & CO., 274 canal street, New York.

TRANSIENT BOARDERS 
THE subscriber has just opened house No. 77 Myrtle street, for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes' walk of the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. Rooms furnished with or without board.
Terms moderate Jan. 11 S. NEWELL
The above accommodations are very sample and attractive, and we hope that friends temporarily in the city will give the worthy host a call.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
THE CRISIS.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
The day is breaking in the East, of which the prophets told,
And brightons up the sky of Time the Christian Age of Gold;
Old Might to Right is yielding, battle blade to clerkly pen,
Earth's monarchs are her peoples, and her serfs stand up as men;
The isles rejoice together, in a day are nation born,
And the slave walks free in Tunis, and by Stamboul's Golden Horn!
Is this, oh countrymen of mine! a day for us to sow
The soil of new-gained empire with Slavery's seeds of woe?
To feed with our fresh life-blood the old world's cast-off crime,
Dropped, like some monstrous early birth, from the tired lap of Time?
To run anew the evil race the old lost nations ran,
And die, like them, of unbelief of God, and wrong of man?
Great Heavens! is this our mission? Ends in this the prayers and tears,
The toil, the strife, the watchings of our younger, better years?
Still, as the old world rolls in light, shall ours in shadow turn,
A beamless chaos, cursed of God, through outer darkness borne?
Where the far nations looked for light, a blackness in the air?
Where for words of hope they listened, the long wail of despair?
The Crisis presses on us; face to face with us it stands,
With solemn lips of question, like the sphinx in Egypt's sands!.
This day we fashion Destiny, our web of Fate we spin;
This day for all hereafter choose we holiness or sin;
Even now from starry Gerizim, or Ebal's cloudy crown,
We call the dews of blessing, or the bolts of cursing down!
By all for which the Martyrs bore their agony and shame;
By all the warning words of truth with which the prophets came;
By the Future which awaits us; by all the hopes which cast
Their faint and trembling beams across the blackness of the Past;
And in the awful name of Him who for earth's freedom died;
Oh ye people! oh my brothers! let us choose the righteous side!
So shall the Northern pioneer go joyful on his way,
To wed Penobscot's waters to San Francisco's Bay;
To make the rugged places smooth, and sow the vales with grain,
And bear, with Liberty and Law, the Bible in his train;
The mighty West shall bless the East, and sea shall answer sea,
And mountain unto mountain call: PRAISE GOD, FOR WE ARE FERE!.

"THE LAND OF THE FREE AND THE HOME OF THE BRAVE."
(" Star-Spangled Banner.")
Perhaps your land is brave enough, though your “flag of freedom waves”
With its crimson stripe of murderous hue, dyed in the blood of slaves;
And your country may be ” free" enough, but you should still the cries
That float, from up your Southern swamps, and rend the frowning skies.
Perhaps a land is” glorious," whose men are bought and sold;
But from your banner, gemmed with stars, tear out the crimson fold!
How dare you hang the flag aloft, to float beneath the sun,
Which your fathers, with their noble lives, for you and freedom won,
When the claukiug of your brother's chain is heard beyond the Stars?
And is your Father's child less dear because of stripes and scars?
Are your poor sisters' souls less white because a darker skin
Covers the glow of Christian light that burns as bright within?
Think you that Jesus' pitying eye with less of sorrow turns
To the slave-mother, in whose heart your scourge of iron burns?
Can ye not hear from out the heaven His warning voice to thee:
"As ye do to the least of these, ye do it unto me”?
"Is there no balm in Gilead, and no physician there?”
Is not your path to the sweet heavens by the same golden stair?
Hath not your Savior left, for all, one universal prayer?
And do ye think that God in heaven will make a pen of gold,
To keep the sons of African—your brothers, whom ye sold?
The children of the Heavenly King, who, for their Christian grace,
Ye labeled at a higher price upon the market place?
Go, rend their clanking chains apart, and lift them from the sand,
Then sing your song of Liberty in triumph through the land!
Then raise your stars and stripes aloft-let Freedom's banner wave,
Abroad, through all the glorious land-the land without a slave!

SECESSION.
BY REV.MARK TRAFTON.
They threaten now to leave us,
False sons of worthy sires, Whose frosty souls have never felt
The glow of Freedom's fires.
With foot upon a brother's neck,
How can they sympathize
With Freedom's glorious light that shines
O'er all our Northern skies?
And let them go-if go they will-
Who shunned the well-fought day,
When Plymouth's sons refused to bow,
But flung their chains away.
Reluctantly they signed the bond
Which Freedom's signet bore,
And grudged the boon to others which
Our fathers claimed of yore.
On each return of that proud day,
When we remember those
Who penned that Declaration,
The terror of our foes,
They must with pain those words rehearse,
"All men by birth are free,"
While on their auction-block, for sale,
A brother man they see.
The cannon's roar-the wild huzza,
The trumpet's swelling strains,
Blend painfully with whistling whips,
And clank of coffle chains.
They feel the threatened judgment now,
The iron’s in their soul,
While shades of coming sorrows o'er
Their guilty conscience roll.
Aye-let them go: the sun will come
Back to this Northern clime;
Bringing, as it has ever brought,
The seed and harvest time.
The tide will rise and fall as now,
The moon will wax and wane,
Oppression's sons, from every clime,
Will crowd to Freedom's fane.
Our free schools o'er the land shall still
The seed of knowledge sow,
Our churches, crowding hill and vale,
The way of peace shall show;
Our ships shall sail, as now they sail,
In every clime and sea-
And we shall be, as we have been,
The freest of the free.
<c02>
The Liberator.
[Translated for the Liberator from Hans Andersen, by R. R.]
A STORY.
In the garden, all the apple trees were in blossom; they had bloomed before the green leaves shot forth: in the yard, the ducklings walked around, and the cat also sunned herself, and licked the sunshine from her paws: and when one looked over the field, there stood the corn, each stalk alike shining in magnificent green, and a twittering and chirping could be heard from all the little birds, as if it were a great holiday, which in truth it was; for it was Sunday. The bells were ringing, and the people were going to church, dressed in their best clothes, and all looked so pleased—yes, there was something pleasing in all: it was a day so warm and blest, that one could indeed say —God every where is very good to us men!
But within, in the church, the pastor stood in the chancel, and spoke so loud and so menacing! He said,” Mankind were all wicked—that on account of this, God would punish them, and when they died, they would all go to hell, and burn everlastingly," zealously quoting that” the worm never dies, and the fire is not quenched," and that no” peace nor rest could ever be found”! This was awful to listen to, and he uttered it with such convincing sincerity! describing hell as a pestiferous pit, where all the offal of the world flowed together, and there was no other air than the hot, burning, sulphurous flames—no ground or bottom, and they (the wicked) ever sank deeper and deeper into everlasting silence! His description was awful, but he spoke it from his full heart, and the people in the church were completely terrified by it. Outside, in the meanwhile, the little birds sang delightfully, the sun was beautifully warm, it was as if each bird and plant said—How perfect is God's good ness toward us all! Indeed, outside, it was not at all like the pastor's preaching.
The same evening, near the hour for rest, the pastor gazed at his wife as she sat there absorbed in thought
“What ails you?” inquired he of her.”
"Indeed, what ails me?" said she.“ I find I am not able to collect my thoughts rightly; that I cannot justly comprehend what you preached to-day, that there are so many wicked, and that they shall burn everlastingly! Everlastingly, ah, how long! I am a human being, a sinner before God, yet I could not find it in my heart to suffer the most wicked to burn eternally; and then how should the dear God be able to, he who is so endlessly good, and who also knows how evil comes from without and within? No, I can never believe it myself, although you say it."
It was autumn; the trees were stripped of their leaves; the zealous, austere pastor sat by the couch of one dying—closing the eyes of a pious, believing soul—the wife of his bosom.
"If any one can find rest in the grave, and grace before God, it is thou," said he; and he folded her hands, and read a psalm for the dead.
They bore her to the grave; two great tears rolled down the cheeks of the severe man, and in the parsonage it was still and empty—the light of the house was extinguished. She had gone home.
It was night: a cold wind dashed across the head of the pastor; he opened his eyes, and it seemed to him the moon shone into his room, but there was no moon. A figure was there, standing before his bed; he saw the spirit of his dead wife, which looked so sad and grieved—it was as if it would speak to him.
And he half-raised himself in bed, stretched out Iris arms toward her, and said,” To thee also is ever lasting- rest grudged! Thou sufferers! Thou the best and most pious! Is it in my power to procure thee rest in the grave?”
"Yes!” was the reply.”
"And how?’
"Give me a hair, only a single hair, from the head of the sinner whose fire will never be extinguished —of the sinner whom God will cast into the torments of hell."
"Yes, easily can you be set at rest, thou pure, pious one!” said he.
"Then follow me," said the dead; it is permitted.
At my side you can float whither your thoughts will; we can penetrate invisibly to the most secret resorts of men; but you must accurately select the one who is chosen for eternal torment, and find him before the cock crows!”
And rapidly,. as if borne by winged thoughts, they found themselves in a great city, and from the walls and sides of the houses shone, in indelible characters, the names of the mortal sins, arrogance, avarice, drunkenness, sensuality—in short, the whole seven-colored bow of sin.
"Yes, within there, as I believe, as I know," said the pastor,” live those who are doomed to eternal torments!”—and they stood in front of the splendidly lighted portal, the broad steps magnificently decorated with carpets and flowers, and through the gay saloon sounded the joyous music for the dancers. The porter in silk and velvet, with his great silver-mounted staff, stood at the entrance.
"Our ball can be compared to that of the king!”' said he, turning contemptuously to the gaping crowd on the street. What he thought was plainly indicated by his air and motions:” Ragamuffins! you who stand peeping there, the whole of you, in comparison with me, are but a rabble!”
"Pride!” said the dead;” do you see?”
"That there?” replied the pastor,” it is only a fool, a poor simpleton, not destined to the torments of everlasting punishment."
"Only a fool!” resounded through the house of arrogance. That was each one there.
They floated on until within the four bare walls of the miser, who, meagre as a skeleton, trembling from cold and hunger, an old gray-haired, sat with all his thoughts fastened on his gold. They saw him feverishly spring up from his miserable couch, and take out from the wall a loose stone; there in an old stocking lay gold coins. Anxiously, and with damp, trembling fingers, he examined his ragged coat sleeve which had touched the sewed-up pieces of gold.” “That is madness, a joyless madness, beset by anxiety and evil dreams!"
They quickly withdrew, and stood before the hold of the criminals. In long rows the unfortunates slept near each other. Like a wild animal rose up one from his sleep, and uttered a horrible cry. He gave to one of his comrades a hard punch on the ribs with his sharp elbow, and this turned sleepily around.“ Hold your tongue, you savage, and sleep! thus you do every night." “ Every night?” repeated the other," Yes, every night this comes and torments me. In my rashness I have done many bad acts. I was born with a wicked feeling, which has brought me here for the second time; but if I have done wrong, I suffer my punishment. This, however, I have not confessed to any one. When I left prison, I passed by the farm of my former master; my blood boiled within me because of what had happened to me, and I struck a match on the wall: it may have been a little too near the straw roof. All burnt down. The heat came from the fire such as often comes over me. I myself aided to rescue the animals, and help in other matters. Nothing was. burned, except a flock of pigeons which flew into the fire, and a chained dog of which I had not thought. We heard him yell out of the fire—and his noise I continually hear when I try to sleep and when I do sleep, so comes this great rough dog. and howls, and worries me, and lays himself upon me. Hear, I pray, what I tell you! You snore the whole night; you snore while I can hardly sleep a quarter of an hour." Again the blood rushed into the eyes of the passionate prisoner; he threw himself upon his comrade, and struck his face with his clenched fist.
“The wicked Matz has become mad again!" they shout to the sentinels. The other prisoners seized him, wrestled with him, bent him down, so that his head was between his knees, and then bound him so
<c03>
firmly, that the blood almost gushed from the eyes and pores of Matz.
"You will kill him, the unfortunate!" cried the pastor, while he stretched out his hand protecting over him who had already too much atoned.
The scene changed. They flew into the saloons of the rich, the rooms of the poor. Desire and envy, all the mortal sins strode past them; an angel of punishment read their fault, and their defence. This latter, to be sure, was not brilliant, but it was presented to that God who reads all hearts, who fully knows every thing, the evil which is born with us, and which we leave to that God whose is himself grace and love. The hand of the pastor trembled; he dared not stretch it out; he ventured not to draw a hair from the head of a sinner; and the tears gushed from his eyes, like a stream of pardon and love, whose cooling waters should extinguish the everlasting flames of hell.
There the cock crowed.
“All-merciful God! Do thou give peace to her whom I am unable to ransom!"
"I have it now!” said the dead “ It was your harsh words, your doubt in humanity, your gloomy belief in God and his creatures, which brought me to you! Become acquainted with mankind! Even in the wicked lives a part of God, such a part as can conquer and extinguish the flames of hell
And the preacher felt a kiss on his lips, a shimmering light shone around him, the clear sun of God streamed here into his room, where his wife, living, mild, and full of love, had awakened him from a dream which God had sent to him! 
LETTER FROM MARIUS R. ROBINSON.
SALEM, Ohio, Dec. 25,1860.
DEAR BROTHER GARRISON:
On Sunday evening, the 23d inst., a large audience of our most substantial citizens listened to an address by Parker Pillsbury, on the present condition of the country. He gave us, as was meet, in these stirring times, one of his choicest efforts. He made it clear to every capacity that events, past and present, every way justify the radical Anti-Slavery policy; that our only way out of present difficulties, as the only method of avoiding still greater in the future, is, no union with slaveholders—no complicity with their crimes. The audience, composed mainly of such as have hitherto shown least sympathy with our movement, gave evidence that they are beginning to appreciate the work of Abolitionists. They were not backward inexpressing their approval of the course of manly and uncompromising resistance recommended by Mr. Pillsbury. Indeed, the course of events seems bringing all classes to a perception of the true policy. Said a Breckinridge patriot to me, the other day,“ Our Government is going to be broken up; and d—n you, (abolitionists) have done it." Happily, all the moral forces of the country are tending to this end,—the zeal of Abolitionists, the folly and madness of slaveholders, and even the past and wicked conservatism of Republicans.
Mr. Pillsbury's visit to the North-West, at this time, is most opportune; and if our experience in Salem is a good criterion, he will sway the judgment and move the hearts of many, hitherto deceived by their position and blinded by their prejudices. Thanks to South Carolina.
Mr. Pillsbury leaves to-day for Illinois and Wisconsin, proposing to spend there some six weeks in labor.
We are now, also, enjoying the benefits of Mrs. A. K. Foster's labors, in this part of the State. A quarter of a century of labor has not abated her ardor, or diminished her purpose of bringing deliverance to the slave. Now, as in earlier years, she plans and works as though all rested on her single will and arm. Sorrowfully, it must be said, her physical system refuses to perform all the service she allots it; but her purpose and industry are unabated, and her devotion is as single-eyed and unselfish as ever. Her audiences are generally large. The true friends of the slave welcome her with glad cooperation: and many who, for years, have been the dupes of prejudice, in regard to her, as well as her principles, now listen, and learn with astonishment their mistaken estimate of her character and labors.
All eyes in the West are turned to Boston. Your mob of cotton-merchants and money-changers was our first credible evidence that South Carolina was so beside herself as to be in earnest. May Heaven protect the James Otis of this revolution! He and his associated heroes will, without fail, squelch out New England tories, if Southern madmen continue their folly. The North-West will be with you.
M. R. ROBINSON.
LETTER FROM PARKER PILLSBURY.
STERLING, (III,) Dec. 30, 1860.
To THE EDITOR:
I am having my first look at a prairie in winter; and my first experience of the severe temperature was this morning; and at ten below zero, it seemed to me quite as severe to face as twenty in New Hampshire. I have heard it said that the summer temperature of ninety is more enervating here in the West than ninety six near the sea coast. My own impression is, that the rule of difference will hold, both winter and summer.
And the wind sweeps over the prairie as over the sea. No grove or forest breaks its course, often, as far as a wild horse might canter in a day. The storms all seem like storms at sea. One might think these vast plains were once sea; and that suddenly, while part of their surface was rolling in billows, and part slept serene and still, the whole was suddenly curdled into land, and so remains, flat or undulating, and almost as naked as before.
In winter, the lakes and the flat prairie appear just alike. The lakes are frozen, and both being covered with snow, one can hardly toll where shore leaves off and sea begins.
And, fearful as are the storms and cold on the prairies, thousands and thousands of cattle lie out all unprotected, from autumn until spring. Night is sometimes made hideous with their piteous how lings; and many are sometimes found dead in the morning, absolutely frozen. There is not timber for sufficient’ barns; but many farmers, more compassionate than their neighbors, will throw their enormous straw-stacks into rude shelters, round, or under the lee of which, the stock may be very comfortable. Many, however, as soon as the grain is threshed, set fire to the straw, and burn it to ashes. I saw many such fires in the autumn; when a straw-mountain, burning, gleamed up in the night, at a distance of more than twenty miles—the straw of thousands of bushels in a single pyre!
The winter opened his terrible programme this year earlier than usual—and a farmer told me to-day that not half the Indian corn in this region is yet harvested. From where I now write, I can see enormous fields of it, shivering in the wind. And the price is so low, that families buy, in the ear, for fuel, finding it cheaper than wood or coal. There were times here, before the day of railroads, when great quantities of corn would stand in the shocks till spring, and then be burned to make way for the plough. In those days. bacon was used for fuel, as well as corn; and farmers would even give away well-fatted hogs, and thus save butchering them.
You need not be told that anti-slavery work is no pastime in this inhospitable slimate with the moral mercury chilled also as low as Farenheit's. But the people do not: all sleep out on the prairies. Warm and have hearts. are here, as well as elsewhere.” No concessions, no more compromises!"—such are the cries. I have not yet heard among the Republicans one discordant note here at the West; especially since the last demonstrations and declarations of the new” Republic of South Carolina”! And to stand firmly there, is all we can ask. and more, perhaps, than we should expect of the party, in such a crisis.
Still, our work is, and must remain the same, while slavery lasts while Oppression and Injustice reign in whatever form, in whatever clime. Our gospel
<c04>
has wrought the wonders we to-day behold. Faithfully proclaimed, it shall subdue kings, and break in pieces kingdoms, till Truth shall triumph everywhere, and Righteousness reign forever and ever.
The rustling of the Liberator is like the wing of the Heavenly dove. At the voice of Phillips, even the devils tremble. The stern demand of the American Anti-Slavery Society,” No Union with Slaveholders," is that breath of the Omnipotent, which shall never return void.
Yours, with faith unfailing,
PARKER PILLSBURY.
THE GEORGETOWN RESOLUTIONS.
GEORGETOWN, Jan. 2,1861.
MR. EDITOR,—I was pleased to see, in the last Liberator, a copy of the resolutions recently adopted by the church in this town, of which the Rev. Charles Beecher is pastor. These resolutions were passed by a majority (15 to 12) of the church, after a most determined opposition on the part of certain influential (!) members, who were evidently exercised lest the South might withdraw the patronage hitherto bestowed upon the shoe trade of this town. Perhaps it will interest you to hear how the thing was done.
Well, these resolves were introduced at the regular Tuesday evening meeting, by the pastor, but were laid over until the following Sunday evening, when after a prayer, reading the Scriptures, and singing the hymn,” My country,’ is to thee”—the resolves were again read, and one of the deacons took the chair, when the fight began. One of the leading members led off, by attacking the afternoon sermon; thus, in ignorance of parliamentary law, introducing a subject not under consideration. After delivering himself of a somewhat lengthy criticism of the sermon, the member sat down, evidently well pleased with his effort. A, brief pause, when another brother took up the cudgel against the resolves, and wanted to sleep about twenty-four hours on the subject, when it was supposed he might become sufficiently refreshed to act a manly part, by making his record as a Christian tally with his political professions of hostility to slavery.
It is a noticeable fact, that, with one exception, every one of those who voted against the resolves is, politically, a Republican, and of course opposed to James Buchanan. But, like church members generally, they were opposed to injudicious action on this irritating subject.
Others spoke in opposition, but they were promptly met by the pastor, and the resolves triumphantly passed.
Thus, you see, there is one anti-slavery church in Old Essex—the first that has taken decided action on the subject. When it was announced that the resolves were passed, there was hearty applause on the part of the outsiders present, greatly to the annoyance of the aforesaid twelve. This unusual demonstration, on the Sabbath, and at a church meeting, occasions considerable remark, and is not generally approved, even by radicals.
Some dispute has arisen in regard to the count, some alleging that the vote stood fourteen to fifteen, leaving but one majority; and it is rumored that fourteen have signed a paper stating that they did vote in opposition. But whether they did or not, is wholly unimportant: there was a majority, and that purified the church.
We have thus given a brief account of the result of the” irrepressible conflict" in this church; and I must not omit to mention, that one of the opposition advised the young to” beware of the corrupting influence of their pastor”—a piece of advice that, considering its source, will, quite likely, be followed by a course of” masterly inactivity," on the part of those to whom it was gratuitously given. The remark above quoted is but a sample of the tone used by the twelve, in the discussion, during the evening; and it is worthy of remark, that a forbearance was shown by the other side which, considering the provocation, was really remarkable. While I differ with Mr. Beecher on theological matters, as widely as any believer in Parkerism can, yet it is but simple justice to say that Mr. B. displayed, on the occasion of which I am speaking, a courage and determination worthy the highest praise; and if other churches and pastors will but follow the noble example set before them, the day is not far distant when” the sun shall not rise on a master nor set on a slave." 
Yours, truly,
S. P. C.
THE PRESIDENT'S PROCLAMATION FOR A NATIONAL FAST.
Extracts from a Sermon preached before the South Congregational Society, Mass., on Sunday, Dec. 23d, 1860, by Rev. CHARLES BEECHER:—
The principles of the great campaign, just brought to its close, were not radical. Many thought them censurably mild and conservative; but they were well meant, and in the direction of the elevation of Humanity and the glory of God. But States where free speech and a free press are unknown, and where the whole produce of labor is stolen from the laborer, have revolted, and are in treasonable conspiracy; therefore,—and I now quote the words of the proclamation,—" let us, with deep contrition and penitent sorrow, unite in humbling ourselves before the Most High, confessing our individual and national sins, and acknowledging the justice of our punishment."
Mark it, my hearers, that punishment which Southern rebels, corrupt politicians. Wall-street stock gamblers, and State-street millionaires have inflicted on us—" acknowledging the justice of our punishment."
And in this work of utter prostration before a corrupt and treasonous conspiracy, the Church and clergy are to take the leap.
We, the professed followers of Christ, are to open our churches, and employ the sacred associations of the house of God, and the solemnities of our holy religion, to turn the tide of popular exultation into dejection, and transform a triumph into a defeat!
Tell me, my hearers, is there no design in that; to make the Church and clergy the tool of the Government!
This is a government of public opinion. Public opinion is sensitive. Every engine that forms public opinion is a power. Such is the press. Such are parties. But these the despotism that has so long centralized itself at Washington has lost. They could not suborn the press. God would not let them remain an unbroken party organization. God, in his providence, sent confusion into their counsels. Their sands were ebbing. Their hour was come. What resort was left? What engine for reaching public sentiment?
There was one—the Church!
O yes, the Church; the ministry, that never meddled with politics, must meddle now. The whole American Zion, that never did anything but follow public opinion before, must lead it now.
Gird yourselves with sackcloth, lament and howl, fast and weep, preach and pray, and turn the tide of public opinion from liberty back to despotism.
Prepare the way by a panic. Reduce men's courage by a pressure. Tame their heroism by hunger. Bring down their pride by depletion.
Then, when all is ready, sound an alarm in the holy mountain, and put the religious machinery of a million churches in motion, and the fortunes of battle may yet be retrieved!
That is the snare that is spread in the sight of the bird.
What answer, then, ought an honest Church and people to give to such a Proclamation? What reply does a love for the slave, a love for truth, true patriotism, and, above all, a sincere loyalty to God, demand of us?
1. The Executive, condescends to apologize for us, graciously intimating that our guilt does not quite amount to treason. Can we say as much for him? Has he be not committed himself? Does he not argue the case, and decide that secession is revolution? Listen:—
"Let us look the danger fairly in the face. Secession is neither more nor less than revolution; it may or may not be justifiable, but still it is revolution."
Such are the words of the Executive. But none is better aware than be, that revolution is rebellion.
If those engaged are defeated, the government always deals with them as rebels. But does such
<c05>
revolution exist? The Executive admits it. After describing the state of things, and indicating what his duty would be, he declares,—
"This duty cannot by possibility be performed in a State where no judicial authority exists to issue process, and where there is no Marshal to execute it, and where, even if there were such an officer, the entire population would constitute one solid combination to resist him."
"What language can describe a rebellion, if this does not? and yet it is to leaders of this rebellion the President says” we." WE ought to be restrained from present action"! Thus, distinctly classing himself with the insurgents!
Amazing! And yet, the churches are to kneel and pray for success to the schemes of this selfgibbeted traitor.
Who ever before heard of a Chief Magistrate, and commander-in-chief of armies of a great empire, say WE to rebels?
He ought to say YE. He ought to use the second person, and say, Throw down your arms, and submit to the laws. But no, he says,” WE must be restrained from present action." At the same time, he refuses reinforcements to the United States forts, and, by public message, throws the whole blame of the rebellion on us, and commands us to fast and pray!
I ask, then, if it be not a duty we must perform, to hurl back the charge of treason where it belongs? Oughtt not every church in the land to say, TRAITOR?
2. But what should we say, then, to his proposal to amend the Constitution? Ought we not to say, that to treat with rebels with arms in their hands is contrary to the first principles of all government? Who ever heard of such a thing? Even the Divine Government does not do that. God offers free pardon, but every rebel must submit. Is it not an anomaly for the Executive of a mighty empire to propose amendments to the Constitution, so that rebels may yield? And ought we not, therefore, to say this in the fewest, plainest words possible?
3. Nay, since the very idea gives a kind of shock, as involving an attack upon our principles, ought we not to take occasion to say, in temperate language, that the amendment which the age demands is a withdrawal of that sanction the Constitution, whether rightly interpreted or wrongly, has been supposed to give to a sinful system?
The President informs us expressly that we are no more responsible for slavery at the South than for serfdom in Russia. If so, why call on us to suppress insurrections and restore fugitives? and why allow the South a property representation? Why should they have votes in Congress for what their laws call property,' and not we for what our laws call property?
If amendments are to be made, and if that question is to come up, why not say that it must be in this direction? A line would be enough, viz.: The term person, wherever used in the Constitution, shall not hereafter be interpreted to mean slave.
4. And since the present distress is the grand motive used to bring us to repentance, why should we not at once trace it to its true cause? Not because we have begun at last to do right. Not because at length we have said to encroaching Despotism, thus far, and no farther; but because we did not begin sooner. Because we let, the system take root. That system which this church, twenty years ago, declared to be a sin—with which, and its abettors, we could hold no fellowship. Because we have suffered it to grow, and invade, and attack, and conquer, and tear in pieces, and devour.
Therefore, God, in his Providence, is now suffering us to suffer the effects; using evil men as His rod, and threatening to dash us in pieces—unless we repent of this sin; unless we think of the slave more, and of ourselves less; unless we think of God, and really break off our sins by repentance. Why not calmly, but distinctly, say this?
5. And finally, as to the proposed day of fasting, and the attempt to make use of the Church, to employ the ecclesiastical system of the country for unworthy political ends, ought we not to express, in unmistakable terms, our honest feelings?
I doubt not we all feel that, however pious the words the President uses, the whole thing is a piece of hypocrisy—an attempt at spiritual usurpation. What if the Pope should have appointed a day of fasting for all Christendom just after the Reformation broke out? What would the Protestant churches have said? But is not this a similar act? Is it not a cunning and stealthy approach to the establishment of a Spiritual Despotism? Is it not an unprincipled attempt of a defeated Administration to break down its successor by moral influences?
If the subject were not so serious and so painful, we should say there would be something ludicrous in the present attitude of the Executive.
A great political conflict has just taken place. Great parties have recently met in the shock of battle. One of these has triumphed. Now, the weaker, the defeated, says to the stronger, the victorious—Let us confess our sins! let us pray!
Yes; power is sweet. Place is dear to those who have been wonted to rule. It is hard to pack up and begone. It is sad; it is mournful.
And the low-spirited incumbent feels as though a general time of groaning and sighing and sobbing would do him good. So he says to the victorious party—just about to move in—just about to ascend the heights of power—" Stop-—don't you think you had better have a day of fasting and prayer?"
Was there ever anything more absurd?
It reminds one of the siege of Yorktown—when, after innumerable hardships, reverses, fatigues, wounds, after all manner of discouragements and despair, the Continentals at last had triumphed— and Washington was about to receive Cornwallis's sword.
Suppose Cornwallis had issued a proclamation to the whole American army-
Or, no; suppose King George had issued a proclamation to all Great Britain and the United Colonies, to hold a day of fasting and prayer!
I presume Washington would have said to the British: You may fast and pray to your heart's content; but we prefer to feast and pray. We prefer to have a thanksgiving. We propose to celebrate peace, with all the enthusiasm and energy of our souls.
Even so I, for one, say now. Other people may fast on the 4th of January—but so shall not I. I shall pray indeed—especially for my enemies and the enemies of my country—but I shall specially re-rejoice; and I only hope my friends and neighbors will do the same.
Finally, in these sentiments, views and feelings, I would say, let us be united-—as a church, as a society, as a community.
However we may differ on other subjects, here, methinks, we might agree.
We are all attacked together, by a formidable enemy; let us leave all minor strifes, and unite for the common defence.
We are all insulted alike; an outrage is offered to our intelligence, to our moral nature, to our honor, to our whole manhood; let us unite to give fitting expression of those sentiments. 
And since the Church was to have been the instrument of treacherous assault, let the Church take the lead in the defence.
Since the ministry were to be suborned to purposes of despotism, let them give the trumpet-blast of liberty, the watchword of the Camp of Independence.
Let us rely on God., and give scope to the generosity of our hearts. Let us trust in the Almighty, while we pity the poor slave.
O let us forget the perils of our own government, which have been exaggerated for effect, and think of the desolate condition of those poor creatures, on whom our wheels roll crushing!
O let us not be so annoyed by a little slackening of business; a little trouble; a little lowering of; wages; a little pecuniary pressure: but turn our eye towards those who own nothing, who have, neither home, nor marriage, nor lawful rights, and let us deeply espouse their cause in our souls. And as to the threats and the ill language of those insurgents, as to the fancied horrors that are to visit us, let us have some faith. Let us believe that there is a God, and that He will take care of those who trust in Him and do right.
Let it be supposed that we cannot please God and South Carolina—which shall we choose?
Suppose in patching up a peace with the South., we did it in a way to offend God. what would it I amount to? How long would it last? How long before it would rush back upon us with ten-fold horrors? A man must be an Atheist not to see this, O, then, let us make our treaty with God first. Let us be sure He is on our side. Let us have no mistake about that. Let us take such a position as becomes believing men, serious men, men who believe in a judgment to come, men who expect to meet in eternity the record of this life's affairs. Oh, let us
<c06>
be sure that we say, calmly, firmly, and with a voice loud as a trumpet, just that word Christ looks for some one to utter in such a day as this.
Let us put on record to-day such a testimony as we shall rejoice in when we look back from the judgment Such a word, clear, keen, firm, ture, and terrible only to evil-doers, as we shall thank God be gave us grace to utter, to all eternity.
CALHOUN'S REMARKABLE DREAM.
"The following remarkable relation," says an exchange,” will commend itself to the attention of our readers, without comment. It is now cut from the Baltimore Clipper of about five years ago, which them republished it, as appears from its heading. We can not vouch for the truth of it, though we see no reason why the incidents might not have occurred as related. As the Italians say,' Si non e cero, e, ben trocato At any rate, we have never seen it contradicted.'"

A SINGUALR STORY.
The following was published several years ago, and we believe proceeded originally from the pen of a Washington letter-writer. We revive it on account of its eccentric significance, and commend it to the attention of the Charleston Mercury;—
The other morning, at the breakfast table, our friend, the Hon. John C. Calhoun, seemed much troubled and out of spirits. You know he is altogether a venerable man, with a hard, stern, Scotch Irish face, softened in its expression around the mouth by a sort of sad smile, which wins the hearts of all who converse with him, His hair is snow white. He is tall, thin, and angular. He reminds you very much of Old Hickory. That he is honest, no one doubts; he has sacrificed to his fatalism his brightest hopes of political advancement—has offered up on the shrine of that necessity which he worships, all that can excite ambition—even the Presidency of the United States.
But to my story. The other morning, at the breakfast table, where I, an unobserved spectater, happened to be present, Calhoun was observed to gaze frequently at his right hand, and brush it with his left, in a hurried and nervous manner. He did this so often that it excited attention. At length one of the persons composing the breakfast party—his name, I think, is Toombs, and he is a member of Congress from Georgia—took upon himself to ask the occasion of Mr. Calhoun's disquietude.
"Does your hand pain you?" he asked.
To this Mr. Calhoun replied, in rather a flurried manner:— Pshaw! It is nothing! Only a dream which I had last night, and which makes me see perpetually a large black spot, like an ink-blotch, upon the back of my right hand. An optical illusion, I suppose."
Of course, these words exctied the curiosity of the company, but no one ventured to beg the details of this singular dream, until Toombs asked quietly;-
"What was your dream like? I'm not very superstitious about dreams, but sometimes they have a good deal of truth in them."
" But this was such a peculiarly absurd dream," said Mr. Calhoun., again brushing the back of his right hand;” however, if it does not too much intrude upon the time of our friends, I will relate it to you."
Of course, the company were profuse in their expressions of anxiety to know all about the dream. In his singularly sweet voice, Mr. Calboun related it:-
"At a late hour last night, as I was sitting in my room engaged in writing., I was astonished by the presence of a visitor, who entered, and without a word took a seat opposite me at my table. This surprised me, as I had given particular orders to the servant that I should on no account be disturbed. The manner in which the intruder entered, so perfectly self-possessed, taking his seat opposite me, without a word, as though my room and all within it belonged to him, excited in me as much surprise as indignation. As I raised my head to look into his features over the top of my shaded lamp. I discovered that he was wrapped in a thin cloak, which effectually concealed his face and features from my view. And as I raised my head, he spoke:—
'What are you writing, Senator from South Carolina?'
"I did not think of his impertinence at first, but answered him voluntarily:—
'I am writing a plan for the dissolution of the American Union.' (You know, gentleman, that I am expected to produce a plan of dissolution in the event of certain contingencies.)
"To this the intruder replied in the coolest manner possible:—
Senator from South Carolina, will you allow me to look at your hand—your right hand?
"He arose, the cloak fell, and I beheld his face,. Gentlemen, the sight of that face struck me like a thunder-clap. It was the face of a dead man whom extraordinary events had called back to life. The features were those of General George Washington; yes, gentlemen, the intruder was none other than George Washington. He was dressed in the Revolutionary costume, such as you see preserved in the Patent Office."
Here Mr. Calhoun paused, apparently much agitated. His agitation, I need not tell you, was shared by the company. Toombs at length broke the embarrassing pause.” Well, w-e-l-l. what was the issue of this scene?" Mr. Calhoun resumed;-
"This intruder, as I have said. rose,, and asked to look at my right hand. As though I had not the power to refuse, I extended it. The truth is, I felt a strange thrill pervade me at his touch; he grasped it and held it near the light, thus affording me full time to examine every feature of his face. It was time to examine every feature o his face. It was the face of Washington. Gentlemen, I shuddered as I beheld the horribly dead alive look of that visage. After holding my hand for a moment, he looked at me steadily, and said in a quiet way:—
'And with this right .hand, Senator from Carolina, you would sign your name to a paper declaring the Union dissolved?"
"I answered in the affirmative.’ Yes,' said I,’ if a certain contingency arises. I will sign my name to the Declaration of Dissolution.' But at that moment, a black blotch appeared on the back of my hand, an ink blotch, which I seem to see even now,.
’What is that?' said I, alarmed, I knew not why, at a the blotch on my band.
'That,' said he, dropping my hand,’ is the mark by which Benedict Arnold is known in ,the next world.'
" He said no more, gentlemen, but drew from beneath his cloak an object which he laid upon the table—laid it upon the paper on which I was writing,. That object, gentlemen, was a skeleton.
'There,' said he.,’ there are the bones of Isaac Hayne, who was hung in Charleston by the British. He gave his life in order to establish the Union. When you put your name to a Declaration of Dissolution, why, you may as well have the bones of Isaae Hayne before you; he was a South Carolinian, and so are you. But there was no blotch upon his right hand.'
"With these words the intruder left the room. I started back from the contact with the dead man's bones, and—awoke. Over worn by labor. I had fallen asleep, and had been dreaming. Was it not a singular dream?"
All the company answered in the affirmative, and Toombs muttered.” ”Singular, very singular," at the same time looking curiously at the back of his right hand, while Mr. Calboun placed his head between his hands, and seemed burned in thought.
READY FOR ANY SACRIFICE. It is said that a certian Southern gentlemen having been asked it be should want a supply of ice during the coming Summer season, replied indignantly in the negative, declaring that the men of the South would drink boiling not water upon the Fourth of July, before they would receive or use any of the Free Soil ice of the States of the North.
We heard a couple of politicians on Thursday sighing over the affairs of the nation.” I wish," said one of them", ”Old Jackson was in old Buchanan's place." I ain't so particular about that," retorted the other;” I'd be satisfied if old Buchanan was is old Jackson's place."—Boston Carrier.
Governor Pickens, of South Carolina, has issued a call for volunteers under the military law lately passed by the Legislature of that State. If volunteers in sufficient numbers do not present themselves, the order then requires that a sufficient number be drafted into the service of the State—that is, compelling them to perform military duty,. The term of their service is not stated.
THE SECESSION OF SOUTH CAROLINA. Salutes of” one hundred guns" were fired at Mobile, Pensacola, Montgomery, New Orleans, Wilmington, N. C., and Baltimore, on reception of the news of the secession of South Carolina. Norfolk and Portsmouth, went it to the extent of” fifteen guns" only.
