THE LIBERATOR.
IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO.45.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1863.
WHOLE NO. 1709.
<c01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION
REBEL TERMS OF PEACE.
The Richmond Enquirer, Jeff. Davis’s organ, par excellence, in its issue parecellence, in its issued of October 16th , contains the 
following editorial, entitled "Peace," which shows what the Southern Democracy, alias, "our Southern brethren,” alias, the rebels want. Their terms of “"peace”" are hereby respectfully submitted to the consideration of both loyal and disloyal men in the North. Says the Enquirer:—
“Save on our terms, we can accept no peace whatever, and must fight till doomsday rather than yield an iota of them; and our terms are:-
Recognition by the enemy of the independence of the Confederate States.
Withdrawal of the Yankee forces from every foot of Confederate ground, including Kentucky and Missouri.
Withdrawal of the Yankee soldiers from Maryland, until that State shall decide by a free vote whether she shall remain in the old Union, or ask admission into the Confederacy.
Consent on the part of the Federal Government to give up to the Confederacy its proportion of the navy as it stood at the time of secession, or to pay for the same.
Yielding up of all pretensions on the part of the Federal Government to that portion of the old Territories which lies west of the Confederate States.
An equitable settlement, on the basis of our absolute independence and equal rights, of all accounts of the public debt and public lands, and the advantages accruing from foreign treaties.
These provisions, we apprehend, comprise the minimum of what we must require before we lay down our arms; that is to say, the North must yield all—-we nothing. The whole pretension of that country to prevent by force the separation of the States must be abandoned, which will be equivalent to an avowal that our enemies were wrong from the first, and of course, as they waged a causeless and wicked war upon us, they ought in strict justice to be required, according to usage in such cases, to reimburse to us the whole of our expenses and losses in the course of the war. Whether this last proviso is to be insisted upon or not, certain we are that we cannot have peace at all until we shall be in a position not only to demand and exact, but also to enforce and 
collect, treasure for our own reimbursement out of the wealthy cities in the enemy’s country. In other words, unless we can destroy or scatter their armies, and break up their Government, we can have no peace; and if we do that, then we ought not only to extort from them our own full terms and ample acknowledgment of their wrong, but also a handsome indemnity for the trouble and expense caused to us by their crime.
Now, we are not yet in position to dictate these terms to our enemies, with Rosecrans’ army still in the heart of our country, and Meade still on the Virginia soil; but though it is too soon to propose such conditions to them, yet it is important we should keep them plainly before our own eyes as the only admissible basis of any conceivable peace. This well fixed in the confederate mind, there will be no more fearful looking for news from Europe, 
as if that blessed peace were to come to us over the sea, and not to be conquered on our own ground; there will be no more gaping for hints of recognition, and filling of the belly with the east wind; no more distraction or diversion from the single momentous business of bracing up every nerve and sinew of the country for battle. 
It is especially now, at the moment when great and perhaps decisive battles are impending at two or three points, that we think it most essential to insist upon the grand and entire magnificence of the stake and cause.
Once more we say, it is all or nothing. This confederacy or the Yankee nation, one or the other, goes down, down to perdition. That is to say, one or 
the other must forfeit its national existence, and lie at the mercy of its mortal enemy.
We all know by this time the fate in store for us, if we succumb. The other party has no smaller stake. 
As surely as we completely ruin their armies—-and without that is no peace nor truce at all so surely shall we make them pay our war debt, though we wring 
it out of their hearts. And they know it well, and, therefore, they cannot make peace, except through their utter exhaustion and absolute inability to strike another blow.
The stake they have to forfeit, then, if they lose this dreadful game, is as vital as ours. So is the stake to be won, if they win anything. It is no less 
than the entire possession of our whole country, with us in it, and everything that is ours, from Ohio to the Rio Grande, to have and to hold, to them and their heirs forever.
But, on the other hand, what we mean to win is utter separation from them for all time. We do not-want to govern their country, but, after levying upon it what seemeth good to us by way of indemnity, we leave it to commence its political life again from the beginning, hoping that the lesson may have 
made them sadder and wiser Yankees. We shut them out forever, with all their unclean and scoundrelly ways, intending to lead our lives here in our own Confederate way, within our own well-guarded bounds; and without, as St. John says, are dogs. 
And let no Confederate feeble-knees and tremulous backbone say to us, this complete triumph is impossible; say that we must be content with some kind of compromise, and give and take; on the contrary, we must gain all or lose all; and that the Confederates will indeed win the giant game, we take to be as certain as any future event in this uncertain world.
Meade’s army and Rosecrans’ once scattered, Lincoln can get no more armies. The draft turns out manifestly fruitless. Both the German and Irish element are now for peace. The Yankees have to bear the brunt of the war themselves, but in the meantime their inevitable bankruptcy is advancing like an armed man. , Hungry ruin has them in the wind. It cannot be long before the Cabinet at Washington will have, indeed, to consider seriously proposals for peace, under auspices and circumstances very different from the present. For the present, the war rolls and thunders on, and may God defend the right!”
!"
There is the programme of peace put forth by Jeff. Davis and his fellows. Is it not a modest as well as an amiable enunciation? Does it not open a fine field of operation for our "olive-branch” Copperheads? 
There is already a Peace Party at the North. All the embarrassments with which that party can surround Mr. Lincoln, and all the difficulties that it 
can there in the way of the war party in the North, operate directly as so much aid and comfort to the South.” Letter of Lient, Maury [rebel] to the London Times

<c02>
Selections.
SPEECH OF MR. LINDSAY M. P.
Mr. Lindsay, M. P., has once again constituted himself the expounder of the sentiments of the people of England. We all recollect the last occasion on which he undertook the same appropriate and grateful task. He had then an Emperor for a listener. Not every day can even Mr. Lindsay expect to hold forth to so illustrious an audience, and we hope he was not discontented because on the more recent occasion to which we are now referring, he could only proclaim the national sentiments of England to Chief Baron Pollock and the farmers of Shepperton. There was a dinner given in the latter secluded place by the Middlesex Agricultural Society, at which Chief Baron Pollock and Mr. Lindsay were honored guests. It was there that Mr. Lindsay, when replying to the toast of the House of Commons, took occasion to explain to Shepperton the views of the British nation on the subject of the American war. Mr. Lindsay is rather angry with Earl Russell, whom he considers to have misrepresented those views, and therefore he proceeded to set Shepperton and the Chief Baron and the listening world aright on the subject. Mr. Lindsay finds fault with Earl Russell for having said that the majority of Englishmen sympathize with the Northern States. Having acquired by his recent visit to Fontainebleau a sort of semi-official or wholly officious title to speak in the name of Great Britain, Mr. Lindsay I made formal proclamation of the views of England as regards the Northern policy. As expressed by this herald, the views attributed to England are somewhat confused and contradictory—-indeed, very much like the views of Mr. Lindsay himself. First, the orator informs us that he and England (l’ Angleterre c’est moi object to the Northern States because they do not intend to emancipate the negroes, and next because they do intend to emancipate them. President Lincoln’s proclamation is first condemned because it will produce no results at all, and next because it will produce very terrible and monstrous results. Mr. Lindsay opposes immediate emancipation-first, because it is impossible; to which he adds by way of a clencher that it cannot be done—-rather a common circumstance in connection with an impossibility. But not only is it impossible, and not only it cannot be done, but, to make matters worse, it would take one or two generations to do it. These are, according to Mr. Lindsay, the views of England regarding the American war. Because the Northerners do not mean to emancipate the slave, and because they do; because the President’s proclamation will produce no results, and because it will produce horrible results; because immediate emancipation being impossible, the Northerners do not set about the impossibility, and also because they do set about it—-for these coherent, consistent, and conclusive reasons, Mr. Lindsay tenders the sympathies of the British nation to the Confederate States.
 We have not the slightest notion of arguing any of Mr. Lindsay’s positions. His arguments may be most conveniently left to refute each other. We have stated them briefly indeed, but after their own order of arrangement. If there be any Englishman who is ready to adopt these coherent utterances as his own sentiments, let him speak; for him Mr. Lindsay has not offended. Him likewise Mr. Lindsay is entitled to represent. We make no complaint of Mr. Lindsay’s undertaking to express the sentiments of the English people. The English people have expressed their own sentiments so clearly and unmistakably on this subject, that nothing; Mr. Lindsay or any other individual can utter is likely to mislead one human creature. It is far more agreeable, convenient, and becoming, that Mr. Lindsay should volunteer to represent the English nation at the Shepperton Agricultural Show than in the closet of the Emperor of the French. It is much more satisfactory when Mr. Lindsay expresses himself on this theme in a language which he understands, and to a public who thoroughly understand him. Indeed, the orator brought some of his practical knowledge to bear rather amusingly on his theme. He raised quite a novel difficulty, a nautical and scientific one, in the way of immediate emancipation. In surveying some imaginary scheme of emancipation, which is to be realized by the simultaneous deportation of the whole negro race of America to some distant shore, Mr. Lindsay asked triumphantly where the requisite number of ships was to come from—-how many berths, fore and aft, would be required to accommodate, simultaneously, four millions of people? Judging from the report, we presume that Mr. Lindsay paused for a reply to his crushing query; for we perceive that Chief Baron Pollock, struck by this sensible and practical mode , of dealing with the whole subject, encouragingly backed up the orator by exclaiming that “ "twenty Great Easterns would not do it.”." Smiling, no doubt, with superior knowledge at the fresh simplicity of the enthusiastic judge, Mr. Lindsay benignantly informed the audience that such a contract as the simultaneous conveyance of the four millions could not be undertaken by a hundred or even a thousand Great Easterns. . It would be hardly worth while to raise the question whether Mr. Lindsay’s estimate was not rather hasty, and whether, after all, a shipowner possessed of say 950 Great Easterns might not safely venture to tender for the execution of the contract. Seeing that nobody ever proposed thus to deport the slave race anywhere, it would be superfluous to raise a discussion about the amount of tonnage, horse-power, and so on, requisite to convey four millions of persons to .the island of Barataria, or the coast of Bohemia. If this sort of thing pleased anybody in Shepperton—-we mean anybody besides Mr. Lindsay, who was evidently delighted with himself—-no humane personage can object to the Shepperton listeners having so harmless a gratification. But if the audience really supposed that Mr. Lindsay’s lengthened harangue bad anything whatever to do with or touched for a moment upon any one of the great considerations underlying the American war, then we are grieved for the intellectual condition of the population of Shepperton. We cannot help thinking that the Chief Baron, who had so lately been presiding as judge in a cause most seriously affecting the international relations of England and America, might as well have restrained the enthusiasm which led him to chime in with Mr. Lindsay in the instance we have noted. But the Chief Baron would perhaps say that he never understood-Mr. Lindsay’s ingenious professional calculations to have any relation whatever to the real question of the American war. No doubt this would be a natural explanation, but our judges are usually so sensitively careful to avoid anything which might seem like the slightest partisan demonstration, that we are somewhat surprised at the Chief Baron’s ebullition of sentiment. It was the only thing surprising in the whole affair. We all know what Mr. Lindsay’s views on American topics are, and, after his recent diplomatic adventure, no one can feel the slightest astonishment at the complacency with which he undertakes to put himself forward as the mouthpiece of the people of England.-London Star.

<c03>
SPEECH OF HON., MARTIN F. CONWAY.
[The following speech by Mr. Conway, delivered at Leavenworth, Oct. 17, is here printed because its author has been severely criticised, both by friends and foes, for holding what are alleged to be impracticable anti-slavery sentiments; and we always desire that such a man should be allowed to speak for himself.]
He said that this was the first opportunity be had had of addressing a Kansas audience since the close of his congressional term; he would therefore like to allude to some matters connected with that subject. It would be remembered that certain views expressed by him in Congress were objected to by some of his constituents. He was satisfied that this was the result, of misconception. There could be no substantial difference of opinion between the people of Kansas and himself, in regard to the war, its object, or its conduct; he had been one of the people of the State from the time the first log cabin was laid upon its soil, and he knew them well enough to be perfectly certain on that point. It was not his present purpose to enter upon any review of his Congressional stewardship; that task should be reserved for another occasion. He owed it to the people of Kansas to set forth the reasons of his conduct as their 
Representative in the 37th Congress, and that obligation he would discharge. In due time he would meet his constituency in every part of the State, and interchange views with them on all matters of public interest.
He was a Republican of the old school, as well as of the new, and cherished an abiding faith in the people. Newspapers might misrepresent; politicians might intrigue; rival aspirants might traduce and clamor; but the true representative, faithful to his duty and his convictions, and indifferent to selfish considerations, might come at last to the people and find his just reward.
His object in speaking to-night was-to say a few words on the import of the recent elections. In his judgment, the chief significance of these elections was that the North had attained a fixed and fundamental anti-slavery character, and there was no possibility of any further compromise or reconstruction which should subvert this character, .or allow one foot of soil to slavery within the jurisdiction of the American Union.
Most people suppose that the war was waged to secure the independence of the South. That certainly was true, so far as the South itself was concerned; 

but he thought its chief effect so far had been to secure the independence of the North. At any rate, he regarded the recent elections as demonstrating that the power so long exerted by the South in the North was forever broken, and that henceforth the North constituted the nation, and was the arbiter of its own destiny, and the leading power on the continent.
The anti-slavery movement involved the accomplishment of two objects:
First: The development of the North into a distinct, independent national power.
Second: The conquest of the South by the North, and the supremacy of the American nation, thus regenerated, in shaping the destinies of the American continent.
The idea that this war was simply political—-to establish the Union for the sake of a technical legal right of authority—-was in his judgment an exceedingly superficial and shallow view of the subject. The war was nothing of the kind; it might be nominally waged to put down the rebellion; but it was also and equally to make a revolution. It was to establish the North no less than to overthrow the South. No war for mere dominion could receive the support of the American people as does the present war. In this country we believe that the sanction of Government is in the consent of the governed, and a war of subjugation, with no higher object than the exercise of power, could not be carried on for any length of time. When, therefore, he heard any one say that this was simply a war to put down insurrection, and that when the insurrection was put down the seceded States would resume their former place in the Union, he was tempted to tell him that he doubted either the honesty of his sentiment or the capacity of his understanding.
The only sanction of this war—-its inspiration and its power—-was in the fact that its logical and inevitable issue was to make this an Anti-Slavery Nation. If this were not its character, it ought not to be tolerated a day.
The war was the anti-slavery movement in a new form, it was anti-slavery militant. The anti-slavery movement involved two stages: The one of peaceful agitation, and the other of war. The one was developed out of the other. These were the instrumentalities of national regeneration. This movement came forward as an agent to revolutionize and reorganize the American nation, and put it on the side of justice and humanity.
The first step in this great work was not the conquest of the South—-that was the last step. The first step was the conquest of the North by the anti-slavery idea, and this has been the struggle that has been going on all along. We have not conquered-the South because we could not do it. We had too much of the South in the North. The South could not be conquered by anything less than the North in its absolute character. But although this was the ultimate aim, the operation of the revolution up to this time had been chiefly confined to making the North the North. How could the North break the South and assimilate it, before it had a distinctive, absolute and antagonistic quality of its own?
We have been this principle of regeneration progressing for years. This is what Garrison, and Phillips, and Beecher came into the world to minister to; and on the other hand it is what Douglas (blind instrument of fate) was impelled to help along in a manner entirely beyond his own comprehension, sagacious as he was in his little worldly way. This is what Seward spoke his noble speeches to attain—-speeches which will hallow his memory in spite of: later aberrations. This is what the undaunted and heroic Sumner has fought and suffered for, with a steadiness, a capacity and power beyond most other men.
I interpret the history of Kansas also in this light.-We came to these distant plains to make homes and better our personal fortunes, as we fondly thought; but how many of us have made such homes as we expected? and whose fortunes have been improved? The hand of an unseen destiny was upon us! Our work was not the little work which we had laid out for ourselves; but a work tending to general ends. We came to open up this issue between the North and South—-between freedom and slavery—-and educate the North into an assertion of its own right. That is what we came for, although we did not know it at the time; and how gloriously have we fulfilled this mission!
The Free State party of Kansas-was the first formal organization looking to Northern nationality and dominion on this continent. Here is where the issue was first practically joined. We contested with the South for the Territories out of which States were to be made, and we beat the South.

<c04>
An appeal was taken to the nation at large, and the free State party developed into national proportions under the form of the Republican party; and the same question was tried by the nation, which had been tried in Kansas, and the North again beat the South. These were giant strides on the part of the North; but the goal was vet far distant.
I can see in the marvellous career of that old hero, John Brown, an instrumentality to the same end. He was thought to be insane. He attacked the State of Virginia with less than twenty men, and died on a Virginia scaffold; but his insanity was deep wisdom. I knew John Brown well; he was a most national man, but with the spirit of a martyr. He understood the situation perfectly, and knew what he was about. I believe he was one of the chosen instruments of Providence. He saw what the North needed—-he saw that it wanted to be brought out. The Republican party he found to be utterly insensible to the true idea. He saw the hideous visage of slavery even in its aspect. The Republican party, then the highest expression of Northern character, shrank from a face to face encounter with the South. It slid about, and made side issues. John Brown, alone and unaided, but panoplied in righteousness, crossed swords with slavery on its own ground, in the face of the world, and set an example to his country which excited it to its profoundest depths. It was not long after that his country followed the example he so heroically gave it.
It is manifest that the effect of the war, so far, has not been so much to conquer the South as it has been to crystallize the North. The progress in this direction has been exceedingly rapid. The Administration began by being more Southern than Northern. It started out with quite a pro-slavery programme, though not an ultra one. It proposed to restore the Union on the terms of the Constitution. t It was making war simply to put down an insurrection. It sought very diligently to develop a Union party in the South; it promised ample protection to the rights of slaveholders; it gave the commands of its armies to men who wanted to crush slave insurructions with an iron hand; it struck down General Fremont for giving freedom to the slave; it permitted the Government to be run in strict accord-i ance with the vie.ws of the Kentucky delegation: in; short, its whole effort seemed to be to head off the North, and to bring forward again the old order of things, with the slight difference of a change of representative men.
The Administration was evidently desirous of faithfully representing public sentiment, and in this respect was probably successful. The tide was-only then setting in. The North was at that time pro-probably quite as pro-slavery as the Administration itself; but how completely was this whole arrangement knocked to pieces by the resistless current of events! It may betruly said that ief the war has not resulted in the North and whether it is making the South independent or no, it has unquestionably insured the independence of the North.
We have not succeeded, as we first expected, in t subduing the South on a pro-slavery programme. In spite of all our inducements, slaveholders have been obdurate, and they have resisted our blandishments as well as our threats; and meeting us on the field of battle, instead of in the Senate Chamber, they have given us blow for blow.
Thus the North has held its own, and gone on conquering and to conquer. We hear no more about the Union as it was" from the high places of the Government; no more of Union parties in the South; no more of the rights of slaveholders, no more of crushing out slave insurrections; no more of the Kentucky delegation.
On the contrary, the President capitulates, and recognizes the independence of the North He yields to the irresistible impulse of the new-born power; he proclaims the emancipation of all the slaves; he enrolls the negro in the national forces, and claims for him, under the law of nations, the rights of the soldier. He adopts the whole systma f the North, as far as it has been developed. He thus confirms the revolution.
The course of events is now apparent. The first object of the anti-slavery movement is accomplished. The North is resolved into the nation, and the Southern element wholly eliminated from its system. Organized on its own distinctive ideas, and endowed with national faculties, it is now prepared to subdue “to its own principle the adverse elements around it; but to fulfill its grand destiny, it needs the rarest wisdom in council and the highest skill. Let us have faith that these will not be denied it.
We are thus furnished with a quick solution of the import of the recent elections. The Democratic was a reactionary party of the most ultra pro-slavery character. It was a Jeff. Davis party. It was willing to reinstate the South upon any terms whatever. Rather than give up the Southern connection, it would have taken the Confederate constitution for the whole nation. If the new-born radicalism of the North was too strong for the temporizing programme of the conservative Republicans, how could it be 1 supposed that there was the ghost of a chance for the unadulterated Southernism of Ohio Democracy? The Northern revolution had progressed too far—-its waters had risen too high—-there was no longer any dry ground in the North for the South to stand upon. Vallandigham and his crew found themselves in mid-ocean when they expected shallow water. Their frail bark foundered and carried them down, never to rise again. No public man can ever again receive the confidence of the people anywhere in this country, who does not faithfully represent the political system of the North; and this may be reckoned one of the lessons of the recent elections.
The defeat of the conservative Republicans in their measures to develop a Union party in the South on the one hand, and of the Vallandigham Democracy, in their efforts to carry the elections on an ultra pro-slavery platform, on the other, renders the issue for the future an exceedingly simple one. Conciliation or compromise in any shape is forever condemned and repudiated.
The North and the South stand now face to face, each in its own distinctive character and form—-the one as the United States, and the other as the Con-federate States—-the one representing freedom, the other slavery-waging war for the mastery of the continent. It is now an issue of force. We can only speculate upon the vicissitudes of this great conflict; but as to the ultimate result, in the Providence of God, no loyal American, no Christian man, can 
entertain a moment’s doubt. The nation must triumph, and reclaim, for the purposes of its own high civilization, every foot of territory embraced within its original jurisdiction. Then will be realized the noble vision of Secretary Chase, M "when this Republic of ours will be re established from the Gulf towards the Pole, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, basVdbased upon freedom and free labor, gathering strength from our present contest, and rising from it grander than ever. “This is the consummation which will | alone suffice—-this the prayer to which every patriot i heart will respond with a fervent amen.
Mr. Conway then proceeded to consider the posi-
<c05>
tion of the seceded States in relation to the Union. He said that the seceded States should be regarded as foreign territory. The next principle of action which should be adopted was for the nation to assume the sovereignty of all territory conquered by its arms. There was some diversity of views upon 
this point, and many of our friends were in doubt, but it ought not to be so. This principle is part of our system, and must prevail. Its correctness as a matter of good law, and its-necessity as a matter of sound policy, could not but be apparent to all who comprehended the true condition of affairs.
It is said that we cannot conquer a State of the Union, and govern it as Territory. True enough; but this is not what was proposed to be done. The seceded States were not States of the Union any more than the State of San Salvador was such. We could conquer and govern the latter as well as the former. We might wish to do both in course of time. The truth is, the North and South are separate public bodies; the one is an established nation, recognized as such by the civilized world. The other is a belligerent power, also recognized as such by the same authority—-both standing on an equality for the time being, and governed in their intercourse with each other by the law of nations.
If the seceded States were States of this Union, their relations with us would be governed by the terms of the Federal Constitution; but they are not, and this settles the controversy—-there can be no doubt about it; and there is where the North must stand. Political union between the North and the South is dissolved. The war had brought out the North, but had not brought in the South; consequently the two bodies were separate and mutually independent. Yet this involved no surrender by the nation of its right of jurisdiction—-that right could only be divested by the consent of the nation itself. Nobody would believe that the Union had been dissolved these two and a half years, and yet the seceded States had been practically separated from the Union during that time.
 Mr. Conway contended that this view of the case necessarily followed from the theory that the North, becoming the national power, on a basis of freedom, was destined to incorporate the South into itself. The two ideas were parts of one system. The first proposition was to divorce the North from the South, and permit it to organize itself on its own idea. , This had been done. The next proposition was, that the North should assimilate the South on that idea. This was yet to be done, but it could only be accomplished by reducing the seceded States o territorial possessions, and rebuilding their political fabrics upon new foundations.

HENRY WARD BEECHER IN LIVERPOOL.
,
From the Liverpool Post of Oct 17.
The Philharmonic Hall was crowded, last night, in every part, by an audience drawn together by the announcement that the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, the celebrated American orator, and brother of Mrs. Beecher Stowe, would lecture on the American War and Emancipation. As soon as the doors were open the hall was filled, and the aspect of the audience showed that the proceedings were anticipated with no little eagerness. Mr. Charles Robertson was the chairman of the evening.
On the entrance of Mr. Beecher, preceded by the chairman, a vast shout of mingled welcome and disapprobation was immediately raised. As is already known to our readers, placards had been posted throughout the town, inciting the people of Liverpool to give the reverend lecturer a hostile reception; and it soon became evident that a small but determined minority of the meeting were present with that intention. The extent to which their exertions, which were sedulously continued throughout, interfered with the proceedings, will be perceived by the report. Without regard to the merits or demerits of his views, the greatest credit is due to Mr. Beecher for the tact, wholly devoid of reservation or flattery, with which he managed to say his say, and to say it audibly. Had all his friends acted upon his principle, and let the interrupters alone, the ordeal through which he passed would have been less stormy and severe.
In opening the proceedings,
Charles Robertson, Esq., presided, and on rising to introduce the lecturer was received with loud cheers and hisses. After obtaining silence with some difficulty, he said—-Ladies and gentlemen, we are met here to-night to hear an address from the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher (cheers, hisses, and cries of “ "Speak up!”)!") I hope, gentlemen, this is an assembly of Englishmen—(-(hear, hear)—)-and everybody who has any thing to say to the audience will be heard with calmness and impartiality (hear, hear). Any attempts that may be made this evening to put down the fair expression of opinion—(-(loud cheers and hisses.) Well, gentlemen, we are met together this evening to receive such information from Mr. Beecher as he has it in his power to communicate to us, respecting the present state of the contest that is now going on in the United States of America, and as to its bearing on that most important question which has so powerfully stirred the hearts of Englishmen, that is, the question of the emancipation of the negro race (loud applause and hisses). I need not say to you, gentlemen, that it is this aspect of the question which has induced many of us to take a part in this meeting. Were it simply a question between two sections of the same community—-were it simply a question whether the Northern and the Southern States should be separated into two great communities, whatever our private opinions might be, I apprehend that not many of us would come forward in public to express any opinion on the question (“ ("No,”," and “"Hear, hear”). "). But it is because we believe that this is a contest that has a most important bearing on the subject 1 I have just named—-the emancipation of the negro race, and the introduction to a larger portion of the population of the Southern States of those rights and liberties which, as men, they possess —-that we have taken a deep interest in that struggle, believing that the success of the Northern States will be the emancipation of the slave (“ ("No, no,”," hisses, and cheers). The question of emancipation possesses such an immense interest and importance, that no one would be found to-(hear ,'hear, and interruption.) We are prepared to give a free expression of our sympathy and support to this movement. We, in common with all our fellow-country-men, deplore and deprecate the bloodshed and miseries which-this war has occasioned. I think there is no man among us who can view with other than feelings of the deepest regret the suffering and the loss which it has occasioned, both in the country itself where the war is being waged, and among the European communities. But, while admitting this to the fullest extent, I say that to establish a great principle of liberty, the sacrifice of all else we hold dear purchases that liberty cheaply (hear, hear). Therefore, while we do regret the misery produced, we do not regret the great issue which we believe will be obtained through that misery. But, gentlemen, we take this side not only in sympathy for the North, but in sympathy for the South (cheers). The
<c06>
(applause.) Before the American was broke out, great work of negro emancipation is to benefit the inhabitants of these Southern States more than even it will benefit the North. With the. North it is a question of humanity; with the South it is a question, of progress, liberty, and of all that can contribute to elevate and promote the prosperity of a States (hear, hear). It is with no unfriendly feelings to the South that I say these things. They are our own kinsmen as well as the people of the North. We have admired their courage and unflinching devotedness to what they believe a right cause (applause). But we are equally convinced that their eause is wrong (loud cries of “"No, no,”," and “ "Hear, hear”). ") . If there is a righteous God in heaven, we believe that cause cannot prosper (renewed interruption). The chairman concluded by asking the respectful attention of the audience to Mr. Beecher’s address, adding that that gentleman was perfectly .prepared to answer any questions that might be addressed to him after the lecture, provided they were put in writing, with the name of the writer attached, and handed up to him (the chairman)—("Oh, oh,”," and groans.) Mr. Beecher would then say whether or not they were questions to which he could fairly reply (cheers and groans).
The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher then rose, and, advancing to the front of the platform, was greeted with mingled cheers, hisses, and groans. A considerable proportion of the audience stood up, waving hats and handkerchiefs, and cheering. A man in the gallery called for “"Three cheers for the Southern States,”," which created much laughter and some uproar. Mr. Beecher proceeded to say—u-" Ladies and gentlemen,” , "when the uproar again commenced, and efforts were made to eject one noisy individual from the body of the hall.
The Chairman said—-A fair opportunity will be afforded to express approval or dissent at the close of the lecture, but if any one interrupts the meeting by disorderly conduct, I shall be obliged to call in the aid of the police. (Cheers.)
The Rev. Mr. Beecher then said—-It is more than twenty-five years since I have been made perfectly familiar with popular assemblies in all parts of my country, except the extreme South. There has not for the past twenty-five years of my life been a single day when it would have been safe for me to go south of Mason and Dixon’sDixon's line in my own country, and all for one reason; and that for my solemn, earnest, persistent testimony against that which I consider to be the most atrocious thing; under the sun—-the system of American slavery in a great free republic. (Cheers.) I have passed through that early period when it was denied to myself the right of free speech. Again and again I have attempted to address audiences that visited me, for no other crime than that of free speech, with all manner of contumelious epithets and terms; and now, since I have been in England, although I have met with greater kindness and courtesy on the part of most than I deserved, yet, on the other hand, I perceive that the Southern influence prevails to some extent in England. (Applause and uproar.) It is my old acquaintance; I understand it perfectly, (laughter.) and I have always held it to be an unfailing truth, that where a man had a cause that would bear examination, he was perfectly willing to have it spoken about. (Applause.) And when in Manchester I saw those huge placards, "Who is Henry Ward Beecher?”?" (laughter, cries of “"Quite right,”," and applause,) and when in Liverpool, I understood that there were those blood-red placards, purpotring to say what Henry Ward Beecher had said, and calling upon Englishmen to suppress free speech, (cries of “" Aye, aye,”," and "No no,” hisses and uproar,) I tell you what I thought. I thought simply this—-I am glad of it. (Laughter.) Why? Because if they had felt perfectly secure that they were not the minions of the South, and the slaves of slavery, (“("No, no,”) they would have been perfectly still. (Applause and uproar.) And, therefore, when I saw so much nervous apprehension that, if I was permitted to speak (hisses and applause), when I found they were afraid to have me speak, (hisses, laughter, and “"No, no,”),") when I found that they considered my speaking damaging to their cause, (applause) —-when I found that they appealed from facts and reasonings to mob law, (applause and uproar,) I said no man need tell me what the heart of the counsel of these men is. They tremble, and are afraid. (Applause, laughter, hisses, “"No, no,”," and a voice, “"New York mob.”).") Now, personally, it is a matter of very little consequence to me whether I speak here to-night or not. (Laughter and cheers.) But, one thing is very certain, if you do permit me to speak here to-night, you will hear very plain talking. (Applause and hisses.) You will not find a man—-(interruption,)—,)-you will not find a man that dared to speak about Great Britain 3000 miles off, and then is afraid to speak to Great Britain when he stands on her shores. (Immense applause and hisses.) And if I do not mistake the tone and temper of Englishmen, they had rather have a man that opposed them in a manly way, (applause from all parts of the hall,) than to have a sneak that agreed with them in an unmanly way. (Applause and *"Brave,”)") Now, if 1I can carry you with me by sound convictions, I shall be immensely glad; (applause,) but if I cannot carry you with me by facts and sound arguments. , I do not wish you to go with me at all; and all that I ask is simply fair play. (Applause, and a voice, You shall have it, too.”) 1 .") I have only one single (hisses, and shouts of “ "Order”)—")-I have only one single’ sentence-(here there was a great disturbance in one of the boxes near the platform.)
Mr. Patterson came forward and said—-Messrs. Birkett and Bardswell are the blackguards who are making a disturbance in the boxes. (Uproar.)
The Chairman—-We do not wish to turn any man out, because we wish every man here to be convinced.
The reverend lecturer again proceeded—-Ladies and gentlemen, a single voice cannot disturb a meeting. It is those that undertake to put that voice down, and that rise up to see who it is, and what they are doing, that make the disturbance. If any man cries out, let him cry out, and I shall go on. Those of you who are kind enough to wish to favor my speaking—-and you will observe that I am slightly husky from having spoken almost every night in succession for some time past-those who wish to hear me will do me the kindness simply to sit still, and keep still; and I and my friends, the secessionists, will make all the noise. , (Laughter.)
Great Britain’s chief want is —-what? They have said that your chief want is cotton. I deny it. Your chief want is consumers (applause and hisses). You have got skill, you have got capital, and you have got machinery enough to manufacture goods for the whole population of the globe. You could turn out four-fold as much as you do, if you only had the market to sell in. It is not so much the want, therefore, of fabric, though there may be a temporary obstruction of it; but the principal and increasing want—-increasing from year to year—-is where shall-we find men to buy what we can manufactures so fast? (Interruption, and a voice, “"The Morrill tariff", and
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. ... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hustile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
your warehouses were loaded with goods that you could not sell (applause and hisses). You had over-manufactured; but what is the meaning of over-manufacturing but this; that you had skill, capital, machinery, to create faster than you had customers to take off your hands? And you know that, rich as Great Britain is, vast as are her manufactures, if she could have four-fold the present demand, she could have four-fold riches to-morrow; and every political economist will tell you that your want is not cotton primarily, but customers. Therefore, the doctrine how to make customers is a great deal more important to Great Britain than the doctrine how to raise cotton. It is to that doctrine I ask you, business men, practical men, men of fact, sagacious Englishmen-to that point I ask a moment's consideration (shouts of "Oh, oh," hisses, and applause). There are no more continents to be discovered (hear, hear). The market of the future must be found-how? There is very little hope of any more demand being created by new fields. If you are to have a better market, there must be some kind of process invented to make the old fields better. (A voice, "Tell us something new," shouts of "Order," and interruption.) Let us look at it, then. You must civilize the world in order to make a better class of purchasers (interruption). If you were to press Italy again down under the feet of despotism, Italy, discouraged, could draw but very few supplies from you. But give her liberty, kindle schools throughout her valleys, spur her industry, make treaties with her by which she can exchange her wine, and her oil, and her silk for your manufactured goods; and for every effort that you make in that direction, there will come back profit to you by increased traffic with her (loud applause). If Hungary asks to be a free and unshackled nation-if by freedom she will rise in virtue and intelligence, she will acquire a more multifarious industry, which she will be willing to exchange for your manufactures. Her liberty is to be found-where? You will find it in the Word of God, you will find it in the code of liberty, you will find it also in the Price Current (hear, hear); and every single free nation, every single civilized people, every people that rises from barbarism to industry and intelligence, becomes a better customer. A savage is a man of one story, and that one story a cellar. When the man begins to be civilized, you put on another story. When you Christianize and civilize the man, you put on story after story, for you develop faculty after faculty; and you have to supply every story with your productions. The savage is a man one story deep; the civilized man is thirty stories deep (applause). Now, if you go to a lodging-house where there are three or four men, your sales to them may be worth something; but if you go to a lodging-house like some of those which I saw in Edinburgh, which seemed to be about twenty storys-(oh, oh, and interruption)-every story of which is full, and all who occupy buy of you-which is the better customer,-the man who is drawn out, or the man who is squashed up? (Laughter.) Now, there is in this a great sound principle of political economy. ("Yah! yah!" from the passage outside the hall, and loud laughter.) If the South should be rendered independent, (at this juncture mingled cheering and hisses became immense; half the audience rose to their feet, waving hats and handkerchiefs, and in every part of the hall there was the greatest commotion and uproar.) You have had your turn now; now let me have mine again (loud applause and laughter). It is a little inconvenient to talk against the wind; but, after all, if you will just keep good-natured-I am not going to lose my temper; will you watch yours? (Applause.) Besides all that, it rests me, and gives me a chance, you know, to get my breath (applause and hisses). And I think about all these men, that their bark is worse than their bite. They do not mean any harm-they don't know any better (loud laughter, applause, hisses, and continued uproar). I was saying, when these responses broke in, that it was worth our while to consider both alternatives. What will be the result if this present struggle shall eventuate in the separation of America, and making the South (loud applause, hisses, hooting, and cries of "Bravo!") a slave territory exclusively (cries of "No, no," and laughter), and the North a free territory, what will be the first result? You will lay the foundation of carrying the slave population clear through to the Pacific Ocean. That is the first step. There is not a man who has been a leader of the South any time within these twenty years that has not had this for a plan. It was for this that Texas was populated, and was wrested from Mexico. It was for this that the Mexican war was engaged in, and so that vast territory was added to the Union; and this is a plan that never has been given up, that is to carry the power of the American institutions, as we call them, straight through towards the West until the slave, who washes his feet in the Atlantic, shall wash his feet likewise in the Pacific ocean. (Cries of "Question," and uproar.) There! I have got that statement out, and you cannot get it back. (Laughter and applause.)
Now, let us consider, if you please, let us consider the prospect. If the South is a slave empire, what relation will it have to you as a customer? (A Voice, "Or any other man," laughter.) It would be an empire of 12,000,000 of people. Now of these, 8,000,000 are white and 4,000,000 black. (A Voice: "How many have you got?"-applause and laughter. Another Voice: "Free your own slaves.”).") Consider that one-third of the whole, then, are the miserably poor, unbuying blacks (cries of "No, no," "yes, yes," and interruption). You do not manufacture much for them (hisses," oh!" "no!") You have not got machinery coarse enough (laughter, and "no.") Your labor is too skilled by far to manufacture bagging and linsey-woolsey. (A Southerner: "We are going to free them every one".) Then you and I agree exactly (laughter). One half of the white population is a population that is poor; one-third is black, and one other third is a poor population unskilled and degraded. One-third, which is a large allowance, we will say are intelligent and rich. Now here are twelve million of people, and only one-third of them are customers that can afford to buy the kind of goods that you bring to market. (Applause, hisses, and "No, no.") Now it is a question-[A Voice: "The rich buy the lot I understood just now," interruption and uproar.) My friends, I saw a man once, who was a little late at a railway station, chase an express train. He did not catch it (laughter). If you are going to stop this meeting, you have got to stop it before I speak; for after I have got the things out, you may chase as long as you please-you can not catch ‘em (laughter, and interruption). But there is luck in leisure; I'm going to take it easy (laughter). Two-thirds of the population of the Southern States to-day are non-purchasers of English goods. (A Voice: "No, they are not;" "No, no," and uproar.) Now you must recollect another fact-namely, that this is going on clear through to the Pacific Ocean; and if by sympathy or help you establish a slave empire, you sagacious Britons-("Oh, oh," and hooting.) If you like it better, then (interruption), if you like it better, I will leave the adjective off (laughter, hear, and applause). If I should say that this would go on in a greater ratio for the future, I should be mistaken, because the slave population increases in a ratio greater than that at which the white population increases, and it is becoming more and more one-sided all the way through. And you are busy in favoring, by moral sympathy, the establishment of an empire from ocean to ocean that would have the fewest customers and the most non-buying population. (Applause. "No, no.” A voice: "I think it was the happy people that populated fastest".) Now, for instance, just look at this, the difference between free labor and slave labor to produce cultivated land. The State of Virginia has 61,000 square miles of land; the State of New York has 50,000 square miles-11,000 square miles in favor of Virginia; but Virginia has only 17,000 acres improved-square miles, I should have said, improved (laughter and uproar); New York has 27,000 square miles improved. Virginia has 30,000 square miles of unimproved land. Now, these facts speak volumes (a voice: "No they don't!") as to the capacity of the territory to bear population. It is the want of cultivatable land that determines the density of the population (hear, hear), and upon that their value as customers depends. Let us take the States of Maryland and Massachusetts. Maryland has 11,000 square miles, and Massachusetts 7,000 square miles in her whole territory. Maryland has 4,000 square miles improved, Massachusetts 3,000. Maryland has 7,000 unimproved square miles—. Massachusetts has 1,600 unimproved square miles-with two little States, of course the figures, are smaller. Let us take, for instance, Pennsylvania and Georgia. The State of Georgia has 58,000, Pennsylvania 46,000 (A Voice: "Tast's the Quaker land.") Georgia has 12,000 square miles of improved land, Pennsylvania 16,000 against the 12,000 of the former State. Georgia has 29,000 square miles of unimproved land, and Pennsylvania has but 10,000 square miles of un-
<c02>
improved land against the 29,000 of unimproved land in Georgia. The one is a Slave State, and the other is a Free State. I do not want you to put down such statistics as these, having once heard them (laughter). Now, what can England make for the poor white population of such a future empire, and for her slave population? What carpets, what linens, what cottons can you sell to them? What machines, what looking-glasses, what combs, what leather, what books, what pictures, what engravings? (A voice: "Well sell them ships.") You may sell ships to a few, but what ships can you sell to two-thirds of the population of poor whites and blacks? (Applause.) A little bagging and a little linsey woolsey, a few whips and coffins, are all that you can sell for the slave (great applause and uproar). This very day, in the Slave States of America, ("Oh, oh") there are eight millions out of twelve millions that are not your customers, and cannot be from the very nature of the laws of trade (a voice-"Then how are they clothed?" and interruption). If the friends at this side of the house will give me a little meeting all to ourselves (laughter)-I beg pardon of the gentlemen, the reporters; it ain't my fault that they are detained so long, and have such a time of it to-night. (A voice: "Speak to them, Mr. Beecher.") Oh, that's my last resource! I shall not resort to that until the meeting breaks up in a row, and then we’ll have a little meeting of the reporters, and one speaker.
The Chairman.-If gentlemen will only sit down, those who are making the disturbance will get tired out.
Mr. Beecher resumed. They are some apparent drawbacks that may suggest themselves. The first is, that the interests of England consist in drawing from any country its raw material. (A Voice: "We have got over that.") There is an interest, but it is not the interest of England. The interest of England is not merely where to buy her cotton, her ores, her wool, her linens, and her flax. When she has put her brains into the cotton, and into the linen and flax, and it becomes the product of her looms, a far more important question is, "What can I do with it?" England don't want merely to pay prices for that which brute labor produces, but to get a price for that which brain labor produces (hear, hear, and applause). Your interest lies beyond all peradventure; therefore, if you should bring ever so much cotton from the slave empire, (Yah! yah!) you cannot sell back again to the slave empire. (A Voice-"Go on with your subject; we know all about England.") Excuse me, sir, I am the speaker, not you; and it is for me to determine what to say (hear, hear). Do you suppose I am going to speak about America, except to convince Englishmen? I am here to talk to you for the sake of ultimately carrying you with me in judgment and in thinking (Oh! Oh!); and, as to this logic of catcalls, it is slavery logic,-I am used to it. (Applause, hisses, and cheers, and a voice: "Don't lose your temper.")
It is said that the South is fighting for just that independence of which I have been speaking (hear, hear). The South is divided on that subject ("No no"). There are eight millions in the South, and four millions. Four millions are asking for their liberty. ("No, no," hisses, "Yes," applause, and interruption.) Four millions are asking for their liberty-(continued interruption and renewed applause.) Eight millions are banded together to prevent it. ("No, no," hisses and applause.) That is what they asked the world to recognize as a strike for independence (hear, hear, and laughter). Eight million white men fighting to prevent the liberty of four million black men, challenging the world (uproar, hisses, applause, and continued interruption). You cannot get over the fact. There it is; like iron you cannot stir it (uproar). They went out of the Union because slave property “warn’t safe" in it. There were two ways of reaching slave property in the Union; the one by exerting the direct power of the Government; but that was forbidden; that they could not do. The second was by indirect influence. By limiting slave territory, you lay the foundation for the final extinction of slavery (applause). If you put a candle under a bowl, it will burn as long as the fresh air lasts, but it will go out as soon as the oxygen is exhausted; and so, if you put slavery into a state where it cannot get more States, it is only a question of time how long it will live. Gardeners say that the reason why crops will not grow in the same ground for a long time together, is that the roots excrete and exclude poisoned matter which the plants cannot use, and thus poison the grain. Whether this is true of crops or not, it is certainly true of slavery, for slavery poisons the land on which its grows. Look at the old Slave States, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, and even at the newer State of Missouri. What is the condition of slavery in those States? It is not worth one cent, except to breed. It is not worth one cent so far as productive energy goes. They cannot make money by their slaves in those States. The first reason is because it is with them a question of political power; and the second because they breed to sell to the Southern market.
Ladies and gentlemen, no man can unveil the future; no man can tell when revolutions are about to break upon the world; no man can tell what destiny belongs to France, nor to any of the European Powers; but one thing is certain, that in the exigencies of the future, there will be combinations and recombinations, and that those nations that are of the same faith, the same blood, and the same substantial interests, ought not to be alienated from each other, but ought to stand together (immense cheering and hisses). I do not say that you ought not to be in the most friendly alliance with France or with Germany; but I do say that your own children, the offspring of England, ought to be nearer to you than any people of strange tongue. (A voice, "Degenerate sons," applause, and hisses; another voice, "What about the Trent?") If there had been any feelings of bitterness in America, let me tell you they have been excited, rightly or wrongly, under the” impression that Great Britain was going to intervene between us and our own lawful struggle (a voice, "No," and applause). With the evidence that there is no such intentional , all bitter feelings will pass away (applause). 
We do not agree with the doctrine of neutrality of the past as a mere question of law. But it is past, and we are not disposed to raise that question. We accept it now as a fact, and we say that the utterance of Lord Russell at Blairgowrie, (applause, hisses, and a voice, "What about Lord Brougham?") together with the declaration of the Government in stopping war-steamers here (great uproar, and applause), has gone far towards quieting every fear and removing every apprehension from our minds (uproar and shouts of applause). And now in the future it is the work of every good man and patriot not to create divisions, but to do the things that will make for peace. ("Oh, oh," and laughter.) On our part it shall be done (applause and hisses, and "No, no"). On your part it ought to be done, and when in any of the convulsions that come upon the world, Great Britain finds herself struggling single-handed against the gigantic Powers that mean oppression and darkness (applause, hisses, and uproar)-there ought to be such cordiality that she can turn, and say to her first-born and most illustrious child, "Come" (hear, hear, applause, tremendous cheers and uproar.) I will not say that England cannot again, as hitherto, single-handed, manage any power-(applause and uproar)-but I will say that England and America together for religion and liberty-(A voice, "Soap, soap," uproar, and great applause)-are a match for the world (applause; a voice, "They don't want any more soft soap"). Now, gentlemen and ladies (A voice, "Sam Slick," and another voice, "Ladies and gentlemen, if you please")-when I came I was asked whether I would answer questions, and I very readily consented to do so as I had in other places; but I will tell you it was because I expected to have the opportunity of speaking with some sort of ease and quiet. (A voice, "So you have.") I have for an hour and a half spoken against a storm (hear, hear), and you yourselves are witnesses that, by the interruption, I have been obliged to strive with my voice, so that I no longer have the power to control this assembly (applause). And although I am in spirit perfectly willing to answer any question, and more than glad of the chance, yet I am by this very unnecessary opposition to-night incapacitated physically from doing it.
At the conclusion of Mr. Beecher's speech, the Rev. C. M. Birrell moved, and Mr. W. Crossfield seconded a vote of thanks to him, which was carried with loud and prolonged cheering and the waving of hats. The Chairman said he was sure Mr. Beecher would be quite satisfied with that unanimous expression of feeling, and the disturbance which had been created was not the expression of the feeling of the meeting, but the work of a few parties in the room who had come for the purpose of making an opposition.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1863. 
CELEBRATION OF THE THIRD DECADE
OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
At the Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, held in the city of New York, in May last, it was unanimously
Resolved, That in accordance with usage, and from reasons of obvious fitness, it is proper that the completion of another Decade of the Society's existence should be marked by a special public meeting devoted to a general review and survey of the cause; and that therefore this Society, when it adjourns on this occasion, will adjourn to meet in the city of Philadelphia, on the 3d day of December next, then and there to celebrate, in an appropriate manner, the thirtieth-and we would fain hope the final-anniversary of its formation.”
In accordance with-this vote, the Executive Committee hereby announce that the THIRD DECADE of the Society will be held in Philadelphia, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, Dec. 3d and 4th, 1863.
Historically, it will be an occasion of thrilling interest and joyous, congratulation, unequalled in the eventful career of the Society since its formation. Unquestionably, it will be largely attended by the friends of universal liberty, representing every section of the country loyal to the Government. Who among them will need any stronger appeal than the simple announcement of the fact to induce him to be present, if circumstances should permit? Let them make their arrangements accordingly. "Whosoever will, let him come"-come in the spirit of justice and love-come as remembering those in bonds as bound with them-come as one abhorring "the guilty phantasy, that man can hold property in man"-come to put down the rebellion by helping to exterminate the hideous system from which it has legitimately sprung!
A strong array of able and eloquent speakers will be in attendance.
[Further particulars hereafter.]
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President
WENDELL PHILLIPS, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.
"PROCLAIM LIBERTY THROUGHOUT ALL THE LAND."
The Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society congratulate its members and friends that, through the madness, rebellion and secession of the South, avowedly in behalf of its Heaven-accursed and world-abhorred slave system,-involving the country in a civil war of the hugest proportions and the most sanguinary character, which still continues its desolating work,-the constitutional powers of the Federal Government are now ample to decree the immediate and total abolition of slavery. They believe that, as a measure of national peace and unity, of humanity and justice, such a decree should be passed, by the ensuing Congress at as early a period in the session as practicable,-thus not only sustaining the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln of January 1st, 1863, but also effectually disposing of that remnant of the slave institution which was exempted by the Proclamation aforesaid, in such manner as may seem most equitable and expedient by Congress.
The warrant for this procedure is to be found in the still greatly imperilled state of the republic, and in the legitimate functions of the Government that may be exercised in such an alarming crisis. By common law, an individual has the right of self-defence by all means recognized by that law. In view of international law, a nation is an individual, and has the right of self-defence by all means recognized by that law; one of those means being the destruction of any dynasty or institution that imperils national life. Slavery has struck at the life of the nation, and declared its own existence incompatible with that of the nation. Hence the nation, acting through its official organs, has the right to abolish slavery throughout its dominions; and past events demonstrate alike the necessity and duty of exercising this right without delay and without compromise.
The Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, therefore, deeply impressed with the importance of a general co-operation of the friends of impartial liberty at this time, in order to influence and secure the action of Congress in the manner described, hereby announce, that they have resolved to put forthwith into the lecturing field as many agents as the funds of the Society will warrant, whose sole work shall be to enlighten the public mind on this subject, stimulate to a wide-spread movement in favor of universal emancipation, and thus make the recurrence of another SLAVEHOLDERS' REBELLION an impossible event.
To sustain and increase the number of these agents, the Committee solicit the generous contributions and donations of all who desire to see the speedy suppression of the war, and in the fullest sense "LIBERTY AND UNION" made "ONE AND INSEPABABLE."
In furtherance of this patriotic and Christian object, the "Women's Loyal National League" at New York has taken the field, in advance, to procure to a petition to the next Congress, for the total abolition of slavery, A MILLION OF SIGNATURES on the part of the loyal women of the republic. It deserves all possible encouragement and success, and we shall extend to it the heartiest co-operation. But let the loyal MEN be equally zealous and resolved to be as potentially heard in the same manner, by the same body. Let such a petition be sent to Congress from every city, town, village and hamlet in all the loyal States. No time is to be lost. "One last, best effort now!"
The Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society is WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq., 8 Railroad Exchange, Boston, Mass. Donations may also be sent to OLIVER JOHNSON, Esq., Anti-Slavery Office, 48 Beekman Street, New York, and to J. MILLER MCKIM, Anti-Slavery Office, 106 North Tenth Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, CHAS. C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries.
Editors of newspapers, friendly to the object here announced, are respectfully requested to insert this announcement in their columns.

ONE MILLION SIGNATURES!
CIRCULATE THE PETITION!
The Loyal Women of the Republic, through their National Association, resolved in May last to attempt to procure a MILLION signatures of loyal women to the following petition:-
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:
The undersigned, Women of the United States above the age of eighteen years, earnestly pray that your honorable body will pass, at the earliest practicable day, an Act emancipating all persons of African descent held to involuntary service or labor in the United States.
Let the loyal women of Massachusetts see to it that they are not outdone by their sisters in any other State in the number of names appended by them to this petition-a petition which goes to the very root of the rebellion and all our national troubles, by asking Congress to terminate what remains of slavery outside of the President's 1st of January Proclamation in such manner as to that body may seem advisable.
To accomplish the Herculean task contemplated, INDIVIDUAL EFFORT AND CONSECRATION are needed in every city, town, and village. Time is pressing-the object is godlike-the opportunity to give the death-blow to slavery must not be allowed to pass unimproved.
<c04>
NEW ALLIES FOR FREEDOM.
The abolitionists have always desired, first of all, that the slave might be freed from his chains, and the nation from the detriment and disgrace of continuing to hold him in bondage. Next to this they have desired, alike for the character and the credit of their own kinsfolk and country, that the North might have virtue enough to engage in the warfare against slavery, refuse any longer to hold complicity with the oppressor, and lend its powerful helping hand to the oppressed. Since the brutal characters and homicidal habits of the slaveholders have prevented us from laboring directly among them, we have been constrained to apply ourselves chiefly to the enlightenment of the Northern people in regard to slavery. These labors, however, though abundantly fruitful when we consider the immense disproportion between the workmen land the raw material, have not yet reached the desired success. However improved may be the prospects of the slave, our nation is not yet converted to the love of universal freedom.
But while man proposes, God disposes. Help has come to us from an unexpected quarter. The Call issued by B. Gratz Brown and nine of his noble associates in Missouri for a Convention of Friends of Freedom in the Slave States, to consult respecting measures of reform in their several districts, is one of the grandest events of our period, as well as one of the most hopeful signs in the present crisis.
It is to be hoped that no reader of the Liberator neglected to notice this important Call in last week's paper, headed-"Freedom Convention of the Slave States." The proposition is that men of the Southern and Border States, who desire the removal of slavery from their respective communities, shall meet in Convention at Louisville, Ky., on the 8th day of January next, to consult on the means most appropriate to accomplish that object. Wonder of wonders! A meeting of slaveholders and members of slaveholding communities, called together in good faith to consider, not how slavery may be preserved, nor how they individually may save most out of its approaching wreck, but how they may most speedily and thoroughly make an end of it.
That there is nothing extravagant or fanatical about these people is plain from the calm, measured and somewhat peculiar language of their document. They avoid the technical terms used by the old abolitionists even more carefully than President Lincoln did, when, in his Proclamation, and in the note of warning three months in advance of it, he spoke of a proposed "abolishment" of slavery in the rebel States. They speak of the necessity of "assimilating" all re-occupied territory before peace can be reposed upon. They declare that an insistence upon "freedom policies’ both national and state," presents itself as the supremest duty of the hour. And they urge that such changes as are needful in regard to slavery “ "now find in the perils of the times no excuse for delay, but every incitement to an immediate corrective."
This union of moderation and reasonableness, how-ever, avails nothing with the friends of the "peculiar institution," North or South. The pro-slavery press in both sections of the country assail Mr. Brown and his associates in unmeasured terms of rage and obloquy. All the epithets of abuse that were ever heaped upon Jennison, Lane and Montgomery, for their recent adoption against slavery of the violent methods that have always been used by slaveholders in its defence, are now bestowed as liberally by the copperhead press upon this modest proposal that the people who, living in the midst of slavery, have been well-nigh. ruined by it, should meet together to talk over the best method of removing it. Yes! This meeting of the people of slave States, in one of their own cities, to discuss the subject of slavery, and that because they see that self-preservation, as well as the interest and welfare of their respective States requires it, is called by the Post a "fiendish Abolition raid"! And the Louisville Journal says-appealing to those brutal habits of Lynch law which are maintained and justified as the appropriate police of slaveholding communities-"What force of opinion and of scorn the people of Kentucky, amidst the bewildering events of the time, may launch against this infernal step, we know not, but we know there was a Kentucky once that would have brooked the eternal devil to keep his state in Louisville as easily as such a convention."
If, as a long experience has shown us, the existence of slavery perverts our language, corrupts our manners and depraves our morals to this extent, surely it is time for the inauguration of "freedom policies" in every State, and in the national government also.
New occasions, as the poet has told us, often teach new duties. But this movement of the people of slave States, for their own interest, against slavery, should stimulate us, the old Abolitionists, to intenser zeal and activity in the prosecution of our accustomed work, the call to repentance and reformation, an arousing of the moral element and of the religious sentiment against slavery. It will be a great point gained to get rid of the hideous fact of slaveholding, with its corrupting interests, its brutalizing tendencies and associations. This thing should be done, and, the sooner the better; but we must not leave the other undone. We need to have diffused among the people a love of universal liberty, a vivid appreciation of the truths of the Declaration of Independence, a recognition of the principle of freedom, a readiness to give to every other man that which each demands for himself, in regard to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. The Northern people are becoming accessible, as never before, to the influence of these ideas. Let us provide more laborers to put the sickle into this harvest. The Executive Committee of the American-Anti-Slavery Society are rejoiced to do this work, as fast as the means are furnished them. Let all imitate the noble example of Gerrit Smith, and send immediate donations to the Treasurer, or to the General Agent of this Society. Instead of supinely waiting to see the salvation of God, let us prove ourselves diligent as well as faithful servants, and come up to his help against the mighty.-C. K. W.

PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The second lecture of this season was delivered on Tuesday evening, by Oliver Wendell Holmes. His subject was-"The Weaning of Young America."
A great change, said Dr. Holmes, has taken place within three years in the opinion and feeling of this country in regard to Europe, and especially to England. We have attained independence in the domain of opinion, not less than of Government. And this additional change was necessary to make us truly a free, independent, self-governing nation. English criticism greatly obstructed the formation of an independent American literature, and not until the time of Prescott began the true era of American literary independence. The last few years have completed the emancipation of American opinion from the yoke of English ideas.
English critics have never been able to comprehend our politics. But many circumstances urged a kindly relation between the two nations, and, in his late visit, Prince Albert gathered the full-blown flower of national friendship.
A change of circumstances arose, in which this friendship might have been most gracefully and effectively reciprocated. After the disastrous battle of Ball's Bluff, then was England's hour. Never will such an opportunity occur to her again. In the extremity of our anguish, we asked only a cup of cold water. She filled a sponge with vinegar, mingled with gall, and reached it to us on the point of her spear.
We had overrated not only the friendship, but the Christian civilization of England. The series of injuries and insults which she has heaped upon us were enough to stir the blood of the drabbest Quaker in Pennsylvania, or the longest-haired peace man in the country. Her scandalously hasty recognition of the South as a belligerent power, and many like actions following, told us in unmistakable language that the ruling powers of England wished the destruction of
<c05>
the American Union. We have a few advocates in England, we have the sympathy of a large portion of her people, and may God have mercy upon their children when the time of reckoning comes! Her false neutrality, her captious complaints, her sinister prophecies, her heartless indifference to our situation, have convinced the American people that England is not their friend.
We have looked in vain for English sympathy in many quarters where we should most have expected it. Where is the English Church?? Where, is Lord Brougham? Where is Dickens? Where is the Laureate? Where is the little Hunchback's Journal? All silent! All hostile!
Instead of a mother, England is a hard, craving rival. Her conduct to us was called neutrality in Lord Palmerston’s new dictionary, but it looked very like war.
Dr. Holmes, however, deprecated the idea of cherishing a hostile feeling against England, or seeking revenge when her time of misfortune shall arrive. This great war, he thought, was teaching us the lesson of peace, and our mission is to show the power of peaceful development. To this end the standard of education must be raised far beyond its present point. Our ideas of education must be enlarged, to the exclusion of all vulgar, paltry and narrow ideas. Particularly should our children be taught to appreciate their political duties. In all directions we must provide the largest, noblest, amplest means for intellectual improvement.
The lecturer spoke an hour and a half, holding an immense audience in the closest attention, and being frequently interrupted by applause. He closed with some spirited verses, continuing the subject.
The exigencies of public service may perhaps prevent General Butler from addressing the Fraternity next week. Due notice will be given in the papers.-C.K. W.

THE SCOTTISH CHURCH AND SLAVERY.
The Address sent to Europe some time ago, from the "Clergy of the Confederate States," asking for the sympathy of the Christian world for slavery and the slaveholders, has excited much indignant comment. The last mail brought a response from the ministers of the Church of Scotland, which shows what is thought of slavery by that influential body of Presbyterians. When the mail closed, the document had just been drafted, and there had been no time to obtain many signatures; but the names already signed are those of some of the most distinguished of the Scottish divines. The Address is as follows:-
We, the undersigned, ministers of the churches in Scotland, in reply to the appeal made to us in the "Address to Christians throughout the World," recently put forth "by the Clergy of the Confederate States of America," feel bound to give public expression to our views, lest our continued silence should be misconstrued, as implying either acquiescence in the principles of the document, or indifference to the crime which it seeks to defend.
We refer, of course, to a single topic, that of slavery, as it is handled in the Address. We desire to say nothing inconsistent with our country's attitude of strict neutrality as regards the war raging across the Atlantic. We do not discuss any of the political questions connected with its origin, progress, and probable issues. We offer no opinion on the measures adopted on either side. Nor are we to be regarded as shutting our eyes to the past and present sins and shortcomings of the North in relation to the African race. The one object we have in view is to express the deep grief, alarm, and indignation with which we perused the pleading on behalf of slavery in general, and American slavery in particular, to which so many servants of the Lord Jesus Christ have not scrupled to append their names. With the feeblest possible incidental admission of "abuses" which they "may deplore, in this, as in other relations of mankind," we find these men broadly maintaining, in the most unqualified manner, that "the relation of master and slave"-"AMONG US, "they add, to make their meaning more explicit-"is not incompatible with our holy Christianity." They thank God for it, as for a missionary institution; the best, as it would seem, and the most successful in the world. They hold it to be their peculiar function to defend and perpetuate it. And they evidently contemplate the formation of the Southern Confederacy upon the basis of slavery as one of its fundamental and permanent principles or elements, not only without regret, but with entire satisfaction and approval.
Against all this-in the name of that holy faith and that thrice holy name, which they venture to invoke on the side of a system which treats immortal and redeemed men as goods and chattels, denies them the rights of marriage and of home, consigns them to ignorance of the first rudiments of education, and exposes them to the outrages of lust and passion-we most earnestly and emphatically protest. We do not think it needful to argue. The time for argument has for many a year been regarded by the whole of enlightened Christendom as passed and gone. Apologists for slavery, attempting to shelter themselves and it under the authority of God's word and the Gospel of Jesus Christ, are to be denounced as really-whatever may be their intention-the worst enemies of both.
All reasonable allowances, no doubt, should be made for the circumstances of Christian ministers called in Providence to labor where slavery exists. Some soreness, even, on their part, under what they regard as unjustifiable and dangerous movements on the other side, might be excused as not unnatural. And if we saw them manfully lifting their voice on behalf of universal liberty, and setting themselves to aim at the instant redress of the more flagrant of the wrongs incident to a state of bondage, we would be prepared calmly to listen to their representations as to the best and likeliest practical methods of promoting the present amelioration of the condition of the slaves, and securing within the shortest period consistent with safety their complete and final emancipation.
We are reluctant to abandon the hope that, upon reconsideration, and in view of the sentiments now unanimously held and expressed on this subject everywhere else, all over Christendom, our American brethren may yet be induced to take up a position more worthy of our common faith than that which they at present occupy. But, at all events, the obligation lying upon us, as things now stand, towards them, towards ourselves, towards the Church and the world, towards the Bible and the Gospel, is to record, in the strongest possible terms, our abhorrence of the doctrine on the subject of slavery which the Southern clergy teach, and upon which they act; and to testify before all nations that any State, empire or republic constituted or reconstructed, in these days of Christian light and liberty, upon the basis of that doctrine, practically applied, must, in the sight of God, be regarded as founded on wrong and crime, and as deserving, not his blessing, but his righteous wrath.
ROBERT S. CANDLISH, D. D., Edinburgh.
THOMAS GUTHRIE, D. D., Edinburgh.
W. H. GOOLD, D. D., Edinburgh.
ROB. BUCHANAN, D. D., Glasgow.
JOHN CAIRNS, D. D., Berwick-on-Tweed.
CHARLES J. BROWN, D. D., Edinburgh.
ANDREW THOMPSON, D. D., Edinburgh.
WILLIAM ARNOT, Glasgow.
W. LINDSAY ALEXANDER, D. D., Edinburgh.
JAMES BEGG, D. D., Edinburgh.
Edinburgh, Sept. 22d, 1863.
The paper is being signed by all the leading ministers of Scotland.
We have in the English papers full reports of the speeches made by Mr. Beecher, in Glasgow, Edinburgh, and Liverpool. In all these three places, his reception was a grand ovation, although the rebel sympathizers had made extraordinary efforts to disturb the proceedings, and get up a row. How Mr. Beecher was annoyed and insulted at Liverpool may be seen by the extracts we have made from his speech.
<c06>
PLATFORM FOR THE ORGANIZATION OF THE RADICAL GERMANS,
AS ESTABLISHED BY THE CONVENTION OF THEIR DELEGATES AT CLEVELAND, OCT. 20TH, 1863.
[Translated for the Liberator from the Pionier of Oct. 28th.]
Inspired with the desire to work together, according to their strength, and in obedience to their convictions, for the good of the Republic, but at the same time constrained by the necessity of securing for themselves that regard and appreciation which justice must accord to every well-minded citizen of the Republic, and which self-respect enjoins upon every freeman to strive to obtain, the Radical Germans, casting off all party ties, and declaring war against every corruption, have put an end to their impotent dismemberment by an organization whose chief aim is, in connection with their fellow-citizens of American descent who are of the same mind, to labor for the accomplishment of the following principles, and measures:-
1. The integrity of the Union, and the subordination of the separate States to the sovereignty of the Confederation in all national affairs.
2. The abolition of slavery throughout the entire domain of the United States, and in the shortest way.
3. The unconditional suppression of the rebellion.
4. Revision of the Federal Constitution in the spirit of the Declaration of Independence.
5. Treatment of the reconquered rebel States as territories, with a view to reconstruction.
6. Cession of the confiscated lands to settlers, in the spirit of the Homestead Law, as well as donation of suitable portion, to the country's defenders of every color, and to the emancipated slaves.
7. Enforcement of the Monroe doctrine.
8. Alliance with the European revolution, to ward off foreign intervention.
9. Security of freedom of speech and of the press against military arbitrariness.
10. Introduction of a national system of defence after the manner of the Swiss General, or a similar obligation to bear arms.
11. Support of those candidates for public offices who approach nearest to the principles of this platform.
ELUCIDATIONS.
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE.
More than any former period, the present admonishes us to recognize in the proclamation of the equal rights of man by the Declaration of Independence the only true fundamental law of republican life, unhappily. renounced in the Constitution, and still more in party politics. To bring and to keep the Constitution and politics into unison with this fundamental law is the single means, of putting an end to the pernicious consequences of that renunciation, and of making a genuine from a seeming republic.
THE SLAVERY QUESTION AND THE WAR. 
In the formidable war against the slaveholders’ rebellion, the Republic has to expiate the guilt of its past, but at the same time to seek the radical means for the security of its future. Without this insight and this resolution, it would inevitably work its own destruction by suicide. Therefore, every policy which shrinks from the following demands must be ruinous:
1. Under no circumstances is a peaceful convention or compromise to be entered upon with the rebellion, which, spite of the position of a belligerent power conceded to it by the Federal Government and by foreign nations, cannot lose the nature of the crime of high treason, and therefore can be ended only by unconditional suppression.
2. The security of peace is only possible through the annihilation of the cause of the war, slavery. Therefore ought the Confiscation Law to be vigorously enforced, and the proclamation of January 1st to be maintained in its fullest extent; but in the territory not affected by this proclamation, there should be brought about, with the least possible delay, a definite decision in regard to the abolition of slavery, whether through the voluntary act of the States concerned, or through an edict of Congress, or through the war power. The repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law should be one of the earliest tasks of the next Congress.
3. Rebellion and secession are a destruction of the right of States, to govern themselves, and fully empower Congress arbitrarily to rule the reconquered rebellious territory until it is restored to a harmonious condition with the free and loyal States.
4. The lands, acquired through confiscation by the United States. Government in the course of the war should only be dealt out in small portions to veritable settlers, so far as they have not been bestowed upon the emancipated slaves, and the soldiers of the Republic.
ALTERATION OF THE CONSTITUTION.
The Constitution of the United States has need of a revision in the spirit of the Declaration of Independence, and of the principles, herein laid down.
CIVILIZATION AT THE SOUTH AND COLONIZATION OF THE NEGROES.
The crudeness of the masses constitutes a lever in the hands of secessionists, slaveholders, and all enemies of the republic. It is accordingly the duty of Congress, in all the reconquered territory which comes under its jurisdiction, to care for the culture of the people, not only among the emancipated slaves, but also among the whites. The colonization abroad of the negroes would be no benefit to them, and no advantage to the country, while their settlement as free laborers on the confiscated lands would produce better fruits for freedom and for the nation than the former dominion of their treasonable masters.
FOREIGN POLICY.
Peace and friendship with friendly-minded nations, unconcealed sympathy with the struggles for freedom on the part of every people, but decisive procedure against every pretension of despotic governments, especially when the Monroe doctrine is in question, should be the guiding rule of our foreign policy.
The French invasion of Mexico is nothing else than flagitious filibusterism on a large scale, arising from ambition for rule and plunder, begun in hypocrisy and lying, carried on with perjury and knavery, and ending in murder and tyranny. But it is at the same time a bold menace and a shocking contempt of the people of the United States, to whom the arrogance of a successful murderer of republics has thrown down the gauntlet of mortal feud. Moreover, this menace and contempt can lose nothing of their character from the encouragement which they have found in the short-sighted and officious Administration at Washington. The honor, no less than the security of this Republic, requires, that the gloomy plot of the French usurper be thwarted by every means, and that the government elected by the people of the neighbor-republic, be again established in its undisturbed and sovereign power. And the strength of the United States allows, us, and the honor of the Republic commands us at once proudly and boldly to declare, that to the designs of the French tyrant upon this continent a limit ought to be and shall be put by the will and the might of the free people of North America.
The so-called non-intervention policy, which made the rejection of every alliance a dogma, can no longer correspond to the circumstances and exigencies of our time; but in the long run, the most ruinous consequences may attend that policy which inaugurated the departure from the advice of Washington by an alliance which is contrary to the character of the Republic, which must deprive it of the sympathies of the people of Europe, which converts it (at least morally) into the tool of a despotism as crafty as it is barbarous, and which makes it indirectly the accomplice in a horrible subjugation of other peoples. The most worthy, powerful and natural alliance of the North American republic is the European revolution, and every attempt at a forcible intervention of monarchy in the affairs of this continent should be answered with an intervention in favor of the republican principle. For the United States have the means in their hand, without peril and great sacrifice, to repel every European assault by support of the European revolution, and with security from all foreign intervention to win for themselves the glory of initiating the liberation of the world.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
AMERICAN COMPROMISES.
On Friday evening, October 2nd, a lecture was delivered at the Emancipation Society's Rooms, 65, Fleet Street, London, by Hugh Williams, Esq., Barrister at-Law, on American Compromises. F. W. Chessen, Esq., having taken the chair, called upon Mr. Williams to deliver his lecture.
The lecturer in the course of a long and able lecture reviewed the history of the numerous compromises by which the Slave Power had for a long series of years extended its baleful influence over the American continent. He commented on the change which had taken place even in Southern opinions since the days of Jefferson, and said that the defect of the policy by which the great statesman sought to exclude slavery from the Territories was to be attributed to the strenuous opposition of South Carolina, then, as now, the greatest blot on the Republic. Coming down to the period of the Fugitive Slave Law, he examined the various clauses of that measure, and pronounced its iniquity to be unparalleled in the history of legislation. Mr. Webster forfeited his great name by supporting this measure, which brought home the guilt of slavery to every free man's door. The lecturer gave an impressive and interesting account of the resistance to this law in Boston and the other cities of the North. He dwelt upon the invasion of Kansas by the Missouri ruffians, and epitomised some of the laws which they passed: one went so far as to declare that all abolitionists should be excluded from the Territory, and that all persons coming from the North were abolitionists. He passed a severe judgment upon the administration of Mr. Buchanan, and concluded by recapitulating the great anti-slavery measures which have been adopted during the past two years, and declaring that they would enshrine for ever the names of Abraham Lincoln and his admirers high amongst those who have done and suffered much to advance the liberties of mankind. (Cheers.)
The Chairman, in thanking Mr. Williams for his admirable lecture, expressed his regret that Mr. Buchanan, who was now in London, had not been there to contemplate the life-like portrait of himself as President which the lecturer had drawn with so much skill.
Messrs. Gorrif, Steen, Curley, and other gentlemen having addressed the meeting, the proceedings closed with votes of thanks to the chairman and lecturer.

TO THE FRIENDS OF OUR SOLDIERS IN THE FIELD.
AN APPEAL FOR THE SUPPORT OF THE SOLDIERS' HOMES OF THE WESTERN SANITARY COMMISSION.
The object of these institutions is to furnish a place of rest, wholesome food and social influences cheering and refining for the homeless soldier. Convalescents from the hospitals on the way to their regiments; sick men on furloughs passing to and fro between home and their fields of service; discharged men, and those awaiting discharge; the soldier worn out and left behind on the march, not needing hospital treatment, but only a few days or weeks of rest, and proper nourishment to recruit his strength;- such, by the orders of post or district commanders, are admitted to the benefits of the "Soldiers' Homes."
The first of these Homes, under patronage of the Western Sanitary Commission, was established at St. Louis, in March,!862. Over twelve thousand soldiers have been its guests. Since then, three others have been put in operation on the line of the Mississippi, namely, at Columbus, Kentucky; at Memphis, Tennessee; and at Vicksburg, Mississippi. Steps have been taken to establish the fifth at New Orleans, for which the outfit and first supplies are now on the way down the river.
For the last seven months, the writer of this has been in charge of the largest of these homes at Columbus, Kentucky, and is able to testify, from personal observation, to the great success and benefit of the institution. The number of guests have averaged about one hundred and forty, and nearly five thousand soldiers in all have been entertained.
Many others from the camps and regimental hospitals in the vicinity, and from regiments passing through, have shared in the benefits of our reading and writing rooms, or attended the social or religious gatherings held for months every evening at this Home.
In this way, at all of the Homes, improving influences have been widely extended, and many doubtless restrained from evil, and kept from resorts of dissipation and vice.
These facts concerning the Homes are enough on which to base an appeal for their generous support, which cannot be resisted by those who have the welfare of our brave soldiers at heart.
We want a regular supply of vegetables, fruit, pickles, butter, cheese, and eggs; books and other publications are also needed for our reading rooms.
These articles directed for the "Soldiers' Homes." and sent to the Western Sanitary Commission, St. Louis, will be forwarded to the Homes as from time to time needed.
By request of the commission, I have special charge of the Home at New Orleans, and general oversight of all the others, being detailed for the service by order of General Grant.
I can therefore speak with strong confidence to assure those who desire to aid in this good work, that their contributions, sent as above indicated, shall be faithfully applied, and that they may thus share in the satisfaction of ministering to the comfort and succor of many of our brave ones in the time of their sorest need.
EPHRAIM NUTE, JR.,
Chaplain!st Regiment Kansas Vols.,
Agent Western Sanitary Commission

DEDICATION OF A NEW HALL. On Tuesday afternoon and evening last, we had the privilege of assisting in the dedication of "Eagle Hall," which has just been completed by its enterprising and public spirited projector and proprietor, NATHANIEL WHITE, Esq., of Concord, N. H. It is by far the most commodious and beautiful hall in Concord precisely such as has long been needed- and will be of great public convenience and utility. The city has reason to be proud of it, and it will yet "do the State some service." Mr. White is a believer in reform and progress, and an earnest Abolitionist, and therefore the Hall, at his request, was specially dedicated to "JUSTICE AND FREEDOM," in their broadest signification. It was crowded, afternoon and evening, with a highly respectable and interested audience Parker Pillsbury and the Rev. Mr. Canfield, of Concord, being among the speakers, and making spirited and impressive addresses. Several select pieces were sung with fine effect by a choir, and popular airs were played with very creditable skill by a band that volunteered its services for the occasion an occasion long and pleasurably to be remembered. A large number of invited guests participated in the elegant and generous hospitality extended to them by Mr. and Mrs. White, at their pleasant residence.

PECULIAR, AN AMERICAN NOVEL. Under the singular but apt title of "Peculiar" a new American novel from the pen of Epes Sargent is announced as in press. The American Publishers' Circular remarks of it as follows:
It is founded on facts communicated last January by Gen. Butler to a committee of the New York Chamber of Commerce, which facts were developed during his rule in New Orleans, and were abundantly authenticated by Governor Shepley and others, including the Provost Marshal. The facts showed the existence of women as slaves who were undistinguishable able from the purest blooded Anglo-Saxons in their complexion. The novel takes its name from one of the leading characters, an escaped slave, who has been named by a drunken overseer "Peculiar Institution" and who is thenceforth called "Peculiar" or, by its diminutive, "Peek" We hear the most enthusiastic accounts of the high literary and artistic character of this novel, the interest of its plot, and the spirited character drawing which it exhibits. It relates closely to present interests and questions of national moment, but its strength is in its story, the dramatic power of its culmination, and its vivid, intense vitality.
<c02>
LETTER FROM E. H. HEYWOOD.
PRINCETON, Oct. 26,1863.
MR. GARRISON:
My kind and earnest friend, Mr. Stacy, was necessarily absent from the day sessions of the Convention at Milford, and most have been misinformed as to its afternoon proceedings, and the points of my speech. The question of Non-Resistance did not come up in the discussions, and was nowise alluded to, except by the incidental mention of an Abolition Non-Resistant conscript of Quincy, John Wesley Pratt, now courageously suffering for his principles at the hands of the War Department; whereupon several friends, as individuals, not as members of the Convention, made up a purse for his destitute family. I am not aware that any one has obtruded the discussion of Non-Resistance upon the Anti-Slavery platform, or claimed the right to do so; though an incidental mention of it to those who hare many years professed the principles of Non-Resistance, now that those principles first among us are of practical importance, is not a thing to be apologized for.
The clear-sighted and comprehensive resolutions of Mr. Ballou were all passed, and unanimously; not a "portion" of them, as was stated. You will oblige me by thus correcting these, I am sure, unintentional misstatements, in last week's Liberator, lest it erroneously go abroad that there was inharmony at Milford. The Convention was large, earnest, and successful; and we all felt under obligations to Mr. Stacy for printing bills, making arrangements, and the many other hospitable offices for which he has long been honorably distinguished.
I am truly glad to hear your call to arms from the American Anti-Slavery Society. Never was the nation more serious and impressible, and never in so perishing need of the Word of Life the Abolitionists have preached, and without which there can be no salvation to this people. War, indeed, is a terrible Abolitionist, and makes oppressors and their accomplices march to a severer music than you summoned them to face in the columns of the Liberator. No doubt these thunderbolts of retribution may clear the air and dispel somewhat of the dark ruin which overshadowed us. The clouds once parted, there is no telling how much sunshine, will get through; and a false social condition fairly broken up may evolve natural and equitable relations. But war comes from beneath, not from above; and the only way out of it is the way into it-the retraction of the falsehood and injustice which alone induced this strife of blood. War is no cure; it merely announces the disease, that the physician may appear. Until the people are, not "coerced, but converted to Anti Slavery," there will be no guarantee of justice to the slave.
In the long run, governments faithfully reflect the moral condition of the governed. If States are strong and base enough to hold slaves, under a pro-slavery Constitution, they will do it irrespective of Congressional decrees or military proclamation. On the other hand, Judges will find law enough any day to decree emancipation, if the moral sense of the country demands it. But, as yet, no act of the Executive or of Congress touches the slave principle in this Government. The prevalent anti-slavery sentiment is not an impulse of religious duty, but avowedly a matter of selfish expediency, which will abolish or establish slavery as unscrupulous "necessity" happens to dictate. The Tribune says the Missouri act of emancipation was an effort to perpetuate rather than to abolish slavery; to stave off the issue until pro-slavery politics, now temporarily submerged, shall reappear to control it. The President, emancipating slaves of rebels only, not slaves, sides with the ‘Gamble-Blair faction in Missouri, and adheres to his policy of resigning the slave question to the control of local politics, whenever insurgent States return representatives to Congress. Such facts are significant and alarming straws as to which way the wind blows at Washington. No stream goes above its source, and though the President were an angel of light, he must be darkness in representing a benighted people. "It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man; it is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in Princes" or Presidents.
I am unspeakably rejoiced, therefore, that the "Old Guard" are again to take the field of moral warfare. One with Natural Law and the Divine Will-the exponent of a principle which was before governments and rebellions, and will survive them, the victorious leader of a thirty years' conflict with oppression, the American Anti-Slavery Society alone in this crisis can speak with the emphasis of "Rome." A war for Freedom" is a potent cry only with those struggling for original sovereignty and in defence of their own firesides; to all others it is a questionable means for a desirable end-doing evil that good may come. But "Freedom for Freedom" moves the race. The Crusades were the only idea which ever united Europe. So here, religious sentiment, conscience alone, can fuse these turbulent States into one unanimous, irresistible purpose to abolish slavery Or, as Mr. Sumner has it, the most efficient General we can train under, is General Emancipation." The Anti-Slavery Committee is that General and his staff. One blast from that bugle-horn is more terrible to the South than armies with banners. In Mr. Phillips's energetic phrase, "we are nothing unless critical." The moral issue must be direct and incisive; the people made to feel that there is something better than Constitutions and Unions-the principles of freedom they were framed to establish; that iniquity is the only defeat, and justice the only sure thing in human society, by whose sign alone do men conquer.
Yours, to undo the heavy burdens,
EZRA H. HEYWOOD.

ORGANIZE AND WORK.
DEAR GARRISON,—It seems to me, and I am persuaded to say so at once, not a moment at such an eventful time should be lost. Believe me, upon the shoulders of despised Abolitionists is placed the ark of salvation to this guilty nation. If our country is saved, it will be only through the open door of truth preached by the radicals of our boldest type. Every moment between this and the opening of Congress must be faithfully improved.
Now, then, what is to be done? Who will send the word of command, that we may go forward? My thought is this: There ought to be a thorough organization in every town in Massachusetts. Men and women should be banded together in close alliance with a resolve, that no living soul shall escape the responsibility of doing or not doing the thing that is to give us universal freedom. The work cannot easily or effectually be performed without some simple organization or nucleus, around which and for all we must rally and hasten the "consummation so devoutly wished for."
I will not be so presumptuous as to pen a word in detail. Sufficient that I threw out the necessity of the hour, with the brief desire that in the name of the God of eternal justice, we may cry aloud, and do the work ere it is too late. G. W. S.
The friends of freedom and humanity in the various towns in New England will do well to invite Prof. J. C. Zachos (see his advertisement in another column) to deliver particularly the first two of the series of lectures he proposes to give, because they relate to the war, and to his employment for eighteen months at Port Royal as Superintendent of abandoned Plantations. He cannot fail to interest, please and instruct any audience.
The speech of Hon. M. F. Conway, on our first page, is worthy of a careful perusal, and is alike creditable to his head and heart. Its tone is cheerful and hopeful, and its ethical reasoning high and pure.
A DOSE FOR COPPERHEADS. All Copperheads will please "mark, learn and inwardly digest" he latest peace overtures to the North, as given on our first page from the Richmond Enquirer.
<c03>
UNION LEAGUE.
The State Union League for Massachusetts held a meeting in this city, last week, to select delegates to the National League, which meets in December.
The Transcript gives the annexed sketch of a speech by Gen. Butler on the occasion:
"Gen Butler addressed the meeting at length, taking ground with those who believe the seceded States have annihilated themselves as States, while the power of the General Government still remains intact over their territory. He opposed the position of a member of the Cabinet that the rebel commonwealths, by throwing down their arms, should be received into the Union, with unimpaired rights, and with their old local institutions. His reasons for dictating terms, before allowing incorporation into the Union of these heretofore hostile sections, sprang from considerations vitally affecting the interests and safety of the nation.
If the Confederate States are readmitted, and their representatives take their seats in Congress-before some radical change is effected-what guaranty is there that the Federal national debt will not be repudiated, or made to stand upon the alternative that the Confederate debt must likewise be paid? Let this question come before Congress, and all the appliances of corruption would be set in motion to secure such a decision as would place the Federal and rebel indebtedness upon the same footing.
Gen. Butler contended that the rebel States must be regarded as destroyed, or it would be almost impossible to choose another President, for the reason that no candidate likely to be selected would receive such a support in the North as to give him a majority of the whole electoral college, constituted of all the States both loyal and rebel. Transfer the question to the House of Representatives, where each Commonwealth casts only one vote, and a majority of such votes is required, and the difficulty will be greatly increased. The policy of safety and justice was to ‘restore' the Union in the South only as fast as the principles of freedom and loyalty are extended over the now rebel domain."

EXTRAORDINARY CONSPIRACY DISCOVERED.
CINCINNATI, NOV.!. An extraordinary case of treason has recently come to light, implicating several persons in this city, Columbus, Covington and Newport in conspiring to release the rebel prisoners at Camp Chase, and the overthrow of the State Government. The conspiracy was brought to light by United States detectives, who were supposed by the parties implicated to be spies from the rebel army, and were treated with full confidence.
The plot as discovered to the detectives was, that an attack was to be made on Camp Chase; to release the rebel prisoners confined there, numbering 3500; to seize the arsenal at Columbus, take possession of the penitentiary, release John Morgan and the other rebel officers confined there, and then to commence a rebel campaign in Ohio.
U. S. Marshal Sands and Provost Marshal Reaney have arrested the following persons implicated in the plot: Charles W. H. Cathcart, of Columbus, formerly School Commissioner of Ohio, and J. D. Crensop of Columbus, formerly Sutler in the!8th Regulars, who were to lead the attack on Camp Chase; James D. Patton of Covington, a regular agent of the rebel Government, who furnished money to the detectives under the impression that they were spies, and, according to agreement, were to meet Cathcart and others at Camp Chase, and assist in maturing the plan of attack; Ruth McDonald of Covington, who acted as mail carrier through the rebel lines, and whose house was the headquarters of the rebels; Samuel P. Thomas, merchant tailor, of Cincinnati, and his wife, and Catherine Partmenter, of Cincinnati.
Information has been obtained that the organization exists in Illinois, waiting for the outbreak in Ohio. Other particulars are known to the authorities, but have not yet been made public.

No COPPERHEADS IN XENIA, OHIO. A correspondent from the!2th army corps writes to the Congregationalist thus:-
"But I ought to have lingered long at Xenia. For, when we stopped there, in the evening, a woman appeared with milk. And when asked the price, ‘nothing.' And then there suddenly appeared a whole swarm of women and girls, with huge quantities of meat, potatoes, eggs, pies, cakes, fruit and milk, which they proceeded to deal out to the soldiers most lavishly. What is to pay? asked the astonished men. ‘Nothing. We are not Vallandigham people; we take no pay of soldiers! I wish you could have heard the intense scorn with which the word Vallandigham. was spoken. The tone meant what Judas Iscariot or Benedict Arnold does. The soldiers ate till they could eat no more. It was not merely the good, nice food which rejoiced us; it was. the frank, hearty, warm heartedness of those Ohio girls, who ministered so freely to the wants of strangers, while their fathers, husbands, and-&c.-held the lanterns. We have never been treated so before. As the hand-shaking ended, and good-byes were said, and the cars rolled off amid the cheers of our men, everybody felt more brave, more patriotic, more happy, for that kindness."

THE RECENT ELECTIONS. The majority in Ohio for Brough, on the home vote, with only four townships to hear from, is 62,606. Returns of the soldiers' vote, thus far received from different points in nine States, give Brough 23,428; Vallandigham 628. By the way, Vallandigham has issued another address to the Democrats of Ohio" telling them not to be discouraged! The said "Democrats" however don't quite "see it in that light" And it is not strange that the regret is quite general among them, that Vallandigham was not at once exiled to a locality of much higher temperature than Dixie or Canada.
In Iowa, returns from three-fourths of the larger counties give the Union ticket a majority of!3,600, which the remaining counties will swell to!5,000. This is on the home vote. The soldiers' vote will, it is believed, carry the Union majority up to 25,000.
In Pennsylvania, the official vote foots up as follows For Curtin, 255,138; for Woodward, 249, 864. Curtin's majority,!5,273-Republican-Union gain over last year, 20,000.
The elections have been held, and the allies of the rebel conspirators are terribly defeated. Vallandigham is politically annihilated. Instead of being permitted to serve Jeff. Davis and his associates as Governor of Ohio, he sees the people of that great State confirm the judgment that banished him from loyal States, and branded him as an enemy of the country, whose disloyal behavior could not be tolerated. The majority against him will not fall much short of 75,000. When he was nominated, he felt sure of being elected; and his disciples boasted that he was sure of 40,000 majority. They could not see that anybody would act on higher principles than their own. Will it not be possible for them to see more clearly?

"UNCONDITIONAL EMANCIPATION." At the great Union and Emancipation" meeting in Baltimore, the Hon. Samuel Galloway, of Ohio, made a most humorous and eloquent speech. He said that the President told him the morning of the meeting he would send a letter, but on calling for it, per agreement, the President said he could not find time to write one that would do justice to his feelings. "Two years ago" he said, "he passed through Baltimore clandestinely, and now they invite me to their meetings. How can I express my feelings? You may tell them anything you wish for me. Tell them I am with them in heart and in sympathy in the great cause of unconditional emancipation."
MASON AND BUNKER HILL. The notorious Mason wrote his infamous letter to Jeff. Davis in the autumn of!860. The next summer he had the hypocritical impudence to address and insult a New England audience on Bunker Hill. The wonder is, the very stones of that monument did not cry out against, or fall upon the then secretly intriguing parricide. How many more revelations of the perjury and falsehood of their former "social and political friends" will Northern compromisers need, before being convinced that the leading Southern conspirators had for years been plotting the ruin of the republic?
SUFFERING OF FEDERAL PRISONERS IN RICHMOND. It is certainly known here that our prisoners in Richmond were never so badly treated as at present. They are being starved by the Rebel authorities, and more or less of them are actually dying from exposure to the cold in their nakedness. The excuse for this treatment is, that the rebel government does all it can for them, their troops in the field faring nearly as bad. The War Department here is straining every nerve to relieve our brave unfortunates, though we fear that much intended for them will, on arriving within the rebel lines, be diverted to other purposes.-Washington Star.

HUNTING UNION MEN WITH DOGS. The Nashville Union of the 20th says:-
"We saw a private letter yesterday from a gentleman residing in West Tennessee, in which it was stated that the rebel conscript agents are hunting Union conscripts with dogs in that section of the State. A day of retribution will come."
Gov. SEYMOUR. This ambitious copperhead has issued a proclamation under the President's recent call for 300,000 volunteers. He seizes the opportunity to show his hostility to the National Administration, by denouncing the draft as "coercive action on the part of the Government" by complaining of "its unequal burthens" and by dilating upon "its inequalities, irritations, and sufferings."
<c04>
ALL HAIL, MASSACHUSETTS! The annual State Election took place in Massachusetts, Monday, resulting in the re-election of GOV. Andrew by a majority of forty thousand votes, the election of every Republican Senator, and, as far as heard from, of an almost unanimous Republican House of Representatives.
The vote of Boston was as follows:- Andrew, 6319; Paine, 3908; Scattering, 7.
The State Election in New York also took place on Monday last, and resulted in a large Administration majority.
A VOICE FROM ENGLAND, Thomas H. Barker, of Manchester, in a recent speech, thus gives utterance to the true position:-
"The Confederate slaveholders being in the wrong from first to last-wrong in motive, wrong in act, wrong in their means, and wrong in their aims-their crime also being one against humanity, and a subversion of all the principles of universal justice as between man and man-all men every where, among Christians and among heathens, are bound to sympathize with the Federal Government in their legitimate and strenuous efforts to resist that wrong, and to defeat such diabolical aims."
NEGRO ENLISTMENTS. It appears that the 7th regiment of negro troops is to be encamped in Dorchester county, Maryland. The object of selecting this locality for the encampment is to hurry the enlistment of negroes-free and slave-the President having revoked his order for suppressing the recruiting of them, and empowered Col. Birney to raise a brigade as rapidly as possible.-Washington Union.
The German Radical Convention held at Cleveland, Ohio, last week, declared in favor of the measures for the suppression of the rebellion. In its address it declares:
"The confidence and sympathy of the German radicals will be ensured only by a decided and well-tried representation of progressive, and, as nearly as possible, radical policy, and that we should consider it as incompatible with our principles to support any representative of that so-called conservative policy which exposes the republic to disrepute and jeopardy at home and abroad."
On the first Saturday of November, at!0 o'clock, A. M., the farmers in the neighborhood of Dayton, Ohio, are to form in one of the streets of that city, with their wagons loaded with wood, potatoes, apples, flour, pork, beef, &c, for the families of volunteers in the field. We would rather see that procession, says the Albany Journal, than the coronation of a hundred kings.
The number of general officers of the Union army who have been killed in battle, have died from wounds or disease, resigned, or been cashiered, is 60. The number of such in the rebel army is 64.
There is to be no court-martialion Gen. Millroy for the disaster at Winchester, last June; the President having decided that nobody is to blame." Then he should not have nobodies in command.
The Concord Democrat says it is understood that Ex-President Pierce has raised several thousand dollars in New Hampshire to keep the Boston Courier alive.
The Richmond papers abound with advertisements for the recovery of runaway negroes, of all ages and both sexes. One of them contains twenty different advertisements of this kind.
The next Legislature of Ohio will stand as follows: Senate, twenty-nine Unionists to five opposition; House, eighty Unionists to seventeen opposition; Union majority on joint ballot, eighty-seven.
Dr. Wright, of Norfolk, who some time since murdered in cold blood a Lieut. Sanborn of a negro regiment, was, a few days ago, hung at Norfolk according to his sentence, to the great relief of all loyal men. This is a step further than the execution of Gordon, the slaver, and will doubtless help convince slaveholders that they are not above the laws of the land.
A hospital car, elegantly fitted up, is hereafter to convey sick and wounded soldiers between New York and Boston, over the Boston and Worcester railroad and its connections.
An entire German family, comprising husband and wife, two daughters and three sons, living near Paoli, Indiana, were found murdered about two weeks since. On the floor of the house, in a pool of half-dried blood, lay the farmer with his skull terribly shattered. On the bed lay his wife, also dead and bloody, while in different parts of the house were the three sons and two daughters, all murdered, either from cuts from a knife, or blows from some blunt instrument.
DEATH OF COMMODORE ELLET. Charles R. Ellet, commanding the Mississippi Marine brigade, died suddenly on the 29th ult., at Bunker Hill, Illinois.

PETITION FOR AN AMBULANCE SYSTEM.
BOSTON, October,!863.
The undersigned, feeling a common interest in the safety and comfort of those known and unknown to them, who are engaged in fighting the battles of our country, respectfully ask your attention to the subject of this communication.
It is evident that there is a difference of opinion about the perfection and usefulness of the Ambulance System of the United States Army. Some gentlemen, basing their opinions upon observation, consider it to be as perfect as it can be made, sufficient for its purposes, well organized, and in good working condition. A large number of the medical profession, who consider that their observation upon the battle-field has been equally extensive, think that they see in it great imperfections, and the necessity for improvement.
The welfare of our brethren should be among our first aims. The discussion of the subject by Congress can only be fruitful of good. We, therefore, believing that the comfort and the efficiency of our brothers in arms may be much increased by a full and free investigation and discussion of the subject in Congress, respectfully suggest to our fellow-citizens the importance of signing the annexed petition to Congress.
John A. Andrew, Boston.
James Jackson, Boston.
F. W. Lincoln, Jr. Boston.
Charles P. Curtis, Boston.
Otis Norcross, Boston.
Peleg W. Chandler, Boston.
Alpheus Hardy, Boston.
J. M. Manning, Boston.
R. E. Apthorp, Boston.
George S. Hale, Boston.
Samuel G. Ward, Boston.
Ralph Waldo Emerson, Concord. 
George Putnam, Roxbury.
George Walker, Springfield.
Alfred Hitchcock, Fitchburg.
George Peabody, Salem.
Edw. B. Pierson, Salem.
Charles Hale, Boston.
Geo. M. Barnard," Boston.
J. B. Upham, Boston.
Thomas B. Fox, Boston.
William I. Bowditch, Brookline.
J. Mason Warren, Boston.
W. W. Clapp, Jr. Boston.
Chas. E. Buckingham, Boston.
John L. Emmons, Boston.
Calvin Ellis, Boston.
Horatio R. Storer, Boston.
Henry I. Bowditch. Boston.

PETITION
FOR AN
AMBULANCE AND HOSPITAL SYSTEM,
IN THE ARMIES OF THE REPUBLIC.
To the Hon. Senate and House of Representatives in the Congress assembled:
The undersigned, of in the State of, respectfully request your honorable body to pass a law providing for an uniform AMBULANCE AND HOSPITAL SYSTEM for the armies of the United States.
NAMES. RESIDENCE.
Copies of the above may be found at the Merchants' Exchange Room, Messrs. Ticknor & Fields, and E. P. Dutton's Bookstores, Washington street, Urbino's, School street, offices of the Saturday Evening Gazette, Congregationalist, and Boston Pilot, Emmons, Danforth & Scudder's, State Street Block, J. K. Bancroft's!21 Hanover street, Charles E. Buckingham's, 911 Washington street, Henry I. Bowditch's,!13 Boylston street. Special agents will also call upon the citizens at their places of business.

ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE.-Three complete sets of the (London) ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE are for sale; application to be made to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price,-three dollars each. The work covers a period of more than ten years, ending with May,!863. 4t
<c05>
A CARD. The undersigned, in behalf of the Directors, would thank the noble and generous patrons of the John Quincy Adams National Farm Home for Invalid Soldiers, for past favors. No one any longer asks if this Home is needed. It is the only Farm Home in the United States. Every merchant says it is just what is needed to resuscitate and recruit those who have gone out to protect our gold and silver, and our homes. Gentlemen of every shade of politics are becoming interested. This is no experiment it is a success. It is already in operation, feeding and employing all who go there. There are about 400 acres of land; and if those who feel interested in this movement will call at!9 Charlestown Street, upon Samuel Poor, Jr., Vice President, they will get full particulars. We beg ladies and gentlemen to help us prepare to make those noble and brave men comfortable for the coming winter.
Lieut. GEO. W. CALEFF is constantly laboring for them. While he was a prisoner in the hands of the rebels for more than a year, his mother was thrown into a decline, lingered along until the!6th ult., and died. It is supposed that her over-anxiety hastened her decease, while he was suffering hunger and nakedness, suffering for broad many a day for thirteen long months within the walls of Charleston jail and Libby prison.
True, others are sufferers; many a brave woman is ebbing out her life-blood in prayer, as she did, for only-sons in the army. Many a heart has been made sad, many there are whose cheeks have paled as they went out to meet returning regiments, welcomed by cheering thousands, and who were answered, " He died upon the field." or, "He died a prisoner." Let those of us who remain at home do all the good we can to our brave returned soldiers.
Sergeant NICHOLAS LAWLESS, minus a leg and some of his fingers shot off, is the gentlemanly Superintendent. The Farm is in Weston, three miles from Auburndale. JOHN MEADE, Jr., at the latter place, will direct all visitors to the Home.
SAMUEL POOR, JR., Vice President,
19 Charlestown street.
LYCEUM LECTURES.-Literary Associations and Lyceums, desiring lectures for the present winter, may be served on reasonable terms with any or all in the following list:-
1. Eighteen Months at Port Royal, S. C., as Superintendent of abandoned Plantations; and the solution of the question, "What shall be done with the slaves freed?
2. War and Peace.
3. The Progress of the Mechanic Arts, and its effect on Social Science.
4. The Poet and his Art
5. Shakspeare.
6. The Merchant of Venice, (a Critical Reading.)
7. Hamlet, (a Critical Reading.)
8. Macbeth, (a Critical Reading.)
9. Milton.
10. Burns.
11. Coleridge.
12. Wordsworth.
Testimonials of a high order, from eminent gentlemen connected with Lyceums in the West, where has been the lecturer's field hitherto, may be seen by any who desire it. Address Prof. J. C. ZACHOS, Boston, Mass.
REV. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor Clark's School Visitor, would make a few additional engagements to lecture the coming winter. His themes are popular and practical. He may be addressed at the Visitor Office,!308 Chesnut street, Philadelphia. 3t.
A GENERAL EMANCIPATION ACT.-AARON M. POWELL and WENDELL P. GARRISON will address meetings in the following places in the State of New York:-
Easton, Friday, Nov. 6.
South Easton, Saturday P.M., Nov. 7.
North Easton, Saturday eve'g, Nov. 7.
North Easton Friends' meeting-house, Sunday P. M., 8.
Union Village, Sunday eve'g, Nov. 8.
Galesville, Tuesday P. M.,!0.
Beadle Hill, Wednesday P. M.,!1.
Pittstown, Friday P.M.,!3.
Middle Granville, Saturday P.M.,!4.
Middle Granville, "Sunday" P.M.,!5.
Saratoga Springs, P.M., Monday!6.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Cummington, Sunday, Nov. 8; Florence, Nov.!5 and 22.

OBITUARY.
A tribute is due to the affectionate and the just. ELIZABETH R. LEWIS, the subject of this notice, who departed this life at her late residence, near Kimberton, Cheater Co., Pa., on the evening of the!0th ult., was remarkable for the kindness and affectionate regard with which she treated all persons, without respect to clime or color. Gifted with a clear and discriminating intellect, she based all matters of practice, of faith, and of belief, upon the principles of absolute right and justice. This shone most conspicuously in her daily walk and character. Her clear sense of right and justice caused her to feel and act for those in bonds as bound with them, and her pure spirit, embracing the Fatherhood of God, and the brotherhood of man, led her to testify against all unrighteousness.
The occasion of her funeral, at the house and at her grave, was one of quiet and impressive solemnity. No word was spoken. It would seem unnecessary on that occasion, as the cheerful and childlike simplicity, the pure and angelic spirit which marked the countenance of the deceased, was far more touching and inspiring than anything that could emanate from human lips.
Her departure makes a void in the family of three sisters, who lived together in beautiful harmony, and in a large circle of relatives and friends, which cannot be filled.
The power of our Heavenly Father is in and around all the bereaved, sustaining them in submission, in purity and love, until they enter the spirit world, and be united with the departed forevermore. E. F. P.
Tenth mo.!7th,!863.
In Battle Creek, (Michigan,) Oct. 24th, JOSEPH MERRITT, a much esteemed member of the Society of Friends, and one of the worthiest supporters of the Anti-Slavery cause and all kindred reforms. [A just and feeling tribute to the memory of this good man, by Henry C. Wright, will be given next week.]
BOOKS FOR THE TIMES.
I.SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS. By WENDELL PHILLIPS. Library edition, $2 25; Trade edition, $1.50; People's edition, $1.
II.HOSPITAL SKETCHES. By Miss L. M. Alcott. Price 50c.
III. TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE: Biography and Autobiography. $1.25.
IV. REDPATH'S LIFE OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN. $1.00.
V. HENRY WARD BEECHER'S GREAT SPEECH IN ENGLAND. Price!5c.
VI. THE BLACK MAN. By William Wells Brown..$1.00.
Circulars containing criticisms of these publications sent to any address, free.
Any of these Books will be sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of price. 
R. F. WALLCUT,
Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington St., Boston.

GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co's, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co's, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, and is now prepared to do all manner of

JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
In the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro' Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs Hall & Stowell's Provision Store,.!32 Charles street, Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30-ly

BRAID PATTERNS
STAMPED AT NO. 20 WINTER STREET, 
AT FIVE CENTS PER YARD.
Boston, Oct.. 23,!863.
<c06>
JUST PUBLISHED
TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE:
A Biography and Autobiography.
1 Vol.!2mo. pp. 372, illustrated with an authentic portrait and autograph of Toussaint., and a colored outline map of Colonial St. Domingo. Price $1,25.
This volume contains two distinct works a Biography and an Autography. The Biography is that of Dr. Beard, revised and improved, the only impartial, and complete record of the life of the great Negro in any language; while the autography is a translation, made expressly for this edition, of the naive and masterly review of his public career, which Toussaint addressed to the Emperor Napoleon where he was a prisoner in the fatal cell of the Chateau de Joux. This interesting Memoir was published by permission, from the original manuscripts in the General Archives of France, for the first time about ten years since, by a Haytian exile. It has never been translated into English before. A collection of interesting essays is appended-which embraces a Proclamation by King Christophe, in which he alludes to Toussaint's services and policy; an essay by Harriet Martineau, in which she describes a visit to the Chateau de Joux; a similar but quite recent account of the same journey by John Bigelow, Esq., Paris; our Consuat the poems of Wordsworth and John G. Whittier on the hero of Hayti; while an extract from Wendell Phillips great oration, appropriately closes the volume.
It is claimed that Toussaint L'Ouverture was not only the ablest Negro that has appeared in modern History, but the greatest military genius and statesman that the New World has produced, up to the present time. Hence, the appearance of this book, while we are still debating the military capacity of the Negro, is timely, and needed.
LAMARTING ON TOUSSAINT.
"The Auroral Soul."
NAPOLEON BONAPARTE ON TOUSSAINT.
"We take pleasure in recognizing the services which you have rendered to the French people. If the banner floats over St. Domingo, it is to yon and the brave blacks that we owe it. Called by your talents and the force of circumstances to the highest post, you have destroyed civil war, put reins on the persecution carried on by ferocious men, restored to honor religion and the worship of God."
WEMDELL PHILLIPS ON TOUSSAINT.
"I would call him Napoleon, but Napoleon made his way to Empire over broken oaths and through a sea of blood. This man never broke his word. ‘No retaliation' was his great motto and the rule of his life; and the last words he uttered to his son in France were these: ‘My boy, you will one day to back to St. Domingo; forget that France murdered your father.' I would call him Cromwell, but Cromwell was only a soldier and the State he founded went down with him into his grave. I would call him Washington, but the great Virginian held slaves. This man risked his empire rather than permit the slave trade in the humblest village of his dominions. You think me a fanatic tonight, for you read history, not with your eyes but with your prejudices. But, fifty years hence, when truth gets a hearing, the Muse of History will put Phocian for the Greek and Brutus for the Roman, Hampden for England, Fayette for France, choose Washington as the bright, consummate flower of our earlier civilization, and John Brown the ripe fruit of our noonday then dipping her pen in the sunlight, will write in the clear blue, above them all, the name of the soldier, the statesman, the martyr, TOUSSAINT L'OUVERTURE."
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON ON TOUSSAINT.
This is no catch-penny affair, but a handsomely printed and profoundly interesting volume of one of the most remarkable men in the history of the world; whose case, indeed has no parallel for its strange vicissitudes from that of a chattel slave to leader, conqueror, statesman ruler of a liberated race, at last perfidiously betrayed and transported to France, under circumstances of downright barbarity, where he was torn from his family, and consigned to a dungeon by order of Napoleon I., never to come forth alive. The subsequent imprisonment of Napoleon himself at St. Helena, seem to have been a fitting retribution for his infamous treatment of Tonssaint L'Ouverture.. Prophetically did Whittier write, years ago, of the Negro champion-
"Sleep camly in thy dungeon tomb,
Beneath Besancon's alien sky,
Dark Haytian!-for the time shall come,
Yea, even now is nigh,
When every where thy name shall be
Redeemed from color's infamy;
And men shall learn to speak of thee
As one of earth's great spirits born
In servitude and nursed in scorn,
Casting aside the weary weight
And fetters of its low estate,
In that strong majesty of soul
Which knows no color, tongue, nor clime,
Which still hath spurned the base control
Of tyrants through all time!"
We bespeak for this work the attention and patronage of all who are interested in the redemption of the negro race. Even those who are as strongly as they are unreasonably prejudiced against the race may, on giving it a close perusal, find their prejudice giving, place to sympathy, contrition,. and even admiration. Every intelligent colored person should try to possess a copy of it, not only for his own gratification, but in order to make use of the facts embodied in it for the furtherance of the cause of the millions of bondmen, complexionally identified with himself, who are yet waiting to be actually delived from their galling fetters. Thus shall the poet Wordsworth's prediction be realized, in his memorable sonnet upon Touissaint L'Ouverture:
"Though fallen thyself, never to rise again.
Live and take comfort! Thou hast left behind
Powers that will work for thee: air, earth, and skies.
There's not a breathing of the common wind
That will forget thee: thou hast great allies:
Thy friends are exultations, agonies,
And love, and man's unconquerable mind!"

CROQUET:
BY
Captain Mayne Reid.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS.
This is the best set of rules for this fascinating game,-the standard authority and should be studied by all players.
AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 
It is not more than truth to say, that Croquet is the most attractive pastime of the age; while, in point of intellectuality, it will dispute the palm with billiards or whist perhaps with that selfish duality, chess.
No doubt the zealous devotee of any of the above mentioned games will question the honesty of this assertion; but he must be indeed strongly wedded to the habits of his own specialite if, after being brought within reach of its influence, he do not surrender to the seductions of the charmer,-Croquet.
In sober earnest, there are many points in which this game stands preeminent; and were it our purpose to prove its preeminence, the task would be easy of accomplishment. The quick growth of its popularity-still constantly increasing-is proof of the superior attractiveness of the game; and may justify the prediction, that Croquat is destined, at no distant day, to become not only the national sport of England, but the pastime of the age.
Unlike the games already mentioned, it is a sport of the open air, and therefore highly conducive to health; while it has the advantage of most other out-door amusements,-in affording an easy exercise to the body, without requiring the violent muscular exertion which, renders many of these objectionable.
Neither is the mind neglected in the play of this accommodating pastime. Its rules are so varied, yet so rational, that the intellect is constantly kept on the alert,-,—never summoned to a painful stretch, and never allowed to subside into, an equally painful inaction.
It is adapted to people of all ages, and every condition. The child just entering upon the walk of life, and the old man just tottering toward its end, may play a "round" of Croquet, with equally childish delight.
Nor is its skill exclusive to either sex. The pretty mignon foot, piquantly encased in kid, may exhibit as much power in the play, as the thick-soled chaussure of calfskin. Ah! we might name more than one air owner of such provoking feet who could send you, per Croquet,-to "Hong Kong," or "up the country," with as much velocity, as if you had been projected ex pede Hercul-is. 
Though hitherto restricted to the lawn of the lordly mansion, and confined within the palings of the park, "Croquest" will erelong, escapefrom aristocratic keeping, and become equally the property of the paddock and the village green.
Let us hope that no class-jealousy will arise to prevent its spread, or lessen its attractiveness, to those who were the first to introduce and enjoy it. Croquet is an innocent amusement, a game of true civilizing influences. While deserving every epithet of praise,-worthy of being designated the "king of games" the "queen of sports," or" the "prince of pastimes," let us hope that it may also become a pastime of the people. 
Rejoicing in this hope, I neither feel reluctance, nor make apology, for putting myself forward as its advocate and expounder. 
MAYNE REID.
The Ranche, Gerard's Cross, Bucks.
JAMES REDPATH, 
221 Washington Street, 
BOSTON.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
WAIT.
BY ALMIRA SEYMOUR.
Wait—the aloe for its blowing
Waits a century’s slow-paced years,
Ever greenly, greatly growing,
Though no promise-bud appears.
Wait—nor angry nor repining
Should success no effort crown:—
Wait, as stars wait, calmly chining
Over midnight’s darkest frown.
Do mists mar the rolling river?
Do clouds stain the mountain’s brow?
Does the bolt the firm rock shiver?
River, mountain, rock, art thou,
If thy heart is pure and holy,
If thy thought is just and high;
Wait—and certainly, if slowly,
Mist, cloud, bolt, shall pass thee by.
The great world rejects thy singing?
Warble in the heart of home;
Step and smile and voice still bringing
Hope and cheer where’er they come.
Drowned thy words in the arena
Where imperious passions strive?
There will come a day serener—
Live they then if now alive.
Wait—Time clasps not all thy being,
There are nobler reaches still:—
Wait the word of the All-seeing,
Anxious but to know His will.
Boston, October, 1863.

THE ORGIES OF SECESSION.
BY SOLYMAN BROWN
The demons have met on Columbia’s soil,
With Slavery’s banner unfurl’d;
By perjury, treachery, carnage and spoil
To tarnish the fame of the world.
The land they have furrow’d with bullet and shell,
The ocean with piracy’s keel,
The midnight has glared with their banners  from hell,
And day with the gleam of their steel!

CHORUS.
On the flag of rebellion we gaze with disgust,
As it flaps o’er the crocodile’s pool—
The banner of butchery, arson and lust,
Enfolding the knave and the fool.

II. 
The demons have brought to Columbia’s shores
The crimes of the centuries fled,
And hell from its caverns the multitude pours
Which guilt has sent down to the dead:
They swarm in the tents which rebellion has raised,
Where the poison tobacco-plant grows,
And Satan discovers his legions amazed,
As they mingle with Liberty’s foes.

CHORUS.
On the flag of rebellion we gaze with disgust,
As it flaps o’er the crocodile’s pool—
The banner of butchery, arson and lust,
Enfolding the knave and the fool.

III.
The blackness of darkness envelopes the field
Where the cohorts of treason convene,
But soon to the morning that midnight shall yield,
And daylight illumine the scene.
The national flag, with its red, white and blue,
And a galaxy lighting its folds,
Shall show that the Genius of Freedom is true
To the faith and the creed which she holds.

CHORUS.
On the flag of rebellion we gaze with disgust,
As it flaps o’er the crocodile’s pool—
The banner of butchery, treason and lust,
Enfolding the knave and the fool.
Danby, Tompkins Co., N. Y., Oct. 18, 1863.
—N. Y. Evening Post.

OUR SECRET DRAWER
There is a secret drawer in every heart,
Wherein we lay our treasures one by one;
Each dear remembrance of the buried past,
Each cherished relic of the time that’s gone;
The old delights of childhood long ago;
The things we loved because we knew them best;
The first- discovered primrose in our path;
The cuckoo’s earliest note; the robin’s nest;
The merry haymakings around our home;
Our rambles in the summer woods and lanes; 
The story told beside the winter fire,
While the wind moaned across the window panes;
The golden dreams we dreamt in after years;
Those magic visions of our young romance;
The sunny nooks, the fountains and the flowers,
Gilding the fairy landscape of our trance;
The link which bound us later still to one
Who fills a corner in our life to-day,
Without whose love we dare not dream how dark
The rest would seem, if it were gone away;
The song that thrilled our souls with very joy;
The gentle word that unexpected came;
The gift we prized, because the thought was kind;
The thousand, thousand things that have no name
All these in some far hidden corner lie
Within the mystery of that secret drawer,
Whose magic springs, though stranger hands may touch;
Yet none may gaze upon its guarded store.

SOMETHING LEFT UNDONE.
BY HENRY W. LONGFELLOW.
Labor with what seal we will,
Something still remains undone;
Something, uncompleted still,
Waits the rising of the sun.
By the bedside, on the Stair,
At the threshold, near the gates,
With its menace or its prayer,
Like a mendicant it waits:
Waits, and will not go away,—
Waits, and will not be gainsaid,
By the cares of yesterday
Each to-day is heavier made.
Till at length it is, or seems,
Greater than our strength can bear,—
As the burden of our dreams,
Pressing on us everywhere!
And we stand from day to day,
Like the dwarfs of times gone by,
Who, as northern legends say,
On their shoulders held the sky.
—Atlantic Monthly for November.

OCTOBER SONG.
The chestnuts shine through the cloven rind,
And the woodland leaves are red, my dear;
And the scarlet fuchsias burn in the wind,—
Funereal plumes for the Year!—
The Year which has brought me so much woe,
That if it were not for you, my dear,
I would wish the fuchsias’ fire might glow
For me, as well as the Year!
T. B.  ALDRICH

THE POET’S FRIENDS
The robin sings in the elm
The cattle stand beneath,
Sedate and grave, with great brown eyes,
And fragrant meadows breathe.
They listen to the fluttered bird,
The wise looking, stupid things,
But they never understand a word
Of all the robin sings.
W. D. HOWELLS.
<c02>
The Liberator.
PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of “Cousin Frank’s Household.”
CHAPTER V.
FINDING A FATHER.
Mr. Nelson had been North, settling the estate of his brother Robert; and while there, became much interested in his ward Lelia, the foster-daughter of his deceased relative. Doubly an orphan and very desolate, she the more easily yielded to his persuasions, and consented to spend a year or two at the South.
Although Lelia was not wanting in beauty of face and figure, yet it was not of that gorgeous description that takes captive at first sight. Retiring in manner, it was when the higher beauty of the mind shone through the fair casket, that an artist would pause to gaze and study. Expression, the impress of a mind having affinity with all things beautiful and true, and a quick, loving, susceptible nature, lighting up the features like a divine radiance, and seemingly to animate the form with a life higher than the earthly, —it was this that made her surpassingly lovely.
She had been carefully trained by the best teachers, and early developed qualities of intellect and heart that gave promise of rare fruitage. Her presence was cheerful as the light. On a stratum of good common sense and solid acquirements, there was built up a love for the fine arts, and a proficiency in various graceful accomplishments. Music was a passion with her, and her accordant soul kept pace with its varying strains, were they joyful or sad. Her carriage was easy and graceful, and as she floated noiselessly about, her fair face and neck set in curls of soft-silk hair, golden hued, she seemed more like an angel than like the self-conscious fashionable young ladies one is accustomed to meet.
Mr. Nelson sketched a glowing picture of the society to which she would be introduced South, and of the pleasure she would find in forming the acquaintance of the accomplished Miss Forsythe. He had the faculty, in an eminent degree, of arraying his views in a plausible garb; and the contrasts he drew between the social condition, North and South, were quite taking to one so artless and confiding. Not that he intentionally misstated the question, but his was one of those minds that easily beguiles itself into believing that which it wishes to believe; and as he was a Virginian by birth, and a slaveholder in fact, he had come to think the Old Dominion the garden of the world, and its peculiar institution much better than the equality that characterized New England.
“Our society is choice,” said he; “we keep up the just distinctions; while here in Boston, it seems to me, people are measurably on a level. Bless me! I don’t see but the middle and the lower classes dress as well as the first class, and carry themselves as if they acknowledged no superiors. I cannot, for the life of me, make out by their dress or manners who are the aristocracy. One needs to have the upper class labeled to know it, like the painter who appended to his picture, ‘This is a cow,’ lest people might mistake it for some other animal. How odious! One may associate with the common people, and not know it. Tradesmen and mechanics! bah! don’t they carry themselves like the sovereign people? No, miss Lelia, I must show you a more fitting state of things.”
“But I have been very happy here,” said Lelia, with deepening color, “ and it has seemed to me that the distinctions in society were sufficiently marked.’
“All very natural,” replied the Virginian, “but bless me, coz, society here is a medley—marrying and intermarrying, aristocracy with the common, and even the lowest. Then, who cares for the old families— the distinction of high birth which we worship South? We make it a study to keep up the old princely families. I only wish the law of primogeniture were in force, and patrician and plebeian never united. At Powhatan we have measurably sustained the glory of our ancient house.”
“That must be a great comfort to you,” observed Lelia, abstractedly.
“It is, indeed,” was the reply, “and it has conduced not a little to my happiness; particularly as there is so much stored away as relics to interest the anti-quarian, and reflect honor on our name. We have specimens of the dress of successive generations since the time of the chevaliers and Captain Smith.”
“Indeed!” said Lelia, “how interesting it must be to scan those ancient costumes! I suppose you study them mostly from the portraits?”
“Yes, but we have also other memorials of the ancient times, which keep alive our interest and reverence for the noble past; and, Miss Lelia, how much it must accord with your fine taste to dwell with the insignia of an honorable race, —its blood uncontaminated with vulgar alliances ever meeting your gaze! Will it not be so?”
But the young lady did not at once reply. Mr. Nelson read her thoughts, and continued,—
 “I am well aware of the prejudices existing here against our domestic institution; you, doubtless, are not free from them; but, trust me, you will soon find them gone, when once you see the workings of our system. You will conclude that it is best for master and servant, and you will love the South enough to spend your days there. I shall expect to see you, some day, the proprietress of a goodly estate, with happy, faithful servants ready to obey your every wish, and to wait on you as if you were a very queen.”
“Never, sir!” “replied Lelia, earnestly, “I know little about slavery, but never can I be the owner of slaves!”
“Wait and see if I am not a prophet,” said Mr. Nelson, “before you speak too strongly. I hope you will particularly notice the servants we may chance to see on our journey; and if you find them the ill-fed and wretched beings your Abolitionists paint, then I will excuse your perversity should you not make good my prediction.”
At Washington, Mr. Nelson introduced Lelia to the family of the Bernards, who had a house in town. They were agreeable and polished, and she could not fail to note that their domestics were well clad, and seemingly free from care. Lelia noticed the same facts in regard to the slaves in the establishment where they stopped in Richmond.
“Providence has fitted them for the very position they hold,” said Mr. Nelson, “ appointed them to be the hewers of wood and drawers of water to a superior race, and therefore are they contented with their lot”
Indeed, the Virginian’s words were substantiated by most that met the eye of Lelia, while on the way; and what with her New England prejudice against color, and the attentive slaveholding acquaintance she made, and the well-timed observations of her travelling companion, ere she reached Powhatan, she was surprised to find that, almost insensibly to herself, slavery was becoming familiarized to her thoughts, and she could not make it appear the fearful thing she once felt it to be.
Beware! Lelia, beware! Thus far you have seen only the garnished exterior; within the sepulchre there are dead men’s bones and all uncleanness. You hear only the merry laugh, you see only the outward semblance of joy; but within the dark prison-house, there are imbruted natures and broken hearts.
In prospect of the arrival of its proprietor, Powhatan mansion is in a fever of excitement, —Miss Forsythe, true to her woman’s instinct, having put the whole force under her supervision at house-cleaning. As might be supposed, when once she has commenced putting things to rights, she is set on persevering to the end. Not a nook or cranny escapes her critical eye, and the dullest servant is stirred to something of energy by the force of her example and her ubiquitous presence. Even Amelia, intractable soul, is drawn into the vortex, finding it more agreeable to lend a helping hand now and then, than to move indolently from room to room pursued by clouds of dust or rivers of soap and water.
<c03>
The looked-for time had come, and as the guests came down to the river in the night boat, they were expected to arrive to a late ten o’clock breakfast. Patsey, the assistant cook, was on the bread and dessert department. The meal, consequently, was mainly of her preparing. The large biscuits and small; the Indian waffles and muffins, each perfect in its kind; the golden, iced butter; the clear honey; the dish of oysters; the delicate slices of cold bacon; the fragrant odor of “ the berry of mocha,” and the faultless arrangement of the table, promised well for the greeting.
But what’s the matter with Frink? Two hours earlier than his wont, he has been up and at work, zestfully gliding about, putting on finishing touches. Now his arm mores briskly, as he uses the duster, washes anew the marble hearth, burnishes the brass, polishes the side-board. Anon, he fills with iced-water the silver pitcher, —a prize won by a favorite racehorse of old Col. Nelson, —and turns down two clear, cut-glass goblets on the salver beside it. Then regarding the room for a moment with the air of a connoisseur, he draws in a spray of roses that leans blushingly towards the window. This done, and he is satisfied—his morning task is through, and still an hour remains to the usual breakfast time.
Miss Forsythe was already in the store-room “giving out things” for dinner, a ceremony indispensable in Southern house-keeping, where everything is kept under lock and key; the unpaid laborer not being considered trusty. The store-room was between the kitchen and dining-room; and as Miss Forsythe dispensed the articles, Frink came to the door, and stood looking wistfully at the lady. Article after article was weighed and measured, till at length came the eggs, sugar and spices for the dessert, and still Frink was there. Was it the mild blue eye seeming a shade more thoughtful and earnest than usual, or something in the neat plating of the glossy, well-kept hair, that fixed his attention? Or did the tasteful serving man note the delicate blue lawn morning dress that so becomingly set off the purity of her complexion? She approached. Frink’s heart was in his mouth.
“Well, Frink, what now?” asked the lady.
“Missus very good to ask!” said he, gratefully. 
“I come to ask missus if I might go down the river with Planter, to meet master?”
“Let me see—is all the work done?”
“That ‘tis!” replied Frink, with animation.
Miss Forsythe took a survey of the dining-room and parlor.
“Very well done, Frink,” replied she, smiling, “you have done your work well, and quickly, too. Yes, you can go,” and the gratified servant was off to his room.
With a little more gravity of demeanor, and away from slavery, Frink would pass for a Spaniard. The same eyes and features, to the life, the lips perhaps a trifle thicker, and the hair more wavy. With his nice taste and quick intellect, he would have made something, had he been born into heirship of those “certain inalienable rights,” to which our Fathers referred in the immortal Declaration, As it was, Frink had his virtues, and with them, nurtured by the perverting influence of involuntary servitude, sundry ruling weaknesses, which more than once betrayed him into serious indiscretions. He was fine looking, uncommonly fine looking, and he knew it; and he became a devout worshipper of his own comeliness. And as good looks are sometimes a passport to favor, even though its possessor be a slave, and his graceful appearance and personal cleanliness and beauty set of off the establishment to good advantage, and he was quite a favorite with his owners therefor, it was natural that his vanity should grow in proportion. As a dining-room servant he could not be surpassed; and, moreover, he was an eminent valet-de-chambre, or body-servant, in which capacity he had accompanied his master to Richmond for several years. Observing and imitative, attendant on the best circles, the susceptible slave received a polish of manners that would, in a different position in the social scale, have distinguished him, but which in his unhappy condition often ended in farce.
Intimately connected with his self-admiration was his inordinate desire to be “like folks;” that is, like the dominant race. Whether this was constitutional—the white blood in his veins being in the ascendency, and characteristically seeking to keep under the black— we cannot say; certain it is that Frink was ceaselessly tormented with the endeavor to pass for more of a Saxon than was exactly true to nature—at least, the African tinge was quite despised. It took its revenge however, in the hair, giving it enough of the negro twist to mark its presence and power. And this was Frink’s great affliction—amounting almost to monomania. In vain he coaxed and cajoled his crispy locks in vain he oiled his pate, and, as the servants testified, suspended leaden weights from his hair, the curls were incorrigible; — they would not straighten—minority carried the day.
Frink, on obtaining his request, determined to dress in a manner befitting the occasion, and had gone to his room for that purpose. A crisis in the hairy contest had also been reached, and the scale of victory was to turn in his favor. Amelia, in rummaging the attic, found an old wig, which, having little reverence for relics, and knowing Frink’s weakness, she had presented to him, “for the fun of it,” as she expressed it.. This he now drew forth from a broken hat-box the depository of his valuables, and seizing a razor, and aided by a strip of looking-glass fastened to the wall, he closely shaved his head; then donning the wig, surveyed himself with evident satisfaction.
“No more trouble with dat are har! Des de thing—long, straight, an’ shiny! Ha! ha! reckon massa Nelson think I’s his brother!”
Then peeping at himself with a more critical air, his gratulations ceased, as he stood gazing with an appearance of deep perplexity at the image before him
“Can’t make it out who ‘tis dis chile resembles; somebody ’bout here, dat’s clar! Is’t massa Nelson? Yes—no—not exactly !” Then decidedly, “ Why, hi! I ‘member now—des like de picter of ole Col. Nelson—indeed is it! Wonder if he want my fader —been trying to find my fader all my days! Reckon I’ve found de old Col. out now!” Then catching anew the reflection of his handsome face, his vanity suddenly diverted the current of his thoughts, and he exclaimed,—
 “Reckon I’ll make de yaller girls hearts ache dish yer time—can’t have ‘em all—wish I could, though! —but ‘pears like dat are am ompossible—take de white people to come dat are!”
“De more I study ‘pon’t, de more I makes sure the old Colonel’s my fader! De very har, for sartin —de very nose, and de very mouth! I’ll des try one more ‘speriment!” and the serving man ran from his room through the corridor, over to the main building, stopping a moment in the parlor to study Col. Nelson’s portrait and dress, and then away up the wide stair-cases to the attic. The very suit, ruffled bosom and all, in which the Colonel sat for his picture, hung on a line in the sun for airing.
“Fits me to a T!” exclaimed Frink, as he put them on; “jist de size of de ole gentleman !”—then brushing the dust from an ancient mirror, “I’s complected a shade darker—dat’s so; but then, a little white powder ’ll make all right,” and Frink lapsed into a brown study.
A little extra adornment of his person always sufficiently elated him, but this unwonted discovery did more, —it addled him; and he conceived the idea that his resemblance to the old Colonel, which was indeed striking, would raise him from his low estate.
“Dey takes care of de relics all round here; dey set such a heap o’ store by de old Colonel, reckon dey ‘ll vally de precious blood, part of his self like. Git clar dis time from all my trouble, I reckon! Be gentleman at large, like massa Nelson!” and Frink’ bowed before the glass, in the most approved style for practice.
“Massa Nelson, he all ‘long sot a heap of store by me, —he’ll be dat pleased to find I’s his kin, I makes sure. It’ll go to make up de loss of massa Robert, like.”
<c04>
“Now Frink,” continued he, addressing himself in the glass, “meet massa Nelson in dis ere dress—put off de nigger, an’ put on de gentleman—extend your hand —‘How d’ye do, squire? Hope I find you well, sir? ‘Tis your broder, Frink Nelson, sir, dat has de honor to welcome you  back to Powhatan!’—and- forgetting his dignity in his joy, he capered about not very much in keeping with the garb he wore.
He kept watch of the carriage, however, and was back in his room betimes, having donned a large linen sack as a disguise, and to keep the dust off; and following the vehicle as it passed down the avenue,  he quietly pulled himself up by the straps, and took the place of baggage behind, unknown to the driver.
Planter and Billy had quite a cozy time riding down to the river, having the carriage-box all to themselves. They chatted away about the politics of the plantation —the good luck that laid up overseer Rixby, and gave the people a respite—and, lastly, gossipped about the house-servants.
Planter owed Frink a grudge for his gentility, and he went on — “Dey do say dat are Frink’s gittin’ mighty ‘stravagant. De way he wars out his bes’ clothes is ‘markable.”
“I makes no admiration he does!” said Billy. 
“I can’t countenance him no ways,” added Planter, pompously; “why, he wanted to ride down to meet massa! I jest stole de march on him, an’ take French leave afore he knowed it. I reckon he stay whar he belong, dustin’, and scrubbin’, an’ clarin’ up! Why, hi! can’t ‘courage the lazy dog—he want to run gentleman!”
“Good ting massa Nelson comin’ home—he straighten him!”
What little Frink overheard was certainly no good of himself, but he was too much taken up with his pleasing fancies to care; and instinctively, as the coach neared the river, he got off, and as Planter drew up at the landing, he suddenly made his appearance, with an air of triumph.
“Why, hi!” said Planter, “you here? I makes sure you rain down !How you find yourself arter your long walk ! I jest observin’ to Billy, here, I dat sorry I could n’t ‘eommodate ye to ride. Ye see I mos’ dat hurried like, I could n’t wait.”
 “Won’t massa be surprised?” asked Frink, busy with his own thoughts.
“O, you go ‘long, Frink, you nigger!” said Billy, “I rudder, a tousand times, be black dan half way— neider one ting nor de udder—on de fence like. All nigger right smart better dan part white—des spile the blood—no tellin’ whar you do belong.”
But Frink walked to and fro until the boat was ready to cross the river, conning his little speech in complacent independence.
Meanwhile, Mr. Nelson and Lelia strolled out to pass the time till the arrival of Planter and Billy with the boat.
“I wish you to notice this particular locality,” said Mr. Nelson.
“And why so, sir?” asked the young lady.
“Ah !” replied Mr. Nelson, with enthusiasm, “this is storied ground; here Powhatan ruled with despotic sway; and only a few miles distant is the place of Jamestown, where the first settler of Virginia landed.”
 “Where Pocahontas saved Captain Smith?”
“Just so,” replied Mr. Nelson. “Let us remember Powhatan was a powerful chief of the Cherokees. All this tract of country up and down was his. This river was his, —here he plied his canoe,—here his wife and children sung, rocked on the breezy ripples of the stream. Ah, yes—these broad fields and woodlands, outspread on each side of the river, were his. Dreamed he ever that the supremacy would pass from his tribe? And, Lelia, I am free to confess,”—Mr. Nelson drew her arm closer within his, as if he would have sympathy, — “that I sometimes fear that the POWER TO RULE will be taken from us in the same manner.”
“These are sad thoughts,” remarked Lelia, scarcely knowing what she said.
“They are indeed,” was the reply; “but; bless me ! there comes the boat, and if my eyes do not deceive me, there is a gentleman aboard, some friend of mine, doubtless. Who can it be?”
Frink, sitting in the bow of the boat, with the rowers back to him, had thrown off his linen coat, and with one neatly gloved hand resting on his cane, sat in dignified state. As the boat neared the landing, he arose, ready with his well-conned speech and studied bow.
His appearance was somewhat imposing. His wig fitted him inimitably, his face was powdered slightly, and the elegantly embroidered vest, the ruffled bosom, and blue broadcloth swallow-tailed dress coat, as a whole, seen at a little distance, gave the impression of gentility.
“Do my eyes deceive me?” said the perplexed Mr. Nelson to Lelia; “it is surely one of our family, and the very image of my father, Col. Nelson. The same air, too; for he had a princely bearing. Who can it be?”
Just then, Frink rising, and taking a step forward, returned the respectful bow that Mr. Nelson had instinctively made, and commenced his speech:—
 “Welcome, welcome home to Powhatan, squire Nel—,” when Planter, hearing Frink’s voice, turned suddenly around, and exclaimed,—
 “Git out of dat ar ‘formance, you young nig !” and giving the boat a smart lurch, the orator lost his balance in the middle of a word, and plunged head foremost into the water.
He certainly was not in his element then, for he abhorred the water, and as he could not swim, was in danger of drowning. As he went down the second time, Billy caught him by the hair, crying, “Make sure I cotched him dis time!” When off came the wig, in Billy’s hand, causing his eyes to roll up in horror, while Planter broke out, “Yaw haw! yaw haw! ha! ha! ha!”
Fortunately for Frink, in his floundering he reached shoal water, and, scrambling up the bank, dripping and half strangled, turned his back on master and all, and whipped away to Powhatan. with the speed of a deer.

INTERESTING CORRESPONDENCE.
The following letters have been received by the Military Secretary of Gov. Andrew, Albert G. Browne, Esq., who is now at Port Royal. They will be read with interest:—
HEADQUARTERS 54TH MASS. VOLS., Morris Island, S. C., Oct. 15, 1863.
COLONEL—I have the honor to forward you the following letter, received a few days since from Sergeant W. H. Carney, Co. C., of this regiment. Mention has before been made of his heroic conduct in preserving the American flag, and bearing it from the field, in the assault.on Fort Wagner, on the 18th of July last; but that you may have the history complete, I send a simple statement of the facts, as I have obtained them from him and an officer who was an eyewitness: 
When the Sergeant arrived to within about one hundred yards of the fort,—he was with the first battalion which was in the advance of the storming column,—he received the regimental colors, pressed forward to the front rank, near the Colonel, who was leading the men over the ditch. He says, as they ascended the wall of the fort, the ranks were full, but as soon as they reached the top, “they melted away” before the enemy’s fire “almost instantly.” He received a severe wound in the thigh, but fell only upon his knees. He planted the flag on the parapet, lay down on the outer slope, that he might get as much shelter as possible; there he remained for over half an hour, till the 2d brigade came up. He kept the colors flying till the second conflict was ended. When our forces retired, he followed, creeping on one knee, still holding up the flag. It was thus that Sergeant Carney came from the field, having held the emblem of liberty over the walls of Fort Wagner, during the sanguinary conflict of the two brigades, and having received two very severe wounds, one in the thigh.
<c05>
and one in the head. Still he refused to give up his sacred trust until he found an officer of his regiment. 
When he entered the field hospital, where his wounded comrades were being brought in, they cheered him and the colors. Though nearly exhausted with the loss of blood, he said, “Boys, the old flag never touched the ground! “
Of him, as a man and a soldier, I can speak in the highest terms of praise.
I have the honor to be, Colonel,
Very respectfully, your most obedient servant,
M. S. LITTLEFIELD,
Col. Commanding, 54th Reg. Mass. Vols.
Col. A. G. Browne, Jr., Military Secretary
to his Excellency John A. Andrew, Mass.
MORRIS ISLAND, (S. C.) Oct., 13,1863.
COL. M. S. LITTLEFIELD, Com’g 54th Mass.:
DEAR SIR—Complying with your request, I send you the following history, pertaining to my birth, parentage, social and religious experience and standing; in short, a concise epitome of my life. I undertake to perform it in my poor way: —
I was born in Norfolk, Va., in 1840; my father’s name was William Carney; my mother’s name before her marriage was Ann Dean; she was the property of one Major Carney, but, at his death, she, with, all his people, was by his will made free. In my fourteenth year, when I had no work to do, I attended a private and secret school kept in Norfolk by a minister. In my fifteenth year I embraced the gospel; at that time I was also engaged in the coasting trade with my father.
In 1856, I left the sea for a time, and my father set out to look for a place to live in peace and freedom. He first stopped in the land of William Peon, Benjamin Franklin, and where the “bright Juniata” flows —Pennsylvania—but he rested not there; the black man was not secure on the soil where the Declaration of Independence was written. He went far. Then he visited the empire State—great New York—whose chief ambition seemed to be for commerce and gold, and with her unceasing struggle for supremacy she heard not the slave; she only had time to spurn the man with a sable skin, and make him feel that he was an alien in his native land.
At last he set his weary feet upon the sterile rocks of “Old Massachusetts.” The very air he breathed put enthusiasm into his spirit. O, yes, he found a refuge from oppression in the old Bay State. He selected as his dwelling-place the city of New Bedford, where “Liberty Hall” is a sacred edifice. Like the Temple of Diana which covered the virgins from harm in olden time, so old Liberty Hall in New Bedford protects the oppressed slave of the 19th century. After stopping a short time, he sent for his family, and there they still dwell. I remained in the city with the family, pursuing the avocation of a jobber of work for stores, and at such places as I could find employment. I soon formed connection with a church under charge of the Rev. Mr. Jackson, now chaplain of the 55th Mass. Volunteers.
Previous, to the formation of colored troops, I had a strong inclination to prepare myself for the ministry; but when the country called for all persons, I could best serve my God by serving my country and my oppressed brothers. The sequel is short—I enlisted for the war.
I am your humble and obedient servant,
WILLIAM H. CARNEY,
Sergeant Co. C, 54th Mass. Vols.
JOSEPH BARKER.
Mind and matter are identical. The bias of the one necessarily changes with every alteration in the atoms of the other. Consistency can reasonably be looked for only in a fossil. Opinion resides in the body, and conviction is the result of digestion. A fit of bleeding at the nose deprives a man of a portion of his political and religious belief, and his faith is weakened by the cutting of his hair or the paring of his nails. Even a hollow tooth represents a particle of a dogma, and its extraction may destroy the balance of judgment, and cause truth to kick the beam. These startling doctrines, we need scarcely say, are not our own. They are the latest emanations of the wisdom of Mr. Joseph Barker. Of this gentleman we know nothing, save that he has advocated in his time a vast number of conflicting opinions. He has been a sort of controversial free lance, constantly changing his flag and his uniform—at one moment fighting vigorously on one side of a question, and subsequently doing battle fiercely on the other. We have observed this phenomenon, but have been, up to this moment, ignorant of its cause. Mr. Joseph Barker has himself given us a solution of the mystery. Being reproached for his fickleness, be has vindicated himself on the ground that it has resulted from the operation of a natural law. In 1856 he wrote a letter, which was published in the Reasoner, earnestly espousing the cause of the North. At this moment he is figuring as an enthusiastic champion of the South. Upon the strength of these facts, superficial thinkers have stigmatized him as a renegade. But he indignantly repudiates the imputation. He will not be held responsible for any of the sayings and doings of the Joseph Barker of 1856, with whom he is not even upon speaking ternfs. He could not very well retain the pleasure of acquaintanceship with that gentleman, who has vanished from the world, as he alleges, in the form of sewage and perspiration. This is so astounding a theory, that perhaps it will be deemed only fair to enunciate it in Mr. Barker’s own words. According to a correspondent of the Manchester Examiner, that gentleman at a recent meeting at Ashton said—“The Joseph Barker of 1856 does not now exist. On the evidence of physiologists, the human body undergoes an entire change every seven years; that nearly seven years had elapsed since the writing of that letter; consequently be, the present Joseph Barker, was not the person who wrote it.” There is, no doubt, much convenience in such a Statute of Limitations. It reduces to an agreeable minimum all individual responsibility. The felon may unanswerably urge it as an argument against penal servitude of more than seven years’ duration. At the end of that period, the original criminal is no longer in being, and it is manifestly unjust to punish the new-born innocent who has replaced him, for an offence in which he had no share. If peerages were usually the reward of merit, they ought on the same principle to lapse septennially; but as they are generally bestowed for no visible reason whatever, they are not affected by the principle. Its effects upon social relations will be found somewhat embarrassing. Marriage will have to be repeated every seven years, just like vaccination. Infants may, at the age of seven years, repudiate allegiance to their parents, since all natural ties must have disappeared with the body of the original baby who was bound by them. But such a surface view of the matter conveys a very inadequate notion of the curious and interesting considerations which the working of this law suggests.
Let us ponder awhile on what must have been the life-history of this Mr. Joseph Barker whose thoughts and emotions are centred, upon his own showing, in his flesh and blood and bone and muscle. We have not the courage to trace him back to the cradle; nor if we were disposed to grapple with such a task, do we possess data for the investigation. Supposing him to have arrived at middle age, he must have been seven different individuals, fading into each other like a series of dissolving views, and several of these Joseph Barkers are unhappily lost to history. We must perforce content ourselves with glancing at two of them—him of 1856 and him of 1863. The Joseph Barker of 1856 was a red-hot Northerner. Blood globules and tissues, skeleton and nerves, marrow and secretions, were all enthusiastic in the cause of freedom. This homogeneous whole was no doubt the fruit of a protracted process of wholesome assimilation. But from that moment, it appears, Nature began to undo her work. Every liberal atom which fled from the body of Joseph Barker was replaced by one of pro-slavery tendencies. According to his own data, a little more than a sixty-one thousandth part of him changed every hour. Juliet, when she longed to cut Romeo up into little stars, never dreamed of such an extreme comminution. But still it is obvious that during the lapse of each sixty minutes, that fractional part of the freedom-loving Joseph Barker went away, and was replaced by a particle of corresponding bulk but antagonistic principles. We should much like to know when he first became sensible of the change. It would also be interesting to learn
<c06>
in what portion of his physical frame Southern sympathies first declared themselves. A moral diagnosis of the progressive symptoms, indicating the precise moment when slavery first polled a majority of atoms in the body of Joseph Barker, would be a precious contribution to psychological literature. But there is a more important question still. What became of those emigrating molecules which were inspired with such ardently liberal opinions? Of course, we know that none of them can have been lost-for matter only changes its form, and there is no such thing as annihilation. Some floated away in the air to be absorbed by human lungs; others were conveyed through a less ethereal channel, to reappear in the form of vegetables, or, passing through an intermediate stage of grass, to become toothsome beef and mutton suitable for human food. In their new form these particles of matter which left Mr. Joseph Barker must, of course, have retained their old sentiments. In what human body have they found a home? Has Earl Russell assimilated some of them, and will this account for his increased sympathy with the right side in American affairs? Then, again, who has lost those slavery-loving atoms which have become incorporated in the new personality of Mr. Joseph Barker? Taking into account the ardor which he displayed in behalf of the North in 1856, when he was somebody else, and his burning zeal for the South now, we cannot help feeling that his transformation may have been a benefit to his kind. He was Northern enough then to stock by his dispersion a dozen partizans with strong sympathies for freedom; he is Southern enough at present to have absorbed in the creation of his new individuality the energy of as many advocates of slavery. But we should really like to have full particulars of the agencies by which this, change has been brought about. As the stomach is the great manufactory of all the molecules which make up the human frame, it is clear enough that this great transmutation has been wrought in Mr. Joseph Barker by improper diet. It were well, therefore, that we should know what he has been eating and drinking to bring himself into such a sadly diseased condition. The information would serve as a beacon, warning others against imitating his sad example. There are some millions, however, who would not care for this enlightenment. They do not believe, with Mr. Joseph Barker, that  their thoughts and emotions have no existence apart from their corporeal clay. They are not willing to echo him by declaring that they are all matter and no mind. But of course he was fully entitled to write himself down an ass, and he has done so with a boldness to be admired, if also with a folly to be deplored.—London Morning Star.

SPIRIT OF DELAWARE UNIONISTS.
The following resolves evince the spirit of the Unionists of Delaware:
Resolved, By the delegates of the Union party of the State of Delaware in Convention assembled:
1.That the Union party of the State or Delaware is uncompromisingly in favor of maintaining the integrity of the National Government, and that its power should, be steadily and vigorously exerted until it has compelled submission to its rightful authority.
2. That this war is and should be waged only for the suppression of Rebellion and the vindication of the supremacy of the Constitution of the United States; but that in its conduction it is the right, it is the duty of the Government to use every means in its power to subdue and utterly crush out the revolt against the laws of the land and the rights of man.
3. That to this end we approve the policy of Emancipation, and the employment of colored troops, as depriving our Rebel enemies of a most powerful auxiliary, and as affording to ourselves material assistance by the enlistment of a species of force whose bravery and good conduct have been tested, and who will save our own race not only from the perils of the battlefield, but the more deadly malaria of a Southern clime. That if from this cause the slaves of Rebels shall be set free, it will be justly attributable only to the evil counsels of bad men, who have induced their masters to take up arms against the Government, and have compelled it to war against Slavery in its own defence.
4. That the temporary suspension of the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus was a measure constitutional and necessary; and recognizing its propriety in this crisis of a nation’s peril, we commend the Administration that had the boldness to proclaim and the vigor to enforce it. That from our daily intercourse we know that its announcement gave renewed assurance to loyal men, and that it was terrible to traitors only.
5. That we entertain entire confidence in the wisdom, integrity and dispassionate justice of Abraham Lincoln. That throughout his whole administration he has evinced a tender regard not only for the rights but the prejudices of a misguided people, combined with a firm determination to uphold the authority of the Government, which has won the admiration of his friends and extorted the respect of his enemies.
6. That Gov. William Cannon, by his manly course of unswerving loyalty, has fully realized the expectation of his supporters. That we approve and indorse the sentiments and principles of his Inaugural Address as the inception of a domestic policy under which the State of Delaware will become prosperous, populous, and free.
7. That we express our profound gratitude to the brave men everywhere who have gone forth to do battle in defence of a common country and a common flag, but especially to those who have so nobly sustained the honor of the State of Delaware. While mourning her bereavement in the loss of so many of her gallant sons, she tearfully but proudly offers them as her contribution to the noble army of the martyrs of Freedom.

THE LATE GEORGE SUMNER, ESQ.
Mr. Sumner was one of the most accomplished men of the time. He was not only familiar with many languages and many literatures, but in the course of a long residence abroad had explored almost every part of Europe, and made the acquaintance of the most prominent European statesmen, publicists and men of letters. The information he had derived from books was but a small part of the treasures of knowledge which his observing eye and retentive memory had stored up in his mind. He knew things from personal examination, and men from personal intercourse, and it was hardly possible to touch, in conversation, on any subject connected with the manners, customs, localities, scenery, or public men of European countries, that his personal recollections and experience did not throw light on the subject, however remote it might be from ordinary lines of study.
With his native country, Mr. Sumner was none the less extensively acquainted. He had travelled in every part of it, knew its most prominent statesmen, authors, artists and philanthropists, was familiar with its social life, and had a most intense sympathy with its ideas and institutions. A philanthropical and cosmopolitan democrat, he was the friend of every cause at home or abroad which had the good of the people for its object; and while in Europe was known every where as a stout friend of republican institutions, ready in every society where America was assailed to take upon himself its defence. In the many admirable lectures which he delivered before our lyceums, from Maine to Missouri, he showed in his discussion of European politics how thoroughly his knowledge of the governments of other countries had impressed him with the excellence of our own.
Not the least of Mr. Sumner’s claims to consideration was the number of warmly attached friends whom he attracted, not more by his talents and accomplishments than by the kindness of his heart, the cordiality of his manners, his interest in all that interested those he loved, and the singular sweetness of his disposition. By them he is sure to be long remembered and long regretted, as one of the most amiable as well as one of the most accomplished of the persons they have been privileged to love and esteem.—Boston Transcript, 7th.
INSTANT EMANCIPATION. Wm. Cullen Bryant made the following statement at the meeting in New York for the reception of the Missouri delegation:
 “Our experience in North Carolina, our experience in Port Royal, and a larger and more decisive experience in Louisiana, have shown that in instant emancipation there is no danger—events have shows that instant emancipation carries with it every advantage. I have read a letter this very day—a letter from a person whose name, if I were to mention it, would carry authority, assurance, acquiescence, conviction to all that should read it—in which he says all those negroes who have been made free, who are treated like freemen, paid wages, and allowed to provide for their families—now work better, more to the profit of those from whom they receive wages, and in all respects observe a more respectful deportment, than ever be observe a more respectful deportment, than over before. He goes on to say that all the planters say this, and that if things were rightly managed in Louisians, within a year that State would take her place among the free States of the Union, with the entire consent of all who dwell within her limits. He goes further than this: he says that all over the South, in every part of the slave States, the change, the transition from absolute and universal slavery to universal and instantaneous emancipation, might take place with even less of violence and confusion than a tax law could be changed in a northern State. Such is his testimony—a most valuable testimony.”
OHIO DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSMEN. Fourteen congressional districts in Ohio elected Democrats last fall. In the recent elections, twelve of these districts have given majorities against the Democratic party.
