THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agent of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:–WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 42. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1654.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
HOME TREASON IN BLACK AND WHITE.
The following resolutions were adopted at the Democratic State Conversion, held at Worcester, Mass., Wednesday, October 8th:-
Resolved, That we are opposed to the doctrines of secession and abolition, both of which tend directly and surely to the destruction of the Republic, and that there can be no permanent union or confederacy of independent States where the right of the secession is admitted, or where any State, by a claim of "higher law" usurps the right to disregard the Constitution or bond of union by which such States are united.
Resolved, That during this rebellion, which requires the whole strength of the people to subdue, the introduction and discussion of mere partisan questions or higher law theories is calculated to weaken the hands and unnerve the heart of the soldier, to awaken distrust and jealousy among the people, to arouse the slumbering animosities of party, to beget strife and dissensions among ourselves, and thus deprive our action of its great moral power and grandeur.
Resolved, That we deeply regret that the President of the United States, at this time, forgetful of his obligations to the whole country, as the constitutional head of the Government, and yielding to unwise councils, should have declared in his proclamation of September 22, 1862, his determination to adopt hereafter, in the prosecution of our deplorable civil war, the policy of a party which the House of Representatives, by the resolution of February 11th, 1861, unanimously declared to be too "insignificant in numbers and influence to excite the serious attention or alarm of any portion of the people of the Republic."
Resolved, That in the name of civilized humanity, we respectfully but earnestly protest against the emancipation proclamation of the President of the United States, both on the ground of its unconstitutionality and inexpediency, and unjustifiable on the ground of military necessity, as it is prospective, not immediate, in its action, and we accept as conclusive reasons against it the unanswerable arguments of the President himself to the self-constituted Chicago delegation; that it deprives the noble Union men in the rebellious States, alike with the most guilty, of their property; that, if inoperative, it will bring down upon us the scorn of the world, and, if capable of practical execution, it must produce a war of races, in which all alike, the innocence of woman and the helplessness of childhood, must suffer with the guilty, and which must sooner or later end in the extinction of the negro race in the Southern States.
Resolved, That in order to prevent such deplorable results, we feel it incumbent upon us to use all honorable efforts to surround the President with sound, safe and wise counsellors, and to send to Congress from this Commonwealth statesmen whose standard of loyalty is neither above the Constitution, nor in conflict with it.
Resolved, That the right of trial by jury, and the ancient and constitutional right of this people to canvass public measures, should be at all times, and in all places, as well in time of war as in time of peace, jealously guarded:
That the right to the writ of habeas corpus is older than the Government itself, it is one of the main pillars of the common law, and the great bulwark of civil liberty, with the wisdom of centuries pleading for its sanctity, and under the Constitution there is no power that can suspend it except the Congress of the United States, and, as the people of the loyal States have voluntarily given millions of their treasure, and thousands of their sons to sustain the Government, no exigency requires its suspension, and we therefore call on the President to recognize the loyalty of the people, by restoring to them the right of trial by jury and freedom of speech and of the press.
Resolved, That meetings of Governors of States, with a view to control or shape the policy of the General Government, or to dictate terms to the President, is not only not warranted by the Constitution, but is revolutionary in its tendency, and deserving severe reprobation.
Resolved, That the services of Major General George B. McClellan entitle him to the grateful acknowledgements of the people, and that any attempt to deprive him of the command he now holds, or to embarrass his plans, or to impair the confidence with which the soldiers and people regard him, whether made by convocations of Governors, by Senators or Congressmen, or any other politicians, is fraught with great danger to our cause, and deserves the severest censure.
AN ARMISTICE.
Our recent brief remarks on an armistice have met with a great deal of approbation. A number of letters have reached us which are full of generous ratification of the idea, and in private colloquy, we have found it confirmed far more liberally than we had anticipated. The reason is plain. The North is sick at heart on account of the rivers of blood that have been unvictoriously spilled in the field of battle. Our people are still as irrepressibly devoted to the integrity of the Union as ever they were, and they will never permit it to be destroyed. The alacrity with which the demand for six hundred thousand new troops has been responded to, proves this. But, more than a hundred thousand lives have been lost forever,-shocking mutilations, that can never be cured, have happened to immense numbers; four out of five of our families have been cruelly lessened and injured by the campaign; commercial distress is common; the sufferings of the poor are heart-rending; hundreds of millions of treasure have been sunk; and, from incessant carnage, no hopes of peace arise;—these facts exist in stern reality; they cannot be removed, and in presence of them, the people stand aghast. They are facts with tongues to them that tell a hundred melancholy tales, and the people's ears are open to what they so sadly convey. Therefore, is there a strong, universal desire for an end of the war-for a cessation of hostilities-for a pause to the shedding of blood; and, as by an armistice passion would subside, and nothing be endangered, a deep feeling in favor of such a thing is taking possession of the community.
France, with victory on its banners, spontaneously offered an armistice to the Austrians in the late Italian war. The world has applauded the magnanimity of this act by the French. What did the French lose by it? Nothing! It was a gain and honor to them; and Austria has not found a reason to repent it. We may follow this humane example. Certainly, the North is powerful enough to imitate France in this respect. Would the South listen to an armistice? That once happy and prosperous section of the Republic has suffered so woefully in life, in limbs, in business, and in territory, that it would eagerly listen to the first whisperings of peace.
<c02>
that should be made to it. There is nothing more inevitable than the ultimate triumph of the North. But the triumph that is gained by continued fighting, never counterbalances the cost. What benefit will accrue to the country from extorted peace? If the North should be conquered by the South, how long would it allow its defeat to be a profit to the victor? Would it not be continually chafing under the foot of the conqueror? Would it not be incessantly planning a new revolution by which to avenge all its injuries? It would. And this will be the case with the South when forced to submission. Forced submissions are the surest springs of tumult, violence, and rebellion. Ireland is in a compelled state of quiet: but its heart is burning with the fires of revolt, and it will not rest until it throws off the yoke of the conqueror. English statesmen, themselves, admit that Irish dissatisfaction is the most dangerous fact connected with the British empire. The pages of history teach nothing so frequently as this, that the belligerents who are driven to lay down their arms, never give up the active hope of retaliating.
It is, therefore, legitimate to dread that between the two sections of this country there will be nothing but constant warlike hostility, if the rebellion be forced to a termination. The North cannot subdue the spirit of the South; nor could the South, if it were in the ascendant, subdue the spirit of the North; and in the annals of nations a complete subjugation of spirit cannot be found. Is there no man of potential character in the North to present this principle-this invincible fact to the people? The real perpetuity of the Union depends upon it. What description of union shall we have from the bayoneting, and sabreing, and devastating by the North of the South into peace? A Union bursting with all the elements of disunion. Therefore, for the sake of the UNION, let us have an armistice. We counsel no compromise with true constitutional principles; and foreign interventions must not be suggested. What is wanted is an armistice-a pause in havoc and carnage, in which the North and South might talk together, without passion, on the difficulties that are between them. Such a suspension would not put rust on a single bayonet; but it might put all the blades in the field forever into their scabbards. Would the South spurn the proposition? We have already seen that its desolations would urge on it to give an attentive ear to the whisperings of peace.
There is a further reason why an armistice would be successful. This war is the work of extreme politicians of the North and the South-of the Abolitionists and of the "fire-eaters." The great body of the people of the two sections had never any virulence for each other. This war originated with the politicians. The people of the North and South would shake hands to-morrow if they had an opportunity. The two armies would do the same thing. Therefore, to have an armistice completely successful, nothing more is necessary than to have it undertaken by representatives of the people. The first arguments in its favor make its success very probable: this last renders the success certain. Armistice or not, the country will be taken out of the hands of the politicians before there can be peace.
But, if the South should refuse a conference without a sacrifice of constitutional principle, then on with the war with centupled energy. The true integrity of the Republic can never be compromised. -Boston (Catholic) Pilot.
And what is Abolitionism? It is the enunciator of the fact that the black is the equal of the white-which is false. It is the active disseminator among the Southern slaves of the principle that they have a sacred right to rebel against their masters-which has often ended in dreadful scenes of blood. It is quite one half the cause of the rebellion-a fact that renders it a dire curse to the nation. And it is a violent disturber of the plans of the campaign-a thing by which the Republic has been little less than utterly ruined. Abolitionism is as wild, as infuriate, and as unfortunate a madness as that which the Baptists acted out in Munster three hundred years ago. It has done harm to the United States which centuries will not be able to remove.-Ibid.

SHAM DEMOCRACY AT WORK.
The Democracy throughout the country are fully aroused, and will be heard and felt at the ballot box, so sure as election day comes. The people will not submit to any tampering with their constitutional rights. They will not submit to be taxed to support violent partly men and measures without a stout resistance at the polls. Every effort should be made for a concert of action and to unite the friends of the Constitution throughout the State upon one ticket. As the People's Convention is held first, the delegates to that Convention should have a care that they do not so far act as to prevent a union with the Democratic party. The Democratic party is from thiry to forty thousand strong in Massachusetts, and is thoroughly organized, while the People's party, so called, have no organization to be effective. If the People's party expect the Democrats to vote for men who are not and never have been of their faith, those who ask it must show a willingness to do likewise, or they will not succeed. When we hear men say they cannot vote for a Democrat, at the same time denouncing the party and the men with which they have heretofore acted, we put them down as narrow-minded, bigoted and unreliable. It looks to us as though they were desirous to use the Democrats to put down the leaders in their party and to put themselves in their places, without any change of principles being effected.-We are willing to vote for any man who may be conservative, providing he is willing to vote for a Democrat who is as conservative as he is-otherwise we are not willing. The Democratic party will sweep the nation in 1864, and will carry Pennsylvania and New York this fall; at any rate, that is the indication now. The Abolitionists are doomed to an overwhelming defeat. The have shown their want of capacity to rule and govern the nation, and have brought disaster upon the people; and the people will hurl them from power through the agency of the ballot box.
There should be no faltering now, no hanging back-the crisis demands decisive action at the polls. We want restored to the nation peace and prosperity. We want restored the habeas corpus, the trial by jury, the freedom of the press and of speech. We desire to have the war prosecuted to a speedy termination without regard to the whims of Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Abby Folsom, or Charles Sumner. The great commercial, mechanical, manufacturing and industrial interests of New England are of more importance than mere abstractions put forth by soulless, theorizing, meddling nincompoops, who are raising heaven and earth to pull down the Temple of Liberty and to destroy the prosperity of is the country. These ultra men must be firmly met and overthrown, or they will do much mischief by their constant agitation and destructive policy.-Boston Herald.
<c03>
Selections.
"ET TU, BRUTE?"
Mr. Lincoln had better look after his lightning. That "BRUTUM fulmen" of his, after knocking the breath out of the People's Party in Massachusetts, has begun to alarm their friends at the South by the lively distribution of its bolts in that devoted quarter. Gratuitous testimonies to the power of the Proclamation are everywhere furnished by the Confederacy, and compare very well with their former "first-rate notices" of Generals Phelps, Fremont and Hunter.
THE REBEL CONGRESS FLUTTERS.
In the Confederate Senate, on the 29th ult., Mr. Semmes, of Louisiana, submitted the following joint resolution:—
"Resolved, by the Congress of the Confederate States, that the Proclamation of Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, issued at the City of Washington in the year 1862, wherein he declares that on the first day of January, in the year of our Lord 1863, all persons held as slaves within any State, or designated parts of a State, whereof the people shall be in rebellion against the United States, shall be henceforth and forever free, is levelled against the citizens of the Confederate States, and as such is a gross violation of the usages of civilized warfare, an outrage on the rights of private property, and an invitation to an atrocious servile war, and therefore should be held up to the execration of mankind, and counteracted by such severe retaliatory measures as in the judgment of the President may be best calculated to secure its withdrawal or arrest its execution."
Mr. CLARK, of Missouri, moved that the resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. He was in favor of declaring every citizen of the Southern Confederacy a soldier authorized to put to death every man caught on our soil in arms against the Government.
Mr. HENRY, of Tennessee, said the resolution did not go far enough. He favored the passage of a law providing that upon any attempt being made to execute the Proclamation of Abraham Lincoln, we immediately hoist the black flag, and proclaim a war of extermination against all invaders of the soil.
Mr. PHELAN, of Mississippi, said he had always been in favor of conducting the war under the black flag. If that flag had been raised at Manassas a year ago, the war would have been ended ere now.
JUPITER TONANS.
Butler has been called infamous; by common consent he is known as the beast. But Butler is a saint compared to his master. In addition to all that Butler authorized, Lincoln adds butchery-even the butchery of babes. Language is too poor to furnish a name suitable for such a character. Nay, the whole catalogue of dishonoring epithets is not sufficient to do justice to it. "Murderer" is a term of honor compared to Lincoln's crime. "Child and woman murderer" tells but part of the story. To this is added the cowardice of employing an agent. To this belongs the additional fact that the agent, when unloosed, is a savage. To this is added the further fact that Lincoln dooms his agent to destruction. What shall we call him? Coward? assassin? savage? the murderer of women and babes, and the false destroyer of his own deluded allies? Shall we consider these as all embodied in the word "fiend"? and shall we call him that? Lincoln, the fiend! Let history take hold of him, and let the civilized world fling its scorpion lash upon him!-Richmond Examiner.
THE "FIEND" VS. "CHEERFUL AND HAPPY" SLAVES.
Lincoln would simply drive our servants to their destruction. Cheerful and happy now, he plots their death. An insurrection is their swift destruction....
The efforts of the fiend to breed discontent can be readily counteracted and provided against, if we are vigilant, as we must be. The country courts or military authorities must establish suitable patrols for the preservation of the public peace. The men of a neighborhood, even if there be but a few, and if they be infirm, must keep fire-arms, and form a neighborhood guard, if necessary. A very little organization and preparation, with vigilance, will suffice to countervail all the efforts of the emissaries whom the fiend may send, and to overawe all turbulence. These things must all be duly attended to.-Richmond Enquirer, Oct. 1st.
LEX TALIONIS.
In the Rebel Senate on Wednesday, Oct., 1st, Mr. Semmes, of Louisiana, from the Committee on the Judiciary, to whom was referred the resolutions relative to Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, states that a majority of the Committee favored the following bill:—
Whereas, &c., Therefore, the Confederate States of America do enact:
1. That, on and after the 1st of January, 1863, all commissioned and non-commissioned officers of the enemy, except as hereafter mentioned, when captured, shall be imprisoned at hard labor, or otherwise put at hard labor, until the termination of the war. or until the repeal of the act of Congress of the United States, hereinbefore recited, or until otherwise determined by the President.
2. Every white person who shall act as a commissioned or non-commissioned officer, commanding negroes or mulattoes against the Confederate States, or who shall arm, organize, train, or prepare negroes or mulattoes for military service, or aid them in any I military enterprise against the Confederate States, shall, if captured, suffer death.
3. Every commissioned or non-commissioned officer of the enemy who shall incite slaves to rebellion, or pretend to give them freedom, under the aforementioned act of Congress and Proclamation, by abducting, or causing them to be abducted, or inducing them to abscond, shall, if captured, suffer death.
4. That every person charged with an offence under this act, shall be tried by such military courts as the President shall direct, and, after conviction, the President may commute the punishment, or pardon unconditionally, or on such terms as he may see fit.
5. That the President is hereby authorized to resort to such other retaliatory measures as in his judgment may be best calculated to repress the atrocities of the enemy.
AN (UN-) PHELAN RESOLVE.
Mr. PHELAN, of Mississippi, submitted a minority report from the same Committee, in the form of a lengthy preamble, and the following resolution:—
Be it resolved, &c., That from this day forth all rules of civilized warfare should be discarded in the future defence of our country, our liberties, and our lives, against the fell design, now openly avowed by the Government of the United States to annihilate or enslave us; and that a war of extermination should henceforth be waged against every invader whose hostile foot shall cross the boundaries of these Confederate States.
<c04>
NO FEAR OF " BRUTUM FULMEN."
MR. HILL,-I must be allowed to say for myself, that I regard the Proclamation of Mr. Lincoln as a mere brulum fulmen, and so intended by its author. It is to serve a temporary purpose at the North. I fear we are dignifying it beyond its importance.... I, also, in accordance with the understanding of the Committee, propose the following bill, and ask that it be printed for the consideration of the Senate:—
1. That, &c.
2. That every person pretending to be a soldier or officer of the United States, who shall be captured on the soil of the Confederate States after the 1st day of January, 1863, shall be presumed to have entered the territory of the Confederate States with intent to incite insurrection and abet murder, and unless satisfactory proof be adduced to the contrary, before the military court before which the trial shall be had, shall suffer death. This section shall continue in force until the Proclamation issued by Abraham Lincoln, dated at Washington, on the 22d day of September, 1862, shall be rescinded, and the policy therein announced shall be abandoned, and no longer.
ABSOLUTION.
In the Virginia Legislature, Mr. CALLIN, of Petersburg, offered the following:—
Whereas, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, by his recent Proclamation, is acting in stolid contempt of the principles of property in slaves, which is no less consecrated in the Federal Constitution than in ours, and is aiming by said Proclamation to excite servile insurrection in our midst;
Resolved, Therefore, that no person within this State shall be held to have committed any offense against the criminal laws thereof, or shall be tried or imprisoned, or be required to answer at any time for an act done in driving from the State or putting to death any person, with or without arms, who may be found on our soil aiding in any way to give effect to the fiendish purpose of said Proclamation.
POLICE FOR "HAPPY SLAVES."
The Richmond Examiner of the 6th inst. contains the military exemption act passed on the 14th ult., which exempts the police for sections of country having dense negro populations, &c., &c.
THE WRITING ON THE WALL.
President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation has inspired the most lively terror throughout the South. The rebels quake with apprehension. They express fears that it will be the means of producing a counter revolution in the slave States, and the soldiers desire to return to their homes to protect their families. They believe the negroes are organized in <illegible> and are only waiting for an opportunity to rise in insurrection. They have heard already of the Proclamation, and are becoming very restive under the yoke. The women and children of the rural districts are moving to the cities for safety, and consternation seems to be universal:.
A private circular has been issued by the rebel government to the proprietors of newspapers, forbidding the publication of the Proclamation.-Special despatch to the New York Times, Oct. 9th.
Such are some of the daily accumulating evidences of the vitality of the President's edict against slavery, as confessed by Southern alarm and Southern measures of defence. On the other hand, it is notorious that the slaves are making an early and frequent use of their new means of deliverance. The National Underground Railroad is constantly discharging its living freight at the great Southern depots. The "corner-stone" of the Confederacy is moving from under. All hail the "idle thunderbolt"!

THE PROCLAMATION.
By a careful perusal of the Boston Post, Courier, and Herald, and the N. Y. Express, Journal of Commerce, and Herald, for just now one has to read even the latest news from Hell,-we are struck with the following remarkable peculiarities of Mr. Lincoln's Proclamation.
1. It is brulum fulmen. 
2. It will forever destroy the Union.
3. It is harmless and impotent.
4. Immeasurable evil will flow from it.
5. It can only show the weakness of those who urged it.
6. It opens issues too tremendous, &c.
7. The South will laugh at it.
8. The South will be roused to frenzy by it
Well, gentlemen, fix on any or all of these theories: we care not.
But we do care that you shall come out squarely and look earnest and honest men in the eye. Let there be no equivocation as to the manner in which you are to meet this measure of the President. The Commander-in-Chief knew, as did the nation, that unless in his judgment Emancipation was a military necessity, he would have no right to proclaim it, and would not. So long as he did not see this necessity, you were all engaged in laying down unexceptionable laws as to the duty of all of us to stand by the President The Boston Post will please remember who said not three weeks ago:-
"'Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing,' but there must needs be stout arms and willing hearts ready to do and fight for the flag. There is such a thing as a hearty support of the President in his efforts to crush the rebellion. There is such a thing as ignoring, as he declares he ignores, every other question, and expending all our treasure, and putting forth all our strength, in the struggle to maintain the integrity of the government, to overcome this impious rebellion, and preserving the Constitution as it is, to restore the Union as it was."
We appeal from Philip drunk to Philip sober; from men maddened when their idol, Slavery, is touched, to men whose judgment was calm in the absence of any apprehension that such exigency could arise.
We complained bitterly that the President was slow; but now we see that his slowness has been the means of committing the whole flock of you to a rule of loyalty, which you cannot abandon without making it appear that in all your previous course you were liars and hypocrites.
The proclamation is a better detective than Vidocq. It comes into our midst drawing the lines sharply. The President's previous course and avowal that he would do this only to save the nation are before the people. They know that he is honest; and thus that in the opinion of the Commander-in-Chief the matter was reduced to the destruction of the Union or that of slavery. Every human being in this nation must go on one or the other side of this line; he must go for the Union against slavery, or for slavery against-the Union. There is no middle ground now. Those who do not stand by the Proclamation will be branded as those who would rather see the United States Government overthrown than the end of Human Bondage on this continent. They are traitors to this nation, to Humanity and God.-Boston Commonwealth.
<c05>
TREASON GROWING BOLD.
The opposition papers of this city are now bold in their treason. Since it is found that government has relaxed its censorship, and no longer undertakes the suppression of seditious matter, there seem no bounds to the fierce and bitter denunciations in which these papers indulge. The Express argues that while "loyalty to government is ordained of God, as well as constitutionally due," "loyalty to man, allegiance to man is not an American idea, and never, since 1776, has had any foothold in these United States." All attempts to confound government with the men who administer it, the Express denounces as tyranny. By this specious gloss he covers up the rankest treason, and on the same principle the rebels cover theirs. The Express professes to obey the Constitution, while fighting against the government which it ordains. The emancipation proclamation is with him unconstitutional, the act of Congress a nullity, and his only rule of action the supremacy and inviolability of slavery, whatever other interests may be jeopardized.
The assistance rendered to the rebels by the Herald, is more effective, because clothed in a disguise. Professing staunch loyalty, it is nevertheless clear that his aim is to destroy our republican form of government, and prepare the people for a central despotism. To cover his designs, the charge of conspiring to inaugurate a dictatorship is raised against Fremont, the War Committee, and the loyal Governors. He says the Governors have had too much deference paid to them since the war began, and recommends that as "Napoleon, the greatest master of the art of war, made his officers," so the President, if the course of Governors in making appointments is unsatisfactory, should direct "that Gen. McClellan, who is the best judge of the merits of the men who fought under him, shall make the appointments himself." If there is anything in the Constitution contrary to such an arrangement, he says that as that instrument has already been departed from "under the plea of military necessity," the President would have an equal right to depart from it now. Certainly, we could not have a greater amount of sedition wrapped up in a single paragraph than we have here. The Herald goes on to say of the meeting of the Governors at Altoona, that they "ought to be all arrested and sent to prison, beginning with Gov. Andrew, who ought to be committed to Fort Warren in his own State, leaving the duties of his office to be discharged by the Lieut-Governor; and if the latter should prove refractory, he ought to be sent to keep the Governor company, and so with each succeeding official, till the federal authority is vindicated, and disaffection is crushed out in New England and in every other Northern State in which <illegible>
Such are the attempts of the Herald, Express and World to stir up insurrection, while at the same time they are filling the country with lying accusations of conspiracies for the overthrow of our government by the radicals. The Tribune, in answer to the charges against Republicans, ridicules the thought of a dictatorship, and maintains that with our enlightened community and our citizen army, the danger of such a usurpation is altogether fanciful. We see no reason for regarding it thus. Other republics have been as confident of the perpetuity of their free institutions as we; yet it has taken but a few smart shocks of the earthquake to topple them down. The Tribune says:-
"To believe that a brave and cheerful and social people, saturated with democratic opinions, and accustomed to control government by continual limitation-a people which for two centuries has chafed at the semblance of autocracy in the public policy-a people educated to execrate tyranny as something too loathsome to be considered with equanimity-—to dread that such a race will become suddenly enamored of submission and quiescent under a Caesar, would be about as reasonable as to believe that within the next five years two-thirds of our population may emigrate to Russia, and take the oath of allegiance to the Czar!"
This is a dangerous confidence. The price of liberty is eternal watchfulness. We may disregard the machinations of rebellious presses and seditious orators, as too insignificant to merit attention, but we shall find to our cost that a continual dropping wears away the stone. The seed sown by such papers as we have named cannot but bear fruit. No family can read the Herald week after week without having their attachment to legitimate government gradually undermined; nor less so the soldier, whose information is generally gleaned from such sheets as his commanding officer approves, and whose passions are roused against the purest patriots by the systematic slanders which partisan prints make it their daily business to spread. When we look at the character of our journalism, we must confess that the hope of preserving our liberties, in case this war should last several years, is very faint. Our hope rests on having a short, sharp, decisive conflict, and then allowing our soldiers to return to their homes and resume their former occupations of peace.-American Baptist.
THE ANNUAL SPASM IN MASSACHUSETTS.
Every year, in Massachusetts, a new political party is organized; and it is remarkable that this is always done about the time when the fall of the leaf is so touchingly suggestive of the death and decay of human projects. The conceptive and parturient process, if we may trust our own observation, is as follows: Several hundred gentlemen issue a call. Several hundred gentlemen nominate, in convention, a State ticket. Upon election day, several hundred gentlemen vote for that ticket. And that is the last you hear of the matter! The several hundred gentlemen fall back upon their otiose dignity, and involve themselves in their virtue.
It must be admitted, however, that this year the mountain is uncommonly laborious, and a mouse rather larger than usual may be expected. The call for a "People's Convention" on Tuesday next contains a curious array of names; and it is a queer fact that we find our late friend, Henry J. Gardner, the great original Know Nothing, cheek-by-jowl with Patrick Donahoe, the Roman Catholic bookseller. We do not care much for Governor Gardner's feelings at this unprecedented conjunction, but we are really sorry for Mr. Donahoe, who is a respectable man. We can imagine no more beautiful instance of Christian forgiveness than this presents. Mr. Patrick Donahoe must remember the complimentary things which Gov. Gardner once said, or sustained others in saying, of the Roman Church, of the Pope, and of Irishmen-he must remember the Legislative Visitation of the Catholic Ladies' School in Roxbury-he must remember Mr. Joseph Hiss and his noble company-he must remember the effort made to render Irishmen aliens in Massachusetts forever; or if he does not, he must have a lovely talent for forgetting!
One numerical fact in regard to this call for a "People's Convention," is remarkable, which is that the People do not appear to call for it at all. There
<c06>
is a long list of names, looking; shockingly like an advertisement of letters remaining in the Post-Office; but one sees at a glance that these are of the people,
"No more than a church-steeple 
Is Boston or New York."
-Boston is remarkably well represented; so is its vicinage, including Roxbury, Cambridge, Charlestown, Somerville and Chelsea, but only about fifty towns besides these figure upon the roll, leaving about two hundred and fifty towns, the citizens of which were either not asked to sign the call, or declined to do so. Reckoning with ordinary care, we find 993 names attached to the call, and of these more than half, viz: 577, are Boston names. It does not strike us that this affords a remarkably strong bottom for the new party. Our investigation discloses the fact that a good many people in Boston and in its vicinity dislike John A. Andrew, but there was little need of the resurrection of all these dead folk to tell us that. We knew it sufficiently well before.
Now let us see what these queasy gentlemen who, in this time of the nation's danger, desire to involve Massachusetts in a local squabble, have to say for themselves. They have issued an address which begins by informing us that " the country is in danger "-a solemn fact, which we cannot gainsay.- But the councils of the country are "directed by men of large power and larger wickedness," which means that Charles Sumner and Henry Wilson are wicked fellows-and so they are, for getting them-selves elected to the Senate, when Mr. Winthrop failed to accomplish that desirable object. But here is the cream of the cream-it is too rich to dilute:
"For the first time the loyal States are invaded by a victorious army, and our cities are taken and occupied by the enemy; they are thundering at the very gates of the Capital; and our brethren of the great and prosperous Middle States are threatened with the instant horrors of war at their very hearths."
-Wherefore, it will be necessary to elect a new Governor in Massachusetts. Q. E. D.,-only we don't see how! Then, too, this would have been first rate, week before last! but it is the fate of these gentlemen always to be mouldy, and though they may rise and walk quite friskily, they can never get the smell of the grave altogether out of their garments. As our cities are not occupied by the enemy, and as he is not performing his tonitrous tattoo upon the gates of the Capital; and as the Middle States seem to be quite able to take care of themselves, we fear that the effect of the above otherwise beautiful bit of writing will be quite spoiled by its tardy untimeliness.
Now for the knot of the address, for our space is too limited to permit an examination of all its <illegible> names. Party must be given up. Names must be abandoned. And so forth!" The Convention, then, which these people propose to hold on the 7th prox., will solemnly resolve that it is 'Nothing to Nobody'-that it will nominate a ticket, which everybody must support-because if one man votes against it -lo! we have a party and are as badly off as ever. The trouble being in "party names," there will be no resource for this party which isn't a party, but to take the name of the Anonymous Party. There are probably a few electors in Massachusetts, who, even after this pathetic appeal, intend, with an obtuseness which is very discreditable, to vote for Governor Andrew and the rest of the Worcester Ticket. What then will this amiable Convention, with all its exquisite intentions, with all its boundless patriotism and with all its remarkable self-denial, do but intensify existing hostilities, and render mischievous dissensions and differences which are now at least harmless! What can they do but make a canvass? They say that now is the time for fighting, not theorizing. Well, cannot they fight without a Convention in Faneuil Hall? If Henry J. Gardner does really hunger and thirst for battle, who holds him? If Joel Parker wishes to be a Major-General, let him say so, for nobody will think of appointing him until he asks for a commission. One would suppose from the tone of this address that the Convention intended to meet merely to volunteer in a body. But the delegates will hardly do it. We intend to question neither their patriotism or their valor-but they will hardly do it. They will pass resolutions, like other delegates. They will emit speeches, more or less eloquent, like other delegates. They will nominate a State Ticket, like other delegates. And they will go home to support it, like other delegates. They are hardly superior to the instincts of human nature. They may be all Catos, and not one of them a Sergius Catiline-they may love their country and the Constitution with a gushing affection-but then, after all, they would so like to put Andrew, and Wilson, and Sumner, and Eliot, upon the shelf, and themselves occupy the stools thus made vacant! We like to see men happy, but we are afraid these enterprising aspirants are doomed to disappointment. The towns that didn't sign their call and some of those that did, will have something to say that will send them like a charm back to their respective sepulchres!-New York Tribune, Oct .4th.
"NO PARTY."
It is clear that under the specious guise of "no party" we are destined to have in this State a very virulent, foul-mouthed, and unscrupulous political organization; that instead of doing away with partizan distinctions, party feuds and differences are to be more than ever cherished and intensified. Look at the reckless und wholesale abuse heaped by the Hunker press upon Gov. Andrew, Mr. Sumner, and, since the issue of the emancipation proclamation, upon President Lincoln himself. The persistency and falsehood of some of these attacks reveal a depth of political depravity utterly inconceivable., The Courier, whose disloyalty was not even doubtful, until the majestic uprising of an indignant people, just after the fall of Sumter, gave evidence that treasonable utterances would not longer be tolerated,-this traitorous sheet perfectly reeks with falsehood and venom. For the last few days it has vied with the New York Herald in its misrepresentations of the recent conference of the loyal Governors at Altoona. (Anything loyal seems to be its particular aversion.) Its assertion that Governor Andrew had declared that not a soldier should leave Massachusetts until Gen. McClellan was removed, it has not the courage to retract, though it has not a shadow of proof to sustain the libel.
Mr. Sumner also comes in for about a column, daily, of drivel and mendacity from the same quarter. We have no doubt that when Lunt dies, who-ever makes a post mortem examination, will find the name of the Massachusetts Senator engraved on his heart. This amiable creature, however, does not have a monopoly of the "no party" blandishments. The Post, too, deprecates the re-election of Sumner and Andrew, and will not be answerable for the result, unless a brace of "no party" Hunkers, of its own stripe take their places. This is the beginning and
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
end of the “no partyism” of the organs of the new movement. It means no party except-their party.
We call attention to the following paragraph clipped from the Boston Transcript, which gives a delightful picture of the progress which is making in Boston toward “extinguishing party spirit!” Isn’t the prospect cheering?
THE NEW UNION PARTY.- At the caucus of the People’s Party in Ward 3, John C. Tucker, a Senator from Suffolk county, in a speech abusive of Senator Sumner, said unequivocally and without qualification that the greatest blunder which Brooks made was in not killing Mr. Sumner. Mr. Tucker discussed the measure of emancipation and the preferableness of the rebels, which he said he had no doubt had been prposed to the French Emperor-of gradual emancipation, conditional upon intervention. He had no hesitation in predicting that the French Government would intervene before the first of January next. This prediction was received with applause by several persons present. A
We would not for the world seem to be captious, but don’t some of these new champions of the government have a rather peculiar way of “ssustaining the President”? Yarmouth Register.

THE DUTY OF THE HOUR.
An Address Delivered Before the Fraternity in Boston, Oct. 7, 1862,
BY HON. HENRY WILSON.
When the Republic entered the family of nations, it proclaimed as its faith and creed, that Governments derive their just power from the consent of the governed. This accepted right of the people to institute, shape and fashion their public institutions, carries with it a corresponding duty. That duty is measured by the needs of the country, and by the pressing exigencies of the hour. To-night I shall speak of the duty the hour imposes upon the loyal men, aye, and upon the loyal women, too, of  United States.
We of America have been accustomed to contemplate, with something of gratitude and patriotic pride, the wondrous progress of our country, and the strength and stability of our Government. As we have watched the fraternal strifes-the desolating and bloody wars of factions that have followed each other, in the Republics of the New World, like the fleeting shadows of summer clouds, as we have watched, too, the revolutions, the rising and falling thrones and dynasties of the. Old World, we have turned, fondly and proudly, to our country, in the undoubting faith that the Republic was immortal, that, sustained by the vital and animating patriotism of a Christain people, it was ever instinct with the freshness and bloom of youth, and with the matured vigor of manhood. Gazing with beaming eye and throbbing heart upon the grandeur and beauty of this splendid edifice of constitutional government in America, we came to believe that it was as imperishable as the memory of its illustrious builders.
We have dreamed for our native land a glorious destiny-a magnificent career among the nations during the coming ages. But our bright, confident faith is now shaken-our high hopes are now dimmed -our conscious pride is now humbled-our gorgeous visions of the future glories of the Republic are now obscured by the storm of battle.
Our country, the land of so much affection, of pride and of hope, now presents to the startled and astonished gaze of mankind an appalling, humiliating and saddening spectacle. Treasonable menaces of other days have now hardened into treasonable deeds. Civil war holds its carnival, and reaps its bloody harvest. The nation is grappling with a gigantic conspiracy-struggling for existence-for the preservation of its menaced life-against a rebellion that finds no parallel in the annals of the world.
Why is it that the land resounds with the measured tread of a million of armed men? Why is it that our bright waters are stained and our green fields reddened with fraternal blood? Why is it that the young men of America, in the pride and bloom of early manhood, are summoned from homes, from the mothers who bore them, from the wives and sisters who love them, to the fields of bloody strife there to do soldiers’ duties, bear soldiers’ burdens, and fill soldiers’ graves? Why is it that thousands of the men and the women of Christian America are sorrowing with aching hearts and tearful eyes for the absent, the loved, and the lost? Why is it that the heart of loyal America throbs heavily, oppressed with anxiety and gloom for the future, of the country?
These crimes against the peace of the country and the life of the nation are all, all to eternize the hateful dominion of man over the souls and bodies of his fellow-men-to make slavery perpetual and its power forever dominant in Christian and Republican America. These sacrifices of property, of health, of life, these appalling sorrows and agonies now upon us, are all the inflictions of slavery in its gigantic effort to found a slaveholding empire in America. Yes, slavery is the conspirator who organized this mighty conspiracy against the unity and existence of the Republic. Slavery is the traitor that plunged the nation into the fire and blood and darkness of civil war. Slavery is the criminal whose hands are dripping with the blood of our murdered sons.
Slavery, bold, proud, domineering, with hate in its heart, scorn in its eye, defiance in its mein, has pronounced against the existence of Republican institutions in America, against the supremacy of the Government, the unity and life of the nation. Slavery, hating the cherished institutions that tend to secure the rights and enlarge the privileges of mankind, despising the toiling masses, as mudsills and white slaves, defying the Government, its Constitution and its laws, has openly pronounced itself the mortal and unappeasable enemy of the Republic. Slavery stands to-day the only clearly pronounced foe our country has on the globe. Therefore, every word spoken, every line written, every act performed that keeps the breath of life, for a moment, in slavery, is against the existence and perpetuity of democratic institutions-against the dignity of the toiling millions, of America-against the liberty, the peace, the honor, the renown and the life of the nation. In the lights of to-day that flash upon us from camp and battle-field, the loyal eye, heart and brain of America sees and feels and realizes that THE DEATH OF SLAVERY IS THE LIFE OF THE NATION! The loyal voice of patriotism throughout united America pronounces in clear accents that AMERICAN SLAVERY MUST DIE THAT THE AMERICAN REPUBLIC MAY LIVE!
The imperishable records of the Republic will bear to future ages the amplest evidence that slavery has ever been hostile to the spirit of her free institutions. Planted in America by the commercial and colonial policy of the British Empire, fostered by British legislation, protected by British Kings and Queens, Lords and Judges and Prelates, slavery, from the day it entered the harbor of Jamestown to the dawn of the Revolution, was an alien in America-an enemy to law and order, liberty and progress. The pages of our Colonial history bear to us the amplest testimony that our Fathers saw its malign influence, and protested against the slave trade, and the slave-extending policy of the British Government. The bright pages of our history, upon which are recorded the heroic deeds of the men who accepted the bloody issues of civil war in defence of their periled liberties, and whose names are forever associated with national independence and constitutional government, will transmit to all coming generations the glorious fact that the founders of the Republic believed slavery to be an evil-a moral, social and political evil-that would pass away under the influence of the ideas and principles they had proclaimed. Washington saw “its direful effects”; Franklin pronounced it “an atrocious debasement of human nature”; Mason declared that it produced “the most pernicious effect on manners” –that “every master of slaves was born a petty tyrant”-that “it brought the curse of Heaven upon a country”; Henry believed that “a time would come to abolish this lamentable evil”; and Jefferson proclaimed that “nothing is more certainly written in the book of fate, than that this people shall be free.” These immortal sons uttered the voice of Revolutionary America.
But slavery, ever shameless, lawless, aggressive, seductive, glided into that illustrious assembly which proclaimed America independent, and there bade. the men who were hurling defiance at the most powerful empire of the world, erase from their immortal Declaration the words Jefferson had traced, branding the African slave trade as an “execrable commerce”-piratical “warfare” a cruel war against human nature itself.” In the Continental Congress, when the country needed soldiers to fight her battles, slavery raised its imperious voice, as it does in these days of peril, against arming black men and permitting them to fight and bleed for the Republic. Slavery came into that convention of illus-
<c02>
trious statesmen met to frame a Constitution for United America, and by the voice of Pinckney defiantly declared that “South Carolina could never receive the Constitution if it prohibits the slave trade” and that assembly of immortal statesmen who had met unawed the power of the British empire were forced to permit the African slave trade to continue for twenty years longer, unchecked by national legislation, and to incorporate into the new Constitution a provision under color of which slave masters could hunt their fleeing bondmen over fields once moistened with Revolutionary blood.
Under the new Constitution, framed to secure the blessings of liberty, slavery strode into the chambers of Legislation, the Halls of Justice, the mansions of the Executive, and with menaces in the one hand and bribes in the other, it awed the timid and seduced the weak. Marching on from conquest to conquest, crushing where it could not awe, seduce or corrupt, slavery saw institutions of learning, benevolence and religion, political organizations and public men-aye, and the people, too, bend before it, and acknowledge its iron rule. Seizing on the needed acquisitions of Louisiana and of Florida, to extend its boundaries, consolidate its power and enlarge its sway, slavery crossed the Mississippi, and there established its barbarous dominion, against the too feeble resistance of a not yet conquered people. Controlling absolutely the policy of the South, swaying the policy of the nation, impressing itself upon the legislation, the sentiments and opinions of the North, slavery moved on to assured dominion. Under its aggressive advances emancipation societies, organized by the men of the Revolutionary era in the first bright ardor of secured liberty, disappeared; presses and churches forgot to remember those in bonds as bound with them, and recreant sons disowned the opinions and principles of a glorious ancestry. And slavery, in the pride of power, proclaimed itself in the Halls of Congress, through its apostles and champions, its Calhouns and McDuffies, “A POSITIVE GOOD”- “THE ONLY STABLE BASIS OF REPUBLICAN INSTITUTIONS"-"THE CORNERSTONE OF THE REPUBLICAN EDIFICE."
But amid this general defection from the faith of the statesmen and heroes of the Revolutionary age, a fearless and faithful few clung to the teachings of Washington and Franklin, Jefferson and Jay, and their illustrious compeers. Unawed by its power, unseduced by its blandishments, they opposed to the aggressions of slavery-aye, to slavery itself-a stern and unyielding resistance. They proclaimed emancipation to be the duty of the master and the right of the slave. To advance the cause of emancipation and to improve the condition of free people of color, they avowed their readiness to use “all means sanctioned by law, humanity and religion.” Slavery marked and branded these heroic men as political and social outlaws; compelling them, in the words of John G. Whittier, “to hold property, liberty, and life itself at the mercy of lawless mobs.” Slavery cast its malign influence over all the land, maddening the brain and firing the heart of a deluded people, against the fearless few who opposed its aggressions, and pitied its hapless victims. Passion, blind, unreasoning passion, ruled the hour. Cities were lighted by the sacked and burning dwellings of a proscribed and hated race. Churches, institutions of learning, and presses, were often forcibly closed or destroyed, at the bidding of slavery, by the lawless violence of “gentlemen of property and standing.” Here, in the metropolis of New England, a humble journal, with the motto. “Our country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind,” fearlessly advocated the cause of impartial liberty. Slavery bade Georgia to offer five thousand dollars reward for the editor of that offending journal; but the Liberator still bears its world-embracing motto, and William Lloyd Garrison still persists in wearing among us that proscribed head.
Slaves were held in the District of Columbia, and slave pens and the slave trade polluted and dishonored the National Capital, under the color of laws for which the people of America were responsible in the forum of nations and before the throne or the Almighty God. Christian men and women, oppressed with the sin and shame, humbly petitioned Congress to relieve them from that sin and shame by making the National Capital free. Slavery bade its tools-its Pattons, its Pinckneys and its  Athertons-violate the constitutional right of petition, and willing majorities hastened to register its decree. Slavery arraigned before the bar of the House of Representatives John Quincy Adams, the illustrious champion of the right of petition and the freedom of speech, and it expelled the fearless and faithful Giddings for the offence of daring to construe the Constitution of his country and the law of nations. Slavery stepped upon the decks of Massachusetts ships in the harbor of Charleston, seized colored seamen, citizens of the Commonwealth, and consigned them to prisons, to be fined, lashed, and, it might be, sold into perpetual bondage. Massachusetts, mindful of the rights of her citizens, sent Samuel Hoar, one or her most honored sons, to test the constitutional rights of her imprisoned citizens in the judicial tribunals. Slavery cast him violently from South Carolina, and enacted that whoever should attempt to defend the rights of colored seamen in the Courts of that State should suffer imprisonment.
Slavery cast its devouring eye upon the broad, rich fields of Texas, and sent her minions to wrench them from the feeble grasp of the Mexican republic. By the pen of Calhoun, her great champion, slavery, in the name of the nation, demanded, in the face of Europe, the annexation of that slaveholding nation, to prevent emancipation there, and to tighten the fetters of the bondmen here. In obedience to the humiliating demand, Texas was forced into the Union by an unconstitutional joint resolution, and the nation plunged into a war with Mexico. When peace returned, it brought with it half a million square miles of free territory. The North asked that this territory, made forever free by Mexican law, should be forever consecrated to Freedom by national legislation. Slavery demanded the right to extend itself over these free Territories, and threatened the dismemberment of the Union if that claim was denied. California framed a constitution and asked admission as a free commonwealth; slavery resisted her admission with menaces of disunion and civil war. To appease slavery, Congress organized Utah and New Mexico, so that slavery could range over them, gave fifty thousand square miles of the free soil of New Mexico to slaveholding Texas, and with them ten millions of dollars, and enacted the unconstitutional, inhuman and unchristian Fugitive Slave Act, that dishonored and humiliated the nation before earth and heaven. Slavery then, in her hour of complete triumph, insolently demanded, that the great political parties, who had shrank appalled before her menaces of disunion and civil war, and who had betrayed the cause of freedom, humanity and civilization in America, should now declare these her acts “finalities,” and bid the people cease “agitation.”
Having forced these parties to pronounce her legislation of 1850 a “finality in principle and substance,” slavery demanded the repeal of the Missouri prohibition of the 6th of March, 1820, and a faithless Congress hastened to open half a million square miles, in the central regions of the Republic, consecrated forever to Freedom and free labor, to the footsteps of her bondmen. Northern freemen went to that magnificent Territory to found the institutions of Freedom. Slavery bade its brutal tools invade Kansas, seize the ballot-box, elect a Territorial Legislature, enact inhuman and unchristian laws, bathe the virgin soil of that beautiful region with the blood of civil war, frame a slave constitution by fraud, and force it upon a free people. Faithfully did the propagandists of slavery labor in Kansas and in Congress, and in the Executive departments of the Government, to execute its decrees. They invaded the Territory, they usurped the Government, they enacted slave statutes, they robbed and burned, they murdered brave men contending for their law ful rights. In Congress, the champions of slavery were hardly less brutal than in the wilds of distant Kansas. Charles Sumner portrayed the crimes of slavery against Kansas, and he was smitten down upon the floor of the Senate, by “a brutal, murderous and cowardly assault.” The slave propagandists framed a slave constitution, sustained, it by fraud and violence, and the Administration, in obedience to the imperative demands of slavery, attempted to force it by corruption through Congress, upon an unwilling people. Slavery for the first time was baffled, defeated, dishonored. Free men triumphed; Kansas came into the Union radiant with Freedom.
Slavery saw its waning power; it saw, too, that its criminal victories of the past were barren and fruitless triumphs. It then wrung from the Supreme Court the Dred Scott decision, by which it hoped to control the vast Territories of the Republic, even against the will of the actual settlers. It bade the Legislature of New Mexico enact a slave code, and also a code for the enslavement of white laboring men. It sent Walker and his fillibusters to Central
<c03>
America to win slave territory. It sighed for. Cuba, which it could not clutch. It mobbed, flogged, expelled and sometimes murdered Christian men and women in the South, for no offence against law, humanity or religion. It maddened the Southern brain and fired the Southern heart. It turned the hearts of large masses of the people of the South against the institutions and the people of the North-against the Constitution and the old flag of the country. It came into the thirty-sixth Congress threatening to dismember this Union of constellated Commonwealths, if the people of America should elect a President opposed to its admission into the Territories. It rushed into the Democratic National Convention, and severed the Democratic party as the first step toward disunion. It then went into the Presidential election, seeking defeat, yet threatening the vengeance of disunion and civil war if defeated. Regardless of its treasonable menaces, the people went to the ballot-boxes and made Abraham Lincoln President of the United States. Slavery instantly raised the banner of treason, dragged South Carolina with headlong haste into open rebellion, and forced other States to follow swiftly her example. Slavery organized conspiracies in the Cabinet, conspiracies in Congress, conspiracies in the States, conspiracies in the Army, conspiracies in the Navy, conspiracies everywhere, for the overthrow of the Government and the disruption of the Republic. At the bidding of slavery, the oft-vaunted Southern Confederacy, the dream of slaveholding traitors for thirty years, rose upon the recognized basis that slavery was the normal condition of men of the African race. Slavery bade those of her champions who were in the service of the nation leave Cabinets and Senates, military posts and naval stations, for the service of the rebellion. At the bidding of slavery, Floyd, its truest exponent, left the Cabinet when there seemed nothing more for him to steal, and Davis and Toombs, Slidell and Mason, Hunter and Benjamin, and their guilty compeers in treason, in solemn mockery left the chambers of Congress, when the plots, conspiracies, treacheries and perjuries, imposed upon them by the Great Architect of ruin, seemed accomplished. 
Not content with seizing forts, arsenals, arms and public property everywhere within the rebel States, slavery bade the frowning batteries menacing Fort Sumter fire upon the Star of the West, sailing under the protecting folds of the national flag, and freighted with bread for starving soldiers; and when that act of armed treason failed to arouse to action an insulted but patient and forbearing country, slavery bade those rebel batteries open their fire on Sumter and its few starving, but heroic defenders, and those consuming batteries, in obedience to its command, hurled shot and shell upon that devoted fortress till the glorious old flag of United America came down, and the rebel banner waved over the smoking ruins. And thus slavery, after an aggressive warfare of two generations upon the vital and animating spirit of republican institutions, upon the cherished and hallowed sentiments of a free and Christian people, upon the enduring interests and lasting fame of the nation, organizes a treasonable conspiracy, raises the standard of revolt, and plunges the nation into a bloody contest for the preservation of its menaced life. To the full comprehension of every man in America, whose heart, brain and soul have not been poisoned by its seductive arts and malign influence, slavery is the cause, the whole cause, of this foul, wicked and bloody rebellion. Every loyal American, whose reason is unclouded, sees that slavery is the prolific mother of all these nameless woes-these sumless agonies of civil war. He sees that every loyal soldier upon the cot of sickness, of wounds and of death, was laid there by slavery; that every wounded and maimed soldier, hobbling along our streets, was wounded and maimed by slavery; that the lowly grave of every loyal soldier, fallen in defence of the country, was dug by slavery; that mourning wives and sorrowing children were made widows and orphans by slavery. Before the tribunal of mankind, of the present and of coming ages-before the bar of the ever-living God-the loyal heart of America holds slavery responsible for every dollar sacrificed, for every drop of blood shed, for every pang of toil, of agony and of death-for every tear wrung from suffering or affection, in this godless rebellion now upon us. For these treasonable deeds, these crimes against freedom, humanity and the life of the nation, slavery should be doomed by the loyal people of America to a swift, utter and ignominious annihilation.
But slavery should not only be doomed to an ignominious death-to perish utterly from the face of the country-for the treasonable crime of levying war upon the Government, but the safety, if not the existence of the nation demands its extermination. The experience of eighteen months of civil war has demonstrated to the full comprehension of every loyal and intelligent man in America, that slavery is the motive power, the heart and soul and brain of the rebellion. Slavery fills the hearts of the Southern people with its sweltered venom, with its dark and malignant hatred of the free States, and with its bitter scorn and contempt for the toiling masses, for the policy that cares for their rights and interests, and for the institutions that improve and elevate them. Slavery instinctively feels that the achieved institutions of twenty millions of free people, their free speech, free presses, their political, moral and religious convictions, their permanent interests, all forbid that its policy should continue to control the National Government. Slavery realizes, too, that every enduring element of the Constitution every permanent principle, of national policy and interest, is and must continue to be hostile to the ascendency of its principles and its policy. Slavery, hating, scorning, despising the toiling millions of the North, conscious that it cannot longer retain the permanent control of the National Government, consolidates the public opinion of the South against the people and government, and fires Southern ambition and interest with the idea of a splendid slaveholding empire, settling on the shores of the Mexican Gulf, and extending its imperial sway over Cuba, Mexico, and Central America.
Slavery not only fires the Southern heart, brain and soul, and nerves the Southern arm in council hall and on the battle-field, with its malignant hate and bitter scorn of Yankee laborers and Yankee institutions; its lofty contempt for the principles and policy of freedom, its haughty defiance of the authority of the National Government, and its gorgeous visions of the future power of the Southern Confederacy, commanding the commerce of the world by its tropical productions and its millions of slaves, but it uses the bones and sinews of more than three millions of the bondmen of rebel masters in support of the rebellion. These slaves of rebel masters sow and reap, plant and gather the harvests that support rebel masters and feed rebel armies. By their ceaseless, unpaid toil, these millions of bondmen enable their traitorous masters and the poor white men of the rebel States to leave their fields and shops and rush to the battle-field to shed the blood of our loyal countrymen, of our neighbors and friends and brothers and sons.
These bondmen throw up fortifications, dig trenches and rifle-pits, make roads and bridges, fell forests and build barracks, drive teams, and relieve in many ways the toil of rebel soldiers, thus making more efficient the rebel armies. It is as clear as the track of the sun across the heavens, that these slaves of rebel masters are as efficient instruments for the overthrow of the authority of the Federal Government, for the dismemberment of the Republic, and the establishment of the rebel empire, as are rebel soldiers in camp or on battlefield. The spade and hoe of the slaves of rebels support the rifle and bayonet of rebel soldiers. Slavery is not only the motive powers the heart and soul of the rebellion, but it is the arm also. Therefore, the preservation of the life of the country, and the lives of our brave soldiers battling for national existence, as well as the just punishment of conspiracy and treason, demand that the loyal men of the Republic shall swear by Him who liveth evermore that slavery in America shall die.
Not only the punishment of its appalling crimes, not only the lives of our countrymen and the preservation of the life of the nation, demand the utter extermination of slavery, but the future peace and repose of the country also demand it. Slavery has poisoned the very fountains of existence in the South. It has entered into the blood and bone and marrow and the soul of our Southern countrymen. It has filled their bosoms with bitter, fierce, unreasoning hate toward their countrymen of the North, and the institutions, the government and the flag of their country. So long as slavery shall live, it will infuse its deadly and fatal poison into the Southern brain, heart and soul. Then, let slavery die a felon’s death, and sink into a traitor's grave, amid the curses of a loyal nation. Then, when slavery shall sleep the sleep that knows no waking, in the grave of dishonor and infamy, reason will assume its mild
<c04>
sway again over our now maddened, poisoned and intoxicated countrymen of the South. Take the maddening cup from the trembling hand of the drunkard, who, in his wild delirium, hates the mother who bore him, the wife of his bosom and the children of his love, and that drunkard will be a man again, and love, cherish and protect the mother, wife and children he would smite down in his madness. Smite down slavery, strike the fetters from the limbs of its hapless victims, and slave masters will become loyal again, ready to pour out their blood for the government they now hate and the country they now assail. They will recur to the recollections of the early days of the Republic with gratitude and patriotic pride-they will look forward with undoubting confidence in the future of their country. Their hearts will again throb with kindly regard for their countrymen of the North, and they will hail once more the beneficent institutions of a united country. The old flag, under which the men of the North and of the South fought and bled, side by side, on land and wave, will again be an object of affection and pride; its stars, now obscured to their vision, will gleam with brighter lustre and more radiant beauty.
Would we, then, punish the foul conspirator, the lawless traitor, the giant criminal, that organized this conspiracy, inaugurated this civil war and murdered our sons; would we preserve our country one and indivisible; would we secure for our countrymen, our institutions, our country and our government, future peace, repose and affection, let us crush out and utterly exterminate slavery in America. Surely, the needs of the country, the pressing exigencies of the passing hour, teach this as our first and highest duty. Surely, the far-seeing intelligence of loyal patriotism is rising to the full comprehension of this duty to an endangered country, to the present and future ages. Surely, the Congress of the United States and the Chief Magistrate of the Republic have come to the realization of this transcendent duty of the hour.
When slavery, in the spring of 1861. stained the land with the blood of civil war, the President, by proclamation, summoned the thirty-seventh Congress to meet on the 4th of July, and at noon on that day Congress assembled, to enter upon the mighty task imposed upon it by the national perils. Vacant chairs in both chambers vividly impressed upon the mind the gigantic proportions of the rebellion, and the fearful magnitude of the impending struggle, and inspired the soul with something of awe in the presence of events so transcendent. Few of the chiefs of slavery were present to dominate, seduce or corrupt. The clear-headed, practical, dominating Davis-the erratic, reckless, blustering Toombs the accomplished, timid, cautious Hunter-the eloquent, polished, insincere Benjamin-the pretentious, pompous Mason-the bold, adroit, unscrupulous Slidell-the dark, cold, bitter Clay-the genial, courteous, fanatical Brown, and their compeers in conspiracy, sedition and treason, plotted their foul, dark and infernal work no longer in the Capitol of the nation. But Breckinridge, the chosen chief of incipient treason, not less guilty than his absent compeers in crime, was present to cavil and criticise, to denounce the acts of loyal patriotism, ere he slunk away to strike at the heart of the country that had trusted and honored him. The chair of Douglas was vacant; life-long opponents gazed sadly upon it, for they gratefully remembered that the closing hours of his crowded life were given to patriotism, to adjuring his devoted followers to cling to the Union, and crush the rebellion with the iron hand of war. Andrew Johnson, baffling the assassins of the Union in Tennessee, was present to cheer and to animate by bold and patriotic councils.
Seldom in the history of nations have statesmen been called to the performance of higher duties than were the men who were summoned, by the Administration they had placed in power, to legislate for a land rent and torn by discord, and stained by fraternal blood. They entered with brave hearts and resolved spirits upon the great work imposed upon them, with unsurpassed devotion and tireless industry. The Administration asked for four hundred thousand men and four hundred millions of dollars, and Congress promptly gave it five hundred thousand men and five hundred millions of dollars. The army and navy were increased, and laws enacted for the organization and government of the military and naval forces, and for supplying the Government with the needed means to carry on the war, whose gigantic proportions startled and amazed the world.
Statesmen or the majority in both Houses of Congress clearly saw that slavery was not only the cause and motive power of the rebellion, but that the ceaseless toil of its four millions of enforced victims enabled treason to fill the ranks, feed and pay its armies. They would quickly strike at the vitals of the insurrection by confiscating the property of leading rebels, and freeing the slaves of all rebel masters; but prudence demanded that they should yield, at least for a time, to the counsels of the cautious and the fears of the timid. Slaves were used by rebel armies to erect fortifications, dig trenches and rifle-pits, but it was not until after the defeat of Bull Run that a majority could be obtained in Congress to enact that such slaves should be declared free. The timid and the cautious feared that Union men in the border States would be alarmed by the emancipation of the slaves used to construct works, behind which rebel legions might hurl shot and shell into the bared bosoms of our devoted sons, battling for their country under the old flag. But this measure, denounced by the traitor Breckinridge as “the first of a series of acts loosing all bonds,” became the law of the land.
As the rebellion developed its gigantic proportions, as the rebel Confederacy manifested its great military power, the loyal masses, whose instincts out-run the deductions of statesmen, did not fail to see that slavery was the vital and impelling force of the rebellion, and that it should be crippled by the exercise of all the constitutional and war powers of the government, so they hailed and welcomed the proclamation of John C. Fremont.
Congress assembled in December, instructed by the events of the war, and assured by the sentiments of the people. Measures of transcendent magnitude pressed for consideration, and to the consideration of these measures Congress addressed itself with an industry never surpassed-no, never equalled by any Congress in the history of the Republic. Important measures concerning the army and navy were passed, a great system of internal taxation was devised, and the revenue laws revised. The Pacific Railroad bill was enacted, and that beneficent measure, the Homestead bill, was made the law of the land. Other measures for the defence, protection and interests of the country, hardly less important, were matured and enacted; but the crowning glory of the thirty-seventh Congress was its  comprehensive, far-reaching legislation against slavery, the declared enemy of the country, and the common enemy of the race. For two generations, slavery has polluted the national capital, under the sanction of the nation. On the day Congress reassembled, three thousand men, women and children, fettered by the people of this Republic as they held up their manacled hands, could see the stars and stripes wave over the Capitol. Congress, by decisive majorities in both Houses, struck the shackles from the limbs of these three thousand bondmen and made the capital of the nation free forevermore. Slavery, stung to madness, muttered maledictions, painted the miseries of freedom, drew vivid pictures of the horrors of San Domingo, and predicted anarchy and strife; but the enfranchised bondmen assembled in the churches of the living God, and offered up the thanks of a grateful people for the priceless boon of personal freedom.
The fifteen thousand persons of African descent in the District of Columbia were subjected to inhuman and oppressive laws and ordinances. Congress enacted that they should be tried for the same of fences in the same manner and be subjected to the same punishment, as were white persons. The free colored people of the District were compelled to pay taxes for the support of schools from which their children were excluded and Congress authorized them to establish schools, and to pay their money for their support.
Slavery demanded the right to enter and range over the Territories unchecked by national legislation, or local law. It bade the legislators of New Mexico enact a barbarous slave code, and also a degrading code for the oppression of white laboring men, but those legislators hastened to repeal those dishonoring codes, when the nation put its heel upon the neck of the Slave Power in the Autumn of 1860. On every rood of the vast territory of the United States, the thirty-seventh Congress has written, slavery shall be prohibited forever and forever.
Slavery, unmindful of the commercial interests of the country, although the commercial interests of the country are too often mindful of the interests
<c05>
of slavery, has persistently refused to acknowledge the independence of Hayti, but the thirty-seventh Congress, under the lead of Charles Sumner, by large majorities, acknowledged the independence of the governments of Hayti and Liberia. For years, the African slave-traders have carried on their inhuman and accursed traffic, under the protection of the American flag, and slavery saw neither inhumanity nor dishonor in this degrading prostitution of the emblem of our sovereignty. The Senate promptly ratified the treaty made by the Administration with England for the effectual suppression of the traffic, by the mutual recognition of the right of visitation and search on the coast of Africa, and Congress also enacted the needed legislation to carry the treaty into effect.
Officers in the military service have dishonored that service by surrendering persons claimed as fugitive slaves. Sometimes, persons claimed as fugitive slaves have been given up to rebel claimants and inhumanly tortured. Our camps have been searched by traitor masters, weaponed for violence, and brave officers have been arrested and punished for refusing to stain their souls with the crime of surrendering to rebels escaped slaves who have served the country with noble fidelity. The 37th Congress enacted and made it one of the Articles of War, that persons claimed as fugitive slaves shall not be surrendered by persons engaged in the military and naval service, on pain of dismissal from that service. Congress also declared, in the tenth section of the Confication Act-
“That no slave escaping into any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, from any of the States, shall be delivered up, or in any way impeded or hindered of his liberty, except for crime, or some offence against the laws, unless the persons claiming said fugitive shall first make oath that the person to whom the labor or service of such fugitive is alleged to be due, is his lawful owner, and has not been in arms against the United States in the present rebellion, nor in any way given aid and comfort thereto; and no person engaged in the military or naval service of the United States shall, under any pretence whatever, assume to decide upon the validity of the claim of any person to the service or labor of any other person, or surrender up any such person to the claimant, on pain of being dismissed from the service.”
By the ninth section of the Confiscation Act, the thirty-seventh Congress provided:
“That all slaves of persons who shall hereafter be engaged in rebellion against the Government of the United States, or who shall be at war, give aid or comfort thereto, escaping from such persons, and taking refuge within the lines of the army, and all slaves captured from such persons, or deserted by them, and coming under the control of such persons in, or being within any place occupied by rebel forces, and afterwards occupied by the forces of the United States, shall be deemed captures of war, and shall be forever free of their servitude, and not again held as slaves.”
This broad and sweeping act, if faithfully executed, annihilates slavery wherever our armies march in the rebel States. Freedom now follows the advancing flag of the Republic.
The President was authorized by Congress to secure the services of the slaves of rebels for military purposes, and the slaves so accepted, their mothers, wives and children, if held by rebels, are made free forever. This series of acts of the thirty-seventh Congress, “loosing” in the words of John C. Breckinridge, “all bonds,” will be sanctioned by the approval of the present and of coming ages, by that patriotism that embraces the permanent and lasting interests of United America, by that humanity that cares for the poor and lowly, by that religion that recognizes in the humblest of the children of men a being made in the image of God, for whom Christ mounted the cross. The act giving a gratuity of one million dollars to the loyal slave masters of the District of Columbia, and the vote pledging the nation to aid emancipation in the loyal States, will stand forever as evidences of the moderation, the justice, and the. self-sacrificing spirit of the men who carried through Congress this series of humane, Christian and patriotic measures.
On the 22d of September, the President enjoined upon and ordered persons engaged in the military and naval service of the United States to observe, obey and enforce, within their respective spheres of service, “the act and sections above recited.” By the, provisions of “the act and sections above cited” by the President, “no person engaged in the military or naval service of the United States shall, under any pretence whatever, assume to decide upon the validity of the claim of any person to the service of labor of any other person, or surrender up any such person to the claimant, on pain of being dismissed from the service” nor “can any slave escaping into any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, be delivered up to any rebel, or in any way impeded or hindered of his liberty,” by any rebel; and all slaves of rebels taking refuge within the lines of the army, or who may be “captured” from rebels, or “deserted by them,” and “all slaves of such persons in or being within any place occupied by the rebel forces and afterwards occupied by the forces of the United States, shall be forever free of their servitude, and not again held as slaves.” The President calls the attention of the nation to these humane, wise and comprehensive provisions of the laws of Congress and “enjoins” and “orders” persons engaged in the military and naval service to “observe, obey and enforce them,” and these title-deeds to freedom are hereafter to be “enforced” by the glittering bayonets of a million of men in the land of the rebellion.
The President proclaims in his immortal proclamation of the 22d of September-
“That, on the first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, all persons held as slaves within any State, or in any designated part of a State, the people whereof shall be in rebellion against the United States, shall be then, thenceforward, and forever free; and the Executive Government of the United States, including the military and naval authority thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons, and will do no act or acts to repress such persons, or any of them, in any efforts they may make for their actual freedom.”
By this exercise of the war powers of the Government, by the Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, all persons held as slaves within any State or part thereof in rebellion on the first day of the coming January, “shall be then, thenceforward and forever free,” and the Executive of the United States, including the military and naval authority thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons. This proclamation that “all persons held as slaves” in rebel States on the 1st day of January, “shall be then, thenceforward and forever free,” is a complete, absolute and final decree of emancipation. No proclamation, order or decree, to this effect, will be required on the first day of January, 1863. All that is then required to make this decree of freedom unconditional, is for the Chief Magistrate of the United States to redeem his solemn pledge-which the recording Angel has registered that the Executive will on the first day of January, 1863, by proclamation, designate the States and parts of States, if any, in which the people thereof respectively shall then be in rebellion against the United States.” The irreversible decree of freedom has gone forth to master and slave, to earth and heaven. Its hour is fixed. Its metes and bounds only remain to be defined and established. These metes and bounds within which “all persons held as slaves” shall be then, thenceforward and forever free,” will be defined and established by the brain that conceived and the hand that penned these noble words: “This is a world of compensations; and he who would be no slave, must consent to have no slave. Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves; and, under a just God, cannot long retain it.”
By this sweeping legislation of Congress, by this far-reaching proclamation of the Chief Magistrate of the United States, the nation is now openly and actively placed against the longer existence of the implacable, relentless, inexorable enemy of its interests, its honor, its peace and its life. After eighteen months of civil war, this rent and torn, bruised, wounded and bleeding nation decrees the doom of its deadliest foe, whose malignant hate “cannot but by annihilating die.”
This decree of emancipation, in rebel States, born of military necessity, proclaimed by the President in the full exercise of war powers, is now the settled and irrepealable law of the nation, to be “observed, obeyed, and enforced” by army and navy, and by the voice of the nation. The enforcement of this proclamation will give peace and order, freedom and unity to a now distracted country; the failure to enforce it will bring with it discord and anarchy, a dissevered Union and a broken nation. The issues are clearly and distinctly drawn by the proclamation between law and order and freedom
<c06>
and a united nation on the one hand, and anarchy and discord and slavery and a shivered and dishonored Union on the other. Freedom, humanity and religion, the unerring voice of patriotism, pronounces all attempts to defeat the enforcement of this proclamation, decreeing the freedom of all slaves in rebel States, as unpatriotic as criminal, aye, as treasonable, too, as were the efforts to defeat the final establishment of the Declaration of the 4th of July, 1776. The men who sought to defeat the consummation of that “proclamation of the universal emancipation of man from the thraldom of man” sank into obscure and dishonored graves, under the blasting and withering fires of outraged patriotism. The fires of patriotism burn as brightly now as in earlier days, and the men “who,” in the words of a gallant soldier, “emerge from their gloom as the shadows fall upon their country,” the men who prate of the constitutional rights of slavery, treason and crime, should remember the fate of the <Illegible> neutrals” and the sticklers for “rightful authority” in 1776, ere joining in giving aid and comfort to the traitor chiefs, who now madly threaten, “upon any attempt being made to execute the proclamation of Abraham Lincoln, to hoist the black flag,” and proclaim a war of extermination, to secure its withdrawal or non-execution.” Patriotism instinctively endorses this proclamation of emancipation; treason in every fibre of its being strives with bloody hands to throttle it. In the fiery and bloody struggles through which this proclamation must pass, struggles that will stir this nation to its profoundest depths. patriotism will mark and brand as “traitors were they not cowards” the men who care more for the safety of the rebel masters, than for the blood of brave men fighting the battles of the endangered country-more for the perpetuity of slavery in rebellion than for unity and perpetuity of the Republic.
Our country is now floating on the stormy waves of civil war. Darkness lowers and tempests threaten. The waves are rising and foaming and breaking around us, and over us with engulfing fury. But amidst the gloom, the star of duty easts its clear radiance over the dark and troubled waves making luminous our pathway. The duty of the hour is as plain to the clear vision of intelligent patriotism, as though it were written in letters of light on the bending arches of the skies. That duty is, with every conception of the brain every throb of the heart, every aspiration of the soul, by thought, by word and by deed, “to observe, obey and enforce” the wise, far seeing, patriotic, humane and christian policy embodied in the proclamation of the 22d of September-to “observe obey and enforce,” that policy, by surrounding the Chief Magistrate, who proclaims it, with such men and such men only, as, by acts and declared opinions, hail and welcome it,-by crowding the ranks of the armies that are to bear it on the points of their flashing bayonets till the nation shall
“hear the bells of cheer
Ring Peace and Freedom in.”
AN OLD-TIME DEMOCRAT ON THE PROCLAMATION.
At the great Republican ratification meeting, held at the Cooper Institute, New York City, on Wednesday evening, Oct. 8th, the Hon. DANIEL S. DICKINSON in the course of a powerful and patriotic speech thus expressed himself in regard to the Emancipation Proclamation:-
I have no new light upon the subject of this rebellion, or the manner in which it should be treated I stand to-day where I stood when Sumter fell-(cheers)-determined to see my Country’s Flag vindicated-to see the supremacy of the Constitution established and upheld-to see sovereign law acknowledged-to see rebellion crushed-to act with those, and those only, who would go all lengths <illegible> break it down-to act against all who would be <illegible> defenders or apologists-to act with those who <Illegible> pursuing rebellion, would stop only at the <Illegible> of Civilization and Christianity in efforts to destroy it (applause)-to employ every means, moral, and material known to man to cut it up and to cut it down the most effectually, and at the earliest moment (Great cheering.) I devoted seven of the best <illegible> of my life in efforts for the settlement of this accursed question peaceably-that it might be taken out of the political field North and South, and be <Illegible> alone to work out its own peculiar problem under the mysterious dispensation of a guiding and <Illegible> Providence. Now that it is unnecessarily made the pretext for a wicked and causeless rebellion by the Southern people, I care not how soon I see its end (Great cheering and waving of handkerchiefs “Them’s my sentiments.” With no Abolition <Illegible> in a political sense, but the reverse, I would not have gone out of my way to look up slavery is this conflict, or to avoid slavery, but would have treated it like any other element, taking it when it would give us strength or weaken them, and employed it accordingly. I have never seen a moment since the outbreak when I would have touched the institution for itself alone, nor when I would not have cut it from its moorings in one hour, if it would have aided in disposing of the rebellion, and I would do the same now. (Applause.) I hold the war power broad enough to cover the whole question, and I confess, in a time when our Government is trembling in the balance before the world, I like to see it exercised when it is well, and boldly, and <Illegible> oughly done.
Let those who take the sword perish with the sword, is my doctrine, and let those who raise a rebellious army against the Constitution, take just such aid and comfort as martial law and the was power in their utmost rigor mete out to them whether it be hemp, or steel, or lead, or a confiscation of property. If slaves are property, they are subject to the same rules as other property, and should be treated accordingly. There is no charm upon the subject, and should be no mystification over it. I early saw, that rebellion, it long continued, would end in emancipation-that from a necessity emancipation was to enter into the question, for as the rebellion progressed and declined, and was on its last legs, it would at the last moment liberate the slaves in its desperation, if events had not sooner practically done so, or emancipation had not them been proclaimed by the Federal Government. I would have preferred practical and real acts in the premises as occasions demanded, under martial law as such, to theories or paper proclamations, for I hold the war power abundant and legislation unnecessary; but, the President having determined upon a Proclamation, I would have preferred to see how it would work in the last few months of the old year, to the first day of the new. (Great applause.) But if the Proclamation weakens rebellion and strengthens Government-as I hope and believe it will-I am for it and all its consequences, and any and every other measure which will conduce to that end. The institution has been overworked, and can no longer form political capital on either side, of which politicians of both shades will please take notice. It is to pass away during the present struggle, especially if long continued, and as an element of mischief and disturbance, and as a just retribution to those who have taken up arms against the government in its name for vile political ends, it has my permission to start at the earliest moment possible, and to make the exodus a complete one. One such Government is worth all the slavery that has existed since Joseph was sold into Egypt. (Cheers.) If Rebellion wishes to avoid these results, and to invoke the Constitution, let it acknowledge its supremacy, embrace the olive branch extended by the President, and lay down its arms and close its work of treason and murder. The cry that released contrabands are coming North is for political effect, and to secure votes from alarmed laborers. When slavery is no longer recognized in the Southern States, the colored race will not struggle for the cold North to compete with our laborers, but those now with us will seek a more congenial clime in the sunny South, where the climate is more agreeable and the labor and productions better suited to their wants, and tastes, and habits.
Gov. TOD ON THE PROCLAMATION. Gov.David Tod, of Ohio, who had always voted the straight Democratic ticket till after the bombardment of Fort Sumter, in a recent speech at Columbus thus upheld the President’s Proclamation of Freedom:-
“I heartily indorse every word of it. It was well-timed for Ohio. The border was threatened. I prefer to have rebel firesides threatened than to have ours invaded. So long as slaves are allowed to remain at home, so long will rebellion last. Do you question its wisdom? Were not ninety days long enough for the rebel master to make up his mind to lay down his arms or lose his slaves? The blood of Ohio has been shed like water. It must be atoned for in the death of the leaders of this rebellion!”
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
OCTOBER 17.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1862.
FACTIOUS OPPOSITION TO THE GOVERNMENT.
The assembly of hunkers which met in Faneuil Hall last week, calling itself the "People’s Convention," though meeting in pursuance of a Call which enjoined support of the President, spent its chief strength in opposing his declared policy as chief magistrate, and in opposing the strongest supporters of that policy in this State. Though profuse in lip-loyalty, their obvious purpose was to embarrass and counter act the Government in that which is now the most important and distinctive feature of the war.
Of course, they must have a pretext for so unusual a proceeding as opposition to a functionary whom they came together to support, for the express purpose of supporting whom they were originally called together. This pretext they manufacture out of the distinction between the legislative, judicial and executive powers of our government 
When we examine the distinction here presented, we find that it gives these persons not the slightest help, and that it has no such force or meaning as they endeavor to put upon it. The President’s Proclamation in regard to the slavers of rebels, so far from being in opposition to the legislative department of the Government, is, in its most important part, (its Immodestly operative part,) only a special injunction to the officers of the army and navy to pay strict obedience to the laws enacted by the last Congress; an injunction rendered eminently necessary by the fact that many of the officers had disregarded, and some had directly violated, the laws in question. The very act which these pro-slavery hunkers are censuring, and striving to nullify, is a proof of the unity of purpose and action between the Executive and Legislative departments. And the Judicial department has had no occasion yet to pass upon the matter.
The People’s Convention seem desperately unlucky in their movements. They bestowed the highest eulogies upon General George B. McClellan, taking it for granted that he was on their side in this opposition to the President. But immediately after their meeting comes the telegraphic report of a new army order from McClellan, commanding the obedience of his subordinates to the President’s Proclamation, and using the very distinction which his hunker eulogists had made, to enforce a conclusion directly opposite to theirs. The army officers are now called upon by their chief to pay implicit obedience to the President’s Proclamation. This insures the execution of that important part of it which is immediately operative, the part which now frees all slaves whatever who come or may be within the lines of our army, or who may be captured any where from rebel masters, and which forbids all officers and soldiers to surrender any fugitive whatever to any person claiming him or her as a slave. Thus we see that immediate freedom is insured to large numbers of slaves by the Proclamation, and that the army has entered upon the work of executing it. Of the prospective portion of the Proclamation the President himself will take care in due time 
The Democratic Convention recently held in Worcester thought they could best obstruct the President’s movement by uniting with their old opponents in the election of State officers; or, more accurately speaking, by uniting to prevent the reelection of a Governor and a Senator who are hearty supporters of the President. Pilate and Herod are ready enough to make friends together when the advance of reform endangers them both.
Early in the proceedings of the Democratic Convention, a very neat self-exposure was perpetrated by Mr. Edwin C. Bailey, editor of the Boston Herald, showing at once the factious purpose and the hypocritical character of the movement in which he was engaged. The report of his speech on being chosen President of the Convention contains this paragraph:
"We must strengthen the conservative element, must rally around the President, McClellan and Halleck. He did not mean to sustain the President’s Proclamations. The Emancipation Proclamation he thought uncalled-for, and the Proclamation about the writ of habeas corpus was a blow at republican government."
The first of these sentences was a slip of the tongue, being what the speaker had intended to say before these Proclamations appeared, and while the President seemed still inclined to refuse adopting the policy contained in them. The remainder of this paragraph is a correction of this blunder, setting forth the real intention of the speaker and the Convention, namely, to oppose two movements which the President had just declared indispensable to an effective prosecution of the war.
To rally around a Commander-in-Chief by discouraging and obstructing the movements he has ordered is something novel and piquant. "Call you this hacking of your friends? A plague upon such backing!"-might the President appropriately say. But to such extremities of self-contradiction and self-stultification as this are the opponents of reform all over the country now reduced.
As to Mr. Bailey’s censure of the president for his suspension of the habeas corpus—a censure implying that in the midst of the gigantic war and the mighty revolution through which we are now passing, all the ordinary forms of civil and legal action may and should proceed exactly in their accustomed channels—we commend to those who are inconsiderate enough to hold such an opinion, the remarks lately made upon that point by a distinguished Democrat. Hon. Daniel S. Dickinson, as follows: —
"The course of the President in arresting spies and the apologists of rebellion—in suppressing treasonable presses—in suspending the habeas corpus, and in laying his hands upon the aiders and comforters and thanks of every good citizen. Let assassins whet their knives—let spies and traitors and pimps and informers scowl and gibber and whisper discontent because the ‘freedom of speech’ is abridged—let conspiracy and treason plot at their infernal conferences—let politicians scheme and elongate and contract their gum-elastic platforms to suit emergencies—let trimming, balancing, Joseph Surface candidates indulge it ground and lofty tumbling to divert popular attention from the true issue—let pestilent newspapers, engaged in stimulating rebellion and sowing broadcast seeds <W> disunion and revolt among the people in the name of the ‘liberty of the press,’ spread abroad their ill-concealed hatred of the Government of their fathers, be cause it fails to minister to their depraved wishes; and when all this has been done, the action of the President in these measures, though probable not free from mistakes and errors, will be approved by honest me in the sight of Heaven, and will, when rebellion shall only be remembered for the blood it has shed and the wrongs it has perpetrated, ‘stand the test of talent and of time.’ Loyal men find the rule no inconvenience. That the disloyal should condemn it, and hat it as they fear it is natural; for 
‘No rogue e’er felt the halter draw 
With good opinion of the law.’"
The Government has declared itself for Emancipation. The more openly opponents of that measure show themselves, the more effectively can the Government lay hold on them as aiders and abettors <W> the rebellion—C. K. W. 
We have received from our afflicted friend ANDREW T. FOSS, an obituary notice of the son whom he has just lost, which we are reluctantly compelled to defer till our next issue. We had previously clipt the following extract from the letter of a Manchester <W> respondent of the Boston Journal: —
"MANCHESTER, N. H., Oct. 6, 1862. The funer of Eugene K. Foss, a member of the band of the 4th regiment N. H. V., just discharged and returned home took place this afternoon at the Lowell street church. The occasion was an imposing one, and a very large number of friends and citizens were present. The pastor of the church, Rev. Mr. Bowles, officiated, and delivered a short and touching address, eulogizing <W> many virtues of the deceased. The body was attended to the grave by a large concourse, the Cornet ban and the printers of the city, who mourn him as brother and fellow-craftsman, attending in a body"
<c02>
THE CAUSE, AND THE CURE.
The proslavery Northern journals which have been accustomed to damage and demoralize the Republican party by quoting the Newburyport Herald as a Republican paper may as well lay aside that particular form of imposture, and choose some more plausible one. It is true that there are papers called Republican, and claiming to be such, which have always acted as a clog upon that party, checking its aspirations, retarding its progress, and exercising upon it a generally damaging influence; but even the Daily Advertiser would hardly give such proof of utter alienation from all the sympathies of the Republican party as the Herald has just done.
In descanting upon the sadness of our present condition, and the uncertainty of our prospects, the Herald makes a list of men from whose statesmanship it has been wont to expect great and good results to the public welfare; these men are Van Buren, Cass, Fillmore, Buchanan, Crittenden, Douglas, Franklin Pierce, Robert C. Winthrop, Caleb Cushing! It frankly confesses disappointment at the result, so far, of the career of these eminent persons; but what Republican ever expected benefit to the country from their counsels? 
The Herald assumes that the government is "probably doing all that it can under the circumstances, " but cannot conceive why we do not make progress towards the suppression of the rebellion, unless this may be accounted for by " a singular torpidity, " a " dormancy, " which, from time to time, without obvious cause, is found to affect classes, and even nations. This is as if a physician, after having administered a large dose of opium, should express amazement at the torpidity or dormancy manifested by the patient. In the former case, as in the latter, the dormant and torpid state results, directly and obviously, from the previous treatment.
The disease of the North, a disease which thoroughly accounts for all its present symptoms, is that determined toleration of slavery, as something permanently established, and rightfully established, which has been maintained through the lives of two generations. The steady continuance of a violation so enormous, at once of justice, reason and humanity, for so long a period, and the attempt to deceive ourselves and others by assuming this worst of tyrannies to be neither anti-republican nor anti Christian, has of course deeply corrupted the minds and impaired the moral sense of the majority of our community. And now, though the great publication office of rebellion is constantly issuing documents proving that slavery is the cause of our troubles, and that they can cease only by the abolition of slavery, our people are so averse, not merely to confess, but to see that they have been in the wrong, that all sorts of weak inventions are devised to account for the rebellion, and all sorts of insufficient expedients contrived to end it, while they persist in ignoring the one real cause, and the one only remedy.
Let us stand by the President in enforcing the edict of Emancipation. And let all good citizens so plainly show their conviction that this is our right and indispensable policy, that if events shall show Mr. Lincoln the need of consummating this great movement before the first of January, he may feel that in doing so, he will be heartily approved and sustained by the Northern people.—C. K. W.
PR0-8LAVERY LITERATTURE IN ENGLAND.
A new pamphlet of 122 pages, printed by Bentley in London, has reached this city. It is entitled "Union, Disunion and Reunion," and is in the form of a letter from John L. O’Sullivan (late Minister of the United States to Portugal) to General Franklin Pierce.
The author suggests five several causes for the hostility, now finding its culmination in war, between our Southern and Northern States. The fifth of these is "a hostile interference," by the North, "with the great social question of shivery at the South." This writer also suggests and recommends a remedy, which is very direct and simple. Let the North, he says, propose to the South such amendments to the Constitution, in regard to slavery and other things, as may remove Southern objections to association with us.
If we would have such reunion, he says—
"The North must make up its mind to give up, once for all and for ever, these two fatal mistakes:—
"1 Unequal and unfair tariff taxation of the agricultural South.
"2 Intermedding with the Southern slavery question, whether by direct or by not less offensive and dangerous indirect means, of attack upon it through the machinery of the Federal Government.
"To do this with effect, adequate amendment of the Constitution is the only way. The amendment must be such as to give ample guarantee for the future."
It occurs to this ingenious gentleman that Abolitionists and " the anti-slavery party generally" will naturally dislike and oppose such changes. But he has a remedy for this also. "This influence," he says, "we must simply beat down."
While we are wondering at the misconceptions of Englishmen in regard to this country and its pending struggle, it is but fair to remember how much pro-slavery literature is prepared and spread before them by the hands of Northern people.—c. K. W.
LETTERS FROM THE THIRTY-THIRD REGIMENT.
CAMP NEAR ALEXANDRIA, Va., Oct 5, 1862. DEAR MR. GARRISON:
Although you are a man of peace, I conclude you will not object to hear from the 33d Massachusetts Volunteers,—the Anti-Slavery Regiment, par excellence. We are still encamped in the neighborhood of this place, which we reached six weeks ago; but with the prospect now of leaving in a few days to join Sigel.
If one waists to get an idea of how towns looked in the olden colony times, he should visit Alexandria. The streets and their names have a monarchical, rotten look; so that on strolling through them, (if we should not get prematurely tripped up in a gully hole,)we feel somewhat as Rip Van Winkle must have felt after his long sleep. "Royal," "King," "Prince " and "Fairfax" streets meet the eye; the church bells strike the ear with a decidedly old-world tone ; and the farmers, such as are left, store their produce in stacks out of doors, instead of in barns. The streets 1 are dirty, full of uncouth holes, and indeed, seem not to have been repaired since the days when George Washington made it his militia headquarters. And the streets fitly represent the human city, which is full of Jews and prostitutes; as nasty a moral sink as was ever moulded in Europe.
I visited the old slave-pen, and found the sign still legible-"PRICK, BIRCH & Co., Dealers in Slaves." It is now occupied as a Police Office, and occasionally as a prison for rebel soldiers. The dungeons on the ground floor, formerly used for refractory slaves, are horrible dens, without a chance for ventilation; they look like a row of gas retorts.
In another building, not far off, the contrabands— men, women and children—are lodged. Some get employment from Government on railroads, others wash for our soldiers, and some get situations as officer’s servants. Since Gen Slough’s appointment as Lieut. Governor of this District, their condition has been greatly ameliorated. He has detailed Capt. Wyman as Provost Marshal of Alexandria; and amongst his numerous duties, he does not forget to look after the interests of these poor people.
Even at the best, war is a terrible necessity; what, must it be at the worst? Without intending to be invidious, I may be allowed to say that the 33d Regiment is fortunate in possessing a Colonel and a Chaplain of the right stamp, each fitted for his position as but few men are, and both working together for the regimental welfare in perfect harmony. Col. Maggi makes no secret of being an Abolitionist; and all his staff, with a majority of the line officers, are genuine anti-slavery men. But in addition to this consistent qualification, he is every inch a soldier. Trained in 
<c03>
the regular army for seventeen years, with a physique not possessed by one man in a thousand, he entered our army as a private soldier, from which he has risen step by step. Col. Maggi is a strict disciplinarian; pays the closest attention to everything which ministers to the health and comfort of his men; keeps out had liquor; and sees personally to rations, cleanliness, and ventilation. His skill and experience might well be employed in a wider field of duty.
Mr. Daniel Foster is a great favorite with the boys; and well be may be, for he does more extra work, perhaps, than any other officer in the regiment, attending to letters, parcels, money matters, &c. A few complain that his sermons arc not "pious" enough, but they arc really models of aptness and brevity. Some three weeks ago, we had a midnight alarm; the long roll was beat, and every man was at his post, save the Chaplain, who could not be found. Soon, however, it was ascertained that he had seized a gun, and stepped into the ranks, ready for one secessionist, at least. The boys say-" He is a brick. We like a man who practices what he preaches. "
Several copies of the Liberator and Standard reach us every week. NIHIL NOVI.
CAMP SLOUGH, ALEXANDRIA, October 7, 1862. 
DEAR LIBERATOR:
So at last we have a proclamation of prospective emancipation from President Lincoln. After one year of strenuous effort by President, Cabinet and Generals, who commanded armies and means with which Napoleon would have conquered Europe, to put down the rebellion without hurting slavery, we have at last reached the conclusion that the Border State policy is folly, while the principle of Fremont in Missouri and of Hunter in South Carolina is adopted as the only adequate answer to the act of secession, caused as it was by the despotic and unchristian oligarchy of South-American slavery. Make a note of it just here, and acknowledge, O my hunker friends, that the world does move, and the common sense of the American people cannot be hoodwinked by your battle-cry of " The Union, and the Constitution us it was"! No, gentlemen, you have had your day—a day to be marked in our future history as one of practical atheism—a day of darkness, following the bright dawn of 1776 with an eclipse so terrible that there could be no hope for the nation falling into such moral blindness, except in the fact that God reserved a faithful few, who did not bow the knee to Baal, but in spite of tremendous and persistent opposition, maintained their integrity and toiled for humanity and the true God, who is revealed as the all-just and all-loving Father. And when the story of this struggle is truly written, history will mete out to the compromisers in Church and State the reward due to traitors, while it will give the honor of a comprehensive and enduring patriotism to the men who pleaded and toiled for impartial justice and liberty, as the rule by which every one who lived under the Constitution should be protected. Yes, the day is coming when all men shall wonder at the folly, as well as the wickedness, of the American people, in consenting to the enslavement of the colored man, in open war with the great Declaration and the Revolutionary struggle, which was expressly waged for the "rights of human nature." What hissing scorn will then be sent forth against the men who trampled on the Declaration of our fathers as "glittering generalities," to be set aside and disregarded in the practice of the nation.
For more than a year, the Boston Courier and New York Herald have been calling for the imprisonment of Garrison, Phillips, Greeley and Beecher as traitors, because they demanded the overthrow of slavery as the only safety of the nation. Now, the President has proclaimed the freedom of the slaves in the rebel States, to take place when the Old Year goes out and the New Year comes in. Simeon Draper, a radical Republican, is appointed Provost Marshal of the United States; John C. Wyman, another radical Republican, is Provost Marshal of Alexandria in Virginia. Hence, when all the subordinate Marshals are set to work, Messrs. Lunt, Bennett & Co. must take special care lest they try the close air of Fort Lafayette or Fort Warren. They richly deserve imprisonment as traitors, and they must change their course or they will get it.
The battle of Antietam has been fought with unequalled heroism by our troops, and a bootless victory won, when the utter overthrow of the rebellion was within our grasp. O that fatal delay! The rebel army was routed as utterly as the French were at Waterloo. A broad river was in their rear. A vigorous pursuit would have absolutely destroyed the rebel army. Its destruction there would have been a final, an irretrievable overthrow of the rebellious South. They had no reserves. We had forty thousand fresh men, who had not been in the great conflict. Our men were burning to follow, inch by inch, and drive the rebels into the Potomac, or compel them to an unconditional surrender. But in the greatest crisis of the war, we lay inactive. The enemy crossed the river with all their men and means of war. Thus other terribly bloody fights are made necessary. O, if the great Pathfinder, towards whom the patriotic heart gravitates with the unerring certainty of inspiration, had then been at the head of our armies, the war had been ended by a final and a finishing blow. Then we should have reaped the full and glorious fruits of a complete victory. Yes, if either of the able Marshals who so finely handled their men in that terrific fight,—if Hooker, or Sumner, or Heintzelman, or Burnside, had been at the head, we should have seen the war ended then and there. I close in the words of the last Independent: "God curses us with little men, and so the nation bleeds and endures."
Yours, for immediate justice and impartial liberty for all men, under the Constitution and the law, as God’s method for the salvation of this American Israel. DANIEL FOSTER.
LETTER FROM HENRY O. WRIGHT.
Funeral Discourse—Self-Sacrifice—Only True Heroism—The Proclamation—Seymour and the Democratic Allies of Jeff. Davis & Co.
PORTAGE, N. Y., Sept. 29, 1862.
DEAR GARRISON:
I have been in Alleghany Co., N. Y., six days, and; have given five lectures, all on topics relating to the National Crisis—the cause and the cure of all national trials, and the source of our national corruption.
Yesterday (Sunday) was a day of deep and sad interest in Hume, an adjoining town. That town, out of four hundred and odd voters, has 140 men in the army. Every mail is freighted with letters from these sons, brothers, husbands and fathers, to the loved ones at home. Yesterday, two funeral discourses were given in that town concerning two whose lives have been sacrificed to slavery—one in a battle in Tennessee, the other in the recent battle of Manassas. The former, John Milton Shiff, twenty-three years old, was my nephew. A braver, more generous, self-forgetting and noble heart never beat in human bosom. He was the cherished object of love in a large family, and a very large circle of friends and relatives. His correspondence with me and with his mother and father and brothers shows that be enlisted to fight a battle of bullets for liberty and against slavery, steadily and sternly refuting on all occasions to obey any command or order requiring him to aid in catching fugitive slaves, or forbidding him to give them shelter and to aid them to freedom. Wherever he came in contact with slaves, his counsel to them was—Resistance to your enslavers is obedience to your God. He urged them to resistance, and, as far as he could, furnished them the spirit and means to escape, and to resist their enslavers by arms and blood, if necessary. He felt it to be his duty to help slaves and encourage them to assert and defend their freedom. Yet he was the beloved and petted one of this company, both of officers and privates.
I lectured on the life, not death, of that heroic and 
<c04>
generous young man. I never discourse on the death of any one, but on the life. The death of a man is nought to me; the life of every man is everything. The life of John Milton 8hiff, in hit family, with his father and mother and brothers and sisters, was all that could make a son and brother dear. So his life with his associates was a marked and noble life. His life in the army endeared him to officers and men. How? Simply by self-sacrifice. He lived not for himself, but for others. This great, heroic spirit led him to enlist. His answer to his mother’s remonstrance was—"Mother! If men of strong arms and healthy bodies, like mine, hold back, the accursed institution of slavery will spread over the whole land and the continent." He saw and felt the only issue to be Liberty or Slavery for the nation and continent. His parents and friends gave him up. He fought his last fight of bullets, and sleeps his last corporeal sleep, on the slavery-cursed soil of Tennessee. His next oldest brother has taken his place in the army, and the third one is ready to go—all to fight for liberty and against slavery. A great concourse of friends was present when I spoke. Such scenes of anguish and desolation are everywhere. Many, very many homes are made desolate in Western New York.
The soldier’s glory, what is it? Not that he has killed so many of his fellow-beings. Of this, what soldier ever boasts? But his only glory is self-sacrifice—that he suffers and dies for others. Aside from this, the profession is one of blood and murder. But even this glory is stained with innocent blood! There is true glory in dying to save others, none in killing others to save ourselves. Of John M. Shiff I could say with truth, in the words of my text—
"The bravest are the tenderest,
The loving are the daring."
I cannot tell you the wildness of the enthusiasm with which the Proclamation is hailed by nine-tenths of all classes, all over this region. With its great defects, judged by the standard of justice and self-evident right, it does, I think, give to all nations a national sanction to the great anti-slavery conflict that you inaugurated thirty years ago. The President of the United States has, for reasons of State policy, declared himself an Abolitionist; all the world will so regard him. I would gladly see him, and all others, Abolitionists from moral conviction; but I must rejoice and give thanks to hear the President preach Abolition, though to save the nation rather than to save his own conscience and that of the nation.
There is one item in the Proclamation of terrible import to the slaveholding rebels. "The Executive Government of the United States, including the military and naval, will do no act or acts to repress the slaves in any efforts they may make for their actual freedom." This forever releases the nation from all political obligations to lend slaveholders any assistance to put down slave insurrections. This has ever been one of our national monstrosities! Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God! is the nation’s watchword. Yet, if slaves dare to resist their tyrannical enslavers, as a nation, we have ever been pledged to murder them, and take sides with the tyrants. This Proclamation releases the nation from this shameful and infamous pledge.
The Democrats, who, under Seymour, go for the destruction of the Union rather than the abolition of slavery, thus confessing themselves the base, grovelling, willing tools of the Slave Power and serfs of Jeff. Davis & Co., have played a deep game. They have held back from enlisting, but have urged Republicans to enlist, so that about four-fifths of all who have enlisted in this State are Republicans—about 100,000. By their absence, these Democratic, willing serfs of kidnappers, led by Seymour, hope to carry the State against the Proclamation and the Administration. The war of ballots will be stern and furious in this State in November. God grant that Liberty may triumph!
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
WHAT ARE THE ABOLITIONISTS DOING?
How significantly, not to say in a taunting spirit, is this interrogatory put almost daily: Who among your number have gone to aid the country in this peril hour; to help on the work which you pray may be done? Alas! my good friend, the hour for our peculiar work has not yet come. But then you would have it inferred that none of the despised Abolitionists have either gone to the war or raised a helping hand at home to aid the cause we profess to love. Like other people, Abolitionists are guilty of sins, both of commission and omission. And while we have no zeal or devotion worth boasting of, it can be claimed that a score of those who loved, and at home honored the name of Abolitionist, have joined the army, and for months have been perilling life itself on the altar called patriotism.
At the very commencement of the rebellion, -when the prospect of any good to the slave was so dreary, we happen to know of some who left the endearments of home to battle for the all of freedom they hoped to gain. Some of this number are still on the field, with more courage to-day than ever, looking for the "good time coming," when millions shall be redeemed from the bitterness of that bondage, "one hour of which is fraught with more suffering than ages of that which our fathers rose in rebellion to oppose." And should this rebellion continue till the day of declared emancipation by the President, still more with enthusiastic joy will they enter upon the work of human redemption from whips and chains.
Speaking of the home-work, which is quits as needful as that done abroad, a writer in the last Christian Inquirer relates the following:—
"Already 800 of a New York regiment have died of yellow fever. Oh the bitterness of slavery! There is a woman in this town,—Orange, New Jersey,— who is one of its victims,—a Mrs. B., who was a faithful and efficient nurse, a few months since, in the U. S. service, at Annapolis, Md., where she had charge of wounded rebel soldiers, as well as Union soldiers. Secession ladies used to send delicacies to these rebels; and this nurse, knowing that the Federal soldiers needed some of these things, used to divide these presents among all. One day, some eatables were sent, including a pie and other things, especially marked for her use as "Complimentary," of which she ate, was poisoned, has never recovered her health, and is now dying. She is a widow, with one boy, twelve years old, who has been a drummer-boy in one of our regiments. A benevolent gentleman, who would shrink from any notoriety on account of his good deeds, a stranger to this poor woman before, took her into his noose, and his wife employed a nurse for her. The gentleman who has been the Good Samaritan in this case is one of the extreme "radical abolitionists of the PHILLIPS school, whom popular sectarians delight to call infidel."
The same writer adds: "When we see such men as Rev. George F. Noyes, a radical abolitionist, in the service, how it puts to shame the lie so often repeated, that that class never enlist. I know a great number of volunteers from all parts of the country of similar views; when I remember the patriotic Captain Partridge, who has fallen in the struggle, I can only regret that there are not more anti-slavery men in the ranks."
Our friend Daniel Foster, of Col. Maggi’s regiment, of which he is Chaplain, declares they are all anti-slavery; and adds, that this consideration makes his duties pleasant indeed. Thus facts answer the daily croaking, that the Abolitionists are all at home, barking at others, bat unwilling to bear any burden. We have no fears of an examination in this matter, conscious that it will be found that spleen and hatred are the moving elements that raise the cry against the friends of emancipation. Heaven grant that we may profit by all rebuke; and if we have left any work undone, that is of use to our brother man, especially to the slave and his defenders, let us double our diligence. More emphatically than ever is it true, that what our "hands find to do, should be done with all our might." G.W.S.
CONTRABANDS. A Port Royal letter says that contrabands are still coming in. There is no cessation in the stream constantly and regularly arriving. It is thought the arrivals are greater in number just now than hitherto. 
<c05>
Extract of a letter from Aaron M. Powell.
GHENT, (N. Y.) Oct. 18, 1862.
Dark as have been the hours and months of this revolution to me—and especially during the later months they were very oppressively so—I rejoice now in the conviction that the darkest hour terminated with the issue of the Proclamation, the 22d of September; and though the day, in its fulness, has not been ushered in, the dawn thereof is risible and bright. The terrible contingencies created by the "hundred days of grace" re less threatening from the fact that the Black Flag is emblematic of the spirit of the rebels, rather than any observable tendency to concession and compromise. The Proclamation brings the issue in the pending political contest pretty fully upon the ground of the extermination of slavery, as against its preservation. The "radical" nominee for the gubernatorial chair of this State is a truly noble man, and fully ripe for the issue. The "conservative" candidate is, without doubt, what Henry J. Raymond characterized him, "an agent of the Confederate States." His latest public effort, as you have perhaps observed, was in the Episcopal Convention, now in session in New York, to so preserve the records of that body as that their "Southern brethren" may without embarrassment return to their old fraternal relations, and continue to be regarded as Christians!
Of course, the military exodus of slavery, now almost certain to occur will be very unlike the beneficent end for which we have labored, to be achieved through the channels of repentance and peace. Nevertheless, let God be praised!
FRATERNITY LECTURE. The second lecture of the Fraternity course was delivered at the Tremont Temple, last Tuesday evening, by Rev. Henry M. Dexter, pastor of the Pine Street Church. It was entitled "The Regenerated Nation," and was heard with attentive interest by a large audience. Mr. Dexter sketched in an able manner the evils and disgraces which complicity with slavery has brought upon us, drew a vivid picture of the prosperity and manifold welfare which we might reasonably expect in a regenerated nation, praised the President, foretold approaching honor and glory for those who commenced the Anti-Slavery reform, and expected a favorable working of the emancipation policy throughout, if the colonizationists did not interfere too much, with their elaborate plans and expensive machinery for making water run down hill. He went for treating the colored people justly and fairly, wherever they were. But his opinion was, that when equal rights under the law, in all parts of the country, were accorded to them, they would unanimously prefer to quit the North, and settle in the sunny South.
Rev. Robert Collyer, of Chicago, was announced as the next lecturer. He is to give some of his experience as an army chaplain in the West, and a statement of the highest interest and value may be expected from him.—c. K. W.
HEAVY BATTLE IS KENTUCKY. On Wednesday, October 8th, Gen. Bragg attacked the second division of Gen McCook’s corps with greatly superior numbers, near Perrysville, Ky. The fighting was desperate. The Federal Gens. J. S. Jackson, (of Kentucky,) Webster and Little were killed. The battle ceased at 7 P. M., when McCook was reinforced. Early next morning, Gen. Buell attacked Bragg’s forces at Chaplin Creek, near Perrysville, and, after a short, sharp engagement, turned them to flight in three directions. Pursuit was at once begun. Our loss in the fight of Wednesday is stated at from 1,500 to 2,000, killed, wounded and missing. It is believed that the rebel Gens. Bragg and Cheatham were both killed on that occasion.
REBEL CAVALRY RAID INTO PENNSYLVANIA. On Friday, October 10th, the rebel cavalry under General Stuart crossed the Potomac at Hancock, and occupied Mercersburg, Pa., taking whatever horses, &c., they desired. They next advanced on Chambersburg, and stripped it in a similar manner, when they set about their return. An effort was made on our part by Gen. Pleasanton with cavalry to intercept them. But by means of their fresh horses, and by riding 90 miles in 24 hours, the whole party escaped into Virginia unharmed.
Parson Brownlow, in his address at the Michigan State Fair, in Detroit, said:—
"Regarding Mr. Lincoln’s proclamation, I will say, that if he means to free the slaves of Rebels in arms, and pay loyal men for them, I am for it out and out. (Enthusiastic applause.) I think the proclamation well-timed, and fortunate at this moment. If it had been made a month or six weeks later, the Rebels would have made a proposition themselves to England to take their negroes and colonize them, and I thank God that Old Abe has taken the starch out of them."
NEWSBOY WIT. The other day, one of the "boys" passed along the street, holding in one hand papers containing the President’s proclamation, and in the other the Journal, which had the names attached to the call for the People’s Convention. "Here," cried out the lad," is the proclamation, and here (holding out the Journal) is a list of the killed and wounded!" -Worcester Spy.
GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN. One of the principal charges brought by this fellow against Mr. Sumner, is that the latter is a bachelor. If Mr. Train’s father could but have followed the same excellent example, the world might have had at least one arrant humbug the less.—Dedham Gazette.
CONTRABANDS. TWO car loads of contrabands arrived from Cairo yesterday. Farmers were here waiting for them, who took most of them away immediately to work on farms and help save the crops. The war has nearly depopulated some townships of able bodied men, and consequently there is an immense demand for labor to gather the crops. The necessity is so great that people don’t stop to cavil about color. Any one that can work is accepted. But the Egyptian farmers are securing most of the contrabands that arrive at Cairo. Comparatively few reach the Northern portion of the State.—Chicago Tribune.
A gentleman from Harper’s Ferry states that on the top of a pillar of one of the churches, which was much battered in the Antietam fight, some one had written, in large letters, "THE RESULT OF SLAVERY." Hundreds had written their names on the post below, endorsing the sentiment.
Two great facts cannot be denied, 1st, That the Southern Democracy are rebels; 2d, That the organization of the Northern Democracy is passing into the hands of the friends of the rebels, and war Democrats have lost control of it.—Chicago Tribune.
The 33d Massachusetts Regiment started on Friday afternoon last for Fairfax station, to join General Sigel’s corps. They left Alexandria in excellent spirits.
There was a successful expedition from Hilton Head up St. John’s River, Florida, by which important rebel works were captured without the loss of a man on either side.
Drafting took place on Wednesday, Oct. 15th, in Massachusetts.
FRATERNITY LECTURES.
FIFTH COURSE.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully informed that the FIFTH Course or LECTURES under the auspices of the Fraternity of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society will be continued on
TUESDAY EVENING, October 21, 1862, at TREMONT TEMPLE, when an address on the State of the Nation will be made by
ROBERT COLLYER.
To be followed on successive Tuesday evenings by lectures from the following persons:—
October 28.—THEODORE TILTON.
November 4.—MONCURE D. CONWAY.
November 11.—ANNA R.DICKINSON.
NOVEMBER 18.—HENRY WARD BEECHER.
November 25.—OWEN LOVEJOY.
December 2.—B. GRATE BROWS.
December 9.—WENDELL PHILIPS.
DECEMBER 16.—RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
DECEMBER 23.—JACOB M. MANNING.
DECEMBER 30.—GEORGE WN. CURTIS.
Lectures to commence at half-past 7 o’clock. Course Tickets, admitting the Bearer and Lady, at 82 each may be obtained at Williams & Everett’s, 234 Washington St. Oliver Ditson & Co’s.277 Washington 8t.; of Solemon—Parsons, Esq., superintendent of Temple ; and of either member of the Lecture committee, who in former years have had the disposal of tickets. Sept. 26tf
<c06>
CIRCULAR.
A Hospital, for women and children, was established three years ago, in connection with the New England Female Medical College. This connection being dissolved, the friends of this Hospital appeal to the public to aid them in carrying forward its important objects, on an independent basis.
Our Hospital affords to those women especially needing the care and advice of their own sex, during sickness or in child-birth, the comforts of a home, and faithful attendance, at a moderate price.
To the friendless and needy we hope to effer the greatest of all charity; not only care for their physical wants, but sympathy and Christian love. It is our cheering conviction, that many a woman looks back to her brief stay in the Hospital as the best influence of her life.
We offer peculiar advantages for training nurses for their important duties, under the superintendence of a physician.
We shall continue our Dispensary, which is visited chiefly by respectable families of soldiers, and that class of poor women, whose delicacy prompts them to seek consultation among their own sex, while too poor to pay physicians fees.
Since July 1st, we have had two hundred and twenty-nine patients, and have given away medicines, prescribed three hundred and ninety-five times, besides, (what is often more needed) advice and instruction how to preserve health. In twenty-one cases, the patients, too sick to appear at the Dispensary, have been treated at their own homes.
Dr. MARY E. BREED, Resident Physician.
Dr. MARIE E. ZAKRZEWSKA, Attending Physician.
Dr. JOHN WARE, Consulting Physicians.
Dr. SAMUEL CABOT, Consulting Physicians.
A sunny, and well ventilated house, with a large yard, at the corner of Pleasant and Porter streets, has been hired and made ready for patients. To furnish it, and meet the expenses of the coming year, will require, at least, two thousand dollars, which, it is hoped, will be promptly supplied, by donations and subscriptions.
As many free patients will be received as our funds will allow.
True, it is in the midst of terrible civil war, which drains our resources, that we make this appeal; but never has it been more necessary. While the soldier has been fighting our battles on distant fields, how often has his wife come pleading at our doors for that help, in her hour of need, which, thank God, through the kindness of friends, we have not yet been forced to refuse her!.
Donations and subscriptions may be forwarded to any of the undersigned. All articles of use in a Hospital will be gladly received 
Subscribers of five dollars will be entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, which takes place on the first Tuesday in November.
Samuel E. Sewall, Mary C. E. Barnard, 
James Freeman Clarke, Mary J. Ellis, 
F. W. G. May, Anna H. Clarke, 
Geo. Wm. Bond, Sarah D. C. Lane, 
Abner Kingman, Louisa <W>,
Jonathan A. Lane, Mary A. S. Palmer, 
Edward E. Hale, Sarah Jane Kingman, 
Otis Everett, Marie E. Zakrzewska,
Lucy Goddard, Caroline M. Severance, 
Ednah D. Cheney, Elizabeth L. Everett.
Boston, Oct. 1, 1862
THE HUTCHINSONS will give one of their characteristic concerts next Monday evening, Oct.20, at the Meionaon, for the benefit of the suffering freedmen in the District of Columbia, under the auspices of the Fugitives Aid Society. Concert commencing at half-past 7o’clock; doors open at half-past 6o’clock.
WM. WELLS BROWN will speak at Portsmouth, (N. H.) on Sunday next. Subject: The President’s Proclamation, and its effect on the Slaves of the South, and the Laborers of the North.
ANDREW T. FOSS, in behalf of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, will lecture as follows:
East Bethel Vt., Sunday Oct 19.
Windsor, Vt., Wednesday Oct 22.
Cornish, N.H., Friday, Oct 24.
Croydon Flat, N. H., Sunday Oct 26
Newport, N. H., Wednesday, Oct 29.
Springfield, Vt Sunday, Nov.2.
DIED—In Waukegan, (Illinois,) on the 5th instant, Mrs. MARY, wife of Thomas Reed.
Mrs. Reed was a woman of rare worth. Without ostentation or pretension, she did work the work of life. The poor and the sorrowing never looked in vain to her for assistance and sympathy. The slave and the slave’s friend knew well her worth. To them and to us all her memory will be forever sacred. But, 
"She is not lost to us! The weary heart, 
O’ercome beneath its burden, prayed for rest;
And, lo! Death’s angel, with the shadowy hand, 
Unfastening the cord too closely drawn, 
That, for her better sleep, she might lay off
The robes it now encumbered her to wear."
H. V. M. B. 
600,000 Male or Female Agents, 
TO SELL 
Lloyd’s New Steel Plate County Colored Map of the United States, Canadas, and New Brunswick, 
From recent surveys; completed August 10, 1862; cost $20,000 to engrave it, and one year’s time.
Superior to any $10 map ever made by Colton or Mitchell, and sells at the low price of fifty cents; 370000 names are engraved on this map
It is not only a county map, but it is also a COUNTY AND RAILROAD MAP of the United States and Canadas combined in one, giving EVERY RAILROAD STATION And distances between 
Guarantee any woman or man $3to $5 per day, and will take back all maps that cannot be sold, and refund the money.
Send for $1to try 
Printed instructions how to canvas well furnished all our agents. 
Wanted—wholesale Agents for our Maps in every State, California, Canada, England, France, and Cuba. A fortune may be made with a few hundred dollars capital. No competition J. T. LLOYD, 
No 164 Broadway, New York.
The War Department uses our Map of Virginia, Maryland and Pennsylvania, cost $100,000, on which are marked Antietam Creek, Sharpsburg, Maryland Hights, Williamsport Ferry, Rhorersville, Noland’s Ford, and all others on the Potomac, and every other place in Maryland, Virginia and Pennsylvania, or money refunded.
LLOYD’S
TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP OF KENTUCKY, OHIO, INDIANA and ILLINOIS, is the only authority for Gen. Buell and the War Department. Money refunded to any one finding and error in it Price 50 cents.
From the Tribune, Aug.2
"LLOYD’S MAP OF VIRGINIA, MARYLAND and PHNNSYLAVNIA. This Map is very large; its cost is but 25 cents, and it is the best which can be purchased."
LLOYD’S 
GREAT MAP OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER,
From actual surveys by Capts. Bart and Wm. Bowen, Mississippi River Pilots, of St. Louis, Mo., shows every man’s plantation and owner’s name, from St. Louis to the Gulf of Mexico—1350 miles—every sand-bar island, town, landing, and all places twenty miles back from the river—colored in counties and States. Price, $1 in sheets, $2, pocket form, and $2,50 on linen, with rollers. Now ready.
NAVY DEPARTMENY, Washington, Sept .17, 1862. J. T. LLOYD: SIR—Send me your Map of the Mississippi River, with price per hundred copies. Rear Admiral Charles H. Davis, Commanding the Mississippi squadron in authorized to purchase as many as are required for use of that squadron. GIDEON WELLS,
Secretary of the Navy 
Oct. 3.3w
DEINTISTRY 
D. DANIEL MANN has removed his office to 146 Harrison Avenue. He has, for the past five years inserted artificial teeth on the vulcanite base, in the use of which he has made some improvements. It is better than gold, when well made, being lighter, stronger, and more durable, and is also much cheaper.
Dr. M. also uses a some what similar preparation for filling teeth too tender or too far decayed for final with geld. His prices are as moderate, at least, as those of any responsible dentist 
Boston, September 20, 1862
JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ., 
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW 
No 6, TRENONT STREET, BOSTON
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1> 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
AVENGED!
The following beautiful lines are from Orpheus C. Kerr’s last letter to the Sunday Mercury.
God’s scales of Justice hang between
The deed Unjust and the end Unseen,
And the sparrow’s fall in the one is weighed
By the Lord’s own hand in the other laid.
In the prairie path to our Sunset gate,
In the flow’ring heart of a new-born State,
Are the hopes of an old man’s waning years,
‘Neath headstones worn with an old man’s tears.
When the bright sun sinks in the rose-lipped West,
His last red ray is the headstone’s crest:
And the mounds he laves in a crimson flood
Are a Soldier’s wealth baptized in blood!
Do ye ask who reared those headstones there,
And crowned with thorns a sire’s gray hair?
And by whom the Land’s great debt was paid 
To the Soldier old, in the graves they made?
Shrink, Pity! shrink, at the question dire;
And, Honor, burn in a blush of fire!
Turn, Angel, turn, from the page thine eyes,
Or the Sin, once written, never dies!
They were men of the land he had fought to save
From a foreign foe that had crossed the wave,
When his sunlit youth was a martial song,
And shook a throne as it swelled along.
They were sons of a clime whose soft, warm breath
Is the soul of earth, and a life in death;
Where the Summer dreams on the couch of Spring,
And songs of birds through the whole year ring;
Where the falling leaf is the cup that grew
To catch the gems of the new leaf’s dew,
And the winds that through the vine-leaves creep
Are the sighs of Time in a pleasant sleep.
But there lurked a taint in the clime so blest,
Like a serpent coiled in a ring-dove’s nest,
And the human sounds to the ear it gave
Were the clank of chains on a low-browed Slave.
The Soldier old at his sentry-post,
Where the son’s last trail of light is lost,
Beheld the shame of the Land he loved,
And the old, old love in his bosom moved.
He cried to the land, Beware! Beware
Of the symboled curse in the Bondman there!
And a prophet’s soul in fire came down
To live in the voice of old John Brown.
He cried; and the ingrate answer came
In words of steel from a tongue of flame;
They dyed his hearth in the blood of kin,
And his dear ones fell for the Nation’s Sin!
O, matchless deed! that a fiend might scorn;
O, deed of shame! For a world to mourn;
A prophet’s pay in his blood most dear,
And a land to mock at a Father’s tear!
Is’t strange that the tranquil soul of age 
Was turned to strife in a madman’s rage?
Is’t strange that the cry of blood did seem
Like the roll of drums in a martial dream?
Is’t strange that the clank of the Helot’s chain
Should drive the Wrong to the old man’s brain,
To fire his heart with a santon’s zeal,
And mate his arm to the Soldier’s steel?
The bane of Wrong to its depth had gone,
And the sword of Right from its sheath was drawn,
But the cabined slave heard not his cry,
And the old man armed his but to die.
Ye may call him Mad that he did not quail
When his stout blade broke on the unblest mail;
Ye may call him Mad, that he struck alone,
And made the land’s dark Curse his own;
But the Eye of God looked down and saw
A just life lost by an unjust law;
And black was the day with God’s own frown
When the Southern Cross was a martyr’s Crown!
Apostate clime! the blood then shed
Fell thick with vengeance on thy head,
To weigh it down ‘neath the coming rod,
When thy red hand should be stretched to God.
Behold the price of the life ye took;
At the death ye gave ‘twas a world that shook:
And the despot deed that one heart broke,
From their slavish sleep a Million woke!
Not all alone did the victim fall, 
Whose wrongs first brought him to your thrall:
The old man played a Nation’s part,
And ye struck your blow at the Nation’s heart!
The freemen-host is at your door,
And a voice goes forth with a stern “No more!”
To the deadly Curse, whose swift redeem
Was the visioned thought of John Brown’s dream.
To the Country’s Wrong and the Country’s stain,
It shall prove as the scythe to the yielding grain;
And the dauntless power to spread it forth
Is the free-born soul of the chainless North.
From the East, and West, and North they come,
To the bugle’s call and the roll of drum;
And a form walks viewless by their side—
A form that was born when the Old Man died!
The Soldier old in his grave may rest,
Afar with his dead in the prairie West;
But the red ray falls on the headstone there,
Like a God’s reply to a soldier’s prayer.
He may sleep in peace ‘neath the greenwood pall,
For the land’s great heart hath heard his call;
And a people’s Will and a people’s Might
Shall right the Wrong and proclaim the Right.
The foe may how! at the fiat just,
And gnash his fangs in the trodden dust;
But the battle leaves his bark a wreck,
And the Freeman’s heel is on his track.
Not all in vain is the lesson taught,
That a great soul’s Dream is the world’s New Thought;
And the Scaffold marked with a death sublime
Is the Throne ordained for the coming time.

From the Charlestown Advertiser.
THE MASSACHUSETTS JOHN BROWN SONG.
“The day of vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of my redeemed is come.”—ISAIAH, Ixiii.
Old John Brown’s body is a-mouldering in the dust,
Old John Brown’s rifle’s red with blood-spots turned to rust,
Old John Brown’s pike has made its last, unflinching thrust,
His Soul is marching on!
Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!
“Forward!” calls the Lord, our? Captain:
Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!
With Him we’re marching on.
For treason hung because he struck at treason’s root,
When soon palmetto tree had ripened treason’s fruit,
His dust, disquieted, stirred at Sumter’s last salute–
His Soul is marching on!
Who rides before the army of martyrs to the word?
The heavens grow bright as He makes hare his flaming sword,
The glory fills the earth of the coming of the Lord—
His Soul is marching on!
“Thou soul the altar under, white-robed by martyrdom!
Thy cry, ‘How long, O Lord?’ no longer finds me dumb;
“Come forth!” calls Christ, “the year of my redeemed is come”—
His Soul is marching on!
“And ye on earth, my army! Tread down God’s grapes till blood
Unto your horses’ bridles hath out His wine-press flowed!
The day of vengeance dawns,—the day of wrath of God”—
His Soul is marching on!
His sacrifice we slay! Our sword shall victory crown!
For God and country strike the fiend Rebellion down!
For Freedom and the Right remember Old John Brown!
His Soul is marching on!
<c02> 
Glory! Glory! Hallelujah!” 
Sings that army in the skies; 
“Glory to the Lord, our Captain!”
His army here replies. 
Glory rings through heaven’s arches, 
Earth takes on the grand accord;
“Glory!” on to glory marches 
The army of the Lord. 
September, 1863. L. H.

THE Liberator.
CONSISTENCY.
SALEM, MASS., Oct. 4th, 1862. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,—Feeling that newspapers, or any public teachers that may undertake to influence and direct the public mind, should have their palpable inconsistencies in some way pointed out, I enclose a few comments upon such in the course of the Boston Journal as struck me in that light, regarding the firm stand Senator Sumner has taken upon the slave question in connection with the civil war. I have addressed them to the editor of the Journal. If you deem fit to publish them in the Liberator, you are welcome to do so, sending a copy of the same or the manuscript, or both, to the editor.
Yours truly, for liberty, E. S. C.
To THE EDITOR OF THK BOSTON JOURNAL:
I notice that you support or favor the President’s proclamation emancipating the slaves in all disloyal States. Will you gratify your subscribers by referring back to the Journals of Oct. 1st and 2d, 1861, which contain the speech of Charles Sumner and the resolutions offered by Rev. James Freeman Clarke at the State Convention held at Worcester, and by telling them in your paper what the difference is between the policy advocated in that speech and those resolutions, and the policy which the President has adopted by the said proclamation? Yet in your editorials of Oct. 2d and 4th, 1861, you denounce the war policy of Senator Sumner, which was this:—
“A simple declaration tint all men coming within the lines of the United States troops shall be regarded as freemen, will be in strict conformity to the Constitution, and also with precedents. The Constitution knows no man as a slave. It treats all within its jurisdiction as persons; while the exceptional provision for the rendition of persons held to service or labor, you will observe, is carefully confined to such as have escaped into another State. It is clear, therefore, that there can be no sanction under the Constitution for turning a camp into a slave-pen, or for turning military officers into slave-hunters. Let this plain construction be adopted, and then, as our lines advance, Freedom will be established, and our nations flag in its march will wave with new glory. There is another practical advantage where the action proceeds from the Government. The interests of loyal persons can be protected. Compensation may relieve the hardships of individual cases,” &c. 
Mr. Clarke’s resolutions were of similar import, “welcoming every act under the war power of the Commander-in-Chief which shall declare all the slaves within the lines of our armies to be free, and accept their services in defence of the Union—compensating all loyal owners for slaves thus emancipated—and thus carrying liberty for all human beings wherever the stars and stripes shall float.”
In the Journal of October 4, 1861, you say:—
“Mr. Sumner and other radical anti-slavery men, dazzled by visions of universal freedom, entirely overlook the insurmountable difficulties which stand in the way of immediate emancipation. The unutterable horrors of a servile insurrection do not present themselves, or they would shrink from the prospect. The economic problem of supporting four millions of human beings who have never been self-dependent is not considered. All practical considerations, in fact, are ignored by a miscalled philanthropy, which is as impracticable as it is visionary, and which would lay waste the most prolific soil, and fill our land with vagrants and marauders.”
You further go on and say:—
“Proclaim the policy of emancipation, and all hope of a reconstruction of the Union will be crushed out. All the loyal elements in Maryland, Kentucky and Missouri will be alienated at once, and every prospect of awakening the dormant loyalty in the seceded States will have passed away. It will come to this, that we must subjugate or be subjugated. The people of the South would defend their homes and their firesides to the last extremity, as we would do, should the chances of war favor them. The present generation would not see the end of such a contest, unless the North should be conquered and subdued by the aid of foreign bayonets or internal dissensions. From such a war, we may well pray to be delivered.”
Now, if this policy of freeing and using the slaves would have produced such dire results as you state, a year ago, or six months, or one month ago, what is there to change such results now? I point to your articles against the ground of Sumner as taken at Worcester, and still later at Tremont Temple, and the letter of Gov. Andrew to the Secretary of War, suggesting the adoption of the more effective plan of Hunter—that of “striking directly at the enemy’s magazine”; to your article of October 8, 1861, “disowning the Sumner policy,” and saying, “It will be time enough to oppose the emancipation policy when it is urged upon the Administration by any party organization”; to your article of October 14, 1861, in which you say, “ Slavery will never be abolished by moral suasion, here or elsewhere,” (which, by the way, is certainly a potent argument why we should strike at it,) but “ we must wait for it to become unprofitable, because of cotton being extensively raised elsewhere. Therefore we have no occasion to waste words about slavery at all; we need not trouble our thoughts with it; the problem will be solved quietly—without insurrection, without bloodshed, if we will keep our hands out of it”; and “machinery and cotton and flax raising elsewhere will be more practical Abolitionists than a distinguished Senator who thinks and talks of nothing else; “ and to like articles in which you have opposed the adoption of an emancipation policy, even to this very moment, though your war correspondents, “Carlton,” “Fuller,” and others, have earnestly advocated it is a necessary war measure.
We love consistency in newspapers as well as private characters, and we will thank you to inform your many readers why you all at once, as by magic, adopt and advocate, and try to reconcile the people to, the Sumner or “ inhumane” policy, or rather, the Lincoln policy, which out-Sumners Sumner in “radicalism or inhumanity,” as you termed the latter’s; for Sumner was well satisfied to free the slaves as they voluntarily came within our army lines, according to the ideas of Cameron, Butler, Sherman & Co., whereby, coming into our hands in comparatively small numbers and at intervals, they could be directed, advised and cared for, which certainly would be “ humane.” But Mr. Lincoln, the moment the dock strikes twelve at midnight, announcing the advent of the first day of January, A. D. 1863, (to use the words in your article of October 4th, 1861.) “presents for immediate solution the economic problem of supporting four millions of human beings who have never been self-dependent”; and whether or not be is (a la Sumner) “dazzled by visions of universal freedom,” be surely seems entirely “to overlook the insurmountable difficulties,” and shrinks not from he prospect of the unutterable horrors of a servile insurrection,” which presented themselves to your editorial vision when viewed through the spectacles of Charles Sumner.
I would ask again, then, Mr. Editor, will you please satisfy your readers of your consistency in supporting Mr. Lincoln’s proclamation, which would seem to be liable to produce all the evil results you so deplored and shrank from, in contemplating the more “conservative” views of Mr. Sumner, as expressed at Worcester and in Tremont Temple,—views which you have up to this very time pointedly rejected as “radically “dangerous 
In reviewing Mr. Sumner’s speech, you will please notice that be did not so express himself as “to make emancipation the chief object of the war,” which false construction you most wrongfully gave to it in your editorials of Oct. 3d and 4th, 1861. He uses these terms:—
<c03>
“Slavery is the inspiration of the war; its motive power; its end and aim. It is often said the war will make an end to slavery. This is probable. But it is surer still, that the overthrow of slavery will at once make an end of the war. If I am correct in his statement, then do reason, justice and policy all unite in declaring that the war must be brought to bear on the grand conspirator and omnipresent enemy, which is slavery. Not to do this is to take upon ourselves, in the present contest, all the weakness of slavery, while we have to the rebels its boasted resources of military strength.” [Mark his words! A verified prediction thus far.] “Not to do this is to squander life and treasure in a vain masquerade of battle, which can hare no practical result. It is not necessary even to carry the war into Africa. It will be enough if we can carry Africa into the war, in any form, any quantity, any way. The moment this is done, rebellion will begin its bad luck, and the Union will be secure for ever.”
“Strike in the name of the Union, which only in this way can be restored; in the name of Peace, which is vain without Union; and in the name of Liberty, also, which will bring both Peace and Union in her glorious train.”
From these quotations, and others which might be taken from his speeches, it is apparent that Mr. Sumner recommends emancipation “in any form, any quantity, any way,” not as the object, in itself, of the war, but as the only effective war measure to put down the rebellion, and to produce a permanent and peaceful Union, without which measure all expenditure of blood and treasure will have been in vain, as has thus far most wofully been proved. Why, then, Mr. Editor, have you misconstrued and opposed Sumner, and now, without any consistent explanation, why do you favor the more extended “ radical” policy of Mr. Lincoln? Certainly, emancipation could far easier and better have been carried out a year ago, or at least six months ago, at the time of our successes in the West and Southwest, in warm weather, than in the very dead of winter, with all its multiplied inconveniences and exposures to both the soldier and the slave. The rebels have used slave labor on all their coasts and rivers, to build fortifications by which our armies have been checked or repelled and defeated in every effort to advance, and slave labor has raised their food and performed most of their arduous and unhealthy work; and when we might have availed ourselves of their freely-offered services, and deprived the rebels, we have foolishly rejected them, and, until of late, made our soldiers do all the work, thus weakening our armies by sickness and death, and when fighting time came, we were always short of men. We have lost more than two hundred thousand men by disease, wounds and death, —which is equal to more than one half the whole number of slaveholders; and, excepting the few places we have reduced by the aid of the navy, we have obtained no important victories. What we have gained by our land forces has been nearly all lost again, and our armies, after being driven back, and retreating to prevent the rebels from falling on their rear, now stand, out-generalled, in about the same position they were a year ago, and are acting more on the defensive than the offensive. Did not Charles Sumner literally predict this very result in the words—” Not to bring the war to bear against the main-spring of the rebellion, Slavery, is to squander life and treasure in a vain masquerade of battle, which can have no practical result”?
What measure could have been more wise, more apt, more pertinent, more timely, to show that the Government would be resolute and earnest in dealing with traitors, than the following clause in General Fremont’s proclamation of martial law in Missouri, August 31, 1861?—
“The real and personal property of those who shall take up arms against the United States, or who shall be directly proven to have taken an active part with their enemies in the field, is declared confiscated to public use, and their slaves, if any they have, are hereby declared freemen.”
This has the true ring of decision, and is “right up the occasion”; but the President revoked it, and fell back on the impotent confiscation act of Congress, which would free only those slaves who might be discovered and proved to be used in the actual work of rebellion. General Fremont was the man whose practical common sense told him that rebel masters could use their slaves in their own guerrilla fashion—to-day at rebellious work, and to-morrow hypocritically in the “loyal” corn or hemp field, as might best suit their own base purposes. He therefore considered, in exercising martial law, that all slaves of rebels (even though they be men) should be confiscated, as well as hay, mules or vessels which may in the same manner be employed in loyal or disloyal business; and if President Lincoln had sanctioned that policy, and adopted it wherever the army went, he would then as well as now have been supported by all truly loyal citizens, and would have struck at the rebellion in its roost sensitive and vital part. In saying supported, Mr. Editor, I can take your own words for it; and these words of yours I saw commented on in the Boston Liberator of December 20, 1861, in an article headed “Sumner and Fremont,” which goes to show your great inconsistency in virtually approving of Fremont’s would-be policy in Missouri and Secretary Cameron’s instructions to Gen. Butler, while you repudiate Mr. Sumner’s advocacy of the same policy for the emphatically rebel States as is proposed to these border disaffected States.
In the Journal of Sept 7th, 1861, you say:—
“There is scarcely a paper which is honestly and earnestly in favor of a vigorous prosecution of the war, that does not approve of the proclamation of General Fremont.”
You then quote the article of the Baltimore Patriot approving of it, and warning against the consequences of indecisive or moderate and conciliatory measures; declaring that these are no times for half-way measures; that resolution, promptitude and courage were demanded; that we had had enough of attempts to soothe, to conciliate and compromise with traitors bearing arms in their hands, and knew what we had suffered therefrom. The Journal then quotes John Quincy Adams’s construction of the President’s military power respecting universal emancipation, and says:—”Gen. Fremont might have gone thus far consistently with the laws of war and the usages of nations.” It also remarks:—
“In connection with the sword, General Fremont’s proclamation will prove admirably promotive of that able officer’s peculiar campaign in Missouri.” “In this instance, Gen. Fremont appears to have made no startling announcement The recent act of Congress forfeits the slave which has been in any manner employed against the Government Gen. Fremont merely applies the inference, that where a slave-owner has been active in the field in the cause of treason, the slaves have also been employed for the benefit of the same cause—an inference that would probably hold true in ninety-tune cases out of a hundred. If martial law has no more rigorous features than this, there will be few to complain except the rebels, who have made it necessary, and who can avoid its penalties by returning to duty. We trust this proclamation will tend to that result.”
Therefore, Mr. Editor, if words mean any thing, you approve of Gen. Fremont’s proclamation, expressing the opinion that the “slaves of rebels were also employed in disloyal work, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred.” In the Journal of August 13, 1861, you approve of Cameron’s instructions to Butler (a policy which Sumner praises in his speech) in relation to fugitives within the federal army lines, by saying, ‘We are at a loss to see how it could have been substantially different.”
If you could thus approve proclaiming free the slaves of rebel masters in border partly rebellious or disaffected States, why could you nut approve of Sumner in advocating the same rule to be applied in the eleven thoroughly rebellious or seceded States? They certainly more than merited the same desert As slave-owners, above all others, are supposed to be promoters of the rebellion, and if it were true, as you think, that ninety-nine rebels out of a hundred employ their slaves in rebellious service, Fremont’s policy, if it had been enforced in all the States, would substantially have amounted to the came as Sumner’s; and as Sumner would pay “ loyal” slaveholders for the loss of their slaves, —in his words, “a bridge of gold would be cheap, if demanded by the retreating flend,”—his policy amounts to the same as Lincoln’s.
<c04>
Mr. Editor, you approved Fremont, but denounced Sumner, and now you approve Lincoln. Your readers notice these seeming inconsistencies, even if other papers, save the Liberator, do not remark upon them. Please explain and solve. By so doing, you will gratify many of your patronizing observers.
“GENERAL” EMANCIPATION.

“THE TWO RACES CAN’T LIVE TOGETHER 0N TERMS OF EQUALITY.”
EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:
DEAR SIR—In a former communication, I promised to say a word upon the subject of colonizing the colored people of our country, if they should ever be set free, so flippantly banded about, from the President down to the lowest vulgar bar-room nigger-hater in the land. I have delayed it for various reasons, not necessary to mention, and now, when I sit down to the task, I am at a loss bow to begin or what to say; for language fails me in the use of terms of sufficient force to give utterance to my abhorrence and detestation of any and every scheme yet devised by the President or any one else to remove this peeled and oppressed people from the land of their birth. We drove one race of men out of the country, to make room for ourselves, and forced another race in, and by cruel and unjust laws held them in a bondage such as no other people ever endured, till one half the nation has turned devils, and the other —I did not say fools, though I came very near it. What crime has worked corruption of blood in these four millions of God’s poor, that the penalty of banishment awaits them? The product of their labor is on the backs of half the population of the globe to-day. Because of them, a million and a half of men are in arms. Because of them, more than two hundred thousand sleep in death, —some of them the best blood of the nation. Because of them, a million and a half are out of employment in Europe and America, and twice as many more suffering for bread in consequence, not of their fault, but of the nation’s crime; and yet there are men enough among us to scoff and sneer at the “Nigger question,” and who will continue to do so with their bones at the grave’s mouth.
In many of the free States, as well as in the slave, the most oppressive and damnable laws exist, applicable only to the colored race. Neither the national nor the State governments affords them any protection. Oppression and injustice pursue them everywhere; and no hope in their case gleams from any quarter. It is said, Angels rejoice over one sinner that repenteth. But I greatly fear, from present appearances, there will be a long interval before they will rejoice over the repentance of this guilty nation. When all the nations of the earth, but our own, are moving in the cause of justice and humanity, and striking the fetters from the limbs of their bondmen, without expatriation, can we afford to thrust this forlorn and helpless people, who have made the merchants of the earth rich by their unpaid labor, into some dark and benighted corner of the earth, naked and penniless? Can we afford to tell the world we lave not even done this as an act of justice and humanity, but only as a punishment of our enemies? Under the blaze of light of the middle of the nineteenth century, with the Bible in one hand, and the declaration that all men are created free and equal in the other, can we afford to forego the sympathies of the world, as we now do, because of our prejudice, recreancy to principle, injustice and damnable hypocrisy? With the enemies of human liberty thundering at our doors, the nation in peril, its blood flowing, its resources wasting, can we afford to delay the hour of unconditional, universal emancipation, waste our precious time in pitiful twaddle about colonization, before there is a slave free, until compelled by the enemy and the force of circumstances to choose between the loss of our own liberties and the restoration of theirs? Every where, turn which way we will, we witness fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, friends, clad in the habiliments of mourning for some loved one who perished on the battle-field or in the camp? Shall we, can we, any longer delay to strike the blow that shall sever the fetters of the slave, and at the same time liberate ourselves from the shackles which have so long bound us hand and foot that we could neither plan nor execute any great and benevolent object? And now, Mr. Editor, you may think enough said. But I have not yet done with this colonization project; nor shall I, until its unsightly carcass is consigned to the grave. I would willingly act the part of sexton in its funeral obsequies, and put its resurrection beyond the power of mortals. But I am not going to leave you, Mr. Editor, or your readers, in the dark, or in doubt, of the views I entertain upon the subject, though entitled to little respect at home, and less abroad. Confiscate every foot of rebel land, law or no law. What is the law worth if the nation perish, and none remain to obey or transgress it? What is the ship worth when the crew and the passengers have gone to the bottom? Nothing. The rebels have forfeited all right and title to life, liberty and property. To half their property, or what they call property, they never had any right or title but such as is common to the pirate and highwayman. The colored people are the only ones to be trusted, with any safety, south of that fatal black line, which you will recognize as Mason and Dixon’s. Put the slaves in possession, and soon they will flood the world with cotton, rice and tobacco; (though next to slavery, I hate the latter article;) and if Cotton it not king, it will hold a high position, at least of second ruler in the kingdom. Rice will be rich, and Tobacco will at least be entitled to the grade of scavenger-general.
Now, Mr. Editor, if there be any to demur to this proposition, I have another to offer, which I doubt not the slaves would assent to and leave en masse, as did the Hebrews from Egypt, and take their chance to ford or swim, if compelled to cross, the Red Sea. It is simply for the slaveholders to fork over the smart balance on the ledger in their favor; and a proposition so fair and just, it does seem to me, can meet no valid objection—especially as they will need a little pocket money on the way to the land of promise. Now, to ascertain the amount they may justly claim, we must bear in mind that the chief profit of slave over free labor is derived from the small expense of food and clothing for the slave compared with the free—thirty dollars per annum being the highest estimate for field hands; and no outlay for education. Now, we will call the average number of laborers since 1800,600,000. They usually, when hired out, obtain from$150 to $200 per annum. We will pat it at $130, and deduct from this $30 for board and clothing, $40for the support of the aged and children, and we find$60 clear profit to the master; and surely this is an under estimate. We have, then, what financiers term an annuity of $86,000,000, or 600,000, the number of laborers, multiplied by 60; and any tyro in mathematics can give us the amount for 62 years at 7 percent, compound interest, which is $93,826,320,000.Startling as this enormous sum is, yet, guided by all commercial and financial rules and transactions, the four millions of slaves have a just claim for the amount Now, the whole Southern soil is worth but twenty per cent of this amount, and as the two races cannot live together on terms of equality, (so the President tells as,) we submit it to the decision of a candid world, whether there be any injustice in compelling, if they will not go voluntarily, 260,000 slaveholders to leave the country—that number being, in all probability, all that will be left at the close of the war. J. S.
Springfield, Vt., Oct. 7, 1862.
It is remarkable that a settlement of Quakers near Mount Vernon has remained unmolested during the entire war, though alternately included within National and Rebel lines. Their semi-weekly meetings have been regularly continued; sometimes a rebel picket pacing in front of the building, and perhaps a Union sentinel having the same beat the next week. They have remained undisturbed both in property and in person.
<c05>
LIBERTY AHD DEATH—THE TALE OF A HOSPITAL.
WASHINGTON, AUG. 26th, 1882. 
DEAR FRIEND GARRISON,—I have only time now to write you of one case which has come under my observation in my visits to the hospitals of this city and that of to-day. I found, for the first time, one patient of the proscribed race. From beneath the white curtain of his little cot, at the extreme end of Ward A., I spied a little colored boy. I lifted the net and exclaimed, “How came you here, my dear?” Poor little fellow! “I was hit with a shell,” he replied. “Where?” “Down the Rappahannock.” His breast heaved with emotion. I did not talk with him much, for his short answers and quickened breath evinced the pain he was suffering. There was the usual quiet, innocent expression of childhood; yea, more than usual, because, in addition, he looked to me as if he had gained a point. I asked him if be had been a stave. He said “Yes.” “Did you run away and escape into our lines?” “Yes. Master beat me round so, that I ran away;”—and this was said with a look of self-reliance worthy of youthful freedom. He sought early his birthright, and regained it. “Is Your mother a slave?” “Yes.” “Did she know you were coming away?” Yes.” This to nearly the whole story. I could see that mother, as she clasped her darling boy and bade him seek that priceless boon, that jewel of the soul, even on the battlefield. Afraid, was he? No; he left the slave behind him. Well might he look innocent and composed. 
After administering to his comfort in various ways— a service which he received from me as a child would from its mother—I bathed his fevered arms and breast with cold water. “O, that is nice!” he exclaimed. He had come in the morning, and “had not eaten anything since the morning before.” I gave him a ripe, glowing peach, which was very soon out of sight. As he looked at me with his sweet, intelligent expression, I said, “I believe God suffered you to come herein this way, that you might be truly free, and nevermore a slave. Don’t you think so?” “Yes,” he replied, his eye beaming with subdued delight. “How old are you, my child?” “I don’t know.” “Twelve or thirteen?” “I think so.” (He appeared still younger.) “Well, I must take you for my boy,”—and I will, God helping me to carry out his own plans; for I believe he will recover, as he is wounded only in the arm, to any extent. Suffice it to say, I could not help commending him to the care of his Heavenly Father, audibly, much to his consolation, and made him good night. C. S. B. SPEAR.
DIED, at the Armory Hospital, on the 5th of Sept., the young hero and representative martyr of liberty in this second revolution of our country, 1862, CLAY-BOURNE BROOKS, of uncertain age—<illegible> twelve or thirteen years. Of this he was ignorant; but it matters not. He knew the hour of his birth to liberty, and was willing to brave the battle-shot on the shores of the Rappahannock, by the side of his captain, as his little body guard and servant, under the stars and stripes of the Union, divided as it is. I saw the deep aperture, when he could be turned and no longer suffer pain. A grooved ball had found its way from the back of his shoulder near his heart, passing to the opposite side. He died in the morning, as the sun rose, —fit emblem of the dawning day when not only the little contraband, but the millions, shall be free. God speed the day! C. S. B. S.

GARMENTS NOT SOILED.
It has been made the boast that the Episcopal Church is uncontaminated with fanaticism—her garments unsoiled by secular and agitating questions; and from time immemorial this Church has made good her reputation in this direction. The thundering note of the cannon, the devastation of war, and all the rampant horrors of this eventful time, fail to arouse Bishops or people of this conservative household. They are doing a great work, and cannot mingle with the things that belong to humanity. How appropriately do such hunkers “gone to seed” as Robert C. Winthrop, find their place within its pale! How conveniently and lovingly he finds peace to his soul in the communion of such a faithful brotherhood! How fortunate that affinities meet!
A National Convention of the Episcopalians was held last week at New York. Hon. Robert C. Winthrop was present to eulogize dead members of the Church, but not to speak a word for the live present. A series of resolutions was discussed at great length, and laid upon the table, the argument being that the Convention was assembled to legislate for the Church only. Of course, they had neither heart nor time to legislate for suffering man. What is it, to such saints, that millions suffer, and the little ones of Christ are scourged and crucified? Have they not the liturgy, with prayers stereotyped, for the “anise, mint and cummin”? Do they not articulate well in chapel hours, and bear near the heart the gilt-edged Book of Common Prayer? Who is that babbler, that dare say, “Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven”? Away with such a meddler, he is a fanatic—perhaps worse—an Abolitionist!
But hold! A message from the Bishops! The following message was sent to the Convention:—
“The House of Bishops informs the House of Clerical and Lay Deputies, that it has adopted the following resolution:—
The House of Bishops, in consideration of the present afflicted condition of the country, propose to devote Wednesday, the 8th day of October instant, as a day of fasting, humiliation and prayer, and to hold in Trinity Church a solemn service appropriate to the occasion.
The Bishops affectionately request the House of Clerical and Lay Deputies to join with them in said observation.”
So the world moves. And at last we are to have some praying not in the book; prayers even for an imperilled country. Be careful, brethren! Alas! should your fasting and praying incline toward fanaticism, or in the least be secular, what will become of your well-earned reputation? These are dangerous times! G. W. S.

FOREIGN INTERFERENCE.
MR. EDITOR,—I am sorry that so much suspicion is indulged in, in our American journals, respecting the supposed intention of our neighbors over the water to engage us in a war. I am sorry, principally, because I believe it to be false, and secondly, because it is calculated to aid in producing that dismal result; for at present I shall assume that war is the greatest calamity that can befall a nation, excepting the loss of liberty. I do not believe the popular dogma that man is totally depraved, which has much to do in poisoning the very fountains of thought, and hence giving rise to suspicions that dishonor our race and virtually deny us a God. Of course, this is not the place to argue this question; if it were, I could show that it has its origin in a miserable old snake story. That there are many persons who would gladly involve us in a foreign war it not doubted; but that they are the ruling class, either at home or abroad, I do not believe. In fact, a large portion of the talk with us is but empty vaporing, without any malicious intent. There is not a nation on earth that hat given more substantial evidence that her popular heart is sound on the great question of human liberty than England; and yet there are those among as who charge that the immortal Clarkson, Wilberforce, Pitt, and their myriads of noble brethren, were only actuated by selfish motives at home, and had treasonable designs against America, in their great work of emancipation. But what generous spirit does not find a refutation of those charges in his own manly bosom? No, Mr. Editor, the devil does not govern our world “God is not dead.” The vital forces of humanity are for liberty, justice and right, and our present great conflict will work oat for our humanity an exceeding great blessing. DUDLEY WILLITS.
New Boston, Mercer Co., Ill., Sept. 28, 1862.
<C06>
DRIED APPLES FOR THE SOLDIERS. Fred. Law Olmsted, Secretary of the Sanitary Commission, states that dried apples for the use of the soldiers cannot be sent to the depots of the Commission in too large quantities. Town and village Relief Societies are requested to make arrangements for paring, cutting and drying by their members, and such volunteer assistance as they can enlist, and to notify farmers that they will receive such good fruit as they may be disposed to offer, and are unable themselves to properly prepare. Dried fruits of other kinds, and all good canned fruits, will be very acceptable. The Commission has a large force of young men in its service, and is better prepared than ever to make a faithful distribution of articles for the sick and wounded.
SENDING PRESENTS TO SOLDIERS. The General in-Chief urgently requests the friends of soldiers to refrain from sending packages to the army, which as cumulate at the depots, and are seldom received by those for whom they are intended. They are also frequently destroyed to prevent their being captured by the enemy. Of course it is pleasant for the soldiers to receive useful presents from their friends, and it is pleasant for their friends to forward them, but they almost invariably go amiss. Moreover, articles sent are seldom of real value to the solder, except as tokens of affection from dear ones at home, and such tokens can be safely forwarded in letters and very small packages suitable to go by mail.
THE BLACK REGIMENTS. Gen. Hunter positively denies that he ever said or intimated that the black regiments of South Carolina were in any manner or to any extent “a failure”; on the contrary, he asserts that they showed themselves excellent soldiers, and is rejoiced that the Government has at last adopted his policy, by authorizing the equipment and arming of five regiments of Negroes in the district where in had previously refused them. He says that if him course had been taken from the first, he might have had 150,000 defenders of the Union to-day upon the soil of the South.
The Governors of Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas and Texas, have issued an address to the people of their States, expressing confidence in the Confederate Government. They conclude as follows:–
“Let every fire-arm be prepared, and every gunsmith and worker in iron, and every mechanic be employed in fashioning the material for war. Let beauty sit day by day at the spinning wheel, the loom and with the needle, never wearying in preparing the necessary articles of clothing for the brave soldiers of our States, who stand between her and infamy and misery, as an impassable bulwark.”
In the Confederate State Senate. Mr. Clay introduced a bill providing that any “federal officer, soldier or adherent who may fall into our hands with counterfeit Confederate notes in his possession, or who may be proved to have passed off any such, shall be court-martialed and punished with death.”
Worthless trash is never counterfeited.
THE MAN THAT MURDERED LOVERJOY. Doctor Thomas Mordecai Hope, of Alton, Illinois, who was arrested for treasonable language some weeks since, used to boast that he was present at the mob in that city, in 1835,and fired the shot that killed Rev. Elijah P. Lovejoy, the anti-slavery martyr.
COLONIZATION. Colonization of the blacks is, it point of expense and success, something like the British effort to evangelize the Jews, in which the Society was said to have expended two million pounds steeling, and converted a Jew and a half.
The Richmond Examines says it will take one hundred full years to restore Virginia to the condition in which the war found it.
The name of Rev. Thomas Starr King is mentioned in connection with the vacancy in the U. S senatorial delegation from California.
Sargy, a slave woman, aged 117 years, died in New Orleans on the 15th ult. She was a native of Richmond.
Thirty-six rebel steamers have been captured or destroyed on the Mississippi and its tributaries.

$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the parents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and in construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics’ Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notes 
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts
Charitable Mechanic Association.
“FOUR PARKET’S SEWING MACHINES. This Machines so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler &; Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties pal tribute. These together with Parker’s improvements, make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism, being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple positive and complete. The apparatus for gauging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another features which strikes your committee favorably, viz.: there is no wheel below the table between the standards, to come it contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore as danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that as count.” 
PARKER’S SEWING MACHINES have many qualities that recommend them to use in families. The several parts are pinned together, so that it is always adjusted and ready for work, and not liable to get out of repair. It is the best finished, and most firmly and substantially made machine in the Fair. Its motions are all positive, its tension easily adjusted, and it leaves no ridge on the back of the work. It will hem, fell, stitch, run, bind and gather, and the work cannot be ripped, except designedly. It sews from common spools, with silk, linen or cotton, with equal facility. The stitch made upon this machine was recently awarded the first prize at the Tennessee State Fair, for its superiority.—Boston Traveller.
We would call the attention of our readers to the advertisement, in another column, of the Parker Sewing Machine. This is a licensed machine, being a combination of the various patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, with those of the Parker Sewing Machine Company: consequently, it has the advantage of such machines—first, in being a licensed machine; second, from the fact that it embraces all of the most important improvements which have heretofore been made in Sewing Machines; third, it requires no readjustment, all the various parts being made right and pinned together, instead of being adjusted by screws, thus avoiding all liability of getting out of order without actually breaking them; and <illegible> the necessity of the purchaser learning, as with others, how to regulate all the various motions to the machine. The favor with which the Parker Sewing Machine has already been received by the public warrants us in the belief that it is by far the best machine now in market. South Reading Gazette, Nov. 24, 1860.
ICH DIEN.
GLOBE HOTEL,
WILLIAM P. POWELL, PROPRIETOR,
2 DOVER STREET, (near Franklin Square,)
NEW YORK.
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., 111.
Especial attention given to securing and collecting Claims for Eastern Merchants.
August 8. et.
