THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM NO 6.
ROBERT F, WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz.:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & Son, Printers.
VOL XXX. NO. 38. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1552.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
THE MAGNANIMOUS SOUTH!-THE IRREPRESSIBLE CONFLICT USELESS.
Extract from a speech delivered by Hon. GEORGE S. HILLARD at the ‘Bell and Everett Union Meeting’ held at Williams Hall, Boston:—
If it were true that the Slave Power, so called, were always aggressive, always dedicated and devoted to the extension of slavery, to the exclusion of every other interest, would it not follow that the people of the slaveholding States would, with one hand and one voice, give their support to Mr. Breckinridge? But what is the fact? Just the reverse; the whole South rejects him, and repudiates the platform on which he stands. The Constitutional Union party will carry every Southern State, with the with the exception of South Carolina; nor are we without hope of getting the vote of that State, the most wayward and eccentric of all Uncle Sam's daughters.
Is there not something magnanimous and generous in this attitude of the South? Is there not something which touches the heart and moves the sensibilities in this appeal to the fraternal feeling of the North, on the part, too, of a sensitive, proud, high-spirited people? For the sake of peace, for the common good of the whole country, in the name of old memories and traditions, the South are willing to give up their cherished doctrines and their favorite son. They seem to say to us: “We are brethren; let us be at strife no longer. We will not deny that, in the past, we have sometimes forgotten that we were of the same blood. We have done unfriendly deeds; we have spoken unkind words; we have nursed an unforgiving temper. In that way we will walk no more. Let the past be forgotten and forgiven, and let us in the future dwell together in peace.’
And how shall we receive this offer of reconciliation? Shall we receive it with sullen distrust and a heart of stone? Shall we haughtily, unrelentingly, angrily reject these fraternal advances? Shall we say to the South-‘We have not done with you yet; our account is not yet settled; our books are not yet balanced. Between you and you there is an irresponsible conflict. This question of slavery in the Territories is the airiest of abstractions, we know—the apprehension of slavery going into the Territories is the most needless of bugbears—but it is good enough to fight about. The quarrel is a very pretty one as it stands; and upon it we mean in put you down, and keep you down. We mean to take the government to this country into our own hands, and govern it after our own pattern. We can do it, because we are strong, and you are weak. We are eighteen millions, and you are eight millions. To the rule of the majority you must and shall submit, and if the strong hand be necessary to bring you to the mood of submission, it shall not be wanting.’
To this unrelenting and unforgiving temper, you have been, you are, and you will be exhorted. For this your sentiments, your moral convictions, your religious sensibilities will be addressed. You will be told that it is your duty as men, a as patriots, as Christians, to embrace this gospel of hate. You will be told that you do right to be angry and keep angry with your brother. You will be told, that when Jesus of Nazareth said, ‘Thou salt love thy neighbor as thyself,’ he meant to exclude the slaveholder; and that the text should be amended so as to read thus:-‘But if thy neighbor be a slaveholder, thou salt hate him, and despitefully use him, and say all manner of evil against him.’
But I trust that you will be guided by better counsels, and follow the lead of a milder, more beneficent spirit. Let me say to you that there is no interest of liberty, humanity, or civilization, which can be promoted by keeping up this so-called irrepressible conflict between the North and the South. The burden of slavery will not be lightened, or the condition of the colored population in the free States improved by it, but the reverse. It can do no good, and is in itself an evil. Let us meet the South in a temper which responds to their own. Let us say to them, ‘We are brethren, and if in the past we have not lived as brothers should, we will in the future. We will not stop to cast up the figures, and find where the balance of crimination and recrimination lies, but we will close the book. We will abstain from taunts, and jibes and sarcasms, and threats and denunciations. You extend to us the right hand of fellowship; here is ours, with our heart in it. Whatever perils may a wait us in the future, we will meet, as we have met those of the past, side by side, and shoulder to shoulder. We will cultivate a generous, national sentiment, which shall beat at the extremities with as healthy a pulse as at the heart. We will work together” for the good of our common country, in the spirit of harmony and forbearance. Together will we develop her boundless material resources; together will we educate and elevate her people-till all the nations of the earth shall call her walls salvation and her gates praise—till tyrants shall shrink from her frown—till feebler Commonwealths shall cling to her ample robe for support, and, under the shadow of her awful shield, untold millions of free, happy, virtuous, educated men shall dwell in peace.’
Extract from a speech delivered at the same meeting by a Mr. L. C. Norwell. of Memphis, Tennessee:
He lately met a Mississippi planter, who had been a life-long Democrat, and had been extremely liberal to the party, and he said that the responsibility for the dangers threatening the country belonged to the Democratic party South, and the Republican party North. He know Mr. Bell to be a conservative statesman, and Mr. Everett to be a gentleman and a Christian, worthy in every respect of the highest place in the country. He and thousands of other Democrats were prepared to vote for them, knowing that if they were elected, they would give Congress something else to talk about besides Territories and niggers. ( Applause.) Mr. Bell refers to his past record to show what he will do in the future. We know that he has always been true to his country. There is but one difficulty in the way of his success, and that is, that the Republicans universally believe that if Mr. Lincoln should be elected, the South will quietly submit. I believe that if he should be elected, a Southern Convention would speedily be called, to consult as to the expediency of instructing members of Congress to resign their seats. You have no right to ask us to sit quietly under the election of a man who has publicly declared that whenever and wherever he can abolish slavery, he shall do it. Put down Mr. Lincoln, and the country is safe. (Cheers.)
Mr. Novell defined what he considered to be the only difference existing between an Abolitionist and a Republican, viz.:- that the former is an honest man. The Abolitionist says he will abolish slavery where ever he can. The Republican says, you may have got, but shall not have any more! We are much obliged to them for permission to keep what we have already got! We shall keep it without asking their permission. Although the Republicans say that they are opposed to the Abolition party, they nominated a man the other day for Gov-
<c02>
ernor of Massachusetts, who has said that it is honest and right for a murderer and a robber to burn my house over the heads of my wife and children. I do not believe that you are going to elect that man Governor. Whenever you do it, I shall lose my respect for Massachusetts. When I reflect on what Massachusetts has done for the Union, I cannot help respecting her. And in this crisis every man looks to Massachusetts with more interest and anxiety than to any other State in the Union; and we have every reason to expect, if not the triumph of Bell and Everett, at least a large reduction of the Black Republican forces. (Great applause.)
Mr. Norvell said a word about Mr. Lincoln. Here, said he, (holding up a folio of the minutest size,) is the life and times of that distinguished man. (Laughter.) It tells all that he has ever done, omitting, however, one circumstance, which I know something about. His splitting rails for an honest living was all right; it proves that he was an honest man, and had rather work than steal. (Laughter.) But when he went down on the Mississippi river, he bought a little retail grocery, and sold whiskey for five cents a drink. His little flat-boat, was the headquarters for all the rowdies, and gamblers, and border-ruffians in Illinois. It was there that Stephen A. Douglas made his acquaintance (Laughter.) I ask the Republicans of Massachusetts if they can vote for Mr. Lincoln, upon the ground of his being a Christian? If he triumphs, it will be by the votes of the rabble of the West; and it is for you to say whether you will aid them in that work. Mr. Norvell concluded by citing an extract from a speech of Henry Clay to his constituents in 1842, exhorting them to prove true to the impulses of a, patriotic nature in upholding the Union.
Cheers followed the conclusion of Mr. Norvell's remarks.
THE TRUE ALLIES OF THE SOUTH.
Who at the North can be relied upon? There are some there whose friendship is as pure as the drifted snow, and as warm as an endangered people could desire it to be. There are the Buchanan’s, the Lanes, the Cushing’s, the Fitches, the Biglers, the Halletts, the Dickinsons, and hosts of others who talk for us as John C. Calhoun talked. There are the Daybooks, the Old Line Guards, the Boston Posts, the Journals of Commerce, and hundreds of newspapers throughout the Free States, that hold up for our rights as if they had been established by Southern men and Southern gold. They stand between us and the dark hosts of our enemies in their midst. They all tell their people that we of the South are their equals. They stake their fortunes, politically and peculiarly, in proclaiming and maintaining, everywhere, that in the States and in the Territories we have, under a common Constitution, every right that they possess—that the slave-holder is entitled to as much protection in the Territories as the abolitionist, or the free-soiler. They don’t interpose local laws to exclude us—they say no such local laws should exist in the Territories— that laws should be enacted to give ample protection to slave property. These, then, are our Northern friends. They stand like immovable rocks in the sea of fanaticism. They are like streaks of light upon the dark Northern cloud. They give us the only hope we have that those clouds may be dispersed, and we and the Union left in safety and peace. Douglas Democrats! do not these truths, speak, in tones of love, to lure you to your true friends? Bell men! do you not know that the Northern supporters of your candidate are not like these true Northern Democrats to whom we refer? Oh! people of the South, how long will some superstitious charm, some fatal blindness, mislead you! Tear away this ablepsy from your eyes, shake I off the mists from your locks, stand united to back your true Northern friends, and the halcyon days of the past will return in pristine freshness and beauty to bless you and your country. Your Northern friends will be invigorated by your unity, and your enemies will tremble in view of their certain defeat.—Augusta (Georgia) True Democrat. 

SELECTIONS. 
SPEECH OF JOHN A. ANDREW AT THE JOHN BROWN MEETING.
The following is the speech delivered at the John Brown meeting in Boston, November 19th, 1859, by Mr. JOHN A. ANDREW:— 
‘Obedient to the commands of the gentlemen who arranged the meeting on this occasion, I am here present to occupy the simple and inarduous duties of chairman. They do not impose upon me the office of speech, and I hardly deem it consistent with the proprieties of the position I hold. It simply is incumbent upon me to say a single word by way of explanation, of the order and arrangement and principles of this meeting, and to present to you the distinguished and eloquent friends who have complied with the invitation of the committee, and are here present to address this audience. Many hearts were touched by the words of John Brown, in a recent letter to Lydia Maria Child:—
‘”I have at home a wife and three young daughters, the youngest but little over five years old, the oldest nearly sixteen. I have also two daughters-in-law, whose husbands have both fallen near me here. There is also another widow, Mrs. Thompson, whose husband fell here. Whether she it a mother or not, I cannot say, I have a middle-aged son, who has been, in some degree, a cripple from his childhood, who would have as much as he could well do to earn a living. He has not enough to clothe himself for the winter comfortably.”
‘John Brown and his companions in the conflict at Harper’s Ferry, those who fell there and those who are to suffer upon the scaffold, are victims or martyrs to an idea. There is an irrepressible conflict (great applause) between Freedom and Slavery, as old and as immortal as the irrepressible conflict between right and wrong. They are among the martyrs of that conflict.
‘I pause not now to consider, because it is wholly outside the duty or the thought of this assembly tonight, whether the enterprise of John Brown and his associates in Virginia was wise or foolish, right or wrong. I only know that whether the enterprise itself was one or the other, JOHN BROWN HIMSELF IS RIGHT.(Applause.) I SYMPATHISE WITH THE MAN, I SYMPATHISE WITH THE IDEA, BECAUSE I SYMPATHISE WITH AND BELIEVE IN THE ETERNAL RIGHT. They who are dependent upon him, and his sons and associates, in the battle at Harper’s Ferry, have a right to call upon us who have professed to believe, or who have in any manner or measure taught, the doctrine of the rights of man as applied to the colored slaves of the South, to stand by then in their bereavement, whether those husbands and fathers and brothers were right or wrong. (Applause.) And therefore we have met to take counsel together, and assist each other in the arrangement and apportionment of means for the purpose of securing to those widowed and bereaved wives and families, the necessities of mere mortal existence, which the striking down of sons and husbands and
<c03>
brothers had left them bereft of. The committee for this evening had invited to address you the Rev. Mr. Manning, Mr. Ralph Waldo Emerson, and Mr. Wendell Phillips. Added to these gentlemen was the Rev. George H. Hepworth. Mr. Manning, Mr. Emerson and Mr. Phillips are here to speak for themselves. Mr. Hepworth has addressed to a member of the committee, the following note:—
‘“BOSTON, November 19th.
‘“DEAR SIR,—I shall not be with you to-night to speak concerning the great question of the day, because I feel that the advertisement in the papers has compromised my position. It does not tell that truth which is of prime importance to me, that both sides of the question were to be discussed. It gives a decided impression that those who were to speak favored the whole movement, whereas I am severely opposed to it.
‘”(Signed,) GEORGE H. HEPWORTH.”
The gentlemen who invited Mr. Hepworth and the other gentlemen who are present to-night, to occupy this platform, attempted to make themselves explicitly understood, and it is quite a misfortune either to them or Mr. Hepworth, or to all, that they did not succeed in that instance. This platform is entirely free from the expression of any sentiment on the part of those who occupy it, touching the subject matter of the meeting. It was not suspected by anybody that there were two sides to the question whether John Brown’s wife and children should be left to starve or not. (Long continued applause.) On that issue I expect no considerable acrimony of debate between the gentlemen of extreme orthodoxy and of extreme heterodoxy, whom I shall have the honor hereafter to present upon this platform. Gentlemen, all of them, of marked, of intelligent, and of decided opinions, and of entire respect for themselves and for their own individuality, they will each present each aspect of this great cause, and of this most touching and pathetic case, as occurs to them. It will not compromise Mr. Phillips that he sits upon a platform consecrated by the prayer of Rev. Dr. Neale, and it will not compromise the Rev. Mr. Manning that he works to-night side by side and hand in hand with Ralph Waldo Emerson, in the cause of God and humanity. (Applause.) Standing in the valley of the shadow of death, looking, each man, from himself toward that infinite and eternal centre of life and love and power, the Infinite Father,—all differences between us mortals and men become dwarfed into infinite littleness. We are tonight in the presence of a great and an awful sorrow, which has fallen like a pall upon many families, whose hearts fail, whose affections are lacerated, and whose hopes are crushed—all of hope left on earth destroyed by an event which, under the Providence of God, I pray will be overruled for that good which was contemplated and intended by John Brown himself. But this is not my occasion for words. I have only to invite you, friends, to listen with affectionate interest and feeling hearts to what you shall hear from hence to-night, and by practical sympathy and material aid, help to assuage those sufferings and those griefs. Among the other instrumentalities for the aid of the family of Mr. Brown and those of his immediate associates, in addition to the collection which may be realized by the sale of tickets at the door, there will be a committee appointed this evening for the purpose of receiving subscriptions and donations, of whatever amount, from whatever friends choose to contribute of their substance; and this committee, having a central position there in Boston, will receive contributions from any part of the neighboring country. I am requested also to call attention to the project of Mr. Hyatt, of New York, by which photographic likenesses of Captain Brown are to be placed on sale in a short time,—the profits of which will go to the benefit of Mr. Brown’s family. I am also requested by a gentleman of this city, to say that he has caused the address of Captain Brown to the Virginia court, upon the reception of his death sentence, to be printed in this neat form for preservation.
[The speaker here exhibited a large illuminated card, on which the document was printed.]
‘It has the additional attraction of a facsimile of the signature of Captain Brown. This will be for sale at the door at the low price of ten cents each. A thousand copies have been struck off, and the whole proceeds will go into the treasury of the committee hereafter to be appointed, the gentle man paying the expense of printing himself. (Applause.)’

THE CONTRAST BETWEEN FREE LABOR.AND SLAVE LABOR.
Extract from a very able and eloquent speech delivered by CARL SHURZ at St. Louis, August 1:— 
Cast your eyes over that great bee-hive, called the Free States. See by the railroad and the telegraphic wire every village, almost every back wood cottage, drawn within the immediate reach of progressive civilization. Look over our grain fields, but lately a lonesome wilderness, where machinery is almost superseding the labor of human hand; over our work shops, whose aspect is almost daily changed by the magic touch of inventive genius; over our fleets of merchant vessels, numerous enough to make. the whole world tributary to our prosperity; look upon our society, where by popular education and the continual change of connection the dividing lines between ranks and classes are almost obliterated; look upon our system of public instruction, which places even the lowliest child of the people upon the high road of progressive advancement; upon our rapid growth and expansive prosperity, which is indeed subject to reverses and checks, but contains such a wonderful fertility of resources, that every check is a mere incentive for new enterprise, every reverse but a mere opportunity for the development of new powers.
To what do we owe all this? First and foremost to that perfect freedom of inquiry, which acknowledges no rules but those of logic, no limits but those that bound the faculties of the human mind. (Cheers.) Its magic consists in its universality. To it we owe the harmony of our progressive movement in all its endless ramifications. No single science, no single practical pursuit exists in our day independently of all other sciences, all other practical pursuits. This is the age of the solidarity of progress. Set a limit to the freedom of inquiry in one direction, and you destroy the harmony of its propelling action. Give us the Roman Inquisition, which forbids Galileo Galites to think that the earth moves round the sun, and he has to interrupt and give up the splendid train of his discoveries, and their influence upon all other branches of science is lost; he has to give it up, or he must fight the Inquisition. Let the Slave Power or any other political or economical interest tell us that we must think, and say, and invent, and discover nothing which is against its demands—and we must interrupt and give up the harmony of our progressive development, or fight the tyrannical pretension, whatever shade it may assume. (Loud cheers.)
Believing, as we do, that the moral and ideal development of man is the true aim and end of human society, we must preserve in their efficiency the means which serve that end. In order to secure to the freedom of inquiry its full productive power, we must surround it with all the safeguards which po-
<c04>
litical institutions afford. As we cannot set a limit to the activity of our minds, so we cannot muzzle our mouths or fetter the press with a censorship. We cannot arrest or restrain the discussion of the question, what system of labor, or what organization of society promotes best the moral and intellectual development of man. We cannot deprive a single individual of the privileges which protect him in the free exercise of his faculties, and the enjoyment of his right, so long as these faculties are not employed to the detriment of the rights and liberties of others. Our organization of society resting upon equal rights, we find our security in a general system of popular education which fits all for an intelligent exercise of those rights. This is the home policy of free-labor society. The policy in our Federal affairs must necessarily correspond. Deeming free and intelligent labor the only safe basis of society, it is our duty to expand its blessings over all the territory within our reach; seeing our own prosperity advanced by the prosperity of our neighbors, we must’ endeavor to plant upon our borders a system of labor, which answers in that respect. Do we recognize the right of the laboring man to the soil he cultivates, and shield him against oppressive speculation? Seeing in the harmonious development of all branches of labor a source of progress and power, we must adopt a policy which draws so light the resources of the land, gives work to our workshops and security to our commerce. These are the principles and views governing our policy.
Slaveholders, look at this picture, and at this Can the difference escape your observation? You may say, as many have said, that there is indeed a difference of principles, but not necessarily an antagonism of interests. Look again.
Your social system is founded upon forced labor, ours upon free labor. Slave labor cannot exist together with freedom of inquiry, and so you demand the restriction of that freedom; free labor cannot exist without it, and so we maintain its inviolability Slave labor demands the setting aside of the safeguards of individual liberty, for the purpose of upholding subordination and protecting slave property; free labor demands their preservation as essential and indispensable to its existence and progressive development. Slavery demands extension by an aggressive foreign policy; free labor demands an honorable peace and friendly intercourse with the world abroad for its commerce, and a peaceable and undisturbed development of our resources at home for its agriculture and industry. Slavery demands extension over national territories for the purpose of gaining political power. Free labor demands the national domain for working men for the purpose of spreading the blessings of liberty and civilization. Slavery opposes all measures tending to secure the soil to the actual laborers, free labor therefore recognizes the right of the settler to the soil, and demands measures protecting him against the pressure of speculation. Slavery demands the absolute ascendancy of the planting interest in our economical policy; free labor demands legislation tending to develop all the resources of the land, and to harmonize the agricultural, commercial and industrial interests. Slavery demands the control of the General Government for its special protection and the promotion of its peculiar interests; free labor demands that the General Government be administered for the purpose of securing to all the blessings of liberty, and for the promotion of the general welfare Slavery demands the recognition of its divine right; Free Labor recognizes no divine rights but that of the liberty of all men.
With one word, Slavery demands for its protection and perpetuation a system of policy which is utterly, incompatible with the principles upon which the organization of Free Labor society rests. There is the antagonism. That is the essence of the irrepressible conflict. It is a conflict of principles underlying interests, always the same, whether appearing as a moral, economical, or political question. Mr. Douglas boasted that he could repress it with police measures; he might as well try to fetter the winds with a rope. The South mean to repress it with the decision of the Supreme Court; they might as well, like Xerxes, try to subdue the waves of the ocean by throwing chains into the water.(Applause.)
Thus the all-prevailing antagonism stands before us, gigantic in its dimensions, growing every day in the awful proportions of its problems, involving the character of our institutions; involving our relations with the world abroad; involving our peace, our rights and liberties at home; involving our growth and prosperity; involving our moral and political existence as a nation.
How short-sighted, how childish are those who find its origin in artificial agitation! As though we could produce a tempest by blowing our noses, or an earthquake by stamping our puny feet upon the ground! But how to solve, how to decide it? Let us pass in review our political parties, and the remedies they propose. There we encounter the so called Union party, with Bell and Everett, who tell us the best way to settle the conflict is to ignore it.
Ignore it! Ignore it, when attempts are made to plunge the country into war and disgrace, for the purpose of Slavery extension! Ignore it, when Slavery and Free Labor wage their fierce war about the possession of the national domain! Ignore it, when the liberties of speech and press are attacked! Ignore it, when the actual settler claims the virgin soil, and the slaveholding capitalists claim it also! Ignore it, when the planting interest seeks to establish and maintain its exclusive supremacy in our economical policy! Ignore it, indeed! Ignore the fire that consumes the corner-post of your house! Ignore the storm that breaks the rudder and tears to tatters the sails of your ship! Conjure the revolted elements with a meek Mount Vernon lecture! Pour upon the furious waves the placid oil of a quotation from Washington’s farewell address!
It is true they tell us they will enforce the laws and the Constitution. Well enough! But what laws? Those that Free Labor demand, or those that Slavery gives us? What Constitution? That of Washington and Madison, or that of Slidell, Douglas and Taney?
The conflict stands there with the stubborn, brutal force of reality. However severely it may disturb the nerves of timid gentlemen, there it stands and speaks the hard, stern language of fact. I understand well that great problems and responsibilities should be approached with care and caution. But times like these demand the firm action of men who know what they will, and will it, not that eunuch policy, which, conscious of its own unproductiveness, invites us blandly to settle down into the imbecile contentment of general impotency. They cannot ignore the conflict if, they would, but have not nerve enough to decide it if they could.

From the Dublin Morning News.
THE NEW AMERICAN MOVEMENT.
A late mail from America bore the startling intelligence that the chronic conflict which has been so long maintained between the Slaveocracy and Democracy of the Republic has, at length, assumed such dimensions, and risen to such a pitch, that the Southern States have resolved to separate from the Northern, and form a distinct Republic,
<c05>
the cause assigned being the aggressive action and extent of the Abolition agitation. It is likewise reported that emissaries have been despatched to Europe for the purpose of sounding the different Governments as to the part they would be likely to take, were immediate steps adopted to lead to the consummation of this project. Considering, however, the popular aspirations of the American people, their indigenous appetite for annexation, and, their deep-grounded belief that it is their manifest destiny virtually to absorb the entire Continent and its Islands, there are strong reasons for discrediting, if not the existence of a movement tending to this result on the part of the Southrons, the possibility of its ever being carried into effect. Another improbability also attaching to this important piece of intelligence is found in the fact, that the influence of the Slaveocracy has, of late years, become so augmented in Congress as to approximate to a virtual command of that assembly. The America of the present day presents not only the most extraordinary phenomena of a national existence which can be found in universal history, but affords, in its future aspect, the most difficult problem for the prospective politician—a vast centre and system of civilization, yet composed of the most antagonistic elements—liberty in its most advanced and exaggerated form at one pole, slavery at the other; nineteenth century progress reigning paramount in the North; Egyptian despotism, such as existed in the barbarian days which saw the pyramids arise, in the South; commerce advancing with the rapidity of steam, yet producing opulent results an transitory; education spreading like light, yet incapable of dissipating the cloud which hangs over Carolina; a Christianized people holding four millions of their fellow-creatures in servitude; formidable to the universe as a nation, yet, from the latter iniquitous element of their condition, divided against themselves. For the present, despite the agitation of the Northern Democrats, there seems little likelihood that that separation is a proximate possibility, or that it will occur as long as America is in a transition state consequent on formation. Should, however, a breach between the Northern and Southern States assume a probable aspect, there can be but little doubt that their disunion would be sedulously fostered by European governments, despotic and Constitutional—the latter of which would very likely side with the South, as well as England, whose commercial interests, which invariably dictate her foreign policy, lie chiefly in the latter division of the Republic, and who would hardly object to see broken up a Power which, already vast, threatens at no distant day to annex Canada.

WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION.
E. B. Underhill, Esq., Foreign Secretary of the English Baptist Missionary Society, is now on a visit to this country. He has recently spent four years in visiting the Missions of the Society in Burmah, India, and the West Indies; and in a recent meeting in New York, he is reported as saying:
He had visited Trinidad and Hayti, and spent five months in Jamaica, and was prepared to deny the reports that either missionary labors or emancipation had been a failure in the West Indies. He had come away from Jamaica, and the other West India Islands, with a glad and cheerful heart. All the Islands in the British Government, except Trinidad, were eminently Christian Islands. There were more church members, in proportion to population, and more general attendance upon public worship, than in any other part of the world. In some parts of some small islands, he could not learn of a single family accustomed to being absent from worship, and the same was true, to a great extent, of Jamaica itself, in which there could not be less than 180,000 people under direct religious instruction. In some parts of the island, there were not two per cent, of the population that did not attend the churches.
Before emancipation, the people were mostly in the hands of the leaders, who were illiterate men, for the missionaries could rarely visit the plantations, except by stealth; but, since emancipation, the leaders have become more instructed. Many people had gone into the mountainous districts in search of cheap lands, and at present there were not sufficient means of reaching the wanderers. The ministry had also diminished, being almost destitute of external aid. The great want of Jamaica today was more ministers, education being greatly advanced since emancipation. Then, in one district, there were but three or four out of five thousand, who could read and write; now there were eighteen hundred. The piety of these persons was sincere, earnest and devoted. They supported their own pastors, and built and repaired their own churches, and maintained their own schools. The planting interest had always been antagonistic to their education until very recently.
The planters of Jamaica complained that they could not get laborers, and said the people were idle and careless, but he could not confirm those allegations of planters. There was not, taking one thing with another, a more industrious peasantry on earth. The negroes of Jamaica themselves produced all that was produced. They saved money, bought themselves farms, and cared for their children, and throughout the interior they gave evidences of an approach to a higher civilization. The negroes were noted for honesty and integrity, and were trusted by capitalists with the management of large properties. They disliked sugar cultivation, because it was less profitable than the labor upon their own freeholds. To the people themselves, emancipation had been an unmixed good. On the mountains and in the valleys of Jamaica, under the shadow of the mango trees, were to be found a happy people, whose faults came from slavery, and whose virtues came from emancipation.

From the Church Portfolio.
INSURRECTIONARY PRINCIPLES ADVOCATED BY THE NEW YORK ‘WORLD.’
How true it is that every claim urged for oppressed humanity in one part of the world may be used as an argument against wrong everywhere! Principles are dangerous things. Like edged tools, they cut the very hands of those who unskilfully use them. We have an instance of this in the ‘World,’ the new religious daily which patterns after the morality and piety of the Tract Society:—
‘The indignant sympathy of all Christendom was lately awakened by the outrage which removed a Jewish child from his parents. It is not likely that it will slumber now that a host of Christian parents and children have been overwhelmed by a common destruction, and the like destruction impends over the large Christian population of the Turkish provinces Some thousands have perished already, but in Syria alone, there are upwards of 600,000 Christians, who are now probably trembling in apprehension of a similar fate. It is no time to stand upon technicalities, not to consult precedents. “Charity,” said good Archbishop Tillotson, “is above rubies; and humanity is higher than national law.” In fact, the necessity and duty of protecting the Christian populations, under the fanatical despotism of the Ottoman empire, has come to be an admitted
<c06>
principle of general law. The last treaty between the Christian Powers and the Porte recognized in Russia has since assumed still more boldly the attitude of protector to the Greek Christians, and Europe has admitted her right to do so.-It is not likely that France will be more slack to protect the Catholics, nor that England will leave either to Russia or France, or both combined the office of protector and avenger under circumstances where it might to easily be made the means of furthering their ambitious encroachments, or endangering her own Asiatic possessions. Our own country has in interest in this matter—not the were interest of humanity, though a free and powerful State might well allow such generous instincts to influence her policy.’
Now, in this quotation we see principles laid down intelligently and deliberately which justified John Brown in his efforts to free the slaves of Virginia. If it is an admitted principle of general law that the Christian populations under the fanatical despotism of the Ottoman Empire should be protected,—if Tillotson's maxim is good and Christian, that ‘humanity is higher than national law,’—who can dare to blame the five heroes who perished on the scaffold in Virginia in an abortive effort to redeem from a bondage worse than death the millions of slaves in this land? ‘Rid the poor and needy out of the land of the wicked ‘is a divine command; and it is also a dictate of humanity, as is proved by the thousands of swords that have leaped from their scabbards to avenge the wrongs done to the Christians in Syria. The great sin and fault for which John Brown forfeited his life was that <illegible> I. endeavored to obey this divine command. There are four millions of American citizens, condemned by the laws of the piratical oligarchies of the South to perpetual slavery for no crime. Their labor is plundered from them. Their wives and children are torn from them, and sold away to a return less distance. They are treated like chattels personal in the hands of their owners. They long for freedom, and would willingly exchange their bondage for death. John Brown regarded the slaveholding States as piracies, and he did on a small scale what the world wants all Christendom to do in rescuing and protecting the Syrian Christians from Mohammedan despotism. How dare the World, then, in the face and teeth of its avowed principles concerning intervention, say one word in rebuke of John Brown and his associates for their heroic deeds in Virginia?
But you will not find the south endorsing the policy of intervention in Syria. They watch principles with the eye of a basilisk. They were the deadly enemies of Kossuth and the cause of the Hungarians, because they knew that the Magyar’s principles, if applied to the despotisms of the South as well as of Austria, would strike the chains from the limbs of every slave. They are consistent. But the World is blear-eyed, and does not see where its principles would lead. If it did, we fear it would adopt the do-nothing principle and policy dictated by the Tract Society. 

From the New Orleans Picayune.
THE TEXAS SLAVE EXCITEMENT.
The late acts of incendiarism in Texas, and the evidence which gains credit there of more diabolical designs, have created an excitement in that State which it is not possible for those at a distance fully to estimate. With the full conviction prevailing in many counties that the conflagrations which have destroyed so many flourishing towns are but the first part of a deep conspiracy, whose malignant object is the desolation of the country, no wonder need be expressed at the suspicion that exists toward strangers that are found among them, and the readiness of the people to rid themselves of all who cannot establish their honesty of purpose. But this state of public feeling may lead to an exaggeration of, facts to the exaltation of suspicions to the dignity of proof; and harassing inquisition, if not absolute danger, to honest strangers, and to the perpetration of acts of cruel injustice. 
The following statement, made by a well-known citizen of New Orleans, affords a painful illustration of the feeling existing, and the idea of the wrong which may, in the haste of the excitement, be done to the innocent. We publish it, that the citizens of Texas may see a cogent reason for cool calmness and deliberation in their action toward the suspected, who may be not only innocent and true, but friendly and brotherly.
Mr. Savers, who has been for twenty years engaged in buying and selling stock in this city, early in the summer made a trip to Texas with the intention of purchasing and stocking a farm. With this object, he made a tour through nearly all the counties of Northern and Middle Texas, and happened to be near Dallas, on his return to New Orleans, about the time the disastrous fire broke out in that place. From Dallas he travelled by stage to Palestine, in Anderson county, finding the whole people excited in the highest degree by the dangers about them. Failing to make connection at Palestine with the stages to Crockett, he attempted to procure a private conveyance, as the delay would interfere with his business arrangements. This anxiety to reach Crockett, coupled with the fact that he was a stranger, coming from the direction of Dallas, excited suspicion, and he found himself surrounded by a crowd, who took him to be an incendiary. “So far from being satisfied with his explanations, and a detailed history of his business and life, they judged him an enemy, and proposed to give him an introduction to Judge Lynch.
Anticipating the worst, Mr. Savers stood on his defence, drew his revolver, and stated to the crowd that if they had determined to hang him, he would sell his life as dearly as possible; and in his Masonic character he called upon the Masonic fraternity for aid. This appeal proved successful for delay, and after a more cool investigation, he was released.
This is a brief account of the adventure in the excited region of a well-known citizen of New Orleans, himself a slaveholder, born in a slave State, and identified with the institutions of the South. The slightest suspicions were magnified into proofs of crime.
He had come to that town from a point where the incendiaries had been at work, and seemed desirous to hasten out of Texas, and his details of his business, his personal references to known citizens of Crockett who were not present, and his statement that he was in Texas with the design of settlement, were discredited, and but for a fortunate appeal to other titles, his life might not have been saved. This case should warn the people of Texas against precipitation under this excitement, and to do the duty not of dealing with the suspected only on perfect evidence, and with the forms, of law, if possible, otherwise, in the extreme cases, after such forms of deliberation as will be their vindication to their own consciences and the world. But these occurrences show, not only how deep a sentiment and excitement pervade the threatened counties, but those adjoining. Exaggerated though the facts that go to prove a widely-extended and well-contrived conspiracy against life and property may be, is cannot he stated that this alarm is the offspring of delusion, or got up for any political movement. There is real cause for organization for self-protection. Well for Texas will it be if every act resulting be guided by justice.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE TEXAN TRAGEDY.
We have twice ventured, each time giving our reasons therefore, to doubt the existence of any negro plot whatever in Texas, or of any purpose of revolt among her slaves. From the first, the story has rested upon such flimsy foundations as to be incredible, and has not, from the beginning, been supported by a single particle of direct evidence. Undoubtedly, many persons at the North believed in its truth; just as undoubtedly, everybody at the South believed it to be a lie. With the former, the wonder is that slaves do not oftener rise in insurrection against their masters, and they give implicit credence to every rumor of such a catastrophe; but the Southern people know the almost insurmountable practical obstacles there are in the way of any such attempt at achieving freedom or compassing revenge on the part of the negroes, and they know also, when these are surmounted, how frightful the retribution is which overtakes the master who bears the first onset of such a storm. Neither in the acts of the negroes, nor in the conduct of the whites, has there been any evidence of the existence of a servile insurrection, though the papers for more than two months have abounded with statements of pretended proofs. Whatever may have been the purpose of these stories, they are met at length with a correction that may not be doubted. The New Orleans Picayune of the 8th inst. says:-
ï¿½The investigations which have been prosecuted in the disturbed districts of Texas have not developed, with any degree of distinctness, the existence of any other plot for ruin than what a few desperate characters, without connection with or hope of help from any other quarter, might have formed. In some cases the negro population have been demoralized evidently by the insidious promises of these white men, and the work of ruin wrought has doubtless been mainly their work. But not half of what has been confessed seems to be borne out by later facts. The strychnine said to have been discovered in the hands of negroes turns out to be very harmless, having no affinity with the deadly poison which it was supposed to be. The wells thought to have been poisoned, late accounts declare to be untainted with any deleterious substance. Texas, like all of our frontier States, has been the point where desperate men have congregated, and her whole history is full of violence and outrage inflicted by the foes of society. Aroused by the present danger, the citizens have now taken the most effectual means to bring such offenders to justice, and to break up all combinations for their protection.ï¿½
A newspaper published at Houston, Texas, had already borne a similar testimony, and it may now be considered as an established fact that the pretended plot was a pretence and a sham. Undoubtedly, however, it had its purpose, and that, as we have already suggested, was to suppress with the strong hand a nascent Anti-Slavery feeling among the people of Texas, and more especially aimed at the Methodists, with some of whom hostility to slavery was a religious conviction. In this suppression it has undoubtedly succeeded in so far that it has put to death a number of citizens who held to the heresies of the Sermon on the Mount and the Declaration of Independence. But the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church, and through the madness of the Pro-Slavery party, we doubt not the feeling against slavery as an inhuman and God-defying institution is stronger in Texas to-day than it ever was before.-New York Tribune.

A MAN SENTENCED TO BE HUNG FOR CIRCULATING THE N. Y. TRIBUNE.
Some time since, a very respectable and well-known citizen of St. Louis, named Henry A. Marsh, established a news depot at some point in Texas. Subsequently, he established other depots in Camden, Ark., and Memphis, Tenn. A few weeks since, he received an order at his Camden depot for fifty copies of the New York Tribune. As a matter of business, Marsh undertook to fill the order, and the package arrived in due course of time, while he was absent at Memphis. It having been noised about Camden that the Tribune was about being circulated, through medium-indirectly, however-of Mr. Marsh, a Committee of three men were appointed to go after Mr. Marsh, and bring him back to Camden. Accordingly, they proceeded on their mission, and, one night, captured their unsuspecting victim, in Memphis, and conveyed him on board a steamer, and locked him in a state-room. The captain of the boat, on learning their intention, refused to convey the party, and they were obliged to convey their captive across the river in a yawl. Arriving in Camden, Mr. Marsh was arraigned on the charge of circulating seditious and incendiary documents, was convicted and SENTENCED TO BE HUNG. Time was, however, given him to send for his wife, and permission granted him to procure from citizens of St. Louis a certificate of former good character, respectability, and loyalty. The wife of Mr. Marsh arrived in this city, en route for Camden, and is stopping at Barnumï¿½s Hotel, awaiting the completion of a petition already signed by many well-known citizens, of all political parties, for the relief of the unfortunate man, whose only crime is embraced in the faithful discharge of his business relations. Mrs. Marsh will leave for Camden to-day with the petition, numerously signed, with the heartfelt prayer of the citizens of St. Louis for the safety of her husband from the hands of his fanatical fire-eating captors.-St. Louis Express.

From a San Francisco paper. 
JUBILEE OF THE COLORED PEOPLE.
Anniversary of Emancipation in the British West Indies.
Yesterday, ï¿½Pacific Gardenï¿½ was gay with a merry crowd of colored people, celebrating the 22d anniversary of the British West India Emancipation. The attendance was large, and the enjoyment unalloyed. The little folks paraded to the music of a drum and fife, wheeled into line, sung their school songs, defiled and made the circuit of the billard-room, the race-course and the refreshment corner, broke up into squads and had fun of all sorts-galloped the wooden horses round the circus, frolicked in the carriages, ate ice-cream, and glorified the memory of the most glorious event, for the African race, of the century. There were lots of young gentlemen present, some dressed within an inch of their lives, some sensibly attired, none shabbily. There were pretty women present, octoroons and quadroons, colored a delicate buff, with the tint of the rose shining through, and from this hue all gradations of color to that of ebony.
But the finest physical feature of the gathering were the motherly dames, looking so like our cherished old nurses, in their faces carrying topmost an air of contentment and gladness; then a look of grave sorrow; and occasionally, as the speakers excited them, flashing out a look of indignation-which, however, soon faded out, and back to the original air of kind, thoughtful merriment.
The literary exercises of the day did not begin till 3 1-2 oï¿½clock, at which time the Chair rapped to order.
J. G. Wilson of Sacramento was introduced, four times, before the merry company had composed itself into the sedate aspect of an audience. Mr. Wilson was evidently in excellent mood for a speech. His face glowed alike with perspiration and inspiration. He dashed, like a charger rode by a happy marshal on a great parade day, into the centre of his subject, and thence soared to the zenith of his eloquence. He said he was simply there to introduce the Rev. T. Starr King, and that gentleman never got such an introduction before, and never will again, though he should outlive Methusaleh, and make the circuit of the globe. Mr. Wilson fairly glorified his subject in more than ordinary English and extraordinary Latin. But hanging the theme of his praise on the belt of Orion, the eulogist came back to earth for a few minutes. The colored people, he said, were national. Personally, he loved America-every inch of her soil, every ray of her glory, all but her slavery; and that he believed America would spurn the very day that colored people assumed the dignity and showed the spirit that they ought. He again gathered up the gentleman whom he was about to introduce, in the arms of his eloquence-not to deposit him on the earth, but to lift him to still sublimer heights-where, in the speakerï¿½s dying apathy,ï¿½ amid the ï¿½cheers of angels,ï¿½ he left him ï¿½at the summum totum' of an unmitigated hypotheosis!
DRIFT OF REV. T. STARR KINGï¿½S ADDRESS.
Mr. King said that on several occasions of his life, he had found himself utterly unable to make a speech. Indeed, he had come here at the invitation of the Committee, simply to mingle his emotions with theirs. He had depended on the songs, hymns and orations that he should hear, to furnish him stimulus for what he should say. [Mr. King, though present about noon, had now just arrived again, and seemed to labor under the impression that the literary exercises were about closing, in-
<c02>
stead of just opening.] Deeply sympathising in the story and the hopes of their race, be came gladly to express his sympathy with them, on this, which was both their holy day and their holiday- this anniversary of the great act of justice of the Mother Country.
It was a great thing to get a principle wrought out by one man. Once in a while, God sent some lofty thinker to send the baptism of refreshing thought down into the lowlands of the world. If they had met to celebrate the coming of some such noble thinker, the occasion would be dignified and worthy. When a man had obtained a vision of a noble truth, and a whole country bad accepted it as truth, it was well to make a festival and rejoice together over that fact. It was wise to celebrate the gift of a martyr to a noble cause. But this was a greater occasion than any such would be. The thinker had perceived the truth; the martyr had died for it; a nation had accepted it, and then to evince its belief had trampled on its selfishness, and by its deeds stamped the truth and its belief on history. The greatest day of the last hundred years was not when Adams and Jefferson were first fired with the spirit of liberty, nor when our heroes met in Philadelphia to sign the Declaration of Independence: but that day when the British nation laid its millions of money on the table of the House of Commons, in reverence for a principle that had been only taught before as an abstract truth. Then Christianity received its noblest acquisition of a century, and a new hour struck in the history of principle. The Divine Spirit ruled during this century in the human heart as it had never in any age before, and this was one of the noblest places a Christian minister of any denomination could be in to-day. (Great applause.) Christ was born 1800 years ago, in a manger: he was reborn every year and every day in this country. He desires not to be Lord of the private heart alone, but Lord of all lands. We want to see him born in Washington-in our capitol. (Cries of ï¿½Hear!ï¿½ ï¿½Hear!ï¿½) Wherever we find many races brought together, there God has his greatest work to do-there is room for the noblest labor of Christianity. The greatest work that was ever wrought by the early Christians was when the disciples went beyond the borders of Judea, and controverted the current doc-trine that the Gentiles had no rights that a Jew was bound to respect, (cheers and laughter,) and taught that Christianity had no respect for rank, color or sect. The Almighty had a great mission for this nation. Here the Church was to proclaim the equality of the races. (Applause.) Wherever the oppressed were congregated, there Christ was present, and not on the side of power. In such a presence, said Mr. King, I always come with reverence. As a noble German said, it was easy for a person to look with reverence to those who are above, but it was greater to revere the man who is below. Your race is dear to the heart of Providence-for the sorrows with which you are yet baptized. The speaker urged his hearers to respect themselves, to educate themselves and their children. They had much against them. They had the pride and selfishness of many classes against them, but: the faith of the Gospel was for them. The future of the Church was for them. Some grand future First of August was for them, when a new commentary would be written by the nation upon that sentiment of Paul-ï¿½for there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek.ï¿½ In that hope, and in the refreshment of that prophecy, he bade them all ï¿½God bless you, farewell.ï¿½ (Applause.) 
Mr. Kingï¿½s address was entirely extempore, and took about twenty minutes in the delivery. We have given but the thread that ran through it. It was chaste, rich in illustration, and, as even our extract shows, full of suggestive thoughts. When he sat down, the people crowded about him to express their gratitude-some of the older and graver matrons with streaming eyes. 
J. M. Bell, a colored man, then followed, with a poem. It was curiously unequal in its merits-at times halting and crude in its imagery, and then again smooth, forcible, and Whittier-like. Its points brought out hearty responses from the thoughtful. We refrain from publishing any portion of it, as we understand the author is about issuing a volume in which it will be contained. 
The Chairman next introduced as ï¿½the amiable friend from Ohio, Mr. Atwood; a mulatto, who delivered a carefully prepared address on the wrongs of his race. He was particularly bitter in some passages. Some of their oppressors, he said, were not fit for heaven: they would disgrace hell. He could think of no proper region fit for them but the scorching sands outside of hell, where their carcases would rot alone, unvisited by common friends, from whom the worm that dieth not would turn with loathing and disgust. 
Rev. Mr. Simonds, of the Methodist Church, was called on for some remarks. He responded readily and earnestly. He gloried in the occasion-he had a horror of newspaper fame, but if there was a reporter present, he begged him to note the fact that he was there. He felt the honor of the invitation. Mr. Simonds directed the attention of those present to the results of the emancipation in the West Indies, which were eminently good and wholesome. He seemed thoroughly posted on the facts of which he spoke, and was cheered with enthusiasm. Other speeches and rousing singing followed.
Meanwhile, another celebration was proceeding at Russï¿½s Garden, where addresses were delivered by J. B. Sanderson, Rev. Adam Smith, Rev. Bernard Fletcher, P. Anderson and D. W. Ruggles, and the accounts that come in affirm no less happy a time there than at the Garden on Third street.

The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS. 
BOSTON, SEPTEMBER 21, 1860. 
THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.
We have before us a pamphlet, just published by Thayer & Eldridge, Boston, entitled ï¿½ADDRESS OF THE FREE CONSTITUTIONALISTS TO THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES,ï¿½ which is an argumentative effort to show, (1.) that ï¿½the Constitution of the United States is a sufficient warrant for giving liberty to all the people of the United Statesï¿½-meaning by this, abolishing slavery in every Slave State, in utter disregard of the Constitution and laws of such State to the contrary; (2,) that the Territorial question, now convulsing the nation, ï¿½is a frivolous and impertinent one, in which the slave himself can have no interest, and which is unworthy of a momentï¿½s consideration at this time, if not at all timesï¿½: (3,) that, of all the rival political parties, ï¿½the Republican is the most thoroughly senseless, baseless, aimless, inconsistent and insincereï¿½; (4,) that ï¿½the great object is to procure the defeat of the Republicansï¿½-for ï¿½if defeated on the sixth of November, the faction itself will be extinct on the seventhï¿½; and, (5,) that a new party should be organized on the basis of the unconstitutionally of slavery in every section of the country.
Entertaining a high regard for the motives and the intellectual ability of the author of this pamphlet, (who modestly chooses to withhold his name, but who has before, in a still more elaborate manner, under his own signature, advocated the same theory of the U. S. Constitution,) we, nevertheless, must beg leave to dissent from every one of the five propositions thus advanced by him, believing them all to be fallacious, and, consequently, a waste of time and effort.
First, as to the anti-slavery character of the Constitution of the United States.
This Constitution was formed in 1787, and from that time to the present has undergone no change whatever in any section or clause relating to slavery, or supposing to relate to it. Whatever may be its phraseology, therefore, it means now, in its interpretation and design, what it meant in the minds of the delegates who framed it, and of the people who adopted it, and who have since acted upon it, concerning that system. It may be convenient, and is certainly very easy, to ignore all the historical facts pertaining to the formation and adoption of the Constitution-such as the various hostile interests of freedom and slavery to be appeased, and, as far as possible, reconciled, so as to bind the North and the South, (each composed of independent State sovereignties,) in one Union, and the desirableness of using deceptive phraseology to cloak a guilty complicity in the matter of 
<c03>
slavery and the slave trade from the eyes of the world-and to revolve around the letter of the instrument, challenging proof that there is any oppression hidden beneath it, and construing it to mean every thing just and righteous-but the effort will assuredly be like one ï¿½beating the air.ï¿½ The verbal criticism may be very ingenious, the logic without a flaw, but the conclusion none the less preposterous, the effort none the less abortive. So, in the fiery times of Papal persecution, the Catholics urged that, in the consecrated wafer, the literal body of Jesus was eaten by the communicant; for did he not command. ï¿½Take, eatï¿½-and did he not declare, ï¿½This is my bodyï¿½-not figuratively an emblem thereof? Indeed, after the administration of the national government, for more than three score years and ten, in one uniform manner touching its relations to slavery, with never a doubt being raised on the subject, and unanimously endorsed in this particular by all parties in power alike, and recognized by every Congress, every Executive, every State Legislature, every Court competent to determine constitutional points, every President from George Washington to James Buchanan, for any man to undertake to prove, as a logician or as a verbalist, that the Constitution has always been misunderstood by the nation adopting and living under it, and wickedly wrested from its true meaning, so as to be an awful curse where it was intended to be an unspeakable blessing, is to us the boldest of fatuity. For where or what is the gain to the cause of liberty by such a paradoxical criticism? It is tantamount to the labor of constructing a new Constitution-of converting thirty millions of people, and bringing them over to a belief which they now openly laugh to scorn! It is revolution-radical, disorganizing, bloody, exterminating. For if the absurdity were admitted to be a possible event, that a party might succeed, and take the reins of national sovereignty, having for its object the abolition of slavery throughout the South under this anti-slavery construction of the Constitution, can there be a doubt that its action would be resisted by every Slave State to the last extremity? But such a construction never will be placed upon that instrument by a majority of the people of the United States, while the Union lasts; no party will ever be trusted, entertaining such an idea; the pro-slavery compromises of the Constitution will continue to be recognized as hitherto, until the time shall come when ï¿½this covenant with death shall be annulled,ï¿½ and this ï¿½agreement with hellï¿½ shall terminate in a NORTHERN SECESSION.
No parts of the Constitution have been more clearly and intelligently understood than its pro-slavery features. Hence, as soon as the first apportionment of representation was made under it, three-fifths of the slave population were included in it, and remain to this hour, for the benefit of the Southern ï¿½lords of the lash.ï¿½ To quote the language of John Quincy Adams:-
ï¿½In outward show, it is a representation of persons in bondage; in fact, it is a representation of their masters,-the oppressor representing the oppressed. Is it in the compass of the. human imagination to devise a more perfect exemplification of the act of committing the lamb to the tender custody of the wolf? It was one of the curses from that Pandoraï¿½s box, adjusted at the time, as usual, by a compromise, the whole advantage of which enured to the benefit of the South, and to aggravate the burdens of the North.ï¿½
Is not John Quincy Adams a competent witness in this case? Does he not speak the language of historical verity? What motive had he to make such a terrible confession? The result of the bargain, he truly adds, has been ï¿½to make the preservation, propagation and perpetuation of slavery the vital and animating spirit of the national government.ï¿½
Hence, too, the foreign slave trade was prosecuted until 1808, under the national flag, and therefore as a legitimate branch of the national commerce, in accordance with the 9th Section of Article 1-the traffic concealed beneath a deceptive circumlocution of words, but which were never misunderstood by the people.
Hence, too, in every part of the North, from 1790 till now, the recognition of the constitutional right of the slave-hunter to seize his fugitive slave wherever found.
As against the logic of the pamphlet under consideration, we again quote the truthful language of John Quincy Adams:- 
ï¿½Yes! it cannot be denied-the slaveholding lords of the South prescribed, as a condition of their assent to the Constitution, THREE SPECIAL PROVISIONS TO SECURE THE PERPETUITY OF THEIR DOMINION OVER THEIR SLAVES. The first was the immunity for twenty years of pursuing the African slave trade; the second was the stipulation to surrender fugitive slaves-an engagement positively prohibited by the laws of God delivered from Sinai; and thirdly, the exaction, fatal to the principles of popular representation, of a representation for slaves-for articles of merchandise, under the name of persons. 
ï¿½The reluctance with which the freemen of the North submitted to the dictation of these conditions, is attested by the awkward and ambiguous language in which they are expressed. The word slave is most cautiously and fastidiously excluded from the whole instrument. A stranger, who should come from a foreign land and read the Constitution of the United States, would not believe that slavery or a slave existed within the borders of our country. There is not a word in the Constitution apparently bearing upon the condition of slavery, nor is there a provision but would be susceptible of practical execution, if there were not a slave in the land.
ï¿½The delegates from South Carolina and Georgia distinctly avowed that, without this guarantee of protection to their property in slaves, they would not yield their assent to the Constitution; and the free men of the North, reduced to the alternative of departing from the vital principle of their liberty, or of forfeiting the Union itself, averted their faces, and with trembling hand subscribed the bond.ï¿½
Another revolting and most iniquitous feature of the Constitution is its guarantee of protection to every State ï¿½against domestic violenceï¿½-which includes the suppression of every slave insurrection, in case the strong arm of the Federal Government is needed in any emergency; thus pledging the power of the whole nation to prevent the possibility of a successful revolt on the part of the enslaved.
Such is the Constitution of the United States, no matter how incongruous or paradoxical in regard to some of its other features; such did its framers, and the people who adopted it, intend it to be; such it was in their hearts to conceive and bring forth, in their contemptuous estimate and oppressive treatment of the whole colored race; such they are still willing to have it remain, without the slightest modification of its guilty compromises; and, therefore, to think to outface them at this late day,-to attempt by the rules of logic or rhetoric or grammar to convict them of ignorance and delusion in their interpretation of their own Constitution, made by them and for them,- is utterly idle. For if they honestly and truly made an Anti-Slavery Constitution, why were not the half million of slaves then in bondage set free? Why was a slave representation in Congress provided for and allowed from the beginning? Why was the African slave trade carried on, with no one protesting against its constitutionality, for twenty years, under the national flag? Why have fugitive slaves ever since been hunted in every Northern State, and dragged back to bondage with impunity? And why has the General Government never hesitated to exercise the military and naval power at its command to keep the slaves in their chains,-as in the case of Nat Turner on the one hand, and the capture of John Brown on the other? Did Delaware, and Maryland, and Virginia, and North Carolina, and South Carolina, and Georgia, agree in 1787 to a Constitution which emancipated every slave in their possession, and made the day of its adoption the proclamation of liberty ï¿½throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereofï¿½? Did Washington, and Hamilton, and Jefferson, and Madison, and Jay, and Marshall, and Luther Martin, and Roger Sherman, and Elbridge 
<c04>
Gerry, and Governeur Morris, and all the eminent men who then lived, fail to understand the instrument of their own fashioning and adoption; and where it meant liberty, they construed it to mean slavery-where it referred to freemen, they believed and declared it to refer to slaves? To ask these questions is to answer them. This is a matter of history, not of words: it covers the historic life of the nation, against which all verbal logic, or legal casuistry, becomes a mockery. 
Let the truth, however humiliating, be confessed. Our fathers sinned grievously, by sacrificing an unfortunate race to promote their own selfish ends. They were sorely tempted, and fell. They were in great straits, and lost their faith in the living God. How applicable to them and to this land are these prophetic words!-
ï¿½Woe to the rebellious children, saith the Lord, that take counsel, but not of me; and that cover with a covering, but not of my spirit, that they may add sin to sin; that walk to go down into Egypt, and have not asked at my mouth; to strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh, and to trust in the shadow of Egypt! Therefore shall the strength of Pharaoh be YOUR SHAME, and the trust in the shadow of Egypt YOUR CONFUSION. Wherefore thus saith the Holy One of Israel, Because ye despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, AND STAY THEREON; therefore this iniquity shall be to you as a breach ready to fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking cometh suddenly at an instant. And he shall break it as the breaking of the potterï¿½s vessel that is broken in pieces: HE SHALL NOT SPARE. Your covenant with death shall be annulled, and your agreement with hell shall not stand. Say ye not, A confederacy, to all them to whom this people shall say, A confederacy; neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid. Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself, and he shall be for a sanctuary. The Lord will cut off from Israel head and tail, branch and rush, in one day. The ancient and honorable, he is the head; and the prophet that teacheth lies, he is the tail. For the leaders of this people cause them to err, and they that are led of them are destroyed. The pride of thine heart hath deceived thee, thou that dwellest in the clefts of the rock, whose habitation is high; that saith in thine heart, Who shall bring me down to the ground? Though thou exalt thyself as the eagle, and though thou set thy nest among the stars, thence will I bring thee down, saith the Lord. For thy violence against thy brother Jacob, shame shall cover thee, and thou shalt be cut off for ever. Art thou better than populous No, that was situate among the rivers, that had the waters round about it, whose rampart was the sea, and her wall was from the sea? Ethiopia and Egypt were her strength, and it was infinite; Put and Lubim were her helpers. Yet was she carried away; she went into captivity; her young children, also, were dashed in pieces at the top of all the streets; and they cast lots for all her honorable men, and all her great men were bound in chains. The Lord hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God, in the land. By swearing, and lying, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery, they break out, and BLOOD TOUCHETH BLOOD. Therefore shall the land mourn.ï¿½
These passages exactly delineate the history, spirit, conduct and position of the American people, in relation to the colored population, ever since the adoption of the Constitution; thus proving a moral incompetency, on their part, to make it an anti-slavery instrument, embracing white and black alike in its idea of ï¿½liberty, equality, fraternity.ï¿½
But enough upon this point. We shall examine, in another number, the remaining four propositions laid down in this pamphlet, believing them to be equally fallacious as the first.

REV. M. D. CONWAY IN THE MUSIC HALL. 
Last Sunday, Sept. 16th, the usual summer vacation being ended, the 28th Congregational Society of Boston again assembled in the Music Hall, and heard a very excellent sermon from Rev. Moncure D. Conway of Cincinnati.
His subject was the need of a symmetrical cultivation of all the powers of manï¿½s nature, since thus only can the purpose of his being be fulfilled. Use, and not waste, should be the rule for all the faculties of our being; and man should strive so to live as to be able to say, with Jesus, to the universal Father-Of all that thou hast given me, have I lost none.
Constant aspiration, constant progression, and this in all the parts as well as in the great whole, should be the effort of every human being. Such efforts, with the measure of success that must inevitably attend them, will bless, not only the individual, but so much of the race as comes, directly or indirectly, within his influence. Well said Jesus-ï¿½I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men to me!ï¿½-not, if I be not lifted up. The progressive improvement which Jesus taught and exemplified constitutes one of his strongest claims to our veneration. Progress necessarily implies change. If we bind ourselves to the letter, we cannot attain the spirit. If we hold fast the grub-truth, we shall never reach the golden-winged truth.
The objectors to Theodore Parker complain that he represented Jesus as ï¿½a mere man.ï¿½ The use of that term-a mere man-shows the limitation of their idea of man. Heaven forbid that such a measure be our standard! Heaven shield us from the base ingratitude of applying disparaging epithets to a being whom God made ï¿½in His own imageï¿½!
The question is frequently asked-Was Theodore Parker a Christian? The answer will of course differ according to menï¿½s various, and widely different, appreciation of Christianity. Those who take the lowest and poorest view of it will necessarily answer in the negative. Those who take the highest view will, as necessarily, answer in the affirmative. And the number of those who give this juster answer will increase, with the increase of true knowledge and true religion. We are not to leave this noble name, Christian, to the exclusive use of those who misuse it, who insist on linking it to obsolete superstitions and irrational dogmas, who magnify its letter at the expense of its spirit. The perfect fruit should be credited to the germ; the engines of the Great Eastern should be credited to the inventor of the first steam engine and Jesus Christ is to be associated, in our grateful remembrance and veneration, with the highest truths, and the most widely beneficent reforms, which shall hereafter develop themselves from the great truths He taught.
Theodore Parkerï¿½s influence is an immense and vital element, and is <illegible> to be an increasing element, in the development of Christianity among the American people, particularly those of the Western States. The day will come when Boston will recognize his greatness and excellence, and will seek to reclaim his dust, and cover it, in her most honored cemetery, with a fitting monument.
Meantime, if it be my fortune ever to cross the sea, I will seek, as one of the places most worthy of reverential memory, that grave in Florence. Kneeling beside it, I will plant over the breast of Theodore Parker a white rose, emblem of his purity. And I will leave the thorns that belong to it, for he also had thorns.
Mr. Conway, who has in many ways proved himself a hearty and unflinching advocate of reform, will preach next Sunday also at the Music Hall. C. K. W.

THE DIAL-LETTER OF DESOR ON THEODORE PARKER.
In the September number of ï¿½THE DIAL,ï¿½ an admirable monthly magazine for Literature, Philosophy and Religion, edited by M. D. Conway, and published at Cincinnati, we find the following letter from Desor, the distinguished naturalist of Neufchatel:- 
NEUFCHATEL, 10th June, 1860. 
MY DEAR FRIEND,-It requires some time for the head and heart to settle again after they have been shaken so deeply as mine have been of late. You understand that I mean to speak of the death of our dear friend, Theodore Parker. Moleschott writes, ï¿½with him a column of humanity has fallen down;ï¿½ and this is true. There will be a long time before another Theodore Parker arises. But his work, 
<c05>
though unfinished, will not be lost: his writings will remain a living fountain for many who are thirsty for truth and righteousness. To me his death has been a hard blow. I went to Italy with the hope and prospect of meeting him at Rome, and of going thence with him on an excursion to Naples and Vesuvius, which he refused to visit during the winter, because he wanted to see it with me. From thence we were to return to Florence, stay a short time about the Italian Lakes, for the purpose of searching for subaquatic (Celtic) habitations, in which he had become quite interested, then come over to my chalet and stay until Autumn, when he expected to return to New England. Instead of that, I found him very weak,-he had been failing rapidly for several weeks; and the idea of an excusion to Naples had to be given up at once. He had hardly strength to ride some two or three times with me to visit the chief monuments of the Eternal City. Of course, he could not fail to become aware of his declining condition; and all at once his mind became engrossed with one idea, that of leaving Rome as soon as possible, because he could not bear the idea of laying his bones in the cursed soil. It was a trying case, for I did not feel at all sure that he could ever reach Florence; but he was bent upon going, in spite of rain and wind. Dr. Appleton, of Boston, who had attended him regularly, went so far in his kindness towards Mr. Parker as to accompany us; he also provided for the carriage, the passports, and all the little comforts that might be necessary on the journey. Thus we started on the 20th of April,-Mr. and Mrs. Parker. Mr. and Mrs. Appleton, and myself, with a vetturino,-for Florence. He declared that he had ï¿½decided upon reaching Florence;ï¿½ that he had ï¿½wound himself up to the task, and would get there,ï¿½ but after that he did not promise anything at all. It was the last effort of his strong, energetic mind. So it happened. But the effort he had to make was followed by a great prostration. As soon as we arrived he went to bed, not to rise again. He at the same time lost the control of his mind, which, with the exception of a few lucid intervals, was more or less wandering all the time. In one of these lucid intervals he asked for me, and gave me the direction for his burial (which has been followed), observing that he hoped it would soon be over,-but did no longer express any regret about his unfinished work. He seemed perfectly resigned. This was the last time he spoke to us in a perfectly lucid way. Still he always recognized his friends, though he was unconscious of the places-he mostly thought himself at Boston, or on board the steamer on his way home. I have tried to cheer him as much as I could. His wife never left him an instant. Miss Stevenson had left him a short time before my arrival, but came back when informed of his failing. His death was a very quiet, and, I dare say, unconscious one: his wife did not become aware of it for a time after his breath came no longer.
I hastened off as soon as possible, and sought some distraction among the collections of Boulogne, Milan and Turin. It is a hard experience of advancing age that we must see all those who were dear to us disappear, one after the other, at a period of life when we have no longer the required adaptiveness to form new friends.
Last summer, when at my chalet, at the occasion of the death of my friend Kuchler, with whom he had been staying some time, we decided together that we should write a kind of Album dedicated to his memory, and in which all those assembled at Combe-Varia should take part. Mr. Parker promised two articles, one on the Teutonic races, the other a fine irony upon the pretensions of some modern naturalists (of the Bridgewater school)-ï¿½A Bumble-Beeï¿½s Thoughts on the Plan and Purpose of Creation.ï¿½ The first was not written out, but the latter has just gone through the press; it is, therefore, Theodore Parkerï¿½s last production, and will be the jewel of the Album. I have given direction to the printer to send several copies to America. The publication of the Album must, of course, be somewhat postponed in order to enable me to write a short notice of Mr. Parker. The Album will now be called Ein Nachruf an Parker und Kuchler.
Will not the scientific and literary bodies of the United States feel ashamed now for the manner in which they have treated the man who, after a short time, will outweigh them all-the noblest specimen of American scholarship that ever lived? Had he lived but two months longer, I would have secured for him the Secular Doctorship at the Jubilee of the University of Basle, to be celebrated next month.

CONVENTION AT CUMMINGTON.
The annual Convention of the friends of the Anti-Slavery cause in Cummington, Mass., was held at the Free Church, Sept. 1st and 2d. The Convention was addressed by Parker Pillsbury, Chas. C. Burleigh, H. Ford Douglass, and Susan B. Anthony.
H. Ford Douglass presented the following resolution, the discussion of which occupied much of the time of the Convention:
Resolved, That although we are seeking, by moral means alone, the immediate and unconditional emancipation of the slaves, yet we would not, in view of the terrible wrong done four million people, do less than thank God if some black John Brown should arise among his fellows, and, imitating the example of the fathers of ï¿½76, terminate at once this unrighteous infringement of personal liberty, though every slaveholder in the South should be made to pay the penalty with his life.
This resolution, however, was withdrawn, Mr. Douglass remarking that Parker Pillsbury had prepared a similar resolution, and he did not choose to give his friend Burleigh the pleasure of seeing the above resolution voted down.
The following resolutions, presented by Parker Pillsbury, were adopted as the scripture of the anti-slavery men and women of Cummington and vicinity, at the present hour:-
1. Resolved, That in the three recent speeches of Senator Sumner of Massachusetts, we see painful demonstration of the bewildering and depraving effect of American politics, and of governmental Union with slaveholders-the first being a four hoursï¿½-argument to prove the ï¿½five-fold barbarismï¿½ and entire unconstitutionality of slavery; the second, a partial reproduction of the same argument, with a most absurd endorsement of the Chicago platform-which platform no where pronounces slavery a crime, though virtually declaring the brave Capt. John Brown one of the gravest of criminals; and the third being a full endorsement of that platform, even its condemnation of Capt. Brown; and a most powerful appeal to the people to elect Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency, whose past record, as respects slavery, falls below the standard of Henry Clay, Daniel Webster, and many other eminent men, slaveholders and others, who once composed the Whig party; and whose pledges and promises, should he be elected, have less of hope for humanity and the slave in them, than had the general utterances of Webster and Clay, in the last ten years of their lives.
2. Resolved, That the government of the United States is a deliberate conspiracy against liberty and humanity-a grand and consolidated despotism, crushing down into interminable and hopeless bondage, millions of immortal men and women, robbing them of every right, and rendering life itself a grievous curse, and then compelling all who live under that despotism to become soldiers to shoot down insurrectionary slaves, on the one hand, and merciless blood-hounds, to howl on the track of the flying fugitive on the other.
3. Resolved, That, in these respects, the government has not been changed, from Washington, and his Fugitive Slave Law of 1793, to Millard Fillmore, and his seven-fold more atrocious enactment of 1850, and still in force; and the efficiency of which, Abraham Lincoln assures the country he will do nothing to impair.
<c06>
4. Resolved, therefore, That the enslaved millions of the South have no more to hope for themselves and their posterity, from a Republican administration, pledged and devoted to the Union, as at present contemplated, than from the Federal and Whig parties of the past, or the Democratic administration of the present hour.
5. Resolved, That treason to such a government is a most religious duty, and the best evidence we can give of loyalty to the higher law of humanity and God-and as subjects of that divine authority, we hereby declare that we will never obey the Fugitive Slave Laws of Washington or Millard Fillmore, for Abraham Lincoln or any other President:-nor will we assist in suppressing slave insurrections-but, on the contrary, our sympathies and hopes shall be with every uprising ï¿½Nat Turnerï¿½ or John Brown; and our hands too, so far as we can consistently and conscientiously, render them more material comfort and aid.
6. Resolved, That as the government of the country is a most daring despotism, so the popular prevailing religion is downright atheism-and more to be dreaded than any acknowledged heathenism; its God is a monster, bloody as Moloch; its Bible, as interpreted by its priesthood, is a bold and blasphemous apology for all the crimes and cruelties which its impure devotees, both priests and people, wish to perpetrate; its cost make, the ï¿½burdensï¿½ the old Scribes and Pharisees once ï¿½laid on menï¿½s shoulders,ï¿½ as rebuked by Jesus, easy and light; its worship is as cold as Jewish ceremonies, as empty as Pagan rites, and as devoid of humanity as the sacrifices of Juggernaut; its best benefits are scarcely worth possessing, at any price; being neither righteousness nor temperance, peace nor purity, love nor liberty, nor progressive growth into higher and diviner life; all of which are to be sought in instrumentalities outside the Church, and attained, generally, in spite of the Church;-and the only hope for our deliverance from sin, and its consequences, and the establishment of a holier faith, is in the utter extermination of such a religion and worship from the whole face of the country, North as well as South.
A lively interest in the Anti-Slavery cause is excited in this vicinity, which is destined to continue as a result of the Convention. 
The amount raised to defray the expense of the Convention was $39 15.
HIRAM BROWN, President.
NELSON BROWN, Assistant Secï¿½y.
CONVENTION AT ELLENVILLE.
ELLENVILLE, (N. Y.,) Sept. 10, 1860.
FRIEND GARRISON,-We have just closed a Convention in this place, which, in interest and importance, I have seldom seen surpassed-some account of which, I am sure, your readers will peruse with satisfaction.
Ellenville is situated in the western part of Ulster County, in one of the valleys of this region which nature has made so beautiful, that the eye never tires with gazing, and from which the soul is (if susceptible) always receiving afresh, joy and delight: mountains and hills, rivers and cascades, rocks jagged and immense, trees of numberless varieties, and the ï¿½grass that springeth everywhereï¿½-all are here. But not of these do I care to write. Man seems to have the power to so debase himself by sin, as to be entirely unconscious of external beauty. Alas! that this power of sin should be so great, that it may not only blot out its own spiritual life, but that it reaches out its iron fingers, and crushes the hearts of others, innocent before God of any wrong. So, though it may be of but little consequence whether external nature is dressed in her holiday garb, it is always interesting and important to know the condition of humanity everywhere.
Your readers perhaps remember, that, one year ago, a Convention was held in this place-similar in character to the one just closed-which was considered, by some of the friends, quite a success. I think, however, all agree that the last has been more-it was a triumph. The most radical resolutions were offered upon the slavery question, and the most searching and thorough criticism was made of the Church and Government. Our Societyï¿½s motto, ï¿½No Union with Slaveholders,ï¿½ is almost a new idea in this region. Save the little labor done by Mr. Powell a year ago, and that done by myself in a few meetings last winter, there has been no teaching to that effect; and that resolutions, recommending the dissolving of our relations with the South and forming a new Northern Republic, should have been passed by a goodly majority, in a large audience-two-thirds of which were men, and men who, by their countenances, showed themselves to be thinkers-is, I think, proof positive that the labor has not been in vain, and also that the funds used for this Convention were well applied. That the meeting was so eminently successful was, no doubt, mainly owing to the presence of our good friend Parker Pillsbury, of whose power in handling the sword of truth, as represented during the entire meeting, I can give you no adequate idea. Those of your readers who have heard him, in his moments of loftiest inspiration, may imagine those moments increased to hours, and so know, in part, what was received here. In saying this, I do not disparage others in this Convention. Philip D. Moore, of Newark, N. J., was with us, and did good work, as did also Aaron Powell and Susan B. Anthony of our own State. Sarah Hallock of Milton, and Lydia Mott of Albany, were also with us, cheerfully giving us important aid.
The meeting was resolved into an Institution, and the adjournment was made to one year in the future.
There were other subjects of importance introduced and discussed in the meeting, such as Womanï¿½s Rights, Temperance, Anti-Sectarianism &c., &c., all of which, no doubt, will be duly mentioned by the Secretaries in their report. Some little excitement was manifested on account of womanï¿½s equal prominence with man as officer in the meeting; but we believe it was at last quieted, as such excitement always will be, by woman quietly, but firmly, performing the part assigned her.
If my letter were not already so long, I should be tempted to say something in reference to the condition of our cause in New York generally. I know there has been some considerable labor done and much money expended, but not as much of either, I believe, as in Massachusetts. The size and situation of the State make it an exceedingly important one, and I think to-day she is, in some of her statutes, greatly in advance of any of her sisters. I have supposed that Massachusetts would be the first to defy the Federal Government, by refusing to send back escaped men and women from slavery; and perhaps I should more rejoice, in such a step being made in that State first, than in New York, because I love Massachusetts as my own native State, and it would gratify my pride to see her lead in enacting statute laws of humanity, as she has already led in science, literature and art. But I would be just to the State of my adoption, and so must say, that, considering the labor expended upon her, she has done excellently well.
I hope we may have a very thorough campaign the present season. I am glad that Mr. Powell has already commenced a field work. He is engaged this week in this region, together with myself, and next week we go into Sullivan County, where even less than in Ulster County has the true gospel of liberty been preached.
I ought, perhaps, to have mentioned that there are many families in this goodly region who have blessed us by their hospitality, and encouraged us by their words of cheer; but, as ï¿½in keeping the commandments there is great reward,ï¿½ so in a knowledge of having blessed us, they themselves are blessed: they need not that their deeds be published.
Yours for universal justice,
LUCY N. COLMAN.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE CAUSE IN VERMONT.
DEAR MR. GARRISON,-I am just returning from a four weeks' tour through the State of Vermont.
I think there is much misapprehension with regard to the anti-slavery character of that State. The fact that the Republicans control in the elections, by a very large majority, should not be taken as evidence that the people are right on the great question. 
Probably, no New England State presents as much ignorance, according to its population, as Vermont. Take the towns and villages amongst the mountains, and the people seem to know very little of the working of slavery, or its influence upon either the religion or the politics of the country. Added to this, there is far more prejudice against color than one would expect in a State so far removed from the commercial intercourse with the South.
As in every State, the most illiterate and ignorant portion are found in the Democratic party, and amongst them nothing is too bad to be said of the ‘niggers,’ which sound may be heard almost wherever you see a Democrat.
I held my first meeting at McIndoes Falls, where our friends Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Gilchrist did all that could be done to secure a good audience. The meeting was well attended, and I followed it up with two others.
From McIndoes, I went to Topsham, where I found Rev. N. R. Johnston, whose heart is always warm in the cause of the oppressed, busily engaged in planning meetings for me in his locality. My first lecture in Topshan, stirred up the pure minds of the Democracy, and the following morning I received a note, through the post office, warning me to leave the town, and threatening that if I was not out of the place in twenty-four hours,. I would be waited on by a ‘committee appointed for the purpose.’ The only attention that I paid to this was to criticise the writer and his party. Mr. and Mrs. Johnston are doing much to spread the principles of humanity in Topsham and vicinity. 
At Peacham, Mr. Leonard Johnson, brother of the editor of the Anti-Slavery Standard, succeeded in getting me into the Congregational church, though the Rev. Mr. Boutwell, the minister in charge, gave the meeting a poor reception, and me a worse name when the lecture was over. He thought me too severe on the pro-slavery religion of the country, North and South. An effort was made to prevent my having a second lecture, but Mr. Johnson’s untiring energies succeeded in opening the doors of the vestry. He also got me in at the Methodist church at Danville, a superannuated village, five miles from Peacham, where I lectured on Sunday, at 5 o’clock. This was said to have been the largest anti-slavery meeting held in the place for years.
I spoke at South Ryegate in the afternoon, where all the bad feeling of the Democratic party seemed to have been put in motion; for when I returned to hold a second meeting, the church was closed against me. On looking about for the school-house, the next and only place left, I found I could have it only on condition that I paid for it, and lighting it myself. It was admitted by the trustees that the charge was put upon the house because I was speaking on slavery. As there was no hotel in the town at which I could stop, and no offer of hospitality from the inhabitants, I shook the dust from my feet, and walked five miles to McIndoes without my supper. 
At Bradford, a friend thought that if I would promise the Methodist clergyman that I would not speak on politics, nor against his church, he would let me into his pulpit. On Sunday, I replied that I would make no such promise, if I never held another meeting in the State. Several days after, I lectured in Bradford, in the town hall, on Sunday, and had a good attendance. The Methodists are the most ready of any of the sects to open their doors, except, perhaps, the Old School Covenanters. Rev. N. R. Johnston attended several of the meetings, and did good service for the cause. 
The Convention to be held at Bradford, on the 17th, and 18th of October, will, no doubt, prove beneficial to the State, and be well attended, though the Republicans will, no doubt, give it the cold shoulder, as they did all of my meetings. In a financial point of view, Vermont will do nothing for the coming Convention. In most of my meetings, I gave them the gospel of Truth without money and without price, asking no contribution. 
Still, there are many warm hearts in the Green Mountain State, who are anxious to have the American Anti-Slavery Society send in an agent or two, to lecture in all the towns. Vermont is certainly a good field for missionary labor. 
While on the cars, yesterday, a vote was taken to see which of the Presidential candidates had the most friends on the train. When they came to me, I said, I vote for ‘No Union with Slaveholders, religiously or politically.’
WM. WELLS BROWN. 
Ashburnham, Mass., Sept. 13, 1860. 
MOCK STATESMEN. 
I have in view certain leading politicians, who plume themselves upon their par excellence in statesmanship. But whether it is not, after all, a misnomer to call them statesmen, is the question. True, they have won that distinction, but whether it should be applied to them other than as a sobriquet, is the point.
 A statesman, say our lexicons, is one skilled in the art of government. That, certainly, implies a good deal. To be skilled in the forms and etiquette of parliamentary procedure is one thing; but a comprehensive and practical understanding of the science of government is quite another thing. The mock dignity of a name is easily acquired, and thus the fair goddess of Liberty, as yet enthroned only in the ideal, is sadly abused. He, and he only, is fit to govern, or to participate in the government of a people, who steadily and practically recognizes in man’s innate sense of right, his rule of action. 
‘Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,’ is a sentiment deeply rooted in man’s highest and noblest nature. It finds a lodgment in every human breast, from the savage to the civilized man. It is a primary condition of man’s mental organization. 
But what has this government become, as now interpreted and administered in relation to four millions of people under the broad panoply of its power? Simply a great Juggernaut, or car of the devil, by which it is vainly sought to crush out this innate, or God-given sense of right. It is being used as an infernal machine for striking at the liberties of the continent. Circumstances, perhaps undreamed of in the commencement, have arisen for developing, in that direction, certain of its latent or fundamental principles.
Query: can any one be a statesman, practically, in a legitimate or higher sense, inside of this piratical government? Were I, to-day, offered a seat in Congress, I should feel like exclaiming, with one of old, ‘Is thy servant a dog, that he should do this thing?’
Wm. H. Seward said it was designed that he should be a statesman, and Phillips and Garrison radical reformers. I wonder that one so astute could blunder into such a sophism. Wm. H. Seward must first upset God’s moral arrangement, before he can divorce the qualities of a statesman and those of a reformer. 
A statesman, in the only true and legitimate sense, is the highest type of a reformer; and he who is not a thorough reformer, in matters to be legislated upon, is not a statesman, though he may have served in the Senate till he is gray. To be a statesman—to be versed in the science or philosophy of government, one must be in harmony with man’s moral intuitions—with the moral constitution of the world; and that Wm. H. Seward was not when he made his last great bid for the Presidency. 
A. HOGEBOOM.
Shedds Corners, N. Y.
<c02>
REV. DR. CHEEVER.
The last number of the London Anti-Slavery Advocate publishes the following:— 
Letter from the Rev. Jonathan Watson to Mrs. Jane Wigham. 
EDINBURGH. 14th August, 1860. 
Mr. DEAR MRS. WIGHAM,—From the great interest you take in the question, I am happy to inform you that by a resolution of the Large Committee, at seven o’clock to-day, it was determined that no slave upholder from America should be heard at the commemoration meetings. I believe that the communications sent for insertion in the American papers, through Dr. Cheever, setting forth that none of the class would be heard at those meetings, have prevented their showing face at all. Dr. Guthrie’s oration to-day surpassed any thing I ever heard against mental, moral, physical and social slavery, and political as well. I moved that it should be printed, so when it reaches the New World, expect it will prove a bombshell that will do execution among the tyrants of that land. 
When Dr. Cheever comes in September, we must have a brilliant manifestation on the back of Guthrie’s manly and Christian development of the hated system. Yours most truly, 
JONATHAN WATSON. 
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER. Alluding to the last number of the Examiner, the A. S. Standard says:— 
One of the works upon which it pronounces a critical judgment is ‘The Ebony Idol,’ a novel over which the pro-slavery party is at this moment cackling most furiously, as if it were a sufficient answer to all the arguments against slavery, and a perfect extinguisher to Abolitionism. The Examiner says:—
‘That the respectable publishing house of the Appletons should have risked their credit by issuing such unmitigated trash as “The Ebony Idol,” may well amaze the reading public. Who the “New England Lady” is that has disgraced herself by writing this feeble burlesque upon the anti-slavery movement and cause, we are not told, and we do not care to know. If she is wise, she will keep the secret. Her book has no merit of any kind. Its fine sentences are inflated verbiage; its attempts at wit are fearful; not one of its characters is drawn with any distinctness; and where it is not silly, it is profane and disgusting. The scenes are as absurd as the events are improbable. No amount of newspaper puffing can make such stuff as this popular. Pro-slavery literature like this will hardly offset the volumes of Mrs. Stowe, and Abolitionists can ask nothing better than that the efforts of their enemies may take this shape. The few illustrations which garnish the pages are in keeping with the composition. It is rare that a book has come under our notice so thoroughly foolish in style, thought, plan, execution, and spirit, with absolutely no redeeming feature.’
WHAT ARE INCENDIARY DOCUMENTS? The following is of interest to the postmasters in the slave States:—
‘POST-OFFICE DEPARTMENT, 
APPOINTMENT OFFICE, Aug. 15, 1860.
SIR,—Your letter of the 11th inst. has been received. In a letter to the postmaster at Fall’s Church, Va., under date of December 5, 1859, the Postmaster-General ruled that, in the opinion of the Department, a postmaster would not bring himself in conflict with the post-office acts inhibiting the unlawful detention of mail matter by complying with the requirements of the State statutes against the circulation of incendiary publications. Said letter was published, for general information, in the Washington Constitution, under date of December 7, 1859.
By his direction, postmasters are cautioned, in construing State enactments upon this subject, to be careful that injustice is not done. Because a single copy of any particular newspaper contains matter decided by the State authorities to be incendiary in its character, it does not follow that any subsequent numbers of the same paper are to be condemned for that cause. Each and every number of the publication must be acted upon and disposed of separately, as provided by the statue of Maryland. 
In regard to the paper mentioned in your letter, or any other publication upon which the question may arise, you will bring the matter to the notice of some justice of the State or county, and have them decide as to its character.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
ST. JOHN B. L. SKINNER,
Acting First Assistant Postmaster-General. 
To A. S. Evans, Esq., P. M., Vienna, Dorchester county, Md.’
INCENDIARY DOCUMENTS AT A CAMP MEETING.—Last week a man named George Orem attended a camp meeting held in Lake district, Dorchester county, Maryland, and while there attempted to distribute some documents that were adjudged incendiary. Accordingly a committee of gentlemen was appointed to wait on him with a request that he would leave the ground, twenty-five minutes being given to comply with the request. He left without any violence being offered him, though the indignation of the people ran high. Threats of lynching him were openly expressed by some, and the presence of his wife alone protected him. Orem is one of the State Republican electors, and resides at Church Creek, Maryland.—Baltimore Sun, Sept. 3d.
TERRIBLE ESCAPE OF A RUNAWAY SLAVE.—A fugitive negro, belonging to the firm of Peterson, McCarthy & Powell, of North Carolina, who had been absent for seven years, was arrested in Savannah, Ga., a short time ago, and placed in jail for the offence. He was taken out of prison a few days ago by his owner, who had sent him in the Southern Railroad cars to this city on his way to Richmond to be sold. When the cars had arrived close to Ream’s Station, about ten miles from this city, and while they were going at the rate of twenty-five miles an hour, the reckless wretch opened one of the side windows, and jumped out on the line. It was not supposed that he could have survived the terrible fall, but accounts have been received that he was seen yesterday on the railroad. The occurrence took place about 3 o’clock, A. M., yesterday, and he has not yet been arrested. There is a reward of $500 offered for his detection.—Petersburg (Va.) Bulletin. 
[How terrible must have been the poor negro’s dread of slavery, if measured by the risk he incurred in his desperate effort to escape!] 
WARNING TO FREE NEGROES AT EVANSVILLE, INDIANA.—The following handbill has been posted in Evansville, Indiana:—
Notice to Free Negroes. The laws of Indiana provide that, after a certain date, no Free Negro shall emigrate to this State. Other cities and towns in Indiana are expelling the negroes from among them, and owing to the laxity exhibited by our authorities and citizens generally, Evansville is being overrun and cursed by the worst class of this lazy, worthless, drunken, and thieving race, and to such an extent that those who have suffered from their bad conduct are resolved to suffer no longer, and will take the law into their own hands. This notice is given, that at the end of five days from the date hereof, every negro, of either sex, who is not by law entitled to a residence among us, must not be found in the city, else he will be dealt with in a summary manner by 
THE VIGILANCE COMMITTEE. 
Evansville, Ind., Aug. 28, 1860. 
SHOOTING AFFRAY.— Lecompton, Sept. 4th, 1860.— This morning, at about nine o’clock, Mr. James G. Bailey and one Herbert, both residents of Rising Sun, opposite this place, were out in the woods, as they say, to kill a squirrel, and they came upon two negroes, who tired upon them, knocking Herbert down, and Bailey ran. Herbert shot one negro badly in the breast with a shot gun. A large crowd soon assembled or the spot, and tracked the negroes to the Grasshopper creek, every foot-mark being bloody. At the bank they found a pair of bloody boots, coat and hat, as though the negro had drowned himself, which I do not hardly think he did. Only one of the white men was hurt. The negro was certainly mortally wounded, by the great quantity of blood left. The negroes fired on the white men several times, but missed. It is almost reduced to a certainty that the negroes were being captured by Mr. Bailey and Herbert, and, like brave fellows, fought their way. Mr. Bailey is an old resident of Lecompton, and much respected as a pro-slavery man.—Correspondent of the Lawrence (Kansas) Republican. 
Two NEGRO MURDERERS ARRESTED IN CANADA. Detectives Gunning & Blodget, of this city, have tracked, and now have under arrest at Simcoe and at Brantford, C. W., John Anderson and John Brown, negroes, the first charged with the murder of Seneca T. P. Biggs, of Fayette, Howard county, Missouri, in 1854, and the latter, with the murder of’ Indian Sue,’ at Cleveland, Ohio, 1858.
 Mr. Baker, a Missouri gentleman, who has been at Simcoe, in connection with the identification of Anderson as the murderer of Diggs, is now on his way back to obtain further proof—the fact that Anderson is a fugitive slave being used by the Canadian authorities as an excuse for requiring the strictest proof that he is a murderer. 
The excitement of the negroes and sympathising whites in Simcoe is so great that a rescue of Anderson was feared, and he has been transferred to the Brantford jail.—Detroit Advertiser. 
<c03>
BOSTON AND THE PRINCE OF WALES. 
The British Consul at this port has informed his Honor Mayor Lincoln, that Wednesday, the 17th of October, is the day assigned for the Prince of Wales to visit Boston. On his arrival at the State line, he will be met by one or more of the aids of His Excellency Gov. Banks, who has expressed a desire of co-operating with the City Government in the reception, and the party will reach the Longwood station, on the Milldam, in the afternoon. Mayor Lincoln and the members of the Committee of Arrangements, consisting of Aldermen Amory, Briggs and Faxon, and Councilmen Bradlee, (President,) Sanger, Bradley, Allison, Riley and Henshaw, will meet the party here, and under escort of the First Battalion of Light Dragoons, Major W. F. White, they will be escorted to their quarters in this city. There will be no public demonstration during the evening. On Thursday morning, the First Division of Volunteer Militia will parade, by order of the Governor, Major-General Andrews commanding. The Governor’s staff will be made up of all the general officers of the militia throughout the State and their staffs. His Honor Mayor Lincoln will wait upon the Prince, and contact him to the State House and present him formally to the Governor, who will tender him a review on the Common. There will be twenty-five full bands, and the number of troops will be about three thousand. In the afternoon, at 3 o’clock, the Mayor and Committee will accompany the Prince and suite to the Music Hall, which will be appropriately decorated. There will be a vocal exhibition by twelve hundred school children. In the evening, a grand ball will come off at the Boston Theatre. The price of tickets will be $10. On Friday morning, the Prince will visit Harvard College, by special invitation of President Felton. He will be the guest of the President, during his stay there. In the afternoon, he will visit some place or places of interest in the vicinity of Boston. A grand banquet will be given at the Revere House, on Friday evening by the City Council. The Gazette says there will be no speeches. The Mayor may propose the health of ‘The Queen,’ and the Prince may possibly respond by proposing the health of ‘The President,’ but beyond this there will be ‘no long orations.’ The Governor, Hon. Edward Everett and Hon. Robert C. Winthrop will be among the guests. On Saturday, the Prince will leave for Portland, probably under escort to the station, and from that port he will go aboard his ship, and the fleet will sail for England.—Traveller. 
THE PRINCE OF WALES IN NEW YORK. The following is a statement of the work cut out for the Prince of Wales when he arrives in New York:— 
Thursday, Oct. 11—Arrival in New York. 
Friday, 12th, morning—Parade of the First Division of the New York State Militia. 
Friday, 12th, evening—Grand Ball. 
Saturday, 13th, evening—Firemen’s Torch-Light Procession. 
Sunday, 14th—Attends Divine Service at Trinity. 
Monday, 15th—Visits West Point. 
THE PRINCE OF WALES. The Prince of Wales remained at Niagara Falls on Saturday. He critically examined that wonderful work of nature, and witnessed the extraordinary feats of Mons. Blondin, who walked on his rope over the falls with a man on his back, and returned, for the first time, on stilts. The Prince, says the New York Herald, protested against both these foolhardy exhibitions, but finally yielded. Subsequently, the Prince complimented Blondin on the success of his performance. 
The Prince of Wales spent Thursday at London and Sarnia. The Indians hugged him and exhibited their war dance; an enthusiastic Irishman slapped him in the face with his shocking bad hat; and he danced with the lady Mayoress, a stout Scotch woman of 5 feet and 180 pounds, who has been practising the steps two months for this occasion. On Friday, the Prince and his party went to Niagara Falls. 
MASSACHUSETTS STATE ELECTION. 
Political parties in our State are now all organized, and are fully prepared to open fire upon each other in the usual partisan style. There are four of them, each with a complete list of candidates for all the offices.
The Bell, Douglas, and Breckinridge Conventions were held on Wednesday, Sept. 12th, in Worcester, Springfield, and Boston. All were largely attended, for the size of political conventions affords no criterion for an estimate of the relative parties they represent. It is not uncommon for the smallest party to hold the largest and most spirited convention. 
The candidate for Governor of the Bell party, Mr. A. A. Lawrence, was the nominee of the American party in 1858, when he received 1899 votes in Boston, and about 12,000 in the State. Mr. Edward Dickinson, the candidate for Lieutenant Governor, served one term in Congress, from 1853 to 1855, as the Representative of the Hampshire District. The Convention of Douglas Democrats, which assembled at Springfield, nominated for Governor, Mr. Erasmus D. Beach, who has often been the regular Democratic candidate for the same office. Mr. Charles Thompson, of Charlestown, a prominent member of the party, was nominated for the second office. Mr. Benjamin F. Butler, who was the Democratic candidate for Governor last year, was selected with great unanimity by the supporters of Mr. Breckinridge, for the same office. Mr. David A. Carpenter of Greenfield is associated with Mr. Butler as the nominee for Lieutenant Governor. Of the four Gubernatorial candidates, Messrs. Andrew, Lawrence and Butler reside in the eastern portion of the State, and Mr. Beach in the western section. Western Massachusetts has three of the four aspirants for the Lieutenant Governorship, namely, Messrs. Goodrich, Dickinson and Carpenter. 
No attempts at fusion were made in the Conventions, as had been expected and advised by some of the wire-pullers. The thing proved to be unpopular with the masses. So that people are favored with clean tickets, and there will be a fair stand-up fight. 
MORE OF THE DISASTER.—Chicago papers are occupied with accounts of the late terrible disaster on Lake Michigan. The total number of persons saved from the wreck is seventy-five. The Milwaukee papers publish a list of names of over three hundred persons known to have been on board the Lady Elgin. The greater portion of them belonged in Milwaukee, and the place of residence for any who did not, is not given. 
The Chicago Journal says: ‘Another instance of bravery has been related which took place at Winetka, upon Saturday last. Among the rafts and pieces of wreck tossing in the surf, one raft was anxiously watched, to which were clinging five persons, among them John Jervis, of Milwaukee, his wife and child. As the raft was drawn in the surf, it was capsized and all disappeared for a moment beneath the angry waters. When it rose, Jervis alone was clinging to it. He instantly left it, however, and swam for his wife and child, and recovered them. Twice and thrice he repeated this heroic act. Finally, when the shore was almost reached, the raft was for the last time capsized, and when it reached the surface, Jervis alone was clinging to it. Again he left it, and swam for a long time in search of those whom he had so long and so nobly protected, but all in vain, and he was obliged at last to swim to the raft to save his own life. 
THE ELGIN HORROR. No steamboat disaster of equal magnitude has occurred on the lakes since the loss of the ill-fated Atlantic, of the Michigan Central Railroad Line, on the night of the 2d of August 1852, near Long Point, by which over 250 lives were lost, mostly emigrants. The number of lives lost with the Elgin, so far as known, is 282. 
FATAL ACCIDENT. —On Wednesday, 12th instant, while Col. Enoch Whitmore, a well-known citizen of Ashburnham, was working at a circular saw in his mill, the piece of plank which he was sawing by some means flew back, striking him in the pit of the stomach, and inflicting fatal injuries. Drs. Hitchcock, of Fitchburg, and Godding, of Winchendon, were in attendance, but he was injured past recovery, and died on the following morning. Col. Whitmore for the last twenty years has taken a very active part in the reforms of the day, and was one of the pioneers in the temperance and anti-slavery causes. His loss will be deeply felt by his friends and townsmen. He was 64 years old.—Worcester Spy. 
SEIZURE OF A SUSPECTED SLAVER IN NEW YORK. The barque Weathergauge was seized in New York on Wednesday, under suspicion of being a slaver. Her manifest set forth that she was bound to Hong Kong by way of Ambreze, which is well known to be a slave station on the African coast. The cargo consisted of rice, powder, rum, blue drills, and articles usually taken out by slavers. Capt. Farmer, of the revenue cutter Harriet Lane, took charge of the barque, and the Collector notified the authorities at Washington. 
A RIVAL TO THE WHERRYMAN. The Newport News chronicles the appearance in the harbor of that city of a half-deck, one-mast sailboat, the ‘Mirage,’ from Norfolk, Va., having made the passage in eight days. The ‘Mirage’ is commanded, owned and manned by Capt. S. Dayton. He put into port ones only, at Greenport, L. I., to avoid a severe storm, last Saturday. The dimensions of the boat are—length, 22 feet, breadth, 9 feet. The whole distance sailed was about 500 miles. 
<c04>
A rather unusual circumstance occurred at a ploughing match which lately took place at Vaugueray, (Rhone,) a young woman, about nineteen, driving a pair of oxen, presenting herself as one of the competitors. At first, some objections were raised as to her admission, but, under the circumstances of the case, they were set aside. Marie Chirat, the girl in question, had the misfortune to lose her father about ten months ago. He had a lease of a farm at a rent of 2000f. a year, and when he died, left a widow, a little boy, and Marie. The daughter, feeling that to quit the farm in the middle of the lease would be the ruin of the family, told her mother not to be cast down, for she would undertake to work the land. She applied herself strenuously to the work, and was soon pronounced to be the best conductor of a plough in the commune. That opinion was confirmed at the public competition, as the principal prize was awarded to her. She returned home in triumph to her mother, accompanied by a party of female friends. 
THE VICISSITUDES OF FORTUNE. The London correspondent of the Manchester Guardian says—Lord Lovelace’s son and heir, the grandson to whom will go the bulk of the late Lady Byron’s large landed property, and who now becomes Baron Went worth by her death, is, and has for a considerable time past, been working at weekly wages as an artisan in the smith’s department of Woolwich Arsenal. For the son of an Earl, and heir of a barony by writ, this is a unique case. Lord Lovelace’s daughter, to whom passes the bulk of Lady Byron’s large personal property, is an hereditrix of much of the rare ability of her mother, Ada, the only daughter of Lord Byron. 
DEATH OF AN EDITOR. Montpelier, Vt., Sept. 17.— Hon. Charles G. Eastman, editor of the Vermont Patriot, and a distinguished citizen of this place, died at 8 o’clock yesterday morning, aged 44 years. 
The Vigilance Committee at Henderson, Texas, have hung Green Herndon and his negro woman, found guilty of burning the town. 
Prentice says there is but one kind of trade that your fire-eater doesn’t regard as plebeian and vulgar—and that’s the slave trade. 
All free colored persons recently come into Berkeley county, Va., from other counties, have been given ten days by the courts to leave. 
FATAL RAILROAD ACCIDENT IN WISCONSIN. A telegraphic despatch from Chicago gives the following list of the killed by a collision upon the Racine and Mississippi Railroad on Friday evening:—Mr. Baker, produce dealer of Delavan, Wisconsin; Morgan Seaverns, of Darien; Mrs. Davis, of Sharon, a son of Mr. Catlin; and a son of Mr. Stopful, of Delavan. The train had on board a large party of excursionists, returning from a county fair at Elkhorn, several of whom were seriously injured. 
Washington City contains 61,400 inhabitants, which is an increase since 1850 of 21,399. The whole of the District of Columbia contains a population of 75,365, against 51,687 in 1850. The number of slaves is 3,231, against 3,687 in 1850—decrease 456.
Loss OF LIFE ON MONT BLANC. Three English, travellers, who persisted in ascending Mont Blanc on the 15th of August, during a snow storm, in spite of the remonstrances of their guides, slid from a precipice while descending the mountain, and were killed. They had tied themselves together with a rope for safety, at the instance of their guides, three in number, each of whom had hold of it to assist them on their way. One of the guides fell over the precipice with them, and was also killed. 
Douglas is to carry the following States:—the State of -, the State of -, the State of,-the State of -, and the State of -, which will give him 0,000 majority over all other candidates!
Bell and Everett are to carry the New York Ledger! 
Thus far, not one solitary Representative to Congress has been elected in New England, to oppose Lincoln’s administration. Connecticut, Vermont and Maine have chosen their members—all Republicans. 
INDIAN FIGHT. The San Antonio Herald of the 7th inst., says that Captain Sturg and command had fought a bloody battle with the Comanches, Kiowas and Cheyennes, 60 miles from Fort Kearney, killing twenty-nine. The American loss was trifling. 
Rev. E. P. Rogers, of Newark, N. J., will sail for Africa on the fifteenth of October next. He goes out under the auspices of the African Civilization Society, to make the necessary arrangements for carrying into operation the plans of the Society in the Yoruba country. 
Recent accounts from Texas leave no doubt that innocent men have suffered in the terror that has spread through that region. The Marshal (Texas) Republican says:— ‘Mr. John D. Evans, who has made a tour through the counties of Upshur, Rusk and Cherokee, informs us that what was supposed to be poison in the hands of the negroes in Cherokee county, when subjected to chemical analysis, turned out to be a harmless preparation. And yet the negroes stated that it was poison, and that they had been instructed to place it in the wells and in the food of their masters. Very little reliance can be placed in testimony obtained by coercion or intimidation.’
Ex-Governor Wickliffe, of Kentucky, lost his slave Bob, in Cincinnati, a few days ago. The Governor was returning from Washington, but Bob thought he would not follow his master into a slave State again. 
A number of slaves belonging to Dr. William Brogden, who resides on South River, Md., had all their arrangements made for a trip to Canada last Sunday. A free negro was to pilot the company, and he injudiciously offered a white man $50 if he would assist him in running off the slaves. The project was thus divulged and defeated. 
Gov. Banks has removed six of the seven Trustees of the State Reform School at Westboro’, on account of alleged mismanagement. 
A terrible gale occurred in the Gulf ‘of Mexico on Saturday. Nearly every house in Balize had been carried away. Much damage was done to shipping. The storm was severe also between New Orleans and Mobile. At the latter city, the damage by the storm and fire amounted to $500,000. 
Walker, the filibuster, has been captured by Alvarez at Rio Negro. Seventy of his men were captured with him, and they were handed over to the authorities of Honduras. Gen. Walker and Col. Kudler were to be shot. 
STATE CONVENTION. 
The Fourth Annual Meeting of the Vermont Anti-Slavery Convention will be held at BRADFORD, on Wednesday and Thursday, the 17th and 18th of October next. 
The enslavement of four millions in our land, the indescribable wrongs done to the oppressed, the continued refusal of political parties and of many religious sects to demand the abolition of slavery, the increase of the slave trade, the strength and daring attempts of the Slave Power in the Federal Government, and the new reign of terror in the South, as well as the persecuting spirit manifested in the North, all call for a large and enthusiastic assemblage of the friends of freedom without distinction. 
Seeking the emancipation of the enslaved, and the highest good of our common country, let the earnest friends of human rights, in obedience to the voice of God, of humanity and of patriotism, come together for a full and free discussion of the great questions now before the people. 
The friends of freedom in other States are invited to attend, and join in the deliberations of the Convention. 
CHARLES LENOX REMOND of Salem, Mass., E. H. HEYWOOD of Boston, and H. FORD DOUGLASS of Chicago, III., eloquent champions of freedom, besides others in our own State, will address the meeting. 
The sessions of the Convention will open on Wednesday, at 10 o’clock, and continue through the two days and evenings. 
In behalf of the State Committee, 
J. M. COBURN,
JEHIEL CLAFLIN, 
JAS. HUTCHINSON, JR., 
N. R. JOHNSTON. 
HATERS OF TOBACCO. 
The Publications of the American Anti-Tobacco Society you will find at the Depository, Fitchburg, Mass. 
There are fifty different Tracts, embellished with cutting cuts, grave and humorous, designed for bishops and boys, doctors, deacons and dandies; in short, for all Intelligences who chew the cud, or revel in smoke. One dollar will furnish you with two hundred tracts. Friend, order them, spread them, and begin a reform around you at once. 
Also, the Zoological Temp. Convention, the Rev. Sol. Spittle, Uncle Toby’s Stories about Tobacco, for Young America; anti-tobacco Envelopes, Medals, and handsome Cards for Bands of Hope. This Card has the Comprehensive Pledge, a pledge which will be used by all Bands who choose to be consistent or safe on temperance principles. 
One hundred cards, one copy of Uncle Toby, one copy of Sol. Spittle, for one dollar, including express or postage. 
Fitchburg, Mass. GEO. TRASK. 
<c05>
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH National Anti-Slavery Anniversary. 
When the claim for Universal Liberty was first made in our country, the best part of a life-time ago, the work lay wholly in futurity. The idea and the principles of Human Rights were to be re-planted, the justice and necessity of their cause as against Slavery to be proved, the prevailing apathy to be broken, the public mind to be awakened and enkindled, the insufficiency of a Church and State controlled by Slavery to compass Freedom to be demonstrated, the retrogression of the land towards barbarism under their way to be made manifest, and freedom of speech, of the press, and of a new specific association to be claimed and exercised as the only sufficient instrumentalities of progress. 
This is the initiatory work that has been done, and by it, abundant opportunities of direct action have been rendered practicable. The WORK ITSELF, in a thousand shapes, now lies before us, whose privilege it has been to make ready for it. The despotism is driven into open day. To meet it, requires devotion, industry, and the sacred fire of a true enthusiasm. It requires energy, cooperation, and the discipline of self-control. It requires generous contributions of money. We trust that all these indispensable requisites are now, as ever, ready. 
We earnestly and cordially entreat all who love our native land in sincerity, whether Europeans or Americans, to unite with us more numerously and more generously than ever to meet the demands of a period of crisis unparalleled in the history of our country—new, indeed, in the history of the world. For when before has it ever happened that Freedom has been sought from among a dominant people for a down-trodden one, on so grand a scale as this? We ask aid of Europeans, while we bid them observe that their freedom makes progress only in exact proportion as our slavery is brought into discredit. We ask aid of Americans; for where is the American to whom this Cause of ours is not the supreme interest of the present hour as affording the only hope of Futurity? The work before us is ever that primary one contemplated by no other existing body, political or religious: the work that Church and Government are always tempted by the necessities of their position as such to neglect, adjourn, suppress. And the stronger the desire of their members to promote the cause, the stronger the temptation, being so placed, to temporise and to compromise. 
To all these we confidently appeal for aid in the work they can neither do, nor do without. 
We cordially invite all who love Liberty the world over, to meet us at the Music Hall, Boston, in the month of January next, in person or by letter, uniting their sympathies and contributions with ours in the great work of the time—the peaceful extinction of American Slavery. 
MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN, 
MARY MAY, 
LOUISA LORING, 
L. MARIA CHILD, 
HENRIETTA SARGENT, 
ANNE WARREN WESTON, 
MARY GRAY CHAPMAN, 
HELEN ELIZA GARRISON, 
SARAH SHAW RUSSELL, 
FRANCES MARY ROBBINS, 
CAROLINE WESTON, 
MARY WILLEY, 
SARAH BLAKE SHAW, 
SUSAN C. CABOT, 
SARAH P. ATKINSON,
ELIZA ANDREW. 
LYDIA D. PARKER, 
ELIZA F. EDDY, 
SARAH P. REMOND, 
ABBY FRANCIS, 
SARAH RUSSELL MAY, 
ABBY KELLEY FOSTER, 
SARAH H. SOUTHWICK, 
EVELINA A. S. SMITH, 
ANN REBECCA BRAMHALL, 
AUGUSTA G. KING, 
ELIZABETH VON ARNIM, 
ANNA SHAW GREENE, 
ELIZA APTHORP, 
MARY ELIZABETH SARGENT, 
MATTIE GRIFFITH, 
ANNE LANGDON ALGER, 
MARY E. STEARNS. 
ANNIVERSARY MEETING. 
The Eighteenth Annual Meeting of the Western Anti-Slavery Society will be held at SALEM, Columbiana county, Ohio, commencing on Saturday, the 22d of September, at 2 o’clock, P. M. 
In addition to our home speakers and home workers, we expect to have with us at our gathering Parker Pillsbury, of New Hampshire, H. Ford Douglass, of Illinois, and Abby Kelley Foster, of Massachusetts.
CAPE COD ANNUAL MEETING.—The annual Anti-Slavery Convention for Barnstable County will be held at Harwich, on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 22d and 23d, commencing on Saturday, at 2, P. M. WM. LLOYD GARRISON, CHARLES L. REMOND, E. H. HEYWOOD and other speakers will be present. The friends of impartial liberty and the public generally are cordially invited to attend. 
Z. H. SMALL, Committee
J. H. ROBBINS, of
ELKANAH NICKERSON, Arrangements. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in Ellsworth, and other places in Maine, during September, and the first three Sundays in October. 
Address—Care BELA MARSH, Boston, Mass. 
REV. M. D. CONWAY, of Cincinnati, will preach at Music Hall, before the Society of the late Rev. Theodore Parker, on Sunday morning, Sept. 23.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at
Great Falls, N. H., Friday evening, Sept. 28. 
Dover Falls, N. H., Sunday evening, Sept. 30.
Milford, Mass., Sunday afternoon and evening, Oct, 14
AARON M. POWELL, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture at 
Ellenville, N. Y., Saturday evening, Sept. 22.
Ellenville, N. Y., Sunday, Sept. 23.
NewPaltz, N.Y., Tuesday, Sept. 25.
Milton, (probably,) Wednesday, 26.
PROVIDENCE.—WM. WELLS BROWN will speak in Providence, on Sunday next, Sept. 23, during the day and in the evening. 
MAINE.—WM. WELLS BROWN will spend the month of October in the State of Maine, and will lecture in the principal places. 
DIED—At Weymouth, 10th inst., GEORGE FOR DYCE FIFIELD, only son of Dr. W. C. B. and Emily A. Fifeld, aged 1 year, 2 months and 10 days. 
‘No bitter tears for thee be shed,
Blossom of being! seen and gone! 
With flowers alone we strew thy bed, 
Oh blest departed one! 
Whose all of life, a rosy ray,
Blushed into dawn, and passed away.’

ANTI-SLAVERY OFFICE AND BOOK DEPOSITORY. 
AN Office, for the sale of Anti-Slavery, Temperance, Woman’s Rights, Anti-Capital Punishment, Peace, Spiritual and other Publications, has been established at 15 Steuben street, near the Delevan House, Albany, N. Y. A general assortment of stationery will be kept on hand, for sale on the most favorable terms. 
Subscriptions for the Liberator, National Anti-Slavery Standard, (Ohio) Anti-Slavery Bugle, London Anti-Slavery Advocate, and Herald of Progress, will be received. 
Donations, orders for Books, Tracts, and communications relative to Anti-Slavery and other Reform meetings in different parts of the State, should be addressed to the General Agent, LYDIA MOTT, Albany, N. Y. 
S. J. MAY, P. H. JONES,
S. B. ANTHONY, M. C. WRIGHT,
G. E. BAKER, E. C. STANTON,
A. M. POWELL, L. MOTT,
Committee.
<c06>
IT IS NOT A DYE!
MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S
HAIR RESTORER, 
The only preparation that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION. 
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances. 
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others. 

‘IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN 
Mrs. S. A. Allen’s Hair Restorative?’
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit’ from it. 
‘Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis. St. Louis Presbyterian. 
MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S HAIR RESTORATIVE has given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.’
Ch’n Witness and CA. Advocate, Boston, MASS. 
MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RE STORER is worthy of confidence.’
Philadelphia Christian Chronicle. 
Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used.’ N. Y. Evangelist. 
All are compelled to acknowledge Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S as the Hair Restorer.’ N. Y. Independent. 
MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind. Michigan Christian Herald. 
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.’
Knoxville Presbyterian Witness. 
‘There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S.’ Buffalo Christian Advocate 
Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye—Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WOBLD'SALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORERRESTORES will do this.'’ U. S.& Journal. 
In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'SALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER. AS an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.' ’
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston, 
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'SALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE. 
Philadelphia Mercury. 
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'SALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the’ World's Hair Restorer.'
Newark Register. 
We have reason to be assured that ‘Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'SALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER’ is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated.' Rahway Register. 
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'SALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable.' Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y. 
‘From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that’ Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'SALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER'RESTORER’ performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character. 
St. Louis Ledger. 
‘Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.—As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in his. the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's World’s Hair Restorer.'
Providence Daily Tribune. 
‘We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'SALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch. 
‘Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.' 
Norfolk Argus.
‘Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit' Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD’s HAIR RESTORER.' It has been thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.' Rahway Advocate, and Register. 
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD' AIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many year, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established, by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.' Brooklyn Morning Journal. 
‘This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest linen. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.' Mercury,. Philadelphia. 
'These unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.’ Boston Transcript. 
It is just what it purports to be.’ Cleve. Leader. 
We might swell this list, but if not convinced,. TRY IT. 
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States. 
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U. S., Cuba, or Canada. 
DEPOT 355 BROOKE STREET. N. Y.
where address all letters and inquiries. 
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and in information. Genuine insigned,. Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink. Rev are of counterfeits. 
See next issue of this Paper for more information or send to Depot for Circulare.
FOR SALE EVERY WHERE.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY
For the Liberator.
GOOD LORD, DELIVER US!
From sham Democracy’s oppressive rule—
From its corruption, let us have secession; 
From every dough-face-every cringing tool 
That basely bends the knee before oppression—
Good Lord, deliver us!
From all vile schemers with their sophistry,
Who fain would lead us from the path of duty; 
Who teach that right is wrong-that truth’s a lie—
That Satan’s hoofs and horns an things of beauty-
Good Lord, deliver us! 
The brand of Guilt is on the nation’s brow,
The ground is stain’d with blood of Freedom’s
Martyr-
Sleek hypocrites before thine altar bow, 
Who dare thine image still to scourge and barter: 
Good Lord, deliver us! 
By Slavery’s withering, all-blasting breath,
Let not this land of ours for aye be blighted; 
Lead Freedom safely through the vale of death,
In thy good time let every wrong be righted:
Good Lord, deliver us! 
Uproot all error, and the lowly raise 
Even from the dust:-benighted minds enlighten: 
Let Truth go forth to conquer-let the blaze 
Of thine Intelligence this dark world brighten: 
Good Lord, deliver us!
Andover, Mass. RICHARD HINCHCLIFFE.

From the Christian Inquirer. 
THEODORE PARKER. 
BY J. C. HAGEN. 
Taken while the strife was raging, 
Called away when needed most, 
In the war with error waging—
Thou who wert thyself a host;
With a faith that never faltered,
With a will no power could bend, 
With a purpose never altered, 
Pressing onward to the end;
Doing while the doubtful queried, 
Daring where the stoutest failed-
Thine the arm that never wearied. 
Thine the heart that never quailed; 
Open and uncompromising, 
Carving for thyself the way, 
All the meaner arts despising, 
By which cunning wins the day—
Where Tradition, old and hoary, 

Guarding Error, older still, 
Had, from time unknown to story,
Crushed the heart, and broke the will; 
Where Oppression’s votaries reveled,
Void of pity, void of shame, 
There thy burning shafts were levelled 
With a never-failing aim. 
If thy hand seemed too unsparing 
Of the idols of the past, 
Little heeding, little caring, 
So they to the earth were cast—
While thy pity was inspired 
By the blinded devotee, 
By thy holding wrong for right, 
Yet no generous spirit, knowing 
Thee, would dare thy work assail, 
For an error only showing 
How the noblest sometimes fail. 
Springing from New England’s bravest—
Bravest thou among the brave-
Tenfold back to her thou gavest 
All the honor that she gave. 
And when all her heroes, sages,
Time upon his scroll shall trace,
Beacon-like to coming ages,
Thou shalt hold an honored place.
We copy the following incendiary' and murderous’ lines from the Boston Courier, which affects such horror of mind in regard to the nobly disinterested efforts of Capt. John Brown to liberate the slaves of Virginia.’ Strange such 
difference there should be,’ &c. Out upon such hypocrisy!
NATIONAL HYMN OF JOSEPH GARIBALDI. 
The tombs have burst open, and yielded their dead, 
And our martyrs come forth for freedom who bled; With their swords in their hands, their wreaths round 
their brows,
All Italy glows with her fire and her fame. 
Then come to the rescue, each brave youthful band!
Spread our banners abroad, all over the land; 
Come ye all with the sword-come all with the fire, 
The long-nourished ire with which Italy burns. 
Ye strangers, away!-from Italia away! 
For this is the day-away! hence! begone! 
This fair land of flowers, of music and song—
Armed, armed let her be, as of yore, firm and strong;
Ye with shackles and chains have encircled our 
Hands.
Yet still they the brands of Legnano can wield. 
The Austrian rod must not Italy rule-
Sons of Rome cannot thrive in slavery's school; 
No more will Italia brook tyrants and foes—
Too long she the woes of her bondage has borne. 
Ye strangers, away! &c., &c. 
Our houses and homes are none others but ours,
And there, ’cross the Danube, go back and seek yours:-
Ye have wasted our fields, our bread from us torn 
The sons to us born we will keep for ourselves.
The Alps and two seas shall our boundaries be; 
With chariots of fire we’ll the Appenines free; 
Destroyed be each vestige of former frontier.
While our banners clear shall wave wide over all,
Ye strangers, away! &c., &c. 
Let each tongue be silent, but each arm be braced—
The foe only firmly and fiercely be faced; 
Then swift o’er the mountains these strangers will 
Speed.
In thought and in deed, while we all are as one. 
For us not enough be the spoils of our foes.
To these ruthless robbers all ingress we’ll close; 
All our cities as one united shall be—
As one people we for our country will stand. 
Ye strangers, away-from Italia away! 
For this is the day-away! hence! begone! 

PSALM OF FREEDOM. 
Daughter of Nations! awake from thy sadness; 
Awake, for thy foes shall oppress thee no more: 
Bright o’er the hills dawns the day-star of gladness; 
Arise, for the night of thy sorrow is o’er! 
Strong are thy foes; but the arm that subdues them, 
And scatters their legions, is mightier far: 
Flee they like chaff from the scourge that pursues 
them; 
Vain are their steeds and their weapons of war! 
Daughter of Nations! the power that doth save thee 
Extolled by the harp and the timbrel shall be: 
Shout! for the foe shall be crashed that enslaves 
thee; 
The slave-lords be humbled, the nation be free! 
<c02>
THE LIBERATOR. 
From the Philadelphia Press. 
THE COLORED PEOPLE OF PHILADELPHIA. 
Their Wealth, Numbers, Habits, Refinement, and Difficulties. 
The question of the abstract right or wrong of African slavery has received so to much attention during late years, that topics of more 
practical philanthropy have been but lightly discussed. The moral and social effects of bondage upon the negro might profitably give place to 
another inquiry viz:- His condition in a state of freedom. 
If the negro be less happy in freedom than in servitude, it will be useless to agitate the question of his emancipation. A review of the 
social condition of the colored population, in any one of the large Northern cities, may do something toward an determining the capacity 
of the race for improvement. 
We have singled out our own city for this purpose, and in some moments stolen from more pressing reportorial duties have made impartial observations
of’ life among the lowly. 
EMBARRASSING NATURE OF THE INQUIRY. 
What we may state is liable to be variedly misconstrued. The courteous treatment which we have received at the hands of some colored men, may make the delicate revelations of our visits among them appear like ingratitude. On the other side, there are those who hear with dislike any extenuating statements of the free colored man's man’s condition, who have no feelings of sympathy with his social struggles, and had rather find him degraded and unhappy, than civilized and aspiring. 
For the latter class we have no scruples, and little regard. We write for those who will deplore his wretchedness and encourage his advancement; for if, with faculties and a will to learn, the free negro be still degraded, the stain and the shadow of his sensuality fall upon his white neighbors. 
STATISTICS OF COLORED PHILADELPHIANS. 
Of the seventy-odd thousand free colored people of Pennsylvania, probably twenty thousand reside here. We have a larger colored element than any other of the great Northern cities. The condition of our colored classes is supposed to be inferior only to those of New Bedford, Cleveland, and some other Eastern towns. 
Some quarters of this city are populated to a large extent by the lower order of blacks. But a portion of the town is inhabited by an intelligent class, who have accumulated money, and are respected by their white neighbors. 
The free blacks of Philadelphia owned, by census of 1850, $800,000 of property, divided among 19,000 persons. 
By some statistics which were published a few years since, there were 4,019 families of colored people, of whom 241 were living in their own houses. Of these, there were about 5,000 able -bodied men over 21 of whom 1,581 were laborers, 256 mechanics, 240 mariners, 166 shopkeepers, 276 coachmen and carters, 557 waiters, 156 hair-dressers.
The present colored population of the city is from twenty thousand to twenty-five thousand. They own property to the amount of nearly three millions of dollars, and have churches and schools valued at from four hundred thousand to five hundred thousand dollars. 
The great majority of negroes are poor. They seldom inherit money; many of them come to the city direct from slavery, destitute of capital where with to make business beginnings, and without education. 
It cannot be expected that men of this race who are said, by certain statesmen, to be, in their best estate, mere animals should struggle suddenly on to fortune. That many of them have made money, and advanced themselves socially, is miraculous; for, be it said to the shame of cur people, a free colored man has more powerful disadvantages with which to contend in the free States than in the slave. 
THE COLORED MAN’S DISADVANTAGES. 
Philadelphia is the only Northern city, we believe, in which public conveyances are forbidden to the black man. On the suburban or rural rail roads a small portion of the smoking car is partitioned off to the negro, and he has no other resort. Bundled with his wife into that foul apartment, in hearing of brutal jests, liable to insult, he must feel, if he have feelings, the hopelessness of his degradation. The city passenger railways refuse, as a general thing, to carry colored passengers. We know of several cases where colored men, who are stockholders in certain railways, have been forbidden to ride to the railway terminus to collect the dividends upon their shares. A few days ago, we noticed a neatly-dressed mulatto woman, who took a seat with her child in a Frankford car. Sneers and jests at once passed from passenger to passenger. Two or three delicate parties shifted their seats, so as to be removed from the proscribed woman. She sat unmoved amid these insults, for they had probably become to her ordinary occurrences, When the conductor came to collect fares, she was refused an exchange ticket. People of her color could not pass over the city section of the road. She was politely put out of the car at Second-St., to wait in the rain for the one-horse conveyances. These difficulties in traveling necessitate localization or centralization of the colored classes.
An intelligent black man lately informed us that he owned a pleasant country residence in the northern suburbs, but that be could not occupy it, as it would be impossible to ride over the railways to and from his place of business. To this centralization most of the wretchedness remarked in St. Mary’s, Bedford, Baker, and similar streets, is due. The denizens of these places, being laboring men, porters, barkeepers, &c., must be near the business centre. Were the railways thrown open to them, they would scatter to various remote sections, where, at equally cheap rents, cleanliness and comfort might be secured. 
The prejudice against blacks extends to every class, and may be remarked in pleasure and in business. At theatres, and concerts, lectures and churches, the 
negro is restricted to a remote gallery. In mechanical pursuits, if a colored apprentice or journeyman be employed, there is an immediate rebellion upon 
the part of the white laborers. It has been to us a matter of wonder how the black man masters any trade, studies for any profession, or learns anything of 
the arts. In only the dull, manual labors, has he a show of equitable competition. He is a hotel-waiter, a vendor of peanuts and cakes, or a mere beast of burden. 
THE COLORED MAN'S AVOCATIONS IN PHILADELPHIA. 
Those negroes of this city who pursue what may be called the higher mechanical branches, acquire their knowledge chiefly in the North and East. The principal of the colored academy of this city is from New Haven; most of the colored teachers are from Boston, and Providence, and New York. There are several bona-fide negro physicians in Southern Philadelphia. Some of these, we are told, managed to acquire odds and ends of medical science in our own medical colleges, but they perfect themselves in the East. Their clergymen are, as a class, conversant with theological differences, and some of them acute reasoners. There is not a colored lawyer in this city, that we have heard of. There are two large African literary societies, one of them named after Benjamin Bannaker, and more than twenty beneficial organizations. They have fine Masonic, Odd Fellow, and Temperance Halls, lodges of every kind, several excellent private schools, and some half dozen public libraries. 
As caterers, the colored men are remarkably successful. We know of several who keep central saloons, fitted up in gorgeous style. One individual has a fine hotel at Florence Heights, and fine dining rooms in this city. A number are the owners of carriages and a span of blooded horses. The females are milliners, dress-makers, &c. They frequently exhibit great tact in their respective trades. 
Those who look lightly upon the negro as of no practical value to Philadelphia society are unwise, for he fulfils functions distasteful to most whites, and, in certain departments, labors with an aptness which whites could not supply. 
MUSICAL AFRICANS. 
The genius for music with which the negro seems endowed, and which breaks forth in rude ditties and melodies where he is rude and untaught, finds 
higher development in the Northern cities. Some colored vocalists and musicians of this city exhibit talent of a high order. There are numbers of 
Anglo-African musical societies, and among the more intelligent classes the evenings are passed about the piano. Some of the musicians are adepts 
upon the guitar. Few of our readers have not some recollection of the famed’ Black Swan,’ who gave concerts some 
<c03>
years ago in all the Northern and Western cities, accompanied by the colored’ Mario.’ She is a resident of Philadelphia, and has amassed a handsome competence by her exhibitions. Elizabeth Green field was originally a slave in one of the South western States. She was purchased or manumitted at an early age, 
when she at once exhibited much vocal capacity and flexibility. For some time she tutored herself, mastered the elements of music, and, attracting some attention from benevolent parties, was assisted in the prosecution of her studies.
She has never been farther South than Baltimore, although she once received an offer of $1,200 for a services of concerts in Charleston, S. C., which she declined. Mario,’ her associate, keeps a clothing store on Second street, in this city. Both were highly commended on their travels. 
THE NEGRO IN CHURCH. 
About twenty African religious organizations and churches exist in the city. The Methodist, Baptist, and Presbyterian elements are most numerous. Each of these denominations has from three to ten churches. There is also one Episcopalism church, and we believe, one Universalist. There are some three hundred 
colored Catholics in the city. They attend the churches of the whites. There are also a number of Freethinkers, of Millerites, of Spirit ualists, and a great number of Friends. 
We have been favored with copies of sermons by several clergymen. They are not destitute of rational parts, although appealing generally to the feelings of the 
auditors. We are assured that of late years the colored congregations have grown less boisterous than of yore; their zeal, or fanaticism, or whatever it may be called, having been modified and subdued. The vicinities of Sixth and Lombard streets present, upon Sunday mornings, very animated appearances. Folk of all shades of color saunter down the streets; beautiful quadroon girls, perfumed, fashionably-dressed, dandy beaux, staid colored gentlemen, &c. 
GENERAL CONDITION. 
As a general thing, the negroes of this city are poor. Most of them, however, are economical, and their wealth probably doubles every year. One negro citizen has real and personal estate valued at $300,000; most of this he inherited. The moral character of the negro element varies with the varied social conditions of its several components. We hear of few colored pick-pockets, although there are many noted colored burglars. In our walks among them, we have found a degree of taste, talent and industry surpassing our most sanguine expectations. We make public below some details of our visits among the colored people of the city. 
VISITS TO THE COLORED UPPER-TENDOM. 
Placing ourselves under the patronage of a well-known colored gentleman, we were invited to pass an evening in sundry calls among his people. A night was set apart for this delicate task, and at an early hour we paused before the door of a cleanly dwelling, in South street near Eighth. A silver plate beneath the polished bell-handle contained his name, and on the threshold, smiling with benevolence, our host waited to receive us. He welcomed us in a easy yet gratified manner, and we passed through a long hall, papered in imitation of granite columns, to a stairway with walnut balustrades,. The carpet had been taken up in the hall and parlor, to provide for house -renovating, and we saw it nicely folded in a niche beneath the stairway. It was a chaste pattern, of Brussels manufacture. The parlor, in the second story, to which we were summoned, was situated over a furniture store. It was roomy, and papered 
in a plain, cheerful style. There was an utter absence of everything gaudy, and the glittering trappings, supposed to be so inseparable from the taste of the Ethiop, existed neither in the host nor the hostelry. We sat down to talk. The ultimate destiny of the black man was discussed, our host opening that his struggle for a habitation and a name must be in America. He said that his people were attached to the Republic, notwithstanding many disadvantages imposed upon them, their hope being strong that patience and good citizenship would eventually soften the prejudices of the whites. Tempered as they were to our habits and clime, it would be cruel to place them on a strand but dimly known, where, surrounded by savages, they might become savage themselves. 
There was to us a sincere pleasure in our host’s discourse. He is one of the leading public men among his people, and has much of the ease and polish peculiar to the well-bred Caucasian. He laughed at times, but never boisterously, and in profounder moments threw a telling solemnity into his tone and expression. When the head was averted, we heard, in well-modulated speech, 
such vigorous sentences and thoughtful remarks that the identity of the speaker with the proscribed race was half forgotten; but the biased eyesight revealed only a dusky son of Ham. On a’ what not' table were clustered a number of books. Most of them were anti-slavery publications, although there were several volumes of sermons, and a few philosophical and historical books. We turned 
the conversation, to literature. He was well acquainted with the authors he had read, and ventured some criticisms, indicative of study. From the earnestness of the man, it seemed that the interests of his race were very dear to him. 
It is but just to say, that be has passed many years in constant companionship with Caucasians. 
A SOUTH-STREET HABERDASHER. 
We made, by his guidance, a number of calls. Our first visit was to a new and second-hand haberdasher's shop just across the way. A man was seated on the pavement in a high-backed chair beneath its bow window. He seemed to be a tall, stoop-shouldered white person, genteelly dressed, and wearing a low-crowned broad-brimmed hat. We shook hands with great gravity, and our guide stated that we had visited the establishment to see how his business was prospering. He led the way quietly into the store, and lighted a small lamp. When the names flashed upon his face, we saw that he was of a light-yellow hue. Then we made a hasty review of the store. In the front or main room there were heaped up articles of every conceivable character. Immense piles of dinner-plate and dishes, tin ware by the gross, lamps of every pattern, second-hand signs, with and without names, pictures and picture-frames, stoves and all culinary utensils, cradles, cushions, old boots and boot-jacks, trunks, old hats, carpets, &c, ad infinitum.’
We passed into a rear room. Here were tables and chairs, and bureaus and chests, and bed-posts and sofas. We passed into the yard. It was stacked in, every quarter with old wagon-wheels and window-sashes, hardware, and shingles. A ferocious dog couched beneath a hen-coop. The proprietor ordered him to lie down, and invited us back to see his horse. In a low shed that animal was feeding, and a very likely beast he was, fat and full sinewed. In the yard rested the wagon, which was somewhat dilapidated. 
We passed into the cellar. There lay a wild confusion of wares, which no amount of enumeration could sum up; and yet a little observation detected order in this chaos. It was plain that the proprietor could lay hid hand on any article. In a second story room the same state of things prevailed. It was as though the furniture of a hundred establishments had been confusedly tumbled into one. We asked the proprietor if he sometimes took an account of stock. He said, with a short laugh, that he might do so. He had fifteen children, and smiled when 
we told him that he could furnish establishments for as many more. He owned his dwelling, for which, with the ground, he gave $4,500. We were likewise assured that he had other property to the amount of a few thousand dollars additional.
This man came from Charleston, South Carolina, about fourteen years ago. He was the natural son of a wealthy white man, who owned a line of steamers between that city and New York. His father died leaving him free, and his white uncle gave him a passage to the North. He had about ten dollars when he reached 
Philadelphia, where he at once commenced to labor. He found no difficulty in procuring employment, but for some time laid up no money. At length he started in the secondhand furniture business, and made the commencement of his present extensive establishment. He seemed to have a strong affection for Philadelphia, and spoke of his triumph over difficulties with some tediousness, but much pride.
RODMAN STREET. 
We passed with our guide up South street to North, and thence to Rodman street. Several fine dwellings, of three and four stories, fronted with white marble, and having doors of carved stone, were exhibited upon those avenues. Rodman street runs parallel with South street, one-half square above it. It is peopled almost entirely by colored families. We gazed with curiosity at its rows of tall, beautiful houses, and saw, with some interest,
<c04>
the clean pavements and street. In some places fine ornamental trees stood upon the sidewalks, and in the doorways the families of colored men were seated. By the imperfect moonlight they seemed to be neatly dressed. There was no loud laughing or talking; in fact, it seemed to us that we had not remarked for the early evening such general decorum in any street in the city. 
Our guide said, with some earnestness’ Streets like this your people never visit. They wander through Baker, and Bedford, and Spafford streets to find subjects for ridicule and pity, but never look into these cheerful homes, or speak with these families of our better classes. There is a bright 
side as well as a dark to our condition, although some say we are all dark.'
He laughed shortly at his own wit, but there was more of thought than of humor in his speech.
We passed into one of the Rodman street dwellings, and, while the host was being summoned, looked over a music book which lay upon the piano, There was a variety of operatic music, and most of the popular ballads. The colored owner of the establishment referred with same pride, when he made, his appearance, to his daughter’s accomplishments, She had gone to Cape May with her mother, during the hot season. She was a very good girl, and he had determined to give her what he had often vainly pined for an education. He spoke for some moments, in his homely way, of his business success and integrity. We heard him with some pleasure, As we were about going, he pressed us to take some demestic wine his daughter's make' and we were able, upon trial, to do justice to a small bottle. 
FASHIONABLE COLORED DWELLING IN SOUTH TWELFTH STREET. 
We passed up to Twelfth street, near Pine, and paused before a magnificent four-story brick dwelling. The sidewalk was shadowed by adult maples, and the white marble steps of the dwelling were a guarded by iron railing. A quadroon girl was sitting upon these. She saluted our conductor in a pleasing 
voice, and led the way through a broad hall. From the ceiling swung a lantern, the light of which disclosed the furniture of the hall. A fine hat-rack sat against the wall, and the vestibule was splendidly papered. The girl gave us seats in the parlor, where we half-buried ourselves in a spring ottoman, and went out to seek her mother. We found here, also, a piano; the furniture was of a costly character, and had we been blindfolded, and here regained our eyesight, should have imagined ourselves in some cosy Caucasian home. Here, as elsewhere, we found upon the shelves and tables all varieties of anti-slavery booksm Sumner’s speeches, Whittier's. Whittier’s poems, Parker’s sermons, Phillips’s orations, &c. Against the wall hung a magnificent engraving of Mrs. Stowe,. and on the opposite side a full-length portrait of Frederick Douglass. In a few minutes the hostess came in. She talked familiarly with our guide while we conversed with the daughter. They were neither forward nor embarrassed. The Miss replied courteously to inquiries about her music lessons and studies. She was of an olive complexion, almost white, and had what we conceived to be a winning address. The latter was favored by very mild, dark eyes, and, round, white teeth. 
The mother ware a white lace cap and a black silk dress. We imagined that the mother and daughter found each other’s society comfortable, and said so, whereupon the mother went into an enumeration of her daughter’s good qualities, which indicated a fondness not altogether unpleasant. 
CONVIVIAL SCENES IN THE DWELLING OF A COLORED CATERER. 
Our next stopping-place was also in Twelfth street, at the house of a noted colored caterer. We found four men seated in a small’ serving-up room’ opening on a balcony. Another of the party sat on the balcony, outside of the window. He occasionally ducked his head into the room, and on being observed, ducked back again in a very guilty manner. We could hear him laugh sometimes as if to indicate that he hadn’t fallen off, and was paying very rapt attention. This friendly gathering was regaling itself with cigars and brandy-and water. Care was at once taken that we should be provided for.
One of the party recognized us instantly as the. reporter who had abused a late colored convocation, and held its prominent speakers up to ridicule. He nevertheless treated us in a very genteel manner, and charitably abstained from saying anything of, our folly until we had been overwhelmed with kindness, 
and were on the eve of departure.
However, the influence of the cigars soon made the entire party communicative, and we launched into a terrible discussion of the slavery question, in which, to bring out the energies of the party, our associate agitated the re-opening of the slave trade, and we played the part of a fiery Abolitionist. 
An ebony individual, whom we will call Jinks, nailed us at once by relating his experience. He told his history with so much feeling that he found himself unable to continue. We gathered from a somewhat confused narrative that he had been a slave in Virginia; and labored many years to lay, up 
money wherewith to purchase himself; and in the course of a long and bitter period of toil, he had bought into freedom his wife and children. His mother and 
sister were sold before he could purchase them, and being taken somewhere in the
extreme South, he never heard of them again. 
Another party had, meanwhile, been nervously sipping his brandy, anxious to clinch Mr. Jinks's experience with his own. He was a large mulatto, heavily-built, and carried a large gold-headed cane, with which he frequently rapped his forehead, as if to give activity to his ideas. We understood that he was the natural son of a certain judge of one of the counties of western Maryland, who had been treated kindly during his father’s life. When the latter died, it was found that he had made no provision for Mr. Briggs's freedom, and with the
father's estate the son was sold. The son at once run away. When we inquired as to the probabilities of any connection between his running away and the underground railway train, Mr. Briggs said, with a laugh,’ There wasn't anything else.’ However, after Mr. Briggs had comfortably married, and fixed his family in Philadelphia, he was recognized, captured, and taken South. His wife walked for nearly a year through the streets, begging from house to house, for money to aid in her husband's purchase. She religiously refused to appropriate a penny of this to the immediate necessities of her family, and at last had the 
joy of seeing her’ ole man’ restored to her again. Mr. Briggs, at this point, enthusiastic, broke out:-I never kin forgit the ole woman for what she's done for me. Let her spend all I got, she’s made it. If she hadn’t begged for me, nothing’ would that have been for none of us. Let her go her rope!’ Here all hands laughed, and the man on the balcony, who had been frequently heard to chuckle, put his head in the window, and said very hurriedly:-What do become of de slave-catcher’s soul?’ after which he ducked out again in a most guilty way. 
Mr. Briggs continued to relate his’ struggles on to fortune.’ He paid yearly taxes to the amount of $250, and owned property to the value of $40,000. 
Mr. Swips, likewise, 
told his story. After computation, the worth of the eight individuals in the room was laid down”:-
Jinks, $25,000
Briggs, 40,000
Swips, 20.000
Man on the balcony, 7,000
Other colored man, 10,000
Our conductor, 6,000
Two reporters (50 cents each), 1 
Total, $108,001. 
Great wrangling here ensued. Everybody shook hands with everybody else, and Mr. Jinks rang the bell. When a boy with a white apron answered the summons, Mr. Jinks ordered champagne and cigars.
Then the fortunes of the $108,001 were toasted, with wishes that the $108,001 might never grow less; after which, the man on the balcony put in his head and said, spilling half his wine,’ Yar's to our brethren in bondage.’ This was hailed with ovations. 
Mr. Jinks, Mr. Briggs, and Mr. Swips, then insisted, simultaneously, that we should review at once each of their houses. 
VISITS TO JINKS AND BRIGGS. 
We found in Mr. Jink's a piano valued at $700, formerly owned by a prominent actress. We saw a large engraving of John Brown, framed in gorgeous style, and were taken to a library, filled with anti-slavery books. Everything was arranged in a style combining neatness with luxuriance. 
At Mr. Briggs's we found a studio hung with rare <illeigable>crayon drawings. We learned that these were the labors of Mr. Briggs's son. 
We have seldom met with finer pictures. 
In this studio our reporters made speeches, which were hailed with acclamations. Mr. Briggs opened 
<c05>
his sideboard, disclosing a tempting array of bottles. We were ordered up for a final toast. Each of the individuals enumerated gave sentiments. Some of them were mild some fiery. Our guide, with a degree of forbearance unexpected, said, lifting his glass:-
Let us drink to the social and intellectual advancement of the colored man!
‘God grant it,’ said a chorus of earnest voices, and the glasses were emptied with such 
enthusiasm that the man who had taken a seat on the balcony partially choked himself, and threw a temporary shadow over the general good humor. 
RFFLECTIONS RESULTING FROM THE ABOVE OBSERVATIONS.
We have spoken lightly of our final visit, simply, that variety may be infused into the narrative, for our most sanguine expectations of the respectability of the colored upper classes were overleaped by their actual condition. We found, 
everywhere, good order and good humor, pride in the city, love of the State, and, strange as it may seem, reverence for the nation. Few of the families we visited knew anything of our object; their manner of life, as we observed it, 
was not assumed nor counterfeited. In fact, we shrewdly doubted whether we were not mistaken for descendants of Ham, for, in our visit, we saw many persons said to be of negro blood, who, by gas-light, were identified as whites. 
Nothing is more common than to hear it said, in general and sweeping terms, that the free colored people of the city 
are in a miserably degraded condition; constantly exposed to hunger and cold; lazy, having no tendency to improve, no energy honesty, industry. Such assertions are, indeed, made quite as commonly at the North as at the South. Senator Brown, of Mississippi, only went a little way beyond the common opinion, when he remarked that’ the slave is blest with sound health, a sleek skin, and Christian instruction. The free African is dwarfed by disease, scrofulous from hunger, and is a barbarian and a cannibal.’
What we have transcribed has indicated, to the credit of Philadelphia, a different order of things, But it may not be out 
of place to allude, in equally truthful terms, to the 

CONDITION OF THE LOWER CLASSES OF NEGROES. 
This branch of the question needs little illumination. It has furnished the staple for much abuse of Philadelphia, and the 
dusky localities haunted by degraded blacks have been described as the sole resort of men of color in this city. 
We made one day a flying tour through Bedford, Baker, Lombard, and Spafford streets, but the dangerous appearance of the denizens of the diverging courts deterred us from entering them alone. By the kindly care of Sergeant Selby and 
Officer Annie, of the Second-district police-station, we were escorted through the most dingy localities in the whole city. 
None of the cribs, courts, cellars, or dwellings in the whole route was peopled exclusively by blacks, In some quarters of St. Mary street, a large proportion were negroes, but we found the dwellings of that avenue several degrees more 
commodious, cleanly, and cheerful than those of Spafford, Bedford, and Baker streets. In the three latter avenues were, people of every hue the pale consumptive, white as leprosy, and the ebony negro, with polished skin and crisp wool. In some dwellings we found both of these. 

A SUMMARY OF WRETCHEDNESS. 
Of the scenes among the wretched that day witnessed, we cannot speak at length. We saw ebony negro women, types of the most degraded Ethiops, of Amazon form and more than manly strength. Some of them were drunk, some quarreling; one was tusseling with two white men, whom she seemed to be in a fair way of demolishing, and many were stupified with rum and helpless with disease.
In one shanty we found a negro regaling himself with a black bottle of strychnine, and endeavoring, in the pauses of imbibition, to convince two half drunken mulattoes of the Postolical nature of his church. He gave vent to some ingenious and fearful theology.
There were negroes in all conditions of bodily mutilation. We saw one afflicted with a tumor nearly a foot in diameter; one with a ghastly 
scar across his jaw, made by an axe in the hands of an enemy; one whose leg was almost fleshless from a scalding received when stupified with rum; many one-eyed, some deaf, some entirely blind. 
In the latter class was a white girl nineteen years of age, who was the mother of four children, all born out of wedlock, and none of them white. She was entirely blind, and spoke with a heart-broken manner of the agony she had endured when her children were taken from her. We asked her where and why they had been removed. She believed to the almshouse perhaps brought up to be thieves. ‘God knows,’ said she at last, looking up to the feathery-clouded sky with blank and sightless orbs.
Many of the miserable beings we visited were partially insane. There was one woman, white as leprosy, who had sixteen cats. She had them named by all manner of fantastic titles, and every cat, at her call, came up to her feet. She spoke with a singing tone, and occasionally broke out into bits of music.
In one yard we found a gray-haired white man, resting his head in the lap of a black woman. He seemed to have been kicked down the stairway of a miserable tenement.
The officer touched him with his foot.
‘I’m drank,’ said the man, with a leer of idiocy:
‘Gi’ me a fip to get some gin.’
The officer made a light reply.
‘Go to-,’said the man, grinning. He was of large frame, and looked as though he had once been handsome; there was something very desolate in his white hairs.
It is useless to recapitulate scenes like these. Our observations convinced us that the white population was not less degraded than the negro. Both were wretched beyond all speech mere animals, without hopes beyond sensuality; without mind beyond bare perception; without enjoyment beyond wickedness; without souls beyond instinct. They were buried in filth and degradation; 
beyond all missionary toil dead in mind, in thought, in goodness, as the swine which made habitation with them. Unfit for future joy; callous and unworthy of future punishment, they have made their lives in corruption, and will die like the dogs.

VISIT TO MR. ROBERT PURVIS.
In strange contrast to such scenes of misery, we lay before our readers the particulars of a final visit, attended by more of gentlemanly geniality and evidences of a most refined taste. The object of these remarks is with the colored people, yet scarcely of them. We refer to Mr. Robert Purvis, more widely known than any man of color in America, excepting, perhaps, Frederick Douglass. Mr. Purvis has figured very prominently, at sundry times, as an anti-slavery orator. In such guise he does not appear to the best advantage, being very violent in delivery, and extremely radical in sentiment. During the excitement attendant upon the John Brown raid, Mr. Purvis excited great enmity by irreverently comparing his hero with the Savior. As a private gentleman, however, Mr. Purvis is pleasant and exceedingly interesting. We visited him last week. He resides in Byberry township, about twelve miles above the city proper, and in the twenty-third ward. 
The stage put us down at his gate, and we were warned to be ready to return in an hour and a half. His dwelling stands some distance back from the turnpike. It is approached by a broad lawn, and shadowed with ancient trees. In the rear stands a fine series of barns. There are magnificent orchards connected with his farm, and his live stock is of the most approved breeds. We understand that he receives numbers of premiums annually from agricultural societies. In this fine old mansion Mr. Purvis has resided many years.
We were ushered, upon our visit, into a pleasant dining-room, hung with a number of paintings. Upon one side of an old-fashioned mantel was a large portrait of a fine looking white man; on the other side, a portrait of a swarthy negro. Above these old John Brown looked gloomily down like a bearded patriarch. 
In a few minutes, Mr. Purvis came in. We had anticipated a stubborn-looking negro, with a swagger, and a tone of bravado. In place of such, we saw a tall, beautifully-knit gentleman, almost white, and handsomely dressed. His foot and hand were symmetrical, and, although his hair was gray with years, every limb was full and every movement supple and easy. He saluted us with a decorous dignity, and began to converse. 
It was difficult to forget that the man before as was not of our own race. The topics upon which be spoke were chiefly personal. He related some very amusing anecdotes of his relations with Southern gentlemen. On one occasion he applied for a passage to Liverpool in a Philadelphia packet. 
<c06>
Some Southern gentlemen, unacquainted with Purvis, save as a man of negro blood, protested he should not be received. Among these was a Mr. Hayne, a near relative of Hayne, the orator.
Purvis accordingly went to Liverpool by another vessel. He met Hayne and the Southerners as they were about returning home, and took Passage with them, passing for a white man. He gained their esteem, was cordially invited by each to visit him in the South, and no entertainment was complete without his joke and his presence. At a final dinner, given to the party by the captain of the vessel. Mr. Hayne, who had all along violently spoken of the negro race, publicly toasted Mr. Purvis, as the finest type of the Causasian race he had ever met. Mr. Purvis rose to reply.
I am not a Caucasian,’ said he ’I belong to the degraded tribe of Africans.'’
The feelings of the South Carolinians need not bee described.
Mr. Purvis has written a number of anti-slavery pamphlets, and is regarded, by rumor, as the President of the U. G. R. R. He figured in many slave rescue cases, some of which he relates with graphic manner of description.
He is the heaviest tax-payer in the township and owns two very valuable farms. By his influence, the public schools of the township have been thrown 
open to colored children. He has also built, at his own expense, a hall for free debate. We left him with feelings of higher regard than we have 
yet felt for any of his people.

CARPETING.
All the Year Round’
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & Co,
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN

CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers, and Packets, from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best 
qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all winths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings,
Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
AMERICAN CARPETING
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf
PROUTY & MEARS’S
CELEBRATED
HOT-AIR FURNACES.
PARLOR GRATES in great variety, embracing more than sixty different patterns, varying in prices from three to sixty-five 
dollars.
PARLOR STOVES of superior designs, including the PORTABLE HOT-AIR RADIATING PARLOR GRATE, the most elegant heating apparatus for 
drawing-rooms and parlors even invented.

COOKING-STOVES of the latest and most approved patterns, including the’ Clipper Improved,’ Mount Vernon, and’ Gold Medal'.
DINING-ROOM STOVES, with ovens, including the’ Beauty, of new and chaste design, and in its operation entirely superior to any cast iron’ Parlor Oven Stove’ even introduce into this market.
-ALSO-
A large assortment of Office and Shop Stoves; Castings for the PROUTY & MEARS’S Stoves and Furnaces, & c. &c.
-AT-
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,

BY 
ALLEN S. WEEKS,
23, 25 and 27 New Friend Street,
(Between Union and Hanover Streets,)
BOSTON.
June 1-eoptf
HENRY C. WRIGHT'S BOOKS.
MARRIAGE AND PARENTAGE: Fifth Edition. Price $1.00 per copy.
THE UNWELCOME CHILD; or. the crime of an undesired and unwelcome Maternity: Third Edition. Price 25 cents.
A KISS FOR A BLOW: A valuable work for children. Price 38 cents. The same work, handsomely Illustrated by Billings.
Price 62cents.
Published and for sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street.
August 24. 3 teop.

THE ERRORS OP THE BIBLE
DEMONSTRATED by the Truths of Nature: or, Man’s only Infallible Rule of Faith and Practice. By Henry C. Wright. 
(Prove all things hold fast that which is good-PAUL.) Price 25 cts.
For sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street.
August 24. 3teop.
SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each 
proved authoritatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture, without comment; embodying most of the 
palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Second edition. Price 15 cents, 
post-paid. Eight for a dollar.
A. J. DAVIS & CO.
Sept. 12. Canal street, New York.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Mch 16 tf BOSTON, MASS.

IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair-Dyeing.
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CARTEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she 
has removed to 323 Washington, st., and 20 West st., where will be found her Restorative, the most celebrated in the world, as it Prevents
hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town. 
Boston, May 1, 1860.
WEDDING AND VISITING
CARDS,
FASHIONABLY ENGRAVED BY 
E. A. TEULON, 
149 1-2 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON, 
Directly opposite the Old South Church.
-ALSO-
WEDDING BILLETS,’ At Home,’ &c.
WEDDING ENVELOPES, in great variety.
WEDDING CAKE BOXES, new styles.
WEDDIING NOTE PAPER and ENVELOPES 
ALL AT VERY LOW PRICES.
May 18. eop6m

