THE LIBERATOR 
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHIGNTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 27. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 1, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1743.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
ADDRESS OF WENDELL PHILLIPS.
From the London Evening Standard-[Tory-Rebel Organ.]
Extraordinary power of expression characterizes the speeches of Mr. Wendell Phillips. It is the combination of this quality, with a manly straightforwardness and an entire absence of that affection, of which his countrymen are so deeply enamored, that has often extorted our reluctant admiration. We could have wished to yield our esteem in an equal degree to the chief amongst American orators. But from this we were debarred by the strange policy which he has advocated with the utmost zeal and energy. We beheld in him a man who, more than all other Federal politicians, “gave up to party what was meant for mankind;” who, possessed through the whole of his life with one idea-an idea sufficiently noble in itself, the hatred of slavery, but little scrupulous as to the means by which that could be carried out-was, through his false notions of consistency, an enemy to the peace and prosperity of his country. Had he been one of the vulgar and greedy demagogues who trade upon war, because they are aware that their peculations are less liable to discovery in stormy seasons, we should not have thought him equally dangerous; but we could not fail to discern that his very genius and honesty rendered him a fitting tool for the bad purposes of men more cunning, but less able and honest, than himself. It is satisfactory to know that our misgivings to some extent went beyond the actual facts of the case. Mr. Wendell Phillips has roused himself from the death like lethargy of the enchanted ground; whatever may be his ultimate course of action, it is clear that his judgment is no longer the slave of those passions and prejudices which influences the Northern mind. In a remarkable speech delivered upon Tuesday, May 10th, at the Church of the Puritans, on the list anniversary of the American Anti-Slavery Society, he points out with as much foresight as vigor, the tendency of the unhappy war now desolating the New World. The conclusions at which he arrives are not new to us, for we have insisted upon them along before the present crisis; but in those quarters which our voice could not penetrate, the testimony of Wendell Phillips cannot be rejected.
Ever since the commencement of the American war, we have dwelt upon the impossibility of reviving the United States, as they once existed, especially if forcible means were employed for that object. We have been accused of jealousy, of a want of sagacity in not descrying the future destiny of a young and glorious Republic, of grossly exaggerating the love of father hand cherished by the inhabitants of the South. Let the admirers of Mr. Forster listen to the language of Wendell Phillips:-” The youngest American will not live to see a restoration of the republic of his forefathers.” Again, “You can never restore the Union by force. This war has built up a unanimous Confederate sentiment. If the rebellion reel in Virginia, it will by no means be broken if it quits the Old Dominion. The sections have learnt to respect each other. We know the South now, its willingness to die for its ideas, its readiness for every sacrifice, and its indomitable pride.” The argument of the American orator is unanswerable, as it embodies a historical fact. At the commencement of the war, the South struggled to preserve the rights of independent states; community of suffering and participation in victory on behalf of a common cause and in defence of common interests have awakened national feeling; the Southern States, but little united previously, have been welded into one empire; the people of the Carolinas are as eager to preserve Richmond as the base of their operations, as the Virginian is to relieve his native soil from the unhallowed tread of the foreign invader. Good has thus come out of evil; the obstinacy of Federal ambition has caused disunion at home, whilst it has promoted unwavering alliance amongst its several enemies. To no single inch of confederate ground can the Government of Washington lay claim, unless it is occupied by one of their armies.
We have not been content with looking at the effect produced by the war upon the Southern enemy, we have also ventured to predict the consequences to the North itself-impaired finances and military despotism. Upon these subjects English supporters of the war have been, even beyond their wonted habit, notably voluble. The resources of America are we are told, so expansive, that we must not compare the greenbacks of Mr. Chase to the assignments of the French revolutionary leaders. Unhappily the question arises, do American politicians hold the sanguine views of their distant sympathizers? Wendell Phillips, at any rate, prophesies, in his metaphorical language, expansiveness of a very different character, expansiveness of national and personal incumbrance-“The right arm of every man in the country, and every male child hereafter to be born into it, are and will be mortgaged to pay the interest on the debt.”
It has been denied that military despotism may in all probability be engendered by the prolongation of the present war. A Republican force is not, it is said, like a standing army levied by ambitious Kings and Emperors; it is composed of citizens attached to the laws and institutions of their country. In answer to this shallow rhodomontade we will not point out, as we fairly might, what the practice of the Federal President and his advisers has been; we will leave unnoticed immurements in fortresses wholesale confiscations of property, government by rapacious major generals; and will simply ask upon what data this belief in the superior moderation of Republicanism is founded? If ever an army might be called civil, it was that of the French Revolution. It was commanded by pure Republicans; scarcely one soldier could be found in it who was not both in principle and action a Democrat; and yet in a few years this army of citizens, actually levied to protect the new institutions of France, and to disseminate its extravagant doctrines, was the mainstay of despotism. But Cromwell's army was easily disbanded, and retired without bloodshed into private life. We will not say a word upon the love of a settled life which distinguishes an Englishman from an American, whose early habits dispose him to continual movement, but would rather ask whether the historical instance is in point. Can any one caused that the army which had trampled under feet the authority of the Parliament for whose cause it was levied would not have been dangerous if it had not been deprived of leaders? Its best officers were either in the Tower, or engaged upon the other side in the interests of peace and loyalty. Wendell Phillips may be allowed to know something of the character of his countrymen. He laments that “no such despotism as must exist in America, if the war should continue, exists on this side of the wall of China. “Although he despairs of peace, even though Grant should be unexpectedly successful, he remarks that “if peace comes, 800,000 men will be thrown upon the community, un-
<c02>
fitted for the ordinary avocations of life, and therefore a standing menace to public liberty; for half a century no one but a soldier will have a chance of the Presidency.” “His intense hatred of slavery does not blind him, although addressing an anti-slavery audience, to the danger incurred by the white population of America:-“If I were a negro slave, I would pray that the war might last twenty years; for the war will benefit the black race, and ultimately raise it to the social and political level of the white; but as an American white citizen, I deprecate even a month's continuance of the war, because I see in it the seeds of debt, military ambition, and despotism, against the progress of which are demanded a virtue and intelligence in the masses which do not exist in America, and which never existed anywhere else, if history be true.”
In his address of May 10th, Wendell Phillips has far exceeded the boldness of any American statesman who has advocated a return to peace. It remains to be seen whether President Lincoln will dare to treat the champion of anti-slavery as he did Mr. Vallandigham. Perhaps not, for the President is wise in worldly matters, and Mr. Phillips has his followers. It remains also to be seen whether the orator will be as logical in drawing his inference as in laying down his premises, or whether he will persuade others whilst be himself is unconverted so far as action is concerned. He sees the right course: will he adopt it in practice? His choice is between two extremes, one conferring immortal renown, the other involving indelible disgrace. He can either aim at the civic crown of the sincere patriot, or must sink into the unhonored grave of the gloomy fatalist. 
 
POLITICAL CATECHISM.
What is a copperhead?
A crawling animal, ever supple, creating nothing, breaking nothing, but destroying every thing it touches.
What is most like a copperhead?
Lincoln's administration.
Why? 
Because crawling with regard to foreign powers, supple and humble as regards parties, incapable of creating popular enthusiasm and credit, as well as of crushing the rebellion, it has destroyed all it has touched-national honor and dignity abroad, prosperity and liberty at home.
What is a factionist? 
A man who, from any personal feeling whatever, sacrifices his country to his person, instead of sacrificing his person to his country.
Who is the principal factionist in the United States?
Jefferson Davis.
Who is the second?
Lincoln.
Why? 
Because he has not hesitated to sacrifice to his personal ambition the union of patriots so indispensable to the maintenance of the unity of the free institutions of his country.
What factionists come after him?
Contractors and other privileged persons united at Baltimore to make sure of the benefits they acquire through the Administration, by prolonging its duration at the expense of the people.
Is Fremont a factionist?
No, for Fremont has spontaneously offered to retire to make room for any patriot, who by his antecedents would be neither a danger, a shame, nor a threat to the institutions of his country.
Are the men who are united at Cleveland factionists?
No, for they have preceded every other manifestation of popular will, and constitute, up to the present day, the only real and disinterested manifestation of the people; strangers to all contracts, to all privileges, who sustain the nation by their toil, their taxes, their blood, and in going to Cleveland they could have no other interest than that of controlling the effect and making certain the success of the sacrifices they impose upon themselves for the defence of the country.-New Nation.

Selections.
FREMONT.
General Fremont has resigned his commission in the army, and has accepted the Cleveland nomination. In accepting it he has written a letter in which he declares that Mr. Lincoln has already deprived the people of those liberties against which also Jefferson Davis took up arms. That we may do General Fremont no injustice, we quote his words. Among the objects of the Cleveland Convention, he says, was to bring the people “to realize that while we are saturating Southern soil with the best blood of the country, in the name of Liberty, we have really parted with it at home.”
In the estimation of General Fremont, therefore, the guilt of the President and of Davis is equal; and if what he says be true, the war is as unholy as ever Mr. Vallandigham or Mr. Fernando Wood declared it to be. No loyal, liberty-loving citizen of the United States can be more fairly asked to sustain, by a single dollar or word or wish, an Administration which has deliberately overthrown the Constitution and liberty, than to encourage a conspiracy which aims at the same result. The strongest friend of the rebellion, the most vehement apostle of  “peace,” has never offered a plainer and more conclusive reason for immediately stopping the war, and settling definitely the terms of the destruction of the Union and Government, than General Fremont offers in his letter. If Mr. Lincoln be equally treacherous to the Constitution with Jefferson Davis, certainly any man may elect with whom he will range himself. If Gen. Fremont be correct, it is General Grant's patriotic duty to turn his guns against the Washington traitor, who has really destroyed our liberties, rather than against the Richmond rebel who has merely threatened them.
No man has the right, without a knowledge which few can have, to question another man's sincerity. Yet it is hard to conceive that General Fremont can sincerely mean us to view, on the one hand, the exercise of an arbitrary authority for the salvation of the Government, expressly granted by the Constitution in time of rebellion, as treachery to that Government; or, on the other, to accept an occasional indiscretion in its exercise as a loss of liberty. We trust that the right of personal freedom is as sacred in our estimation as it is in that of General Fremont or of Mr. Fernando Wood; and we cannot forget that Mr. Wendell Phillips, whose letter is urged up on General Fremont as virtually the Cleveland platform, does not hesitate to concede that the exercise of arbitrary power may be necessary, and must be allowed at a time like this. His words are” “In sixty days after the rebellion broke out, the Administration suspended habeas corpus, on the plea of military necessity, justly.”
Yet that a sense of personal wrong, long brooded
<c03>
and fostered by unfortunate influences of many kinds, may confuse even a noble and generous mind, history too plainly shows. It remains for us, then, only to deplore that General Fremont adopts a view of the situation which concedes the destruction of the Government as accomplished, and releases every citizen from his obligations. The more direct, the more heroic, course for him, if the cause has indeed been betrayed by Mr. Lincoln and our liberties are lost, as he asserts, would be, not to allow that hoary despot nearly a year to forge our chains more closely, but to unroll the banner of armed opposition at once, and summon all true men to rescue their liberties from the tyrant's grasp.
With what profound sorrow those who have known the name of Fremont only as the watchword of Liberty and Union, now hear him repeating the cry of Vallandigham and the Copperheads, adopting their extremest position as his own, only those who have known what it is to see the moral fall of a leader almost romantically admired, can imagine. If Fremont had died before the war began, his name would always have shone in our history with a lovely lustre, as a symbol of the regenerative principle of American politics. He was not President, the historian would have said, but his name expressed the aspiration of awakening conscience in the people. When, then, it is asked hereafter, How did he change? the reply will be simple: that, at a time when slavery by force of arms was struggling to overthrow the Government which was the security of liberty, he denounced certain acts of that Government in self-defence, as themselves a virtual overthrow of the Constitution, and separating himself in the crisis from the mass of his truest friends, threw himself into the arms of the bitterest enemies of Liberty. Does General Fremont believe that the gentlemen who are going to the Chicago Convention, and who will support its nominations, are any truer friends of Union and Liberty than those who went to Baltimore and their supporters? Does he not know, or in the heat of passion has he forgotten, that the gentlemen who will meet at Chicago were the steadiest supporters of that policy against which his name was formerly a protest, and that their political action and sympathy with slavery are to-day the chief hope of the rebellion? And yet he knows, as we all know, that many of the managers at Chicago will be glad to see him the candidate of the Convention. Is it because they have come to him, or because he has gone to them? When the New York World loudly applauds him, is it because he is helping or hindering the cause of human liberty? because he is uniting, or because he is distracting, the friends of the Union and of national honor?
Browning wrote a poem called “The Lost Leader,” whose melancholy music murmurs forever in the hearts of all who have read it with experience. But never, perhaps, will its lines recur to thousands and thousands of young and earnest American hearts so painfully as they do since Fremont wrote his letter. Was that enthusiasm of the generous youth of a whole nation so despicable? Is the smile of Davis, is the cheer of Fernando Wood, so much sweeter than the trust of unknown multitudes? Was it worth while to cease to be the Fremont of June, 1856, to be the Fremont of June, 1864?-Harper's Weekly. 
 
FREMONTS POSITION.
It is evident from Fremont's letter of acceptance that he aims at something more than the nomination at Cleveland. The affection which the Copperheads have recently manifested for him is more than justified. It is amorously reciprocated. Their votes are invited. He bids for the Chicago nomination in the plainest terms. He endorses their pet grievances. He echoes their catch-words. He repeats their lingo, and imitates their cant. The same executive “outrages” on the part of Mr. Lincoln, of which Jeff. Davis in his last message to the rebel Congress complains, Fremont complains of, and in much the same language. Hear him:-
“The ordinary rights secured under the Constitution and the laws of the country have been violated, and extraordinary powers have been usurped by the Executive. While we are saturating Southern soil with the best blood of the country in the name of liberty, we have really parted with it at home.
To-day we have in the country the abuses of military dictation, without its unity of action and vigor of execution; an Administration marked at home by disregard of Constitutional rights, by its violation of personal liberty and the liberty of the press, and, as a crowning shame, by its abandonment of the right of asylum dear to all free nations abroad. Its course has been characterized by a feebleness and want of principle, which has misled European powers and driven them to a belief that only commercial interests and personal aims are concerned, and that no great principles are involved in the issue. This incapacity and selfishness naturally produced such result as led the European Powers, and logically enough, to the conviction that the North and its greatly superior population, its numerous resources and its credit, will never be able to recover the South.”
What element of Copperheadism is wanting? Hatred of the Administration? It is here. Sympathy with the Copperheads and rebels, whom by the authority of the Constitution and of an act of Congress the President lawfully and properly sent to Fort Lafayette? It is here. Alleged usurpation of the President? It is here. Attacking the lawful action of the President (only too mild) in arresting, stopping and preventing Copperheads from giving aid and comfort to the rebels by treasonable publications, upon the principle that it is a crime for a public officer forcibly to stop a crime? Here, it is under the head of “violation of the liberty of the press.” And alas, for human nature, it is poor Fremont who styles the re-delivery to the Spanish Government of the infamous Arguelles, who, by participating in the slave trade, has rendered himself an outlaw to the world and an enemy to the race, “an abandonment of the right of asylum dear to all free nations abroad.” He places a slave trader, fleeing from the laws of the civilized world against piracy, in the same category with a Garibaldi, a Mazzini, a Meagher or a Kossuth, fleeing to our free shores for having been guilty of endeavoring to establish republican institutions in monarchical countries. 
Fremont even asserts, though covertly and indirectly, and as being the logical conclusion of others rather than his own, but still with sufficient plainness to make his intent evident to the Copperheads, the favorite Copperhead article of faith that “the North and its greatly superior population, its numerous resources and its credit, will never be able to recover the South.” Could the Copperheads who will meet at Chicago ask more? Lest they may, he shows his mettle by kicking away the plank of the Cleveland Platform most objectionable to Copperheads, and intimating his disapproval of the remainder. The resolution reads as follows:-
”18th. That the confiscation of the lands of the rebels and their distribution among the soldiers and actual settlers, is a measures of justice.”
Fremont said:-
”But I cannot so heartily concur in all the measures 
<c04>
which you propose. I do not believe that confiscation, extended to the property of all rebels, is practicable, and if it were so, I do not think it a measure of sound policy. It is, in fact, a question belonging to the people themselves to decide, and is a proper occasion for the exercise of their original and sovereign authority.”
Fremont would leave this question to the “people themselves.” Does he mean to the people of the entire Union? Evidently not, for their voice can only be heard representatively through Congress, which has already voted in favor of confiscation. He can only refer to the people of the State in which the property is situate. In short, Fremont thinks that the people of South Carolina should decide whether the property of South Carolinians is to be confiscated-rebels are to determine the measure of rebel punishment. Again he says:-
“In the adjustments which are to follow peace, no consideration of vengeance can consistently be admitted.”
In other words, in closing up the rebellion, the rebels are not to be hurt, their leaders are not to be punished, and the rank and file of the Union troops are not to be rewarded by the distribution of lands among them, but those lands are to be handed over to their former rebel owners. He continues:-
“But if Mr. Lincoln be re-nominated, as I believe it would be fatal to the country to endorse a policy and renew a power which has cost us the lives of thousands of men, and needlessly put the country on the road to bankruptcy, there will remain no alternative but to organize against him every element of conscientious opposition, with the view to prevent the misfortune of his reelection.”
According to Fremont, it is not Jefferson Davis or the rebellion, but Mr. Lincoln’s policy” and “power,” which have cost us the lives of thousands of men, and needlessly put the country on the road to bankruptcy. It is not against Jeff. Davis and the rebellion, but against Mr. Lincoln that “every element of conscientious opposition is to be organized.” The most considerable element of conscientious opposition to Mr. Lincoln is the rebellion, the next in importance is Copperheadism? With both these, therefore, Fremont proposes to cooperate.
For what end has Fremont thus prostrated himself at the shrine of Copperheadism? Evidently to compete with McClellan for the Chicago nomination. It is with pain that we are compelled thus to expose the worthlessness of this political mountebank, who was once honored far beyond his deserts with the confidence of that party which, identifying itself with the fundamental principles of freedom and true democracy, is destined still for many years to sway the destinies of the country. It is but necessary, however, to record his language to discover that he has severed every tie which bound him to the Union party, and has fully and unreservedly committed himself to the Copperhead party. As even the wind is tempered to the shorn lamb, may our stock of resignation hold out through this sad bereavement.-Chicago Tribune. 
 
GEN. FREMONT'S LOST OPPORTUNITIES.
Whether the people ought so to feel or not, we will not now discuss; but of the fact there can be no mistake, that Gen. Fremont lost ground in the estimation of the people when he declined to serve his country under Gen. Pope, in the Virginia campaign. He had a right to ask to be relieved of his command, we know; but after all, it was an indication that he was not as patriotic as he should have been-that his own personality, in his mind, was to be first regarded, and afterwards his country's welfare. His resignation of his Major Generalship, to have had the grace of patriotism-of being unwilling to draw pay when he was doing no service for his country-should have been sent in weeks or months ago, before he received the nomination of the Cleveland Convention. Now it must be confessed as only a part of a scheme to divide the Union vote in the coming political contest. It were well for Gen. Fremont to consider that no man in the nation stands so high in the estimation of the people that he can safely lay claim to personal consideration, either in being promoted to a high office, or in the gratification of his personal feelings at defeating others, before the welfare of the nation. To stand well with the people in a crisis like this, or in subsequent history, a man must act in pure subordination to the paramount interests of his country.
Now, either Gen. Fremont is no accurate observer of public sentiment as it exists, or he would see and know that the mass of Union voters think best, under all the circumstances, to re-nominate and elect Abraham Lincoln. He has been educated in the conduct of our affairs at a great expense to the nation, and there are substantial reasons why the chivalry of the South should be subdued under the same administration under which it revolted. After some vexations and expensive delays, of which Gen. Fremont was the occasion of full his share, the war is now being prosecuted with energy and success. The people, for the time being at least, believe that no change could be made for the better in the person of our President or commanders. And believing this, they observe, some with mortified and some with indignant feelings, the attempt to which Gen. Fremont is giving his countenance to divide the Union vote. The loyal voters of the nation feel the necessity of acting together in the coming election, and they will not be divided. The current has set in strong for Mr. Lincoln's re-nomination, and whether history will vindicate the wisdom of the popular choice, we cannot know at present; but the fact being so, Gen. Fremont, with every Union man in the nation, ought to regard it, and rather than risk anything through a division of our voting forces, cooperate in the movement. 
Gen. Fremont's opportunity, now lost by his letter of acceptance, was most obvious. When he received the official notice of his nomination at Cleveland, he should have written a patriotic letter declining it, and spoken such good and strong words for the Administration as its vigorous efforts to crush the rebellion warrant him in uttering, and went to work for his country in subordination to the manifest wish of the people, and he would have done much to redeem his error in throwing up his command under Pope, and again stood well with his countrymen. He might not ever have been President, but in this he would have been no worse off than Webster, or Clay, or Seward, or Douglas, or Banks, or a hundred other eminent men who have had their eyes fixed on this goal of American ambition. His measure of glory would have been well-filled in his stupendous explorations, his being the unsolicited candidate of the great party of Freedom, when it made its first gallant charge under his leadership upon the cohorts of slavery-in his vast and illimitable wealth-and in now proving himself to be elevated in the serene atmosphere of patriotic composure, above personal strifes for office, and more than all, able to conquer the passion of revenge for the imaginary or real indignities he may have suffered for his country. Had Gen. Fremont done this, and entered upon a hearty support of the nominees of the Baltimore Convention, he would have stood a hundred times better in history-in the grand galaxy of American soldiers,
<c05>
statesmen, and patriots, than he can by any side effort for the Presidency, which, after all, the world will be sure to interpret as an act of revenge on President Lincoln. Such a course might be overlooked in boys and small men, but it will never answer the ends of a just and noble ambition. In his letter of acceptance, he travels out of his way to spite President Lincoln, and for want of better grounds of accusation, appropriates to his use the stale trash of the Copperheads-distorting the well-intended acts of the Administration to suppress the rebellion and keep mischief-makers from inciting riot and encouraging the rebellion, into monstrous acts of “tyranny,” “usurpation,” and “oppression.” These accusations, coming from Gen. Fremont, many of whose acts as commander of the Department of Missouri, were without the sanction of civil or military law, but which were justified on the ground of military necessity, make it manifest that the General seizes upon these charges of the Copperheads as a pretext for his course, when, in fact, he cares nothing for them, and knows that they no more endanger our civil liberties than his selection of foreigners for his military staff was turning the government over to foreign powers. These accusations are but a pretext, a subterfuge, under which to cloak his personal revenge. Well, it won't work. “The bitter chalice will return to plague the inventor,” and when election is over, Gen. Fremont will count himself a blunderbuss in political strategy, and bitterly lament his folly in acting so unworthy of the place he seeks. -N. Y. Reformer. 
 
FREMONT AND LINCOLN AS ANTI-SLAYERY MEN.
The telegraph mutilated General Fremont's letter accepting the nomination for the Presidency, but his meaning is still quite apparent. He says, substantially, that if the Baltimore Convention will nominate anybody beside President Lincoln, he, Fremont, will not run against him, but if Lincoln is nominated, he shall run and do the best he can to defeat him. As we have no doubt at all that Mr. Lincoln has already been nominated by the unanimous voice of the Baltimore Convention, it may be set down as a fact that Fremont intends to run. Such being the case, let as inquire what his claims to superiority over Mr. Lincoln, as a radical man, are.
Fremont's anti-slavery reputation-his radical reputation, if you please-rests solely upon one act-the declaration of military emancipation to the slaves of rebels in Missouri. Aside from that act, he has no anti-slavery record. The Republicans ran him in 1856 purely upon trust. He had made no record, and it was extremely doubtful at the time whether he fully sympathized with the radical element of the party. The only thing that could be said for him was, that he favored making California a free instead of a slave State. But so did thousands who never acted with the Republican party.
From '56 to '61, Fremont was quiescent. We remember no speech-no letter from him, during those years of desperate struggle and immense labor to build up and consolidate the party of Freedom, which indicated any deep, active, and earnest sympathy with the cause.
In 1861 he signalized his military administration in the department of which he was commander, by declaring the emancipation of the slaves of rebels in arms. We will give him full credit for the act. But Mr. Lincoln has since done the same thing by all the rebellious States. So far then as the policy of emancipation is concerned, Mr. Lincoln has fully as great claims upon our confidence as Mr. Fremont. The only difference between them was as to a question of time-a mere matter of judgment. Mr. Fremont's judgment may have been the best. That we shall not discuss. But the mere fact of priority in time-Mr. Fremont doing that in Missouri in 1861, which Mr. Lincoln did on a much wider and grander scale eighteen months thereafter-is certainly very slight and untenable ground for Mr. Fremont to stand on, and claim precedence over Mr. Lincoln.
Those who will take the trouble to look back and read the correspondence which passed between Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Fremont at that time, will find that Mr. Fremont based his proclamation solely upon the ground of military necessity. He makes no intimation of humanitarian considerations-no appeal to great principles of natural justice and right, but based the act and its defence solely upon military grounds. The difference between himself and Mr. Lincoln, therefore, is nothing as to the principles upon which military emancipation rests.
While, then, we have shown Mr. Fremont's claims to distinction as an anti-slavery man rest entirely upon one single act-based upon military necessity and not upon true anti-slavery grounds, and that act, one which Mr. Lincoln afterward repeated upon a scale of vastly increased magnitude and importance; on the contrary, Mr. Lincoln's claims to our confidence as an anti-slavery man are not few, nor of recent date. He has a bright and shining record. Some of the ablest statements of anti-slavery principles, and some of their most brilliant and irrefragible vindications, are from his pen. His speeches and letters are a perfect treasury, a complete armory of anti-slavery arguments. He even ante-dated Mr. Seward in the enunciation of the great philosophical truth underlying our struggle in arms as it has for thirty years our battles of thought, the “irrepressible conflict” between freedom and slavery. No man can read his latest utterance upon this subject-the candid, clear, cogent letter to Mr. Hodges, of Kentucky-and doubt, for a moment, the strength or sincerity of Mr. Lincoln's opposition to slavery. In view of the record of his life, his speeches and letters, and, above all, the great measures of his administration, we accept it as one of the most cheering indications of the immense strides public sentiment has made, that there is such a unanimity of sentiment in support of Mr. Lincoln.-Kansas Journal. 
 
GEN. FREMONTS LETTER.
When a man allows his passions to have full sweep, he can no longer reason. Fremont is so pervaded by his feelings of bitterness and revenge towards the President for slights which he has met, that he cannot see our political affairs in their true relations and real light. His passion colors his reason; his vindictive feeling clouds his judgment; his eager wish to make out his case against the President misleads him to error.
He arraigns Mr. Lincoln for his infidelity to principles which he was elected to defend, but makes no specific charges. To be sure he says that liberty has been destroyed, that ordinary rights have been suspended, &c. But every candid man knows that the contrary is true. The present is a contest “even for the right to have candidates.” for the Presidency, he avers. Certainly this is not true. Who has hindered say man in selecting any candidate whom he would for President? There was never less hinderance to the free judgment or the caprice of crotchety men in the selection of candidate for President than now.
<c06>
The charge of usurpation of extraordinary powers by the President is not justified by facts. The extraordinary powers which he has employed have not been usurped, but are latent powers, which the executive is required to use in exigencies like the present. The events which are transpiring are entirely abnormal, and the rigorous application to them of the rules of administrative conduct which obtain during a normal condition of affairs evinces either a lack of discrimination, or of sincerity in a man whose first act almost as a general officer was “to usurp extraordinary powers.” That the power which the Administration has wielded with right has always been used with the utmost discretion few will assert, but mistakes are pardoned to the sensitiveness and impatience which the difficulties and perplexities of executive duties give rise to in such an unprecedented crisis as the President has been placed. To make mistakes is one thing. To deliberately assume power and use it for selfish purposes, and to the prejudice of popular rights, is another, which the people of this country would never pardon. But the people know that this has not been done. They know that we have not parted with liberty at home, and do not mean to. They know that whatever unusual power has been assumed, has been so obviously necessitated by events that the act has commanded their approval. They know that the charges which are made in this letter are not true, so far as they impeach the motives of the President. They can see that the blow is struck in the wildness of passion, rather than in the clear deliberation of patriotic feeling.
It is well probably that the case is to be put before the people in the precise way it is. If the people do not reach right conclusions, it will not be from lack, of information, and from the lack of leaders and champions. When the issue is decided, perhaps those who now declare that the President is re-electing himself, and that his success will be fatal to the country, will have the candor to say that with all their prevision they made a mistake, and will acknowledge that the patriotic people do sustain their Administration, because, they confide in its integrity of purpose, and zealous endeavors to bring peace and order out of revolution.-Utica Herald. 
 
THE NOMINATIONS.
As was foreseen, the Convention re-nominated Mr. Lincoln by acclamation. No other candidate was brought forward. This was a weighty testimonial to the general estimate put on his public services by the masses of the unconditional Union men of the country. Not that the general judgment is that the administration of Mr. Lincoln has been faultless, or all that could be desired, but that, on the whole, it has been so just and salutary as to leave no reason able hope that a better one can be obtained. Few will affirm that Mr. Lincoln has not made mistakes, and some of serious magnitude. It would have been marvellous had he not. That he has at times tried the patience of his warmest, most intelligent, and most disinterested supporters, does not admit of contradiction or concealment. These friends have pronounced sharp criticisms on some of his acts, and are likely to repeat their strictures in time to come. Such criticisms are more necessary in periods of tumult and insubordination than in quiet days, just as it is of more consequence when tempests howl over the ocean to scan the compass and hold a firm hand on the helm, than when the skies smile benignantly and calm waters reflect back the peacefulness of the heavens. Besides, Mr. Lincoln can afford to be criticised. He has done so many things of the greatest gravity excellently well, that he need not shrink from having his faults pointed out. He has been subjected to a severer ordeal than ever fell to the lot of any public man in this country. The wisest and purest man that ever lived, standing where be has stood, would have made mistakes. So many fierce and implacable passions have come into direct antagonism; so many vast interests, involved in a common peril, have violently crashed against each other; so many inordinate ambitions have been inflamed, engendering the bitterest jealousies and hatreds; so many gloomy vistas of doubt and uncertainty have been opened up; that the marvel is not that the President has been slow, or irresolute, or hesitating on some points, and probably wrong on others, but that he has managed on the whole to discriminate so wisely, to hold so exact a balance to conciliate rival factions, and to keep step so nearly with the actual leaders of national progress. 
The nomination of Mr. Johnson for Vice President will add fresh strength to the ticket. All his life a democrat, and acting up to the breaking out of the rebellion with the democratic party, be has not failed for one instant in his allegiance to the republic. Exposed to the peculiar hazards from his residence in a revolted State, he did not shuffle; he did not hesitate; he did not leave any one in doubt as to his attitude or intentions. He was content to incur uncommon risks and to involve himself in the most imminent perils, in order to sustain the Union and vindicate the authority of the government. It was fitting that the class to which he belongs should be honored in his person.
The platform of the Convention, so far as it relates to doctrine, gives forth no uncertain sound. It is full and exactly to the point.-Honesdale Republic. 
 
THE MASK TORN OFF.
The Copperhead press are just now greatly in sympathy with the Fremont movement, and are lauding him as thoroughly as they were abusing him eight years ago, when he was the Republican candidate for President, or a little later when he was in command of the Department of Missouri, and was suppressing loyal newspapers, making "arbitrary” arrests, and issuing “free” proclamations. Most of them hold out, for the purpose of catching some who can't see through the game, the probability that he will receive the Copperhead nomination at Chicago. The Chenango Democrat, however, is not one of that kind. In its last issue, it uses the following language:-“Fremont is not the man that they can tamper with. He has money enough, and they can't buy him off; and he has pluck and recklessness enough to lead them to despair of <illegible> him off. He is bound to run, and has formally accepted the nomination, and resigned his major generalship for that purpose.
“Elsewhere, we publish the resolutions adopted by the Convention, and next weak we will publish the letters of acceptance of both candidates. We do not expect or intend to support Fremont or vote for him; but we do pray God that he MAY BE ABLE TO BURST THIS INFERNAL UNION LEAGUE TORY ORGANIZATION INTO TEN THOUSAND ATOMS.”
Go in, brother Briggs, the country is holding its breath to see what effect your prayers will have. In the mean time, don't flatter yourself that the Union electors of this county will be caught with any of your <illegible>"-Chenango Telegraph. ”Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a <illegible> power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it to be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and; by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MATERIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies are have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE BALTIMORE PLATFORM.
We reproduce the Baltimore Platform, putting it in a conspicuous place and in easy-reading types, that our friends may carfully re-peruse a document which is to call forth great discussion during the next five months as the manifesto according to which a great party proposes to wage a great campaign.
We gave last week some editorial notes concerning the temper of the convention by whose unanimous vote this platform was adopted. We now add that this unanimity was the more remarkable in view of the radical character of these utterances, which are beyond any point of anti-slavery commitment hitherto reached by any political convention known to American history—not excepting the unrepresentative convention lately held at Cleveland.
We can see neither the wisdom, the statesmanship nor the radicalism of the singular position assumed by the Cleveland platform, that slavery is already dead. It is well to say, for rhetorical emphasis, that the shot at Sumter destroyed slavery; but many things are destroyed rhetorically that afterward, like Daniel Webster, still lives. William Pitt had a habit of eloquently overthrowing Napoleon, amid the cheers of Parliament, only to be at last brought to his grave by Napoleon's unceasing victories. The Cleveland Convention, sitting in May’ knowing that the Fugitive Slave Law was still unrepealed, knowing that Congress had refused to vote for an amendment to the Constitution prohibiting slavery, knowing that the Proclamation of Emancipation, even without its confessed dependence upon a doubtful Supreme Court, reaches only three millions of slaves, while one million still remain legally unreleased—knowing all these things, nevertheless voted to say that slavery was already destroyed. But it was not dead then; it is not dead now; it may not be dead in twenty years. When Alexander the Great was reported dead, the reply was, “No, else the whole world would smell of the carcass.” We claim that it is an unmanly treatment of the slavery question to get rid of it by jauntily saying that slavery is already destroyed—as if the question were one which could now be safely put aside—as if Banquo's ghost would not reappear. Is this a wise position for radicals to take? It is just the position taken not long ago by James Brooks, Copperhead, in a speech in Congress! They who wish to see slavery perpetuated would be glad to have all other men believe it now extinct. They would be glad to see no further effort made to destroy it. The Cleveland platform calls slavery destroyed, and asks that the Constitution shall forbid its reestablishment; but if the Constitution could of itself put forth this amendment to-morrow morning, as a stalk puts forth a bud, the land would be full of cavils as to how far slavery had already been destroyed, and therefore how far slavery, already established, would elude the ban against its re-establishment. The Cleveland Convention spreads a grave-cloth over a giant not dead but sleeping, who may spring up at any moment with a weapon in his hand. If slavery has come to its death’ we are not among the tear-shedders—only we hold with Montaigne that “the deadest deaths are best.” A cat may suffer eight deaths, and still have one life; and, as slavery is harder to kill than a cat, we are sorry that the Cleveland Convention should have dealt a blow only to wound, and not to slay.
The Baltimore Convention, instead of saying that “the rebellion has virtually destroyed slavery, “says just the opposite, namely, that “the national safety demands its utter and complete extirpation.” This is the sensible view. This, we believe, is the view which would have been taken by the Cleveland Convention, had not that body, in making its platform, sought to use a cunning form of words which the coming Democratic Convention at Chicago might not deem too heretical to adopt. We suppose that Mr. William Goodell, Mr. Stephen S. Foster, Mr. Parker Pillsbury, and Mr. Henry T. Cheever had no thought at Cleveland, and have no thought now, of making an alliance with the Democracy. But Mr. Fremont and Mr. Cochrane, the Cleveland Candidates, show no blush at playing their cards for the Chicago nomination.
We reject the anti-slavery position of the Cleveland platform as one unworthy of the greatness of the case, and unworthy of those good men in the convention who, while there, seem to have strangely lost the warning voices with which they have been accustomed to speak elsewhere. For instance, in the month of May, in New York, Mr. Stephen S. Foster charged upon the United States Government the guilt of holding one million slaves in bonds; and yet, in the same month of May, at Cleveland, he unites in putting forth a statement that slavery is already dead! Mr. Goodell, who edits a paper which insists equally upon the guiltiness of the Government in still being the slaveholder of one-fourth of the entire body of slaves, and who, with Dr. Cheever, has always scouted the idea of amending the Constitution (that instrument being, in their view, sufficiently anti-slavery without amendment), gave up at Cleveland both these old positions, declaring in their place—first, that slavery is destroyed, and, second, that the Constitution should be amended! The noble and eminent name of Wendell Phillips—a man for whom our respect is as profound as for any man in America, is borrowed to add a lustre to this so-called radical nomination. But we believe that Mr. Phillips knows only half the intent of the Cleveland Convention, and that, if he knew the other half, he would instantly withdraw from its support. That convention, in the minds of its chief managers and most interested parties, was simply the first caucus of the coming Chicago Convention. A few noble-minded men and women, by their presence or by letter, contributed their influence to the meeting, because, in view of the unsatisfactory progress of the war and of general public affairs during the present administration, they thought a change of administration would profit the country. This view has been held by many thoughtful minds outside of that convention. It has had its utterance in many faithful presses. We ourselves would have preferred, for the next four years, a more complete change of administration than the Baltimore Convention has provided for—though that convention has already. Provided that its candidate, in accepting its platform, must make changes in his cabinet. But when we are asked to take the Cleveland platform with its inadequate anti-slavery position, and its candidates with their uncommendable political designs, in exchange for the Baltimore platform with its greater explicitness, and its candidates with their surer honesty, we respectfully decline. We refuse to make ourselves an ally, in any way, directly or indirectly, with the so-called Democratic party. There are now three Democracies—the War Democracy, the Radical Democracy, and the Peace Democracy. We believe that the larger and better part of the War Democracy will join itself before November to the one great Party of the Union, leaving the Radcal and the Peace Democracies to join themselves in a fellowship of the earthen and the iron pot, the one to break and the other to sink, and both to go to the bottom of the Salt river.
Our chief regret in view of the Cleveland Convention is’ that it has unhappily led a number of excellent friends of the Good Cause into a snare. The spirit of its leaders has become more apparent since the convention than before. Among respectable American journals, not one, in any quarter, seems to us so entirely unpatriotic, bitter, and malignant as The New Nation—Mr. Fremont's special organ, on which, we are told, he has already spent twenty thousand dollars in printing extra copies for gratuitous circulation. “There is so little difference,” says this organ, “between this party,” that is, the party formed at Cleveland, “and the Democracy,” that is, the party to meet at Chicago, "that it would be easy to adopt a common ticket.” True! But THERE IS TOO MUCH DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY AND THE GREAT UNION PARTY TO ADOPT A COMMON TICKET. Mr. Vallandigham himself is a delegate to Chicago. When Mr. Vallandigham is for the making of a common ticket, it is time for Mr. Fremont's friends of 1856 to rise in a common opposition.
Those well-known Abolitionists identified with the Cleveland movement—and whose sincerity and uprightness we do not for a moment question—have unwittingly placed themselves in a false position, where their influence is working against the best interests of the country, and is bringing a lamentable discredit upon themselves. All that we ask of them is, that they shall narrowly watch the development of this Cleveland stratagem, and be convinced of their error by the unhappy facts of the case, as these shall day by day be evolved.
So far as the movement was an honest, conscientious, single-minded protest against an inadequate administration, it was entitled to the highest respect; for, so far, it would have stood in a similar attitude with the old Liberty Party, or the Free Soil Party, or the Gerrit Smith party—a party of conscience, always reputable before God and the world; but when it is as plain as a pike-staff that the managers
<c02>
at Cleveland have been using the names of good men to cover the schemes of bad, of making revenge instead of patriotism their animating spirit, using the name of Liberty as a promise to the ear to be broken to the hope, plotting coalition with Copperheads to overthrow the loyal party of the North,—we denounce it with the righteous indignation which it merits from every loyal soul!—New York Independent.

FREMONT AND VALLANDIGHAM.
When we remarked last week that Fremont's letter accepting the nomination of the Cleveland Convention, omitting one or two brief phrases, might have been consistently signed by Vallandigham, we did not expect so soon to find that Copperhead martyr quoting it exultingly as a vindication of his treason. But in his speech at Hamilton, Ohio, the other day, that open ally of the rebels referred to Fremont’s letter in the following terms:
“Men of Ohio:—You have already asserted your right to hear. It is now my duty to assert my right to speak. Wherefore, as to the sole offence for which I was arrested, imprisoned and banished—free speech in criticism and condemnation of the Administration—an Administration fitly described in a recent public paper by one of its early supporters as ‘marked at home by disregard of constitutional rights, by its violation of personal liberty of the press, and as a crowning shame, by the abandonment of the right of asylum—a right especially dear to all free nations.’ I repeat it here to-day, and will again and yet again, so long as I live, or the Constitution and our present form of government shall survive. The words then spoken, and the appeal at that time made, and now enforced by one year more of taxation and debt, and of blood and disaster, entreating the people to change the public servants and their policy, not by force, but peaceably, through the ballot, I now and here reiterate in their utmost extent and with all their significancy.”
The words in Italics are, it will be observed, those of Gen. Fremont.
The Copperheads of Ohio have chosen Vallandigham as one of their representatives in the Chicago Convention, wherein he will have to pass upon the claims of Gen. Fremont as a candidate for the Presidency!—A. S. Standard.

THE COPPERHEADS AHD THE REBELS.
That the seditious part played by the Copperhead agitators is clearly understood and appreciated by the rebel leaders is manifest from a very striking article in the Atlanta (Georgia) Register, the following extract from which ought to be read by every voter in the Northern States:—
Ex-President Pierce, Seymour of Connecticut, Vallandigham, Reed, Wood, Richardson, and hundreds of others are as hostile to the war as they are to Black Republicanism. These men are doing us an indirect service. They are not openly and avowedly our friends, nor could we reasonably ask this of them. But they are not our bloody enemies. United against Mr. Lincoln and his wicked policy, breasting the power of an overwhelming majority, firm to the traditions and precedents of Constitutional liberty, the noble band of patriots is striving to erect a breakwater that shall arrest the surges of the unloosed deluge. If they do no more than resist the centralization of Mr. Lincoln, that far they are worthy of our respect and sympathy. If they hold up the banner of State Rights, that far they are advocating a sentiment entitled to our admiration.
Such is the course they are pursuing, and such a course ought to have our cordial approbation. Step by step the same convictions and the same temper that have placed them in compact unity and fiery valor, to denounce ultra Federalism and New England fanaticism, will inevitably bring them upon the right ground as it respects our independence. We confess our faith in their political principles. We confess our confidence that eventually these men will see the whole truth, and embrace all its conclusions.
We can gain nothing by denouncing them. We may lose much by presenting a hostile front to their peace movements. Live with them under the same government we never will. But, meanwhile, if they will use the ballot box against Mr. Lincoln, whilst we use the cartridge box, each side will be a helper to the other, and both co-operate in accomplishing the greatest work which this country and the continent have witnessed.

TWO REBEL NEWSPAPERS VENTILATED.
You can always tell which way the political wind blows, by the tone of the New York Herald. Read its exquisite comments below on those amiable copperhead sheets, the New York News and the New York World. It says:—
The majority of the people are continually pushing ahead. The minority are always lagging behind. The majority travel in railroad cars. The minority travel in slow coaches. As it is of the people, so it is of the papers.
We are sorry to say that at least a couple of these mulish papers are permitted to linger out their miserable existence in this busy, bustling, enterprising metropolis of New York.
There is the Daily News, which is published under the influence of a wild hallucination. Its editors evidently imagine that we are away back in the times of poor Pierce, when Jeff. Davis ruled the roost, wound the flexible President around his fingers, and opened the source of all our woes by the repeal of the Missouri compromise. Laboring under this dreadful delusion, they puff Jeff. Davis with unremitting energy but slight skill, and still prate about Southern chivalry, and still deliver tearful tirades upon the blessings of peace. They seem to know nothing of the impassable gulf which history has fixed between that time and this. They forget that Southern chivalry has been weighed in the balance, and found wanting. They are ignorant of the fact that Jeff. Davis is now a rebel chief, cooped up in his capital by our victorious armies, and already rehearsing his last dying speech and confession, in view of a certain alarming contingency not altogether unconnected with the gallows. Their eyes are shut so tightly as they sing songs of peace through their noses, that they can see none of the blessings of war, and less of the inevitable glories of the future. The News is twenty years behind the age. Its office of publication should be transferred from New York to Richmond. Its name is a great mistake, since no news is to be found in its columns. Its only use is that of a warning example, to show us what an American newspaper should not be and should not say, as the Spartans hired intoxicated harlots to teach children not to get drunk.
The World is another tardy and tumble down concern. Started as a Christian paper, it gradually degenerated into a shoddy paper, then into an India rubber paper, then into an ale-and-porter paper—all of whose editors wore straw hats and linen pantaloons—and then a stock-jobbing paper, until now it has advanced so far backwards, like the rebel generals, that we have no single adjective which will adequately express its strange and antiquated characteristics. In sentiment it is almost as devoted an admirer of Jeff. Davis as the News. As a newspaper, the News is rather its superior, if one kind of nothingness can be called superior to another kind of nothingness. It is the organ of old fools, old fogies, old women in breeches and women without breeches. Its ideas are aged, without being substantial, like a worm-eaten copy or a silly book, a rickety shanty in Mackerelville, or some of the city nuisances which Inspector Boole has resolutely determined to abate. Its favorite topic is the administration's tyrannical interference with the freedom of the press, and it confutes its own arguments by continuing to be published daily. It tries to make political and pecuniary capital out of its recent suspension for a day or two; when the record proves that both it and the News might have been suppressed long ago, under existing regulations, on the charge of giving aid and comfort to the enemy, and their editors sent to Fort Warren, to keep company with Pollard, of the Richmond Examiner, whose rebel utterances they have always eagerly emulated, and often surpassed. Its stale opinions are rehashed in a sort of Bohemian style not very different from that of the author of the forged proclamation, who was at one time a contributor to its columns. Although the latest and the most graceless professed convert to Democratic principles, it aspires to instruct the Democratic masses, and talks loudly about the Democratic party and the bearings of this party upon the coming Presidential contest. The Democratic party died some time since, and is buried beneath the heaps of rubbish thrown out by such journals as the World and the News. All of the old parties are dead, and those who argue about them moribund.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 1, 1864.
LETTER FROM HON. MONTGOMERY BLAIR.
No member of Mr. Lincoln's Cabinet—not even William H. Seward—has been so frequently held up to popular odium as the Postmaster General, Hon. Montgomery Blair. We deem it worthy of notice, that while he has not in a single instance, that we are aware of, resorted to the press to reply to the bitter accusations of his opponents, a single expression from our lips indicating a doubt as to the correctness of a certain damaging accusation brought against him on the Anti-Slavery platform, at the Tremont Temple, induces him to send us the following letter for publication in the Liberator, partly in self-defence, and to show that we did him no more than justice in expressing the doubt alluded to. It will be seen that, instead of negotiating for the Baltimore Clipper for the purpose (as was alleged) of making it hostile to the termination of slavery in Maryland, he had in view the exact opposite of this—namely, the abolition of that dangerous and destructive system. To prove his friendliness to the cause of emancipation, he avers that he is disposed to waive all differences of opinion on other points, and heartily co-operate with those who are laboring for its accomplishment.  Nay, he declares that he “dissented even from the repeal of Fremont's Proclamation”-a declaration which gives us equal pleasure and surprise, because he has labored under the imputation, or at least suspicion, that it was mainly owning to his adverse influence that the President countermanded that military edict, upon which the popularity of General Fremont has been so widely based. Certainly, then, in this instance the most cruel injustice has been done to Mr. Blair.
Mr. Blair frankly reiterates the expression of his colonization views, which, of course, we strongly reprobate. But if he will advocate the emancipation of all who are in bondage as right and just, time will determine whether “freedom and equality are possible for masses of whites and blacks in the same community.”
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, Esq., Boston, Mass.
DEAR SIR—I am much gratified to perceive, by an extract from a recent speech of yours published in the Boston Commonwealth, that you are sensible of the injustice of the attacks made on me by the opponents of the President. This induces me to say that you are altogether right in discrediting the statement, that I had “bought an interest in the Baltimore Clipper for the purpose (among other things) of preventing emancipation in Maryland.” The sole object of my negotiations with the proprietors of that journal was to secure a press to advocate emancipation in a city where, at the time my negotiations began, we had no such advocate. The espousal of our cause, afterwards, by the able editor of the Baltimore American, superseded, in a great measure, the necessity for my negotiations with the Clipper, and they were for that reason discontinued.
I am gratified, also, to see that you do not consider a difference of opinion on the question of whether the races must be separated after emancipation a sufficient reason for division among friends of freedom before we have effected emancipation. “The Blairs," as they are now distinguished for denunciation, have been in some degree the pioneers of one scheme of emancipation, as you have been of another at the North; schemes which differ as to the manner by which it was proposed to accomplish and maintain emancipation. You thought it possibly might be necessary to dissolve the Union to obtain emancipation; we believed it could only be accomplished by the force of the Union, and, therefore, were for the Union for the sake of emancipation itself, as well as for every other reason. You think freedom and equality possible for masses of blacks and whites in the same community; we think all history proves the contrary. But, whilst these are important differences, we have one common object-EMANCIPATION—and until that is accomplished, we do not intend to separate ourselves from the great body of the friends of the cause. We have, without regard to consequences, assisted to reach the earliest and most absolute triumph of the cause. We dissented even from the repeal of Fremont's proclamation, although pronounced in derogation of the President's dignity and authority, and from a selfish motive. The position he has now taken proves he is ready to sacrifice the cause which he pretended prompted it, to reach the real object of his zeal; and we, in common with the mass of the people, have learned to appreciate the wiser and surer policy of the Head of the Government, who, in arresting the unauthorized step of a subordinate, left it to time and public opinion to reveal and announce the necessity which alone could justify the act.
As respects the attempt to turn me out of the Cabinet, my brother Frank describes my feelings in a letter from Kingston, Georgia, dated 6th inst., in speaking of the designs against him:—" To-morrow," he says, “we march for the front, which we shall reach in two or three days, and in time to participate in the final struggle for Atlanta. We are exceedingly hopeful of results here, and equally so of Grant's success in Virginia. I see my radical friends in Congress are still pursuing me. I hope they will have a good time of it. I do not care a snap of my fingers whether they succeed or not in turning me out of Congress and the army both. I think, after the incessant excitement and toil of the past four years, I could enjoy a little quiet retirement; especially as it is now apparent that the rebellion will soon be put down, and Old Abe reelected.”
I am, very truly yours, M. BLAIR. 
Washington, June 21, 1864.

LETTER FROM PROFESSOR NEWMAN.
We lose no time in laying before our readers a friendly and serious letter to us,—although unable this week to accompany it with such comments as its misconceptions call for,—from Professor FRANCIS W. NEWMAN, of the London University, who, since the rebellion broke out, has done our government eminent service by his eloquent testimonies in its behalf, and in exposure of the monstrous designs of the traitors who are struggling for its overthrow, but whose vision now seems to be beclouded, whose impeachment of President Lincoln strongly contrasts with his former praise of him, and whose apprehensions are evidently of the strongest kind as to the final issue of this great conflict  with reference to slavery. Knowing him to be a true friend to our country and its free institutions, his letter excites our surprise, because it is lacking in that clear discrimination which has hitherto characterized his efforts, and because of its desponding tone, for which we see no reason in the present state of affairs on this side of the Atlantic. Sincerely and warmly thanking him for it as a token of his personal esteem, and his disinterested solicitude for the honor and triumph of our government on the principles of liberty and justice, we feel that all the facts warrant us in saying that, since the issuing of the immortal Proclamation of January 1st, 1863, the cause of the oppressed in our land has been steadily growing brighter and brighter—the action of the government more and more decisive in opposition to slavery, and in favor of the equal rights of the colored population—and the public sentiment of the loyal North stronger and stronger for universal emancipation as essential to the sure and final suppression of the Southern rebellion. That there are grievances still to be redressed, and outrages to be protested against, is true; but is it rationally to be expected that, where slavery and its poisonous influences have ruled the country for centuries, full justice for the oppressed can be obtained at a single bound—especially in the midst of the convulsions of an unparalleled civil war. Yet what Anti-Slavery progress has been made!
<c04>
TO WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON,
APOSTLE OF NEGRO FREEDOM.
10 CIRCUS ROAD, LONDON, N. W., June 7, 1864.
DEAR SIR:—Your name is revered by all here who know and care for the moral struggles of your nation, and the prospects of human justice. I write to you by way of honor, and with great cordiality, though also for expostulation; having no other objects than those sacred interests, Truth and Right, to which you have devoted your life, with sacrifices such as it has not been my privilege to make.
You have hitherto been strong by fixing your eyes on absolute right, and disdaining any compromise, such as serfdom in place of slavery would be. This may have made you (for aught I know) treasonable or factious; it may have embarrassed and temporarily weakened good men, who were attempting half measures when whole measures were impossible. But it has given to your word immense moral weight in certain directions; nay, and weight even to your silence. If it can be said, “Garrison does not reprove General Banks's measures," it will be inferred that they do full justice to the colored race. A great responsibility now rests on you to use this power aright.
From the day that I knew Garrison and Wendell Phillips to have become Unionists and supporters of the war, I believed it to be a glorious and fruitful war of freedom. The English people at large were not able to calculate or understand the advantage which the cause of freedom would assuredly have gained, if the rebels had been terrified at your firm front, and had returned to the Union without war—humiliated, but on their old footing. Hence, while hostile to the wicked South, we were cold to the North until Mr. Lincoln's Proclamation of September, 1862, aroused us. Legal documents are always harsh and obscure to the unprofessional, and we habitually accept their interpretation from others. Leading articles of newspapers interpreted the Proclamation for us, or, rather, misinterpreted it. I have but lately come to understand it aright, reading it as explained by facts. My new perceptions are truly painful, and very unwelcome.
In the dinner given at Boston to Mr. Roudanez and Captain Bertonneau, colored delegates from Louisiana, I read that you said,(not, I believe, for the first time,) that the President has pledged himself for the freedom of “the three million slaves of the rebel States." That was the sense in which we popularly understood the Proclamation. When any (in true or feigned zeal for freedom) cried out: “Why does not the President free the slaves of Kentucky?” we had the ready answer: “The Supreme Court will overrule him, if he attempt it; his legal powers do not reach so far." But we believed that a free Tennessee would soon ensure a free Kentucky. We were under the delusion that Tennessee and Louisiana would forthwith be made Free States. I believe they together contain above a million and a quarter slaves. This is a horribly large deduction from your three millions; but the principles which have detained them in slavery would be equally alarming, if only thirteen thousand instead of thirteen hundred thousand were here involved.
A friend of mine (an M. P.) told me that an eminent person, whom I may not name, in conversation with him, called Mr. Lincoln's Proclamation, when we were beginning to glorify it, “a villainous hypocrisy; for he refused to set free those whom he could, while pretending to set free those whom he could not." I need not tell you, that a bitter desire to see your proud Union broken to pieces animated that utterance; but I was surprised that a statesman with a name to lose should commit himself to (what I deemed) an ignorant, vulgar slander; for I thought the reproach to be directed only against the slavery still endured in the States which had not rebelled. I am now pierced in heart to discover, that, however envemoned in the phrase, it was no slander at all, but a terrible truth.
The Proclamation did not say that, on Jan. 1st, 1863, “the slaves of all the States which have rebelled shall be free;" but, “the slaves of States which shall be then in rebellion;" and since, on that day, the hand of the North was so heavy on Western Tennessee and New Orleans that they could not rebel, (though they would have rebelled in five minutes, had your armies been withdrawn,) your President kept his word to the letter by excepting many hundred thousand persons from freedom. Butler, Chase, Fremont, Sumner, Andrew,—any Northern abolitionist,—any ordinary Englishman,—in the Presidential Chair, would have interpreted his right to neglect Southern institutions as depending—1, on the States having thrown off allegiance; 2, on the immorality and injustice of certain laws; 3, on their inconsistency with Republicanism, which Congress is bound to maintain; 4, on the necessity of providing against future rebellion by a highhanded removal of that which has caused the present rebellion. But Mr. Lincoln puts a Southern interpretation on your Constitution, which is to you a great and threatening calamity. He seems to believe that he has sworn to support slavery for the rebels, and that his oath can only be relaxed in the crisis when your ship of state is foundering. He demands disaster, slaughter, visible impending ruin, as an inexorable condition, before he is allowed to free a slave. You must pay in blood of white men for freedom of black; and the more honest he is, the worse for you. It is now cruelly manifest, that your heroes of Pittsburgh Landing and Fort Donnelson were too brave. If they had been driven back with ignominy,—and much more certainly, if they had been massacred in heaps,—a second years war would have brought freedom to Tennessee. But, alas for the good cause! You conquered in the first compaign; you stuck firm in the conquest; you did not fulfil the requisite condition of humiliating disasters: hence your arms, instead of striking off fetters from the slave, are become the tools of the slave-owner. And why? Is it because the Supreme Court would have overruled a President who freed the slaves of a State in rebellion? No: but because, with your President, it is not the treason of the rebels, but your “military necessity,"—that is, present and galling danger,—which alone makes his conscience easy in a deed so rash and desperate as that of giving to his innocent, injured, loyal fellow-citizens their elementary natural rights. His Proclamation has done immense good; nor will I yield to you in extolling many of his acts. Yet if we had understood the quality of his logic, his exclusion of morality from Presidential duties, and his wonderful disowning of all duty towards colored men not prescribed in the codes of slaveholders, it would have been impossible to excite enthusiasm for him in an English audience. Had “three groans for the slaves of Tennessee" been called for by a Confederate sympathizer, the meetings must have been broken up in despair, without our being able to send you a single congratulation.
A secondary yet very grave result of Mr. Lincoln's peculiar conscience is, that while elected (as we thought) to oppose the Southern doctrine, that slavery is national, not merely local; he has for the first time given to slavery the national status which it coveted. In old days, the iniquity was maintained in Tennessee by local wickedness only. Mr. Lincoln has insisted (quite gratuitously, as it has seemed to Europeans) on upholding it there by Federal guilt; and has forced Northern soldiers to become the vile instruments of the slaveholder, which they disdained to be in their native States. This is a deed, to which Wm. Lloyd Garrison's indignation seems justly due. (A friend who reads the Liberator will not believe the fact; oh that I could learn that I am under a delusion!) Mr. Lincoln of late wrote deliberately," If Slavery is not wrong, then nothing is wrong." Yet he has voluntarily taken an oath which he imagines to bind him to uphold wrong so superlative; and he does uphold it, instead of abdicating and making way for others, who put a freeman's interpretation on your noble Constitution, and do not befoul it with this intense and burning shame.
He is now establishing in Louisiana,—as a pattern for future reconstructions, I suppose,—another doctrine, still more deadly to your prospects. My hopes on your President did not finally give way, until I <illegible> the statement of Mr. Rondanez, which you 
<c05>
heard, that the President kindly told them he could not redress their wrongs on moral grounds, but, if at all, only as a military necessity. Horrible indeed is the augury for your future, when your Chief Magistrate dares not indulge the moralities of his heart, through conscientious tremors at the guilt of violating the wicked laws of conquered rebels! Is he not practically invoking a new insurrection, which shall display in glaring colors the “military necessity," now, alas! hidden from his eyes? I confess that your cheerful and highly satisfied speech in reply filled me with deep melancholy. With false immoral principles as the basis of your reconstructions, nothing is safe: all that is apparently won may be lost in a single week. The new-born freedom guaranteed to Louisiana by one tenth part of the State acting for the whole, is surely not so strong as was the Constitution of Washington and Franklin. Your new parchment freedoms are worthless, if white men are to carry arms, and colored men are to be disarmed; as they infallibly will be, under your new regime. In all history, I never read of an insurrection so causeless and so wicked as that of your Southern rebels; and in all history I know not where to find so senseless an infatuation as that of putting power into the hands of your disloyal conquered enemies, and casting your loyal friends under their feet. It is a combination of baseness and folly which demands of you, as a patriarch of freedom, as a historical name, and a real power in America, to prophesy, and even rave, and cry Woe! Woe! against your nation. Your enemies here gloat over it, knowing that it ensures your ruin; your friends almost universally hush the matter up, so that no details can be learned from them. Such a policy, if it is to receive sanction from Congress, and become typical, positively ensures disaffection of the Southern holders of power, and exhaustion of the North. And if New Orleans, or Mobile, or Charleston revolt again after being conquered, be sure that your enemies in the English and French cabinets will know that their hour is come. The revolted parts will be occupied by English and French fleets before we hear of any such scheme. Your Free States, after the prodigious strain of this war, will collapse into comparative apathy. We shall be too much disgusted with your folly to have any pity at your failing in pieces.
Until recently, I have looked on your war with serene satisfaction as a sublime sacrifice for a magnificent future, glorious to you, beneficent to our millions. I have indulged in glowing anticipations, in which I seemed to friends but a wild dreamer. Since I have learned that your President has sanctioned Gen. Banks's ordinances, I begin to fear that I have indeed been a dreamer, and that your enemies here are substantially correct; one of whom said to me, three years ago: “The North hates slavery; bat it hates colored men still more; and it will rather break up the Union, than endure to admit them into real equality."  A time of war and revolution decides the great principles on which future weal or woe depends. New moral principles are needed, not slave owners' base notions, or you are lost. A purer morality must be enunciated by your Chief Magistrate, and sternly applied, before you can purge your civil and military administration of virtual traitors. Everyone in Europe who has any political thought knows that your Union can have no future, unless your stupid and base legislating about the color of a man's skin be now, once for all, extirpated and renounced. In a great revolution, you must strike while the iron is hot, and strike hard; caring entirely for principles, and not at all for persons. If you delay but a little more; if you let the next Presidential elections pass, without sternly enforcing on the candidates a total abandonment of your cardinal and ruinous national insanity, —prejudice against color; your national future may be lost for ever.
I am, Dear Sir,
Yours with high respect and esteem, FRANCIS W. NEWMAN,

THE "NEW NATION.”
LEICESTER, June 25, 1864.
DEAR MR. GARRISON—In the Liberator of yesterday I observe,—copied into the "Refuge of Oppression," fit place for them,—several articles from the New Nation, the New York paper which has appeared as the organ of the Cleveland Convention, and of the new party which places at its head, in singular union, the names of John C. Fremont and John Cochrane. The last of the extracts from the New Nation contains a paragraph copied from the Liberator of June 3d, and because of which the New Nation falls into a sort of spasm of astonishment, and is only able to recover by pronouncing you to be in your dotage, &c., &c. Now, I make such reasonable haste as I may, to say that whatever the faults or otherwise of that paragraph, (which was on the Cleveland Convention, and the many anti slavery things it did not say,) you, the aforesaid man “in his dotage," are not in any respect responsible for it. You were, at the time it was written and printed, attending the Progressive Friends' meeting in Pennsylvania; and that fact was distinctly at the head of the Liberator's editorial columns, immediately preceding the article from which the New Nation quotes! Was it carelessness or something worse, then, which led it to attribute to you what clearly must have been written by another hand? (1)
In your absence, the paper was necessarily edited by others; and, to the extent at least of the paragraph which has so shocked the New Nation, was edited by myself. I could not refrain from pointing out, to the readers of that week's Liberator, and with something of the indignation which I felt at the shameful bargaining carried on at Cleveland, the remarkable omissions (in behalf of Freedom and Justice to the Colored :Man) to be found in the platform of that Convention. I should have spoken more plainly, as the paragraph itself will testify, if I had felt sure that the telegraphic report of said platform was correct,—as it since appears to have been.
I am sure it will not trouble you much to be informed by the New Nation, that you are a “lost leader,"— if wanted to lead in the way the New Nation would marshal us. Few self respecting men can be willing to “lead," or to go in the same company with a paper which editorially voids such spitefulness and hatred, under a canting profession of great zeal for freedom, against yourself, and simply because you choose to have and to express your own opinion as to whether Abraham Lincoln is or is not, on anti-slavery ground, preferable to some other man or men, as next President.
I write this, not because I suppose it to be of any serious consequence to you, or anybody else, what such a writer as the author of those articles in the New Nation may say; but because I think it to be my duty to state the simple fact of the authorship of the paragraph in the Liberator, and to let the blame of it, if blameable it be, rest where it should.
Let me, while writing, congratulate you that the’ Fugitive Slave Law LIES DEAD, struck down by both Houses of Congress! The President's signature will undoubtedly follow. But this, I suppose, will only be an additional proof, in some quarters, that this is “the most infamous administration the country has ever had "! Well! let it but continue thus to sweep away the bulwarks and supports of slavery, until the whole is gone, root and branch, and the world will decide where the infamy belongs.
Truly yours,
SAMUEL MAY, JR. 
(1) Our friend Mr. May does us but simple justice in acknowledging that he wrote the article which elicited the spiteful criticism upon us by the New Nation.[Ed. Lib.
CROWD THE HOUSE!—GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq. will deliver an Address on behalf of the Colored Soldiers' Aid Society, in the 12th Baptist Church, Southac street, (Rev. Mr. Grimes's) on WEDNESDAY EVENING, July 6th, at 8 o'clock. The admission will be 15 cents, and the entire proceeds will be devoted to the benefit of the sick and wounded soldiers belonging to the Massachusetts Colored Regiments. We trust that the speaker and the cause will, together, secure a large audience.
<c06>
THE NEW NATION.
The Radical Democrats—The Copperhead Democrats—The Difference between them.
SARATOGA,(N. Y.,) June 20, 1864.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY FRIEND—The New Nation, the organ, if I mistake not, of Fremont, and of the party which sustains him, and which call themselves the Radical Democracy, in a recent editorial on the principles and positions of the party and its presidential candidate, says—
"There is so little difference between this party and the Democratic party, that it would be easy to adopt a common ticket, which would sweep everything before it.”
This same Fremont organ also says—
"On to the common enemy! Down with Lincoln! Such be our battle-cry! Let there be but two parties; let all be for or against Lincoln.”
Thus, the organ of Fremont, his party being witnesses, urges that the difference between the Radical Democracy and the Copperhead Democracy is so slight and unimportant, that both may join in one ticket. Is the Radical Democracy ready to construe their platform in regard to the abolition and perpetuation of slavery as does the Copperhead Democracy! Will Fremont accept the construction of Wood, Cox, Vorhees, Vallandigham, or his? So it seems, their organ being witness.
"On to the common enemy!" What is that common enemy? Slavery? No—but Lincoln. "Down with Lincoln!" Not "Down with slavery!" is to be “the battle-cry” of freemen, as well as of Vallandigham, his organ being witness. "Let there be but two parties"; not one to abolish and another to sustain slavery—but one party to sustain, and the other to put down Lincoln. The New Nation thinks all should be—not for or against slavery, but for or against Lincoln. Thus, that organ of the Radical Democracy admits that the party was formed not to put down slavery, but to put down Lincoln; not to embody and give effect to the concentrated hatred of the people against slavery, but to gather up and concentrate whatever hatred may exist against Lincoln. Thus both parties, the Radicals and the Copperheads, the organ of Fremont being witness, would assert that Lincoln, not slavery, is the cause of the war and its woes.
Then again the New Nation says—" Grant is the completest and dearest failure of all the many blunders made by the Administration. Halleck was worthless, but almost harmless; Grant is still more worthless, but does still more harm. If Grant does not take Richmond by the fourth of July, it is clear that the Administration, with a guilty design, has abused the credulity of the people, and that Grant, through stupidity or malice, has been the accomplice of a disloyal manoeuvre with the aim of assuming the supreme command of the army, and of procuring, in exchange, Lincoln's re-election.”
The New York World chimes in and says—" Down with the Republicans and rebels, the twin curses of the country! These factions have been equally the curse of the country; and it is the duty of the country to rally at the next election, and put down Lincoln, as well as his confederate, Jeff. Davis.”
The New York News, the organ of the Woods, contains a letter from a Peace Democrat, who says-"As far as my observation goes, there has been no candidate before the people since the war began, who could with more propriety claim the support of the peace element"; and this conclusion is made because he thinks Fremont is opposed to “armed coercion"—to “the prosecution of the war”-to put down the rebellion and save the Republic from the Slave Power. The News thinks Fremont "is the first one who has had the moral courage to drop the senseless appeal of a vigorous prosecution of hostilities" against the rebellion. He thinks Fremont the most “available candidate," and has the strongest element to defeat the Administration." The News assures its Copperhead patrons that they “can certainly poll more votes by uniting on Fremont than they can by making another and a third nomination.”
Fremont says—" The object of the war is to make permanently secure the peace and happiness of the whole country, and there was but a single element in the way of its attainment. This element of slavery may be considered practically destroyed in the country, and needs only your proposed amendment of the Constitution to make its extinction complete. With this extinction of slavery, the party divisions created by it have also disappeared.”
So, Fremont places himself by the side of Seymour Wood, Cox, and Vallandigham, and insists that questions relating to slavery and its abolition should no more be introduced into the politics of the nation, because slavery has disappeared, and “the party divisions created by it have also disappeared." This he defines as his fixed policy in his letter of acceptance; and if elected President, he will ignore all questions relating to slavery. What does he mean by this? That he would consign the negro to the tender mercy of kidnappers, asking no questions; or, that he would regard and treat every man, woman and child as free, and no more regard any one as a slave? The Copperheads consider him as abandoning the slave entirely.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
SARATOGA, June 21, 1864.
DEAR GARRISON—I have just heard of your being at the Convention in Baltimore, and of your visit to the President. Heaven can only see the joy of my heart, that you were present at that Convention, to witness then and there—where you were imprisoned for your principles—the complete triumph of those principles over the nation. Then and there Church and State, the Religion, the Politics, the Literature, the Commerce, and the Conventionalism of the nation surrendered at discretion—took off the moral and military weapons with which they had all fought your principles, and laid them at your feet. As you looked upon the nation there assembled by its representatives, to pay homage to the one grand, overmastering idea of your life—that slavery is a sin, per se, and immediate, unconditional emancipation the right of the slave, and the duty of the enslaver—I enter into the one deepest emotion of your soul—"Not unto us, but unto thee, O God of the slave, be all the glory!" The nation, in intent and profession, (and soon to be so practically,) is penitent and prostrate before the negro, whom it has outraged; and you, who more than thirty years ago, declared your intent to abolish slavery by the spirit of repentance, were present to behold that act of national repentance and justice. Not only abolition, but the prohibition of slavery forever, by a change in the organic law of the government! Now, in the language of Lincoln to the Committee appointed by the nation to present to him its platform, and to inform him of his renomination. I would say—" IN THE JOINT NAME OF LIBERTI AND UNION, let us labor to give to it (the prohibition of slavery within the limits of the United States) LEGAL FORM AND PRACTICAL EFFECT." This done, and our work is done, so far as the abolition of chattel slavery is concerned. The nation has said the word—has made the decree, "Let slavery cease, and be forever prohibited wherever the government holds jurisdiction." Let us labor to give that decree "LEGAL FORM AND PRACTICAL EFFECT." And it was the President himself who gave the keynote to the Convention, through Senator Morgan, who called it to order. He will be all the dearer to the nation, and his name all the higher on the scroll of destiny, for doing so.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
The enlistment of colored troops in Kentucky, under the management of Gen. Thomas, is going on very rapidly. A week ago, six hundred came into one rendezvous, and ten regiments are expected to be in service by July. Morgan's late raid is said to have had a good effect in dissipating the prejudice against making soldiers of the blacks, and to have quickened the desire of the whites to fill up the quota of the State with negro troops.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
DEATH OF JOSHUA COFFIN, ESQ.
The Newburyport Herald, of Saturday last, announces the death of our much esteemed friend and early Anti-Slavery coadjutor, JOSHUA COFFIN, ESQ., of Newbury, as follows:—
Joshua Coffin, Esq., historian of Newbury, well known as an antiquarian of much research, and intimately acquainted with the records of this State from its earliest settlement, died suddenly, on Thursday night, at the age of 73 years. He expired in the house where he was born, and where his ancestors had resided for some two hundred years. It is nearly opposite the Old-town meeting house, centennial is one of the older houses in these parts. The first centennial of the settlement of Newbury was celebrated on the grounds is front of that house in 1735. The family has always been of the highest respectability, and many members of it in this community and in literary, professional mercantile and political life. Mr. Coffin was educated at Dartmouth College, and for many years was a teacher. He was the schoolmaster of John G. Whittier, who has written of him verses that will <illegible>his memory through many generations. From a very early date he was an active Abolitionist, and was one of the twelve—the apostles of the cause—who formed the first abolition society in Massachusetts, and set in motion that ball which now shakes the world by its revolutions.
Four of these men were from this immediate neighborhood—William Lloyd Garrison and Isaac Knapp of Newburyport, John G. Whittier of Amesbury, and Joshua Coffin of Newbury. He ever after ardently acted in behalf of the slave; and in sympathy with the oppressed pursued his labors to the extreme South, where he discovered and rescued from slavery two persons, residents of Pennsylvania, who had been sold into bondage. He lived in Philadelphia in 1840, when the Whigs came into power, and belonging to that party was appointed to a penny-post man; but the Argus eye of slavery then searched out the opponents of the ”peculiar institution” in the most obscure places, and the administration that questioned Edward Everett, and for a time suspended his nomination as Minister to the Court of St, James, would not permit Mr. Coffin, the abolitionist, to carry letters. He was removed at the request and action of men, some of them now living who in the course of twenty-three years have become more radical on the slavery question than he ever though to be. So great a revolution in public sentiment has transpired in the last third of his life.
Mr. Coffin had a large circle of acquaintances, which included many public men, such as Daniel Webster, Rufus Choate, Whittier, Thaddeus Stevens, Summer, and a host of others: and by all he was highly respected for his integrity, devotion to principle, and conscientious action on all occasions. He closed his career with this verdict from all who knew him—a good and worthy man has died. He was very peculiar in his habits of thought and action—in the organization of his mind and its development; but in a long life he sought the injury of none, and did good to all, as he had the power and means. The public is indebted to him for the "History of Newbury," by which a mass of information, collected through many years, is preserved; families are indebted to him for genealogical registers, and facts and anecdotes illustrative of the characters of their ancestors; and many individuals are indebted to him for kindly acts. He was unfortunate in the last seven years, by having his mind clouded, at times, by a determination of blood to the bead. At these seasons he was exceedingly depressed in spirits, and voluntarily sought treatment at the Insane Asylum at Worcester. He died, however, from rupture, which caused mortification, by which he gently passed to his long sleep.
The tribute here paid to our departed friend we cordially endorse. His anti-slavery zeal ever burned a steady flame, and his testimony against the heinous crime of making man the prsperty of man, was always given with courage and emphasis, and in a right spirit. He helped to organize the New England Anti-Slavery Society in Boston, January 1st, 1832; and his name will be found among those who signed the DECLARATION OF SENTIMENTS in Philadelphia in 1833, and who then assisted in the formation of the American Anti-Slavery Society. His contributions to the columns of the Liberator, for the first three or four years in special, were frequent, and always distinguished for pith and good sense. His various services were of great value to the cause at that early period and he deserves to be remembered as among the truest and best of those who quickly responded to the claims of a race meted out and trodden under foot. Long since broken down in health, his release from "the ills that flesh is heir to," and removal to "another and a better world," are substantial gains to him.
The following letter, addressed by him to us a few days since, though not sent at the time, as will be seen by the note accompanying it from his daughter, will be perused with interest:—
NEWBURY, June 28, 1864.
DEAR MR. GARRISON—The enclosed is the last letter my dear father ever wrote. I think you will like to see it. Will you send it back to me, as I want to keep it all my life? I sealed it for him a week ago this afternoon, but his sickness prevented him from sending it, or rather of thinking of it.
Respectfully yours, MARY H. COFFIN.
NEWBURY, June 20, 1864.
DEAR GARRISON—The first Anti-Slavery tract published in Massachusetts, as far as I have been able to ascertain, was written by Judge Samuel Sewall, an early resident in Newbury, and afterwards in Boston. The tract was entitled, "The Selling of Joseph," and was published not far from 1710, and till lately, no copy was supposed to be in existence. Within a short time, a copy has been found among the Winthrop papers, and will be published by the Massachusetts Historical Society. Judge Sewall's view of the rights of man, irrespective of clime or color, is well expressed by him in the following lines, published in 1697:—
"Boast not, proud English, of thy birth or blood,
Thy brother Indian is by birth as good;
Make sure thy second birth, else thou shalt see
Heaven ope to Indians wide, but, shut to thee."
In the Judge’s diary I find in the year 1716 the following:—
"I essayed to prevent negroes and Indians being rated with horses and cattle, but could not succeed."
The Judge was a man of ardent and unaffected piety, and impartial generosity and benevolence. The mantle of the good old man still rests on some of his descendants, and who, unlike many persons of the present day, are not of that class who have so much religion that they are destitute of humanity, especially when the claims of the slave and their duty respecting him are presented. That class of non-doers, who have hitherto endeavored to throw off all responsibility respecting slavery, by charging the sin on their ancestors and transferring repentance to posterity, are now learning a most painful and salutary lesson—a lesson which the whole nation will be taught "with illegible and thorns," as David taught the men of Succoth, and will be at school till the lesson is thoroughly learned. It may take years, but it will be done. That this will be the case, I have never had a doubt; for "when God's judgments are abroad in the earth, the inhabitants thereof will learn righteousness." Dull and obstinate as we are, the iron logic of events, under the direction of Divine Providence, is teaching us a lesson which we shall have reason to remember, and the oppressors of the poor will never forget.
Yours, truly, JOSHUA COFFIN.
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, for July, is more brilliant than usual. Read the following list of conceals, and then procure the work and read the articles: —An Army: Its Organization and Movements, by Lieut. Col. C. W. Tolles, A. Q. M.—second paper; illegible, chapters VIII. and IX.; American Slavery and Finances, by Hon. Robert J. Walker; The Cross, by E. Foxton; The English Press, by Nicholas Rowe, London; Life on a Blockader, by the author of "The Last Cruise of the Monitor"; Buckle, Draper; Church and State—fourth paper—by Edward B. Freeland; Look Out Mountain, by Alfred B. Street; One Night, by Julius Wilcox; Aphorisms, by Rev. Asa Colton; James Fenimore Cooper on Secession and State Rights, by Charles K. Tuckerman; The Resurrection Flower, by M. E. Dodge; Recognition, by Virginia Vaughan; The Seventh Hundredth Birthday of a German Capital, by Prof. Andrew Ten Brook; The Danish Sailor, by G. T. M.; American Civilization, by Lieut. Egbert Phelps, U. S. A.; Church Music, by Lucia D. Pychowska; Literary Notices. J. F. Trow, 50 Green Street, New York, Publisher.
<c02>
PRESENTATION TO GOVERNOR ANDREW.
A large audience having assembled at the Twelfth Baptist Church on Monday evening, June 20th, 1864, the Chairman, Wm. Wills Brown, announced that an event was about to transpire, partaking somewhat of a historic character, in which, he ventured to predict, all present would take exceeding interest.
At this point, Rev. Leonard A. Grimes appeared, escorting his Excellency Governor Andrew down the aisle, which was the signal for an outburst of applause, continuing until after he was seated in the pulpit. William C. Nell then arose, and spoke as follows:—
Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen—By the perhaps too partial favor of some friends interested in a portion of this evening’s exercises, the signal honor has been conferred upon your humble servant of submitting a message to our illustrious guest, Governor Andrew.
May it please your Excellency—The mission allotted me on this occasion has suggested my culling a few extracts from the tablet of memory, possessed in common by the colored citizens of Boston and vicinity.
During the winter of 1846, (as some of us remember,) you delivered a lecture before our Adelphic Union Library Association, to supply a vacancy occasioned by the imperative absence of Hon. Charles Sumner. Your labor of love that evening, in dispensing to us the dewdrops of knowledge, was but one among many preceding evidences of your heartfelt interest in the improvement of those who then could not, as is our happy privilege now to boast, bask in the sunlight of literary advantages.
We remember your brilliant career as a Massachusetts legislator, characterized as it was by heroic and eloquent service for the removal of Judge Loring—protesting against the word white on the Statute Book, and against the Dred Scott decision—having already been most zealous in promoting the equal school rights of colored children in Boston.
We remember the boundless joy of our hearts, when our own beloved Massachusetts (God bless her!) honored herself, as we believe beyond all precedent, in calling John A. Andrew to the gubernatorial chair.
We remember the profound sagacity and foresight which marked your administration during the early history of this Slaveholders' Rebellion, augmented by that sense of justice which recognizes man as man, irrespective of accidental differences; and that it was your bugle blast which first summoned colored American soldiers into the field.
We remember that auspicious day, the 18th of May, 1863, when flags were presented to the Massachusetts 54th; and your speech was such an eloquent expression of hope, confidence and encouragement, that it animated all hearts, and so inspired the soldiers, that, during that memorable and historic scene of daring and gallant service at Fort Wagner, the most potent rallying-cry for one last, best effort was, “Boys, remember God and Governor Andrew!" 
We remember your persevering exertions to secure from the Government full pay to the colored volunteers, for which solicitude in their behalf, they and their families will ever bless you.
We remember the notable example, and one far reaching in influence, of your prominent participation in a public dinner of welcome in this city to two colored citizens of Louisiana—Messrs. Roudanez and Bertonneau.
We remember that, whether as a citizen, a professional man, a legislator, a philanthropist, or a Christian magistrate, yours has ever been the heart to conceive, the head to organize, and the hand to execute the ways and means for the public recognition of the colored man as an equal before the law.
These pleasing reminiscences, sir, have contributed to a desire of tendering some public token of our feelings, in which purpose we have been happily seconded by our two young friends and respected fellow-citizens, Messrs. Jacob R. Andrews and William H. Simpson, whose united mechanical skill and artistic genius have culminated in producing this portrait of your Excellency, which we ask you to accept; not by any means as an equivalent for, but simply an acknowledgment of your valuable services in Humanity’s cause, and as a medium for the grateful homage of our hearts.
In this connection we may be permitted to make the statement, that we confess to indulging a feeling of pride, (a legitimate one, however, as we think the associations will warrant,) in the fact that this gilt frame and the portrait are the work of those hands which impart just that color to the idea which we believe will commend our presentation none the less to your Excellency.
In conclusion, we would invoke continued prosperity upon the old Bay State, and that your Excellency may live to behold the day when, as the result of labors conjointly with the tried and true of Freedom’s army on this wide domain of earth, from the Atlantic to the Pacific sea, there shall not be found a tyrant nor a slave.
Loud applause greeted this speech at several points, and at its conclusion; and when the Governor rose to reply, shouts of joyous approval made the welkinring.
His Excellency confessed himself surprised at the presentation, having supposed that the meeting to which he had been invited was similar to others which he had addressed in that place. He thanked them sincerely for their kind recollection of him, and what they had pleased to enumerate of his honest interest and efforts in the good cause they all loved; disclaiming the merit, however, which had been so generously awarded.
He proceeded to speak of the cause at large, and the rebellion and the war in their relation to the annihilation of slavery and the elevation of the colored man; during which, he introduced many facts illustrative of the bravery and devotion of colored soldiers, and offered many valuable suggestions to colored men and women as to their responsibilities in the country’s present emergency, with a view to their growth of character and position in the community.
The Governor’s speech was timely, eloquent and impressive; and the applause which it elicited, and the earnest attention of the audience, were proof of its hearty acceptance.
The portrait was now inspected by a large proportion of the audience, who expressed much commendation of the design and workmanship.
After a vote of thanks to the ladies whose services had so greatly aided the purposes of the meeting, a committee was appointed to transfer the portrait to the residence of his Excellency; when the large and enthusiastic audience adjourned.
"THE HISTORY OF THE REBELLION, its Authors and Causes," an octavo volume of 598 pages, upon which Joshua R. Giddings bestowed three years of labor, has been published by Follett, Foster & Co., Philadelphia, and appears after the death of its lamented and patriotic author. It treats (to quote the Philadelphia Press) freely and fearlessly of the authors of the rebellion, most of whom Mr. Giddings knew, having long been a distinguished member of Congress, backing John Quincy Adams when put on his trial, in the House, for his anti-slavery action there, and being himself persecuted, in the same place, about the same time, for similar manifestations. Indeed, the greater part of this volume is the parliamentary history of the thirty years before the election of Mr. Lincoln, related with graphic power, and veritable, because written by one who tells what he witnessed and shared in. There is a minute account of the election of Mr. Banks, as Speaker, in 1856, when the oath taken by that functionary was administered by Mr. Giddings, the oldest member of the House. The history is carried down to a period subsequent to the inauguration of President Lincoln, and is evidently the production of an able, earnest, patriotic, and experienced statesman. It is enriched with an excellent analytical index.
The memory of Joshua R. Giddings should ensure a quick sale and a wide circulation to a work so historically valuable as this. By it he, "being dead, yet speaketh."
<c03>
THB ATLANTIC MONTHLY FOR JULY. The July number is received. This is the first number of the fourteenth volume. The list of contributors is as follows:—Nathaniel Hawthorne, William Cullen Bryant, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Harriet E. Prescott, Fitz Hugh Ludlow, George S. Lang, C. C. Coffin, (“Carleton,") Henry W. Long-fellow, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Louis Agassiz, Donald G. Mitchell, Gail Hamilton, David A. Wasson, Francis Williams, G. Reynolds, and the author of “Life in the Iron Mills.” The contents are—The Wife's Story, Palingenesis, Glorying in the Goad, Saadi, The Return of the Birds, Wet-Weather Work, Mexic, The Rim, Watching, On Horseback into Oregon, Ice Period in America, House and Home Papers, Hawthorne, A Scene from the Dolliver Romance, In Memory of J. W. and R. W., Currency, Meyerbeer, The May Campaign in Virginia, and Reviews and Literary Notices. Among the features of the number are three, to which the publishers direct special attention. “The scene from the Dolliver Romance," Hawthorne's unfinished novel, the important and timely “House and Home Paper," by Mrs. Stowe, upon American Manufactures for American Women, and the resume by “Carleton” of Gen. Grant’s Virginia Campaign. 
The subscription price of the Atlantic is $3 per year, in advance. Subscriptions may begin with any number. Reduction to Clubs. The postage must in all cases be paid at the office where it is received. Ticknor &. Fields, publishers, Boston, Mass.
MARYLAND has wheeled into line, and another undimmed star shines out in the constellation of Free States. Her Constitutional Convention, in session at Annapolis, passed yesterday the following article of her Bill of Rights:
"HEREAFTER IN THIS STATE THERE SHALL BE NEITHER SLAVERY NOR INVOLUNTARY SERVITUDE, EXCEPT IN PUNISHMENT FOR CRIME, WHECEOF THE PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN DULY CONVICTED; AND ALL PERSONS HELD TO SURVICE OR LABOR AS SLAVES ARE HEREBY DECLARED FREE."
In every Church in the land there ought to-morrow to be offered solemn prayers of thanksgiving to God, that to the people of that State He has given grace, at length, to obey His mandate to "Let the Oppressed go Free." A new prosperity will, in due season, follow that obedience, and her children rejoice that the curse that has rested so long upon her labor, and hindered her growth, is removed forever.—N Y. Tribune
REPEAL OF THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW. At most any other time, the repeal by Congress of the Fugitive Slave Laws of 1793 and 1850 would be the theme of general comment. But it comes now as a matter of course. The signature-of the President, perfectly certain, is now all that is needed to make the repeal a law, forever irrepealable. The Act reads as follows:
"That sections three and four of an act entitled 'An act respecting fugitives from justice, and persons escaping from the service of their masters, passed February 12, 1793,’ and an Act entitled 'An act to amend, and supplementary to, the act entitled an act respecting fugitives from justice, and persons escaping from the service of their masters, passed February 12, 1793, passed September, 1850,' be and the same are hereby repealed." 
The Senate passed the act by the following vote:— 
Yeas—Messrs. Anthony, Brown, Chandler, Clark, Conness, Dixon, Foote, Grimes, Hale, Harlan, Harris, Hicks, Howard, Howe, Lane, (Ind.,) Lane, (Kansas,) Morgan, Morrill, Pomeroy, Ramsay. Sherman, sprague, Sumner, Ten Eyck, Trumbull, Wade and Wilson.
Nays—Messrs. Buckalew, Carlile, Cowan, Davis, Hendricks, Johnson, McDougall, Powell, Riddle, Saulsbury, Van Winkle, and Willey.
The nays, of course, are all Democrats, excepting Johnson, Maryland, and Van Winkle and Willey, West Virginia. The Free State Union men voted a solid Yea. The last fugitive has been hunted on free soil. Perhaps most of us may live to see the time when there will be no more fugitives from slavery, nor any slavery in this land to flee from.—Boston Journal.
The Senate has repealed the Fugitive Slave Law, by a vote of 27 to 12. Charles Sumner, who has so earnestly labored since his first entrance into the Senate to bring this about, is entitled to especial credit for having insisted on the action by the present Congress, although many professedly anti-slavery men declared the law was already dead, and sought to avoid its repeal.
INTER-STATE SLAVE TRADE. In the U. S. Senate, Jan. 25, Mr. Sumner’s amendment to prohibit the inter-State slave trade was rejected by twenty to thirteen. Amendments were adopted, appropriating ten thousand dollars to publish the continuation of School-craft’s work on the Indians, allowing colored persons to appear as witnesses in the courts of the United States, consolidating various Western Territories into fewer land districts, and for other purposes. After considerable discussion, the committee rose, and the bill was reported to the Senate, when Mr. Sumner’s amendment to put an end to the inter-State slave trade was again voted on, and adopted, and the bill was then passed, there being only four negative votes. 
WASHINGTON,. June 22. Mr. Sumner presented a petition of Horace Sprigg, a colored citizen of Washington, which represents that prior to April, 1862, he was a slave of John Parker, and that he had purchased in the name of his brother-in-law, a freemason, his daughter, then a slave by said Parker, and had paid about two hundred dollars to the Emancipation Commissioners, before whom he appeared, claiming full compensation as the virtual owner of Martha Ann Sprigg: they refused to allow the claim, on the ground that a slave could not acquire slave property according to the then existing laws. He asks Congress for compensation. 
The nomination of Lincoln is heartily endorsed by all our Union men. A ratification meeting was held here, which was enthusiastic. This would not have been so, if the friends of Fremont did not think he had deserted them. I report what they say. They say they have done with Fremont, because he has gone over to the Copperheads. They expected the Copperheads would unite with the Radicals, not that the Radicals would make the advances to them. They do not see how the most disloyal can object to Fremont. They say he has defeated McClellan, and broken up what is left of the Democratic party, or reorganized it with the Radicals on one wing, the Democracy on the other. They are indignant that Fremont should complain of arbitrary arrests, when hitherto no one has feared them but the disloyal. The originators of these complaints are known to have made them, not because they were just, but because they had nothing else to say; that Fremont should take up these worn-out, second handed things, and become the apologist of Vallandigham, seems monstrous. Meanwhile, the Copperheads rejoice, and applaud Fremont; but they do not, as yet, propose to vote for him. It is said no man has ever before so completely cut his own throat, both before and behind. They point to him as an instance of a man naturally honest, brave, and patriotic, trying to be a politician. He is like a blacksmith trying to make a watch.
There are other bitter things said about Fremont, and I have not seen a Union man who does not endorse them—in particular, they think he shows spite against the President, which is, to say the least, undignified.—Cairo Corr. Tribune.
Let it be passed around from hand to hand, until every workingman in the land has committed it to memory, that when ABRAHAM LINCOLN, our President, and ANDREW JOHNSON, formerly Senator, and now Governor, two workingmen and champions of labor, were nominated for office, the organ of the Democracy sneered at them as "a rail-splitting buffoon, and a boorish tailor, both from the backwoods, both growing up in uncouth ignorance" Thus we see that when laboring men by their own industry rise to honor, these new fledged Democrats have no name for them but words of contempt and scorn.—Philadelphia Press.
FREMONT STOCK. The Cazenovia Republican speaks thus encouragingly of the Fremont party in that town:
"The Bolters will probably be glad to know something about the condition and feelings of their party in this town. We are glad to be able to give full and reliable information. A strict regard for truth compels us to admit that the Fremont faction in this town is a united and determined party. It is literally a unit—consisting of ONE individual. No difficulties can therefore exist in the action of the party, and no danger of a split need be anticipated." 
The most radical anti-Lincoln paper in the West has been the St. Louis Democrat—and the most prominent. It now comes out in a few manly words of comment on the Baltimore Convention, and falls in line thus:—
"We can designate points in which we would have amended the action of the Convention. The nomination of Grant, Butler, or Chase would have pleased us better than that of Mr. Lincoln. But it is now our plain duty which we accept with cheerfulness, and intend to discharge to our best ability, to seek the reelection of the fairly designated nominee of the Unionists of the country, and carry to a triumphant conclusion the Radical policy to which he is committed." 
<c04>
JOHN MORGAN AT CYNTHIANA, KY.
A correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette furnishes some interesting additional facts concerning the rebel Gen. Morgan’s raid on Cynthiana. The losses of the business men amount to $250,000, of which secessionists lose fully two-thirds. The rebel wounded left behind in one of the churches are nursed by the secesh women of the town, and for fifty miles around. From the tender care shown them, the boquets and wreaths which decorate their couches and the coffins’ of the dead, a visitor would judge himself to be in a rebel town which had temporarily come into our possession; for the rebel women spurned our wounded, insulted in every possible manner the loyal women who nursed them, and threw out significant hints that the Union men who had fled at Morgan’s approach would yet be shot or hung by their friends. The correspondent says:—
“It is notorious that Morgan’s first band, who entered the town on Wednesday, found hot meals ready for them, and were welcomed by the most extravagant demonstrations. It is also a fact that Bob Berry, son of Colonel Berry, visited a relative living west of Cynthiana, and stated that Morgan would be at Cynthiana in a few days.
At the first entrance of the rebels into Cynthiana on Wednesday, Perry Wherritt, elected Mayor of Cynthiana by the secesh vote, bragged of having given aid and comfort to the rebel cause, and was present at Townsend Bridge when it was burned. He also directed the rebels to the store of John L. McGee. When McGee protested against the robbery, the rebels produced and read a written order signed by John Morgan, directing the parties who held it to plunder his store. Similar orders in reference to other parties were produced.
On Saturday citizens were robbed within five feet of where John Morgan stood. His soldiers robbed men in his presence. They obtained large sums of money, nineteen pocket-books having been found on the person of one prisoner taken by Burbridge.
Colonel Alston, of Morgan’s staff, in conversation with a Union lady where he was quartered, stated that it had been in the power of the rebels at any time within three months to kill or carry off any of the loyal people of Cynthiana. They had matters so arranged that constant communication was kept up with their secesh friends in Cynthiana, and a descriptive list of the loyal men had been furnished them, which showed who they were, what they were worth, etc. This list was produced and seen."
The most marked sympathy with the enemy was shown in the treatment of the rebel and Union dead. The former were interred in handsome coffins decked with flowers, while the Union dead, by order of the city authorities, have been buried in the negro quarter of the graveyard as a studied insult, in most cases without coffins. An order of the Union surgeon, left in charge by Gen. Burbridge, to have the Union dead disinterred, and buried in another part of the cemetery, was disregarded, the surgeon being obliged to leave without seeing it complied with.
THE CHICAGO CONVENTION. The New York World explains that the 4th of July was originally selected for the date of the Chicago Convention, because it was supposed that the summer campaign would be over by that time. But that not being the case, the postponement to the 29th of August ensues. It is reported that the action of the National Committee was induced by a petition signed by a majority of the Democrats in Congress. The desire of the postponement has heretofore been charged on the peace faction of the party, but the arrival of Vallandigham seems to have wrought a change in that respect, as the War Democrats are evidently more pleased at the change than their peace brethren. The precise bearing of the matter on the different factions is a mystery to outsiders, seeing that there is not a ghost of a chance of successfully disputing Mr. Lincoln’s reelection. The Washington correspondent of the New York Times says:—
“The Copperheads were in their glory here to-night upon the receipt of the news of the postponement of the Chicago Convention from July 4 to August 29 This has been done by the Cox War Democrats, who fear that Grant will not get into Richmond by the 4th of July. They think that the Convention in such an event would be rash enough to nominate Vallandigham —hence the postponement.
PRESENTATION TO PRESIDENT LINCOLN. The Washington correspondent of the Newark Advertiser writes as follows: An affair of considerable interest came off at the White House on Saturday last, in the presence of a small party of visitors, being the formal presentation of a very choice collection of wax fruits to "Abraham and Mary Lincoln," from Mrs. Caroline Johnson, a highly respected colored friend of Philadelphia, as a testimonial of her appreciation of the President’s services in behalf of her oppressed race. Though some remarks were made by Mrs. J., the presentation speech was made by the Rev James Hamilton, a Baptist clergyman of the above city, who touchingly alluded to the past sufferings of his people, to the rapid progress of their deliverance under the present Administration, and their hopes of the future, and asked the President to accept of the gift as a specimen of the handiwork of a lady of color, and as an evidence of their confidence and esteem for their Chief who had brought them thus far out of the land of bondage. Mr. Lincoln briefly responded, returning thanks for the beautiful present, referring to the difficulties with which he had been surrounded, and ascribing the wondrous changes of the past three years to the ruling of an all-wise Providence. The work is valued at $350. We understand that Mrs. Lincoln intends having it repacked for shipment to her home in Illinois.
DEATH OF Mr. CARLETON A. SHURTLEFF. Sunday morning, June 26, died at Brookline, of diptheria, Mr. Carleton Atwood Shurtleff’, the youngest son of Dr. Samuel A. and Eliza (Carleton) Shurtleff, aged 24 years.
It is seldom that we are called upon to chronicle the decease of a young man who, in so short a period of life, has won for himself so much respect for integrity of character and general knowledge, than is now our duty in the case of Mr. Shurtleff. Early in life he chose for his particular studies the pursuits which we generally see engrossing the time and requiring the maturity of much more advanced intellects; for before he had emerged from the years of childhood, he had by his studies and investigations in natural science given evidence of considerable promise as a naturalist, the realization of which he was making good when called from life. He was born in Brookline on the 18th of June, 1840, and graduated at Harvard College in 1861. After leaving college, he commenced the study of medicine at the Harvard Medical School, in Boston, and with his father, and Mr. T. Eustis Francis in Brookline, and passed a part of the last year as a medical cadet. Giving up this position in consequence of ill health, he recently returned home to resume his studies in the medical school.
Many hearts will be saddened when the tidings of this sorrowful event shall reach his classmates and friends. May the affliction be made less severe to them in the reflection that his excellence of character and uprightness of life have secured for him a heavenly habitation! N. B. S.
THE POLITICIAN AND THE SOLDIER. A few weeks ago, a Senator from a free State declared that it was utterly impossible to make a soldier of the negro, and that every dollar spent in enlisting negroes was a dollar thrown away. Per contra, Gen. Smith, a cool and experienced officer of the regular army, by no means committed in favor of the martial capacities of the men of African descent, waits until he sees them fight at Petersburg, and then, like an honest, and impartial, and thoroughly competent witness, declares that the colored troops engaged, (not enlisted, be it remembered, at the North, but just emancipated from slavery,)“in the whole affair displayed all the qualities of good soldiers.” Such partizans as the Senator fan prejudice, reiterate falsehoods and refuse simple justice to a particular class of men whom the Government has armed in the defence of the nation against rebels; whilst such honorable officers as Gen. Smith praise good conduct and valor in the field without regard to complexion, and without pausing to inquire how the frank confession of the truth is to affect this or that political party. The people know which witness to believe.—Boston Transcript.
NEGROES TO THE FRONT. An important order has lately been read to the negro troops at Nashville, from which the following is an extract:
“The incorporation into the army of the United States of colored troops renders it necessary that they should be brought, as speedily as possible, to the highest state of discipline.
Accordingly, the practice which has hitherto prevailed, no doubt from necessity, of requiring these troops to perform most of the labor on fortifications, and the labor and fatigue duties of permanent stations and camps, will cease, and they will only be required to take their fair share of fatigue duty with white troops. This is necessary to prepare them for the higher duties of conflicts with the enemy."
By order of the Secretary of. War,
L. THOMAS, Adjutant General.
BALTIMORE, June 24. The Constitutional Convention to-day, by a vote of 58 to 27, passed an article abolishing slavery.
Congress has passed a bill incorporating several respectable colored men of Washington as the “Colored Catholic Benevolent Society.” This is the first legal recognition of the colored citizens.
Attorney General Bates has referred the question of colored soldiers’ pay back to the War Department, and avoids giving an opinion.
<c05>
LOSSES OF OUR ARMY. The losses of our army during the campaign of General Grant have been greatly exaggerated. We hear upon the best official authority that the number of the killed, from the time the army crossed the Rapidan until it reached the James river, did not exceed four thousand men. The wounded numbered something over forty thousand, and included casualties of every description less than fifty thousand; while the deaths of these wounded men are so far not much in excess of two thousand, or from four to five per cent. The injuries of the wounded men in the majority of cases are very slight. The permanent loss to our army for the time, mentioned, may be twelve to fifteen thousand men, but not in any case more than twenty thousand, and the loss of life is much less.—N. Y. Evening Post.
The Contest in Virginia—Notes from the Army. The Philadelphia Inquirer’s correspondence, dated at Grant’s headquarters, June 21, 9 P. M., says:
President Lincoln was at the army headquarters for short time this afternoon. He rode out along the heights occupied by the captured fortifications, from which he could enjoy as satisfactory a view of the position in front as is usually to be obtained. Wherever he went he was enthusiastically cheered by such troops as were in his way, the number of whom, however, was not large, as most of the army was uninvitingly near the front.
From the New York Herald’s correspondence of the same date we quote as below:—
“The rebel engineering at Petersburg greatly surpasses anything I have heretofore seen, and probably any the war has developed. Formidable field works literally spring from the earth, as by magic, in a single night, at every point" 
New York, June 27. The Tribune’s army dispatch dated Saturday, says: The rebels attacked Baldy Smith’s position on Friday. Some four hundred rebels were allowed to rush into our rifle pits, when a destructive fire was opened on them, and they soon surrendered. Only one hundred and sixty-five were unhurt, the remainder being killed or mortally wounded.
The Richmond Examiner claims a glorious victory on Wednesday. It says they drove our men from two lines of breastworks, captured nearly two thousand prisoners, four pieces of artillery, and eight stand of colors.
Dispatches to Richmond papers say that Gen. Sturgis lost 2,000 killed and wounded, 1,000 prisoners, 20 pieces of artillery, and 250 wagons and ambulances in the battle with Gen. Forrest.
COL. BLAISDELL KILLED.A telegram received by Lieut. Col. Tripp says:—“Col. William Blaisdell, of the 11th Massachusetts, while temporarily in command of the Corcoran Legion, was killed to-day (June 24) by a sharpshooter." 
REBEL BARBARITY. The Boston Journal of Monday says: "At the battle of Gettysburg, as we are informed by one who witnessed the incident, a wounded rebel soldier fell near our lines. His moans and cries for water were piteous, and excited the compassion of some of the members of a Massachusetts regiment. They attempted to relieve him, but found that the task would be perilous in consequence of the vigilance of some Arkansas sharpshooters who had effected a lodgment within a ledge at no great distance. At length one of our men, unable to restrain his sympathy, threw down his gun, held up a canteen and called out to the Arkansas men,. ‘Now don’t shoot; I’m going to give that poor fellow some water.'’ He had nearly reached the wounded man when he was hit by a ball from a rebel rifle, and compelled to relinquish his mission of kindness. The rebel riflemen knew that it was one of their own comrades who was suffering, but no emotion of sympathy could restrain their flendish malignity." 
THE NEGROES IN THE WAR. We recently published from a Southern paper an account of the manner in which twenty negro soldiers were murdered near Vicksburg, after being taken prisoners. The following extract from an intercepted letter, written by one of Dick Taylor’s staff, furnishes additional proof of the no-quarter policy pursued towards negroes:—
“After Steele left Camden, he sent out a large forage train, guarded by a heavy force. We fell upon this train, captured his artillery, all the wagons, and killed the last negro soldier. The Yankees had a full negro regiment, and the Choctaw Indians fell upon them and killed every one! After driving Steele into Camden, Gen. Fagan started with 3500 cavalry for Little Rock, but fell in with the enemy at Mark’s Mill where we had a terrible fight. Our arms were finally victorious, and we succeeded in capturing about 1500 prisoners, 250 wagons, and five pieces of artillery. It was a complete rout, and although the enemy endeavored to raise the white flag, but few of them escaped." 
On the other hand, it is plainly stated in most of the letters from our army, that the negroes take no prisoners, and that the commanding generals understand this. 
MURDER OF A NEW HAMPSHIRE OFFICER BY THE REBELS. The Chaplain of the 1st New Hampshire Cavalry writes to the New Orleans Era as follows:
“On Saturday morning, May 14, as our troops were marching from Alexandria, the 4th Brigade of Cavalry was in the rear, and portions of the 1st New Hampshire Cavalry were attacked by the rebels, when Lieutenant George S. Cobbs of Company B was taken prisoner, and, after he surrendered, was deliberately shot and killed by the rebels. Lieut. Cobbs was from Exeter, New Hampshire. Lieut. Newhall, of the same company, and others saw him wounded and dying in the woods, and he told them the circumstances, and said: ‘They have murdered me.’ He lived till late in the night and died."
MISSOURI.A letter from St. Louis to the New York Tribune, dated June 19, says:—
“The rebels are still troublesome in the interior, though their operations are extended over such a wide territory, and in such small bodies, that they can only be hunted down in squads. Yet their movements are marked by some of the most horrible atrocities of the war. In the western portion of the State, where Quantrell’s men are dodging about in the bush, not less than thirty-five unarmed men have been brutally murdered within two weeks. Twelve teamsters, en route to Sedalia, from Kansas City, about ten days ago, were overtaken by guerillas, and murdered. Their bodies were left on the road. A party of militia-men were surprised, outside of Independence, a few days after, and every man murdered by the guerillas; and all through that section, we hear of instances of similar cruelty."
The stage driver from Brunswick states that, on Wednesday last, four men were murdered in Bowling Green Prairie by bushwhackers. One of them was named Henry Grojohn, (who, it will be remembered, was robbed early last spring by guerillas,) and another was Charles Colman. He could not learn the names of the other two. These make fourteen men who have been killed in Charlton county, within the last two weeks. People are still fleeing the county in all directions.—St. Louis Union.
The Richmond papers upbraid John Cochrane, the candidate for the Vice-Presidency on the Fremont ticket, with so soon forgetting the vow he uttered in a speech at Richmond, that if the Federal Government should attempt to coerce the South, he (Cochrane) would be found sword in hand on the side of Old Virginia.—Boston Journal.
Hon. Aaron H. Cragin, of Lebanon, has been selected to succeed the Hon. John P. Hale in the U. S. Senate from New Hampshire.
PITTSBURG, June 19. The Sanitary Fair in this city closed last night. It has been a complete success, and the profits will exceed $300,000. 
FROM PORT ROTAL. Private John Smith, of the 41st N. Y. Regiment, has been executed for desertion. Wallace Baker, of the 56th Mass. Regiment, has been shot for mutinous conduct in striking an officer. 
The Chicago Tribune calls Fremont’s letter accepting the nomination of the Cleveland Convention, “the last will and testament of John C. Fremont."
General Butler is said to be ascertaining, as rapidly as possible, how many of the negro troops were certainly murdered after having been captured in recent engagements with the enemy, so that man for man of the rebel prisoners in his hands will certainly be shot in retaliation. This shooting will be at the hands of negro troops.
Joseph A. Scoville, the American correspondent of the London Herald, and a most malignant reviler of his own country, died in New York on Saturday. He was at one time private secretary to John C. Calhoun, and subsequently edited a flash comic weekly in New York. He also acted as theatrical agent for Lola Montez a short time, which terminated, if we remember aright, in his being dismissed with a cow hiding administered by the irate Countess.
Senator Sumner has had an interview with the Secretary of War and the Attorney General on the matter of the immediate payment of Massachusetts colored regiments, which it had been hoped was assured by the passage of the recent law. No decision has as yet been made. Shameful!
Some of Gen. McClellan's Boston friends have given him books of the value of $2,000 As his retirement is to be a long one, this is a delicate way of furnishing him with weapons for the war that he is doomed to wage against time. As time is not a Confederate General, “Little Mack” may beat him.
<c06>
GROVE MEETING IN MICHIGAN.—The friends of reform will hold a meeting in G. K. Wilbor’s Grove, one mile south-west of the village of Farmington, Oakland Co., Michigan, on Saturday and Sunday, the 2d and 3d days of July next, commencing at 10 o’clock, A. M., each day.
H. C. WRIGHT of Boston, Mass., G. B. STEBEEINS of Rochester, N. Y., and MOSES HULL of Battle Creek, Mich., are expected to attend.
A general invitation is hereby given. Homes will be provided for strangers.
In behalf of the Committee,
NORTON LAPHAM,
A. L. POWER,
G. K. WILBOR,
and others.
NOTICE.—The friends of Reform and Progress will bold a meeting in King’s Grove, near Burton Square, Geauga Co., O., commencing the last Saturday in June, and continuing through the following Sabbath.
We should be glad to see some of our radical reformers from the East on that occasion. R. H. OBER.
MYSTERY OF THE WAR! PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in North Weare, (N. H.) on Sunday, July 3, at 5 o’clock, P. M.
GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., will deliver an Address on behalf of the Colored Soldiers’ Aid Society, in the Twelfth Baptist Church, Southac Street, (Rev. Mr. Grimes’s,) on WEDNESDAY EVENING, July 6, at 8 o’clock. The admission will be 15 cents, and the entire proceeds will be devoted to the benefit of the Sick and Wounded Soldiers belonging to the Massachusetts Colored Regiments.
Portrait of William Lloyd Garrison. 
THE subscriber has in preparation a large and elegant lithographic Portrait of Mr. Garrison, from an original crayon drawing by Thomas M. Johnston, which he believes he is safe in asserting will be, in all respects, the most satisfactory portrait of this distinguished advocate of impartial freedom ever offered to the public. 
Size of print 21 by 27 inches. Price $1.50 fur India Proof copies, which will be sent by mail, free of postage, on receipt of price:
A liberal discount to agents.
CHARLES H. BRAINARD. 
May 20. tf
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
Sr. PAUL, MINNESOTA.
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants.
References:
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston. 
A.L. PAINE, Esq., Suffolk Bank, do.
B. FAARWELL, RIELD & CO, Chicago, Illinois. STEVENS & BARNUM
Stevens & Barnum, Washington, D. C. 
May 20. tf
MASON & HAMLIN'S
CABINET ORGANS. 
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family 
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN 
AT a very moderate cost—$85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case. 
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years. 
THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two. 
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who hare proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher’s Church, Bran, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakosch, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS
274 Washington Street, Boston,
7. Mereer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN. 
Feb. 26 6m 
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 1, seven cents; Nos. 1 and 2, twelve cents. No. 2 explains the Phonographic Alphabet, given above, and all the more general principles of the Art. All interested in Phonography, the best Shorthand, should send for No. 4 of the Phonographic Visitor, 7 cents. Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 now ready, 22 cents. Address
ANDREW J. GRAHAM,
491 Broadway, New York.
June 24. tDec.1.
GAS FIXTURES. 
The undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been (obliged to leave his situation at Messrs, H. B. Stanwood & Co’s, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of 
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURS, 
n the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also Gas Burners of all the approved kinds. 
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro’ Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell’s Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30—1y
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator. 
MASSACHUSETTS AND HER CONVICT.
BY AUGUSTA COOPER KIMBALL.
I sit in the lap of New Hampshire,
And clasped in her rugged embrace,
I turn to a State’s larger glory,
As a flower to the sun turns a <illegible>;
To a State, that all others surpassing,
Has climbed to the uppermost place.
Massachusetts! God made her a diamond,
The largest in Liberty’s crown;
And her beam, like a lance of the lightning,
Strikes Error and Tyranny down,
And stabs at the life of Injustice,
Though folded in Royalty’s gown.
Massachusetts! the farthest in working 
The Heaven-given problem of Man;
In her light how the nations creep after,
And follow the trail of her plan!
All the peoples to God pressing slowly—
Massachusetts the first in the van.
She waves, in the world’s mighty banner,
A portion of crystalline white;
Her garments, blanched out to the lily,
Are bleached on a glorious height;
And poets may walk out to meet her,
Nor stoop from the ether and light.
She stands, Heaven’s acolothist, lighting, 
Where else men would painfully grope;
And urges her feet in the pathway 
That fails not of God in its scope;
And we call her Humanity’s promise,
Its guide and millennial hope.
But now, from my nest in the granite,
I send up the prayer of entreat
To Heaven for our grand Massachusetts,
And the convict that’s down at her feet:
God! give her the strength and the spirit
Her glory and grace to complete!
The arm, that in duty and labor
Brings nothing to tyrants but loss,
That dares in the face of usurpers,
Defiant the challenge to toss,
God nerve it high over all others
To lift up the sign of the Cross!
State, foremost in justice and progress—
Utopia, growing in bud!
O feet that have ever pressed forward,
In spite of the mountain and flood!
Shall we find thee still worthy of worship,
Slipped back in a criminal's blood?
Oh, pause not! but grasp the occasion,
And flash us down something of God!
No rope for the neck of a sinner,
Where Justice and Mercy have trod;
No strength that can build up a scaffold,
With the Cross firmly fixed in the sod.
O breast of the Parian whiteness,
Where all things heroic and free
Nurse and cluster! be grand in thy pity,
As the heart of God's chosen should be!
Touch Christ! grow sublime in remission
To him who now waits at thy knee!
O State, that is strongest in grasping
From hands of Oppression the rod!
Use thy magic in this as in fetters!—
Sweep scaffolds away from the sod!
Time the heart of the world in its throbbing,
To the merciful pulses of God!
Postmaster E. Green.
Croydon, N. H.

From the N. Y. Tribune.
THE SLAVE BENEATH THE FLAG.
To the Hon. HENRY WILSON, U. S. Senator from Massachusetts, to whose distinguished ability, integrity, and firmness for the right, in this and many other instances, humanity and the future are so much indebted, these lines are, by his especial permission, most respectfully dedicated.
I. 
No slave beneath that starry flag,
The emblem of the free!
No fettered hand shall wield the brand
That smites for Liberty!
No tramp of servile armies
Shall shame Columbia's shore;
For he who fights for Freedom's rights
Is free forevermore.
II.
No slave beneath those glorious folds
That o’er our fathers flew,
When every breath was dark with death,
But every heart was true!
No serfs of earth's old empires
Knelt ’neath its shadow then;
And they who now beneath it bow 
Forevermore are men!
III.
Go tell the ashes of the braves
Who at Port Hudson fell;
Go tell the dust whose holy trust
Stern Wagner guards so well;
Go breathe it softly—slowly—
Where’er the patriot slave
For right has fled, and tell the dead
He fills a freeman’s grave.
IV.
Go tell Kentucky's bondmen true,
That he who fights is free!
And let the tale fill every gale 
That floats o'er Tennessee!
Let all our mighty rivers
The story Southward pour,
And every wave tell every slave
To be a slave no more!
V.
Go tell the brave of every land
Where'er that flag has flown—
The tyrant's fear, the patriot's cheer,
Through every clime and zone—
That now no more forever
Its stripes are Slavery's scars;
No tear-drops stain its azure plain,
Nor dim its golden stars!
VI.
No slave beneath that grand old flag!
Forever let it fly!
With lightning rolled in every fold,
And flashing victory!
God's blessing breathe around it!
And when all strife is done,
May Freedom's light, that knows no night,
Make every star a sun!
GEORGE LANSING TAYLOR.
New-Britton, Conn., May, 1864.
“The Conference Committee [of the Senate and House of Representatives] inserted one very important amendment in the Conscription bill, when it was before them. Senator Wilson announced to them his firm resolution that no slave should serve the government for one moment as a slave, and it was provided that the drafted or enlisted slave shall be free the instant he enters the service."—Independent's Wash. Corr. Feb. 25, 1864.
See, also, sec. 26 of the Conscript Act, in the N. Y. Tribune, Daily of Feb. 15, and Weekly of Feb. 20.

DIVINE RETRIBUTION.
God reigns, and favors Truth and Right;
Mercy and Justice His delight:
Whoever turns away from sin,
His mercy and his grace shall win.
Earth's mightiest things abide His ken,
He deals with nations as with men;
But long He waits the suppliants' cries,
And long their faith and patience tries;
Then rises, and with princely hand
Grants freely all their needs demand;
And treason, perjury and blood
Provoke the vengeance of His rod.
But long before His bolts are sent,
He sends the warning to repent;
Neglected long, the moment comes
Sudden the fatal shaft strikes home.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE Y. M. C. A.
MR EDITOR—The Convention of the Young Men's Christian Associations has made a considerable splurge among us recently, as the readers of the daily papers are aware, and has been patronizingly waited upon by the amiable and correct Bostonians.
Holding a session of about a week's duration, composed of delegates representing all parts of the loyal country, it has had at its service our festal halls, our resonant organs, our children's melodious voices, the smiles of our fair, the sight of our Russians and their ships, the benedictions of our clergy, the freedom of our pews, and to some extent our tables—crowned with a triumphal excursion around our aquarial public garden—Boston Harbor—in our most beautiful steamer, and a banquet at city expense.
What commensurate results are to follow upon this costly bringing together and entertainment, in these times of famine prices and universal taxation, of so many persons residing hundreds and in some instances thousands of miles away, is best known to those who are inside of the convocational ring; and the question, why was not this saved, and the money given to the poor, might be deemed as impertinent as upon a former occasion.
But as far as yet appears in regard to this oracular assemblage, the quintessence of its public admonition and fine result of its mountainous labor are comprised in the following preamble and resolution passed unanimously, and unconnected with any others, on the last day of the session:—
"Whereas, dancing, card-playing, theatre-going, and intemperance in various forms are to a fearful extent becoming the besetting sins of professing Christians in this country; and whereas, all who do these things are thus vainly striving to do what our Savior has explicitly declared to be impossible, when he said, ‘Ye cannot serve God and Mammon'; and whereas, to all such that Scripture which saith, ‘Woe unto those who are at ease in Zion,’ is applicable; therefore,
Resolved, That it is the duty of all Young Men’ Christian Associations in the land, and of every member of each of said Associations, to oppose these sins by all the means in their power; and especially to oppose them by their example in abstaining from them.” 
Whether or not these besetting sins are named by the Convention in the order of their heinousness does not appear; but a similar arrangement will be proper in their consideration; and it will be observed, that this is not merely a resolution of self-reformation in these particulars, restricted in its terms to the members of the body, but a resolve to reform others also, and amounts to a general indictment of the whole community. 
1. How to reconcile this interdiction of the “poetry of motion”-authority for which is sought among the leaves of the New Testament with that other declaration among the earlier pages of the inspired volume, that there is a time wherein it is proper to dance, and that God has made everything beautiful in its time—would doubtless have been at the closing hours of the Convention a question too perplexing for the somewhat jaded faculties of its members. To be discreet is sometimes to be valorous—to ignore was then to be wise.
That “young ones think old ones are fools, but old ones know that young ones are,” is an accepted proverb. Whether the middle-aged gentlemen and sedate matrons of the land, who have sons and daughters to bring up, will see fit to cooperate with the Young Men’s Association in the application of their ukase upon an art which, properly followed, engrafts upon the boorish youth the manners of a gentleman, and dispels before the young maiden's eye that delulive haze of bashfulness which is so liable to despoil her prospects and her usefulness—an art that gives to its proficients that grace, confidence and abandon which, as on other similar occasions, are the chiefest charm of those sewing parties and pastoral soirees to which the members of Young Men’s Christian Associations are so partial—whether the sager counsels of the church militant will decide to give up an accomplishment so pregnant with good results, remains to be seen.
If the young men mean only to affirm that some incidentals of the dance are pernicious—that tight lacing, gossamer robes for wintry evenings, lascivious necked dresses, midnight orgies, unventilated halls and prodigal expendure are worthy of condemnation, the common sense of the rational public is with them. But their ingenuity is not equal to the task of maintaining that to step in accord with strains of music on the pavement or the mall is innocent, but to do the same thing on a carpeted or polished floor is sin—that motion in a right line or at an angle is of divine appointment, but motion in curves and circles is of opposite origin. 
2. With the merits of the question respecting cards, it is more difficult to deal with requisite brevity, and no shuffling argument is admissible; therefore, suffice it to say, that the delinquency of that pater familias who persists in the indulgence of fireside loo with his boys, while wife and daughters are busy at the church raffle, or selling lottery tickets at the sanitary fair, is worthy of indictment at the dread tribunal of a Caudle lecture. 
3. The third-named sin in this new and as yet un-tabulated series of commandments is theatre-going—the immorality of which practice is of a very vague and indescribable character. Many well-meant but witless diatribes against it have been written and printed with as little perceptible effect as
"Snow-flakes falling in a river,
One moment white, then gone forever”—
and he must be a veritable Don Quixotte who, at this late day, would attempt that crusade.
A pamphlet of this sort appeared some years since from the pen of, no doubt, a benevolently disposed lady, who copied its title from the door-posts or passage-way of a theatre—"The way to the pit"—which, by inference, analogy and Scripture, she construed to mean the bottomless pit. Had she inquired of the lads as to the terminus of the adjacant passage, she would have found that it led to the (negro) heaven; and thereupon, with an equal logic, might have drawn a more hopeful augury.
Precision is always avoided in these accusations upon the theatre, and with reason.
Are doubtful phraseology and subtle inuendoes liable to appear in the language of the stage, prompting indelicate thoughts and imaginings? What, then, of general literature, and ancient and classic, profane or other tongues?
Do the exigencies of the drama sometimes compel the actors to an immodest dishabille or unladylike posture? What, then, of painting, statuary and photography, which are not yet in the index expurgatorius of sinful entertainment?
Does the theatre invite to unwholesome hours, or to the neglect of fireside privileges? What, then, do choral soirees and protracted meetings?
Does the theatre attract the low and the vile? What class is also the invariable accompaniment of camp meetings? 
Viewed from another point, who shall pronounce where the activity of the dramatic element in man’s nature lapses from innocency into sin? Where is the point of prohibition between the lad's attempt in sword and costume to personify his grandfather for family amusement, or the miss's participation in school tableaux, and the presumptuousness of Prospero, who, having assumed the role of creation, returns it to chaos again in language of solemn import not beneath the dignity of holy writ:—
"Our revels now are ended: these our actors,
As I foretold you, were all spirits, and
Are melted into air, into thin air;
And, like the baseless fabric of this vision,
The cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces,
The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
Yea, all which it inherits, shall dissolve;
And, like this unsubstantial pageant faded,
Leave not a rack behind: we are such stuff
As dreams are made of, and our little life
Is rounded with a sleep.”
The theatre is readily charged with all its short.
<c03>
comings and transgressions, but never accredited with any excellencies.
The world has just done celebrating the three hundredth anniversary of the birth of Shakspeare; and no doubt the sixth hundredth will be observed with equal or greater eclat. Meanwhile, all nations and classes will continue to draw moral and intellectual nourishment from his pages; the thorns of dramatic literature will not fail to produce the grapes of wisdom and the wine of inspiration; and the thistles of theatrical display will bear their sweet but medicinal fruitage.
It is surprising that the “divine opera” did not come in for a share in these objurgations. Did the increasing indebtedness of our church quartettes to the methods and style of that institution occasion a conscientious twinge, or did a vivid remembrance of the rapturous warblings of Kellogg, of Phillippi or Patti, pass through the mind of the juvenescent compiler, and bid him refrain?
The last named malum in se is intemperance.
If the young men really meant what their language signifies, this is indeed taking a dangerous bull by the horns, and worthy of all praise.
But a skepticism arises in the mind, whether it is not, after all, the now stale performance of the ass of total abstinence, braying about in the skin of the lion virtue of temperance.
Yoked to the heavy burden of national taxation, the aforesaid bovine has become a less fearful creature than formerly, yet will bear watching.
It may be among the grim possibilities of war, that the country, as is now the case with the Virginian portion of it, shall become a desolation, and here as there the fathers and sons, absent, living, or dead among the battle-fields—the mothers of the land shall stand by the hearthstone, emblematically at least, baking cornmeal upon the blade of a hoe, to be partaken with condimental draughts of the aqua pura from a primitive drinking horn.
Then will Graham and Priessnitz be entitled to the apotheosis.
Meantime, America expects a more generous diet; and if the ingenuity of these young men can devise some method of bringing the ale of England and the wine of France—the cheap and wholesome beverages upon which those people thrive <illegible>—within the range of everybody's purse, it will be a work of philanthropic economy worthy of Poor Richard.
Of old, the sons of men came eating and drinking, and the cynical and censorious exclaimed, “Behold the gluttonous and the wine-bibbers!" But now, as then, the sterling virtues, like sterling gold, pass at their universal value; and in that fellowship temperance stands among the first.
Leaving specific topics, the young men next branch out into generalities, and offer these two glittering specimens-“Woe unto those who are at ease in Zion;" and “Ye cannot serve God and Mammon."
Under this first Jeremiad, two questions seem pertinent:—"What is ease? and, Where is Zion?”
Perhaps the domains of Zion are co-extensive with the reputed authority of a Son-of-Temperance pledge, and cease at high-water mark, so that people who go on steamboat excursions to partake of civic feasts do not come under the imprecation of the text. Possibly so many of the participants paid their devoirs to Neptune in the form of sea sickness on the occasion referred to, losing relish both for aquatic and gustatory opportunities, that, for that reason, that trip could not with propriety be included under the caption of “ease in Zion.”
But the unchurched portion of the community might persist in the unkind inquiry—What means this array of luxurious carriages and caparisoned steeds, drawn up before our most orthodox church doors on these beautiful first-day mornings? What mean these rustling silks, flowing plumes, sparkling jewels, carpeted aisles, cushioned pews, and epicurean Sunday dinners?
If these be not within its limits and authority, then Zion must be a myth.
In these modern days of commercial mania—of respectability, as Carlyle has it, based upon the “ownership of a gig,” and of aristocratic worship—respecting the ancient feud existing between God and Mammon, it were best to deal gingerly; and the quoted passage, like that about the camel and the needle, should be read with bated breath and careful exegesis.
Webster gives Mammon as “riches, or the god of riches”; and how Mammon is peculiarly served in dancing, card-playing, theatre-going, and intoxication, is of doubtful interpretation.
A more effectual service is evidently rendered that evil genius by fulfilling government contracts with shoddy manufacturers—by inveigling drunken sailors and soldiers into the service, and pocketing their bounty money—by rejuvenating the once steeped coffee grounds of our armies, and repacking them for a second requisition—by forming rings and cabals to underbuy at prize auctions, and thus at the same time plunder the pocket of the brave sailors, and the treasury of the people, by a new method of “light-fingering"—by selling to a nation struggling for existence any indispensable articles at ungodly prices—by evasive oaths in regard to the income tax—by forestalling and speculation in the prime necessities of life—by out-Heroding the descendants of Herod’s liege subjects, in bids at the gold exchange, or by selling munitions of war to the rebels—a portion of the profits of which transactions oftentimes creep very piously into contribution boxes, and the coffers of Young Men's Christian Associations. 
These manifold Christian Associations have evidently a great work before them, that will require all their youthful energies; for the day seems to be yet far distant, when the chief besetting sin of professing Christians shall not be to
"Compound for sins they are inclined to,
By damning those they have no mind to;"
and when what is claimed as Christianity par excellence, shall consist less in arrogant or hypocritical pretension to unworldliness, than “to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly.” NATHAN.

THE PRESIDENT’S AMNESTY.
SPRINGFIELD, Vt., May 14, 1864.
MR. EDITOR:—In a former communication, I instituted certain inquiries, with a request that you or some of your correspondents should reply, with a promise which I now more than half regret that, if none appeared, I would attempt a reply myself. As the word and promise have gone forth, I must, though reluctantly, attempt a reply, with little expectation of even satisfying my own mind, and much less that of others.
The first inquiry was, in substance—If the President’s Proclamation of Amnesty is carried out, and one, two, or all of the rebel States should avail themselves of it, what is to become of “three fifths of all other persons”? As the Proclamation is silent upon the subject, except that they shall not be sold as slaves, and as all their rights are guaranteed the rebels, I see not why they may not strip every negro as naked as he was born, deprive him of every right common to a citizen, and virtually make his condition, as to present wants, worse than while in slavery; with no vote or voice in any thing that concerns his own or his family’s welfare, of which the government has already set the infamous example, and under “State rights” deprive him of an education, the use of arms—in fine, reduce him to the lowest condition of a serf. Are these oath-purified rebels to still send twenty-five or thirty representatives to Congress, extra, on account of “all other persons”? Certainly. The Proclamation makes no reserve. The President has power to create a State, and turn it over to the control of men, compared with whom the tenants of the world’s prisons would be angels, but is as powererless as a Samson shorn of his seven locks to give the right of suffrage to the only honest men the State ever held, or protect them in the enjoyment of any right whatever. Marvellous power! and as marvellous imbecility! God grant that the nation may yet be saved in spite of both! 
<c04>
With the rebels restored to their old status, and with the aid of the Copperheads to the control of the government, if they should prefer the old dispensation to the new, and, as far as possible, undo all that has been done in the cause of emancipation, what then? Why, the North must succumb, as it always has done, after a little bluster and a few strong resolutions with no resolution in them, or inaugurate another civil war. The government has now the golden opportunity, the power and the right, to confiscate and forever break up that anti-republican system of great plantations, and divide them up between the rightful owners. Until this or something of the kind takes place, a few lords of the soil will control everything, and ninety-nine hundredths of the people will be mere scofs, though nominally free. Even now, the system adopted by Gen. Banks is but one step better than slavery. If reports be true, the colored men near New Orleans have only changed masters. Injustice, as though heaven and earth conspired against them, is still their lot. All the wars that ever desolated the earth have had their origin in injustice; and almost all the feuds, litigations and private quarrels originate from the same cause,—injustice.
The doctors pronounced abolition dead a quarter of a century ago. The same doctors now decide that slavery is dead. It seems to me the doctors are either all demented or all fools. And God grant that the former may live to attend the funeral obsequies of the latter, and write its epitaph, “Died by the hand of violence between two hostile parties pledged, one to keep it alive, the other to let it alone.” 
In his very singular letter to Mr. Hodges, the President tells us “he was driven to the alternative of surrendering the Union, and with it the Constitution, or laying a strong hand upon the colored element" Not the shadow of a shade of justice, mercy or sympathy for the colored man in his bondage is discernable in this; and how the Constitution was to be lost, in case the rebels established their independence, is past my comprehension; or even if it was lost, it would be strange indeed if, in a population of twenty millions, twenty men could not be found wise enough to patch up another, and honest enough to leave out the clause, "three-fifths of all other persons," and not plant the seeds of an incipient rebellion.
When I witness the Amnesty folly and Colonization fizzle of the President, and all the acts of Congress, in effect ignoring the rights of the colored man, even while they claim his aid, my heart sinks within me, and I almost despair of seeing, in my day, anything like equal and exact justice meted out to all. Injustice! Injustice! This is the “Rock” on which every nation split that ever rose, or reigned, or fell; and today there is more to fear from the Bramlettes, the shoddy Republicans, and the damnable black laws and still blacker hearts of some of the free States, than from rebel steel. May God save the nation by sending us a Pathfinder, who, like Joshua, will hang the Achans, and lead the people, white and black, through the wilderness while their enemies perish in the rear, is the earnest prayer of your humble servant,
JESSE STEDMAN.

SPIRITUALISTS AND FRIENDS OF PROGRESS IN CONVENTION.
MIDDLE GRANVILLE, (N. Y.) June 12, 1864.
DEAR GARRISON—I am in a Convention of the Friends of Progress, a large gathering of earnest, enlightened and enlarged souls. The following resolutions are before the Convention, and are being earnestly and thoroughly discussed in all their practical bearings.
Whereas, man has no power to create or annul moral obligations; therefore,
Resolved, That whatever it is right to do with a license or commission from human governments, it is right to do without it; and, therefore, man should never take an office in Church or State which requires him to do that as an officer which it would be wrong for him to do as a man.
Resolved, That whatever is unjust, mean and degrading in an individual, acting by and for himself, and on his personal responsibility, is unjust, mean and degrading, when done by a man acting for others as their agent.
Resolved, That what is theft, robbery and murder, in one man, acting alone, is the same when done by millions when acting together as a church, a State, or a nation,
Resolved, That human governments, in their principles and practices, are to be judged by the same standard by which we estimate the actions and character of individual men and women.
Resolved, That man’s natural demands are God’s only commands; and all we need to know and to do to be saved is to know the demands of our nature, and healthfully to supply them.
Resolved, That whether in or out of the body, we shall find what we carry, and what we desire; therefore, if we would be in heaven, we must carry with us a consciousness of deserving it, and cease to trust to that wide-spread but fatal delusion, that heaven can be our portion because of what some other being has done.
Resolved, That he who gives, in any relation, what he is unwilling to take, is a self-convicted evil-doer, and should be so regarded and treated by all around him.
Resolved, That we should receive nothing as true in principle, or right in practice or power, outside of our own convictions, but ever remain true to our own convictions, regardless of consequences to ourselves or to others.
Resolved, That it is woman's most sacred right to decide for herself when she shall assume the responsibilities and be subjected to the sufferings of maternity; and man's home will be his heaven, and his children the crown of his glory, in proportion as he sacredly respects this right.
Resolved, That war is constantly causing sufferings of the most terrible character, destroying millions of human beings, laying waste billions of property; and is in direct opposition to the purest and noblest teachings of human nature, and to the precepts and example of Jesus, whom all Christians profess to follow; therefore we cannot act in accordance with love and forgiveness, and good for evil, and take part in settling inter-individual or inter-national strifes by an appeal to arms and blood. 
Resolved, That we regard slavery as “the sum of all villany,” and it is our sacred duty to seek its abolition and prohibition by such means as each shall deem right and most efficient. 
Resolved, That we regard the Rebellion as an effort to destroy freedom and free labor, and to establish, in all the nation and the continent, slavery and slave labor; and it is the sacred duty of all to put it down by such means as each shall deem it right and expedient to use.
Resolved, That, including body and soul, health is heaven, and disease is hell; and the only way to shun hell and win heaven is to throw off our diseases, of body and spirit, and secure, to ourselves healthy souls in healthy bodies.
The subjects presented by these resolutions—so far as time would allow—have been earnestly and intelligently considered. That States and nations may innocently do what would be the greatest of crimes in one acting alone; that men acting under civil or military license or commissions may rightfully do what is regarded as theft, robbery, murder and piracy in a man acting without such license or commission; that men acting as churches and governments are empowered by God to create, destroy, alter and reverse moral distinctions, moral obligations, and moral duties at their discretion; these, and kindred topics, are being sifted in this Convention; and as fast as men cut loose from the tyranny of outward authority, and fall back on the convictions of their own souls, these most fatal delusions will be discarded by the moral nature and enlightened reason and instincts of every human being.
What shall we do to be saved? We have an “inquiry meeting”-re all on the “anxious seat,” asking this question. The answer that comes direct from 
<c05>
God is—(1.) Understand the demands of your nature. (2.) Healthfully and naturally supply those demands, and then you will be all you are capable of being, and all God intends or wishes you to be. He is most faithful to God who is most faithful to himself. He walks most truly with God who walks most truly with himself and his fellow-beings. The true Bible, the real, infallible Word of God, is organized into the body and soul of each human being.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.

THE BALTIMORE CONVENTION.
BALTIMORE, June 8.
The National Union Convention has just adjourned, and before this letter is written, much before it reaches the eye of its readers, the telegraph has recorded its proceedings and borne them into every part of the country. It would task the power of electricity to convey any idea of the marvellous enthusiasm, of the white heat of patriotism, which has pervaded the Convention, and controlled its action. Where so great a unanimity prevailed, on all essential points, it might have been expected that the current would have been calm, because unbroken; but the harmony in principle and on the leading candidate, complete as it was, found expression on every fitting occasion in the strongest manner, in word and gesture and concerted action.
The name of Mr. Lincoln was greeted with a fervor partaking of personal affection as well as of admiration for public services. Out of that body of more than five hundred men, not one failed to recognize the fidelity, the ability, the pure patriotism and unswerving devotion to freedom of the President, and to regard him as providentially raised up for the arduous duties he has been called upon to perform. These men came from all parts of the country, from the extreme of Maine to the extreme of Oregon. Many of them, like Rev. Dr. Breckinridge of Kentucky, and scores of others, have no political aspirations. They represent every class in the community, and every shade of old political sentiment. All of them favored the re-nomination and re-election of Mr. Lincoln as a great national duty. They discriminated in their approval of his action. They were thinking men, and in the earnestness of their commendation they did not hesitate to say that the history of the past three years contained passages that might now in the light of events transpired, be modified with advantage. But as a whole, and regarded in connection with the dangers from which we have been saved, the administration of Mr. Lincoln commands hearty approval. The President has certainly won a vantage ground of experience, and secured a degree of popular confidence from his fidelity and devotion, which render him preeminently fitted to lead in the further prosecution of the war and in the restoration of the Union. Partly for what he has done, for his calm and steady championship of freedom, and even more for the proofs he has given of his eminent fitness for the work yet to be done, for his aptness in embodying the popular will in executive action, for his sagacity in understanding, his ready wit in meeting, and his wisdom in overcoming the greatest difficulties that ever confronted human ruler. Mr. Lincoln has received a re-nomination under circumstances more flattering than ever before surrounded a President at the close of his term. The vote in Convention was not by acclamation, for that might seem to have denied opportunity for a negative expression. The States were called in order, and every delegate, saving only those from Missouri, on the first call pronounced for Mr. Lincoln:; and at once Missouri joined in the vote, and every one of five hundred and twenty-nine delegates was recorded for the true and tried patriot. 
The scene that followed beggars description. The Convention arose in a body, and hats and handkerchiefs were waved, and cheers rung loud and long. The galleries vied with the body of the hall in enthusiasm. Ladies waved handkerchiefs, and men clapped their hands. As the cheers below ceased, those above were renewed; as those above ceased, those below swelled out again; then both joined in a grand chorus. Thus they repeated, time and again, their antiphonal harmonies. The band in the galleries played the national airs, and the hands and hats, and handkerchiefs swayed in time with Yankee Doodle, as if the large edifice and all it contained were instinct and alive with the melody of patriotism. I have seen many demonstrations of popular enthusiasm, but they all seem tame in comparison with this magnificent outburst of feeling and nationality.
This followed, in the order of time, the adoption of the resolutions. Every word of that platform rings like a clarion. There is no hesitation in it, no double-dealing. The Convention was in favor of one, free Republic, and said so. It was determined to crush out rebellion, at whatever cost, and it said so. It lifted high and clear the standard of free, united, American Nationally. The reading of the resolutions was punctuated with applause. Approval of the platform contributed to the warmth of the demonstration with which Mr. Lincoln’s re-nomination was greeted. On the rock of freedom was placed its chosen champion. The majesty of the nation renewed and restored to fresh might and power was represented in the man and his position. And this it was that gave such fire, such nobility, to the grand outburst of zeal and determination.—Corr. Utica Morning Herald.

MONUMENT TO LOVEJOY.
The friends of the late Hon. Owen Lovejoy propose to erect a monument to his memory, in Princeton, Ill., where he had so long resided, and where he came at last to enjoy so much respect and love. At a meeting of what is called the “Owen Lovejoy Monument Association,” held at Princeton on the 1st inst., measures were taken to raise funds necessary to erect a monument that shall at once express the worth of the man and the appreciation in which his memory is held by his neighbors and by all lovers of liberty and justice throughout the country. Not less than $50,000, it is thought, will be necessary; and two-thirds of this sum, it is said, can be raised in Mr. Lovejoy’s Congressional District. The following address was delivered at this meeting by Mr. Bryant, of New York. 
SPEECH OF WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT.
"Mr. President, Ladies and Gentlemen: After what has been said in your hearing, and so admirably said, with so much feeling and with so much eloquence, I can hardly expect that this audience will listen with patience to anything I am about to say. I shall therefore say very little. I know not, my friends, what form this project to erect a monument to the memory of Owen Lovejoy may take, in that material it may be wrought, or how its design may be fashioned. But let me express the hope that the contributions will be large enough and liberal enough to allow you to erect in this beautiful neighborhood—where Owen Lovejoy settled long ago, and where he labored so long and so effectually to form and purify public opinion—a suitable monument, in ever-during bronze, a material so indestructible that an image formed by Tubal Cain himself, the world’s earliest artificer in brass and iron, might have lasted undecayed to the present time. (Cheers.) In this durable material, I would hope that sculpture might exert the utmost efforts in representing his features, and impressing upon them their grand expression of high resolution, undaunted courage, and unflinching perseverance. (Loud cheers.) And then, my friends, an inhabitant of Princeton, standing near it and pointing it out to a stranger, might say to him, “That monument was erected to the memory of one who was a champion of the cause of universal liberty in that time past when the cause of universal liberty was feeble and despised. Behold how the hand that framed him stamped upon his manly brow the seal of a vigorous mind, an undaunted heart and unshaken constancy! He saw his brother, a previous champion in that noble cause, struck down and murdered before his eyes; and at that very moment, on that very spot, be devoted himself to the cause of universal freedom; to that cause he gave the labors of his life; to that the labors of his life were devoted, and to it his life was at last sacrificed. He knew that he should encounter scorn, obloquy, opposition. He feared them not. He met them; he defied them; he overcame them. He outlived the scorn; he lived down the obloquy; he fought down the opposition. He saw the great cause in which he was engaged on the eve of a glorious triumph. Before he died he saw it—not as Moses saw the promised land, at a distance. He saw it at his very feet. He saw it as Joshua saw the land of Palestine when be crossed the river Jordan, from the thirsty regions of Moab, and planted his steps on a soil fresh with the dews and flowers of heaven."
Then if the person whom I imagine to speak were 
<c06>
in the habit of drawing broad conclusions from particular instances, and deducing solemn and <illegible> moralities from the practical aspect of things he might go on to say:
'Let no man who looks at this monument ever be discouraged in a good cause. Let him first satisfy his conscience as to the merits of his cause, its truth, its righteousness, its humanity. Let him satisfy himself that he is enter upon it fearlessly, with a heart assured that he is approved of his God, that his labor will be crowned with success, that his cause will finally triumph. evil is mortal: it is doomed by a necessity of its nature to yield to <illegible>. But good is permanent, deathless, eternal, destined to prevail over all oppression, and sure of a glorious triumph; for God is with it.’
There is a portion of the liturgy of the <illegible> church which has always seemed to me exceedingly beautiful and affecting. It is that in which the <illegible> give thanks to Almighty God for the lives of those who have labored or suffered for the truth, and have passed away, leaving worthy and shining examples of self-sacrifice and of goodness for the imitation of mankind . A monument like the one of which I have spoken erected in the neighborhood, in some conspicuous place, would be a standing, visible, perpetual acknowledgment of public gratitude to the Author of all good, that such a man as Owen Lovejoy lived, that such a citizen was given to this country. (Loud and prolonged cheers).”

PRESIDENT LINCOLN'S TRIBUTE TO OWEN LOVEJOY.
The Princeton Republican, (III.,) for the current week, is nearly filled with the report of the proceedings and speeches of the recent meeting in that town to inaugurate an Owen Lovejoy Monument Association. Among the numerous letters read on the occasion was the following from the President:—
EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, May 30, 1864.
Hon. John H. Bryant:
MY DEAR SIR:—Yours of the 14th inst., enclosing a card of invitation to a preliminary meeting contemplating the erection of a monument to the memory of Hon. Owen Lovejoy, was duly received. As you anticipate, it will be out of my power to attend. Many of you have known Mr. Lovejoy longer than I have, and are better able than I to do his memory justice. My personal acquaintance with him commenced only about ten years ago, since when it has been quite intimate; and every step in it has been one of increasing respect and esteem, ending with his life in no less than affection on my part. It can be truly said of him that while he was personally ambitious, he bravely endured the <illegible> which the unpopularity of his principles imposed, and never accepted official honors until those honors were ready to admit his principles with him. Throughout my heavy and perplexing responsibilities here, to the day of his death, it would scarcely wrong any other to say, he was my most generous friend. Let him have the marble monument, along with the well-assured and more enduring one in the hearts of those who love liberty unselfishly for all men.
Yours, truly,
A. LINCOLN.

SPEECH OF GOV. JOHNSON AT NASHVILLE.
A Union mass meeting was recently held at Nashville, at which Governor Johnson was the principal speaker. We find the following report in the Nashville Times:
The appearance of Governor Johnson on the steps of the St. Cloud Hotel was greeted by the vast crowd with loud applause. All were anxious to hear and see the next Vice President of the U. States.
After thanking the assembly for the compliment they had bestowed on him, and a few other preliminary remarks, Governor Johnson proceeded to say that we are engaged in a great struggle for free government, in the proper acceptation of the term.
I know there are those here who profess to feel a contempt for me, and I, on the other hand, feel my superiority to them. I have always understood that there is a sort of exclusive aristocracy about Nashville, which affects to contemn all who are not with in its little circle. Let them enjoy their opinions. I have heard it said that
"Worth makes the man, and want of it the fellow.”
This aristocracy has been the bane of the slave States, nor has the North been wholly free from its curse. It is a class which I have always forced to respect me, for I have ever set it at defiance. The respect of the honest, intelligent and industrious class, I have endeavored to win by my conduct as a man. One of the chief elements of this rebellion is the opposition of the slave aristocracy to being ruled by men who have risen from the ranks of the people. This aristocracy hated Mr. Lincoln, because he was of humble origin, a rail-splitter in early life. One of them, the private Secretary of Howell Cobb, said to me one day, after a long conversation, “We people of the South will not submit to be governed by a man who has come up from the ranks of the common people, as Abe Lincoln has.” He uttered the essential feeling and spirit of this Southern rebellion. Now, it has just occurred to me, if this aristocracy is so violently opposed to being governed by Mr. Lincoln, what in the name of conscience will it do with Lincoln and Johnson? (Great laughter.) I reject with scorn this whole idea of an arrogant aristocracy. I believe that man is capable of self-government, irrespective of his outward circumstances, and whether he be a laborer, a shoemaker, a tailor, or a grocer, The question is whether man is capable of self-government. I hold with Jefferson, that government was made for the convenience of man and not man for the government. That laws and constitutions were designed as mere instruments to promote his welfare. And hence, from this principle, I conclude that governments can and ought to be changed and amended to conform to the wants, to the requirements and progress of the people, and the enlightened spirit of the age. (Loud applause) Now, if any of you secessionists have lost faith in man’s capability of self-government , and feel unfit for the exercise of this great right, go straight to rebeldom, take Jeff. Davis, Beauregard and Bragg for your masters, and put their collars on your necks.

SCENES AT FREDERICKSBURG.
An officer on the United States Steamer Yankee, at Fredericksburg, graphically depicts the scenes about him in a letter to his friends in this city, dated May 23d. We extract:—
"You see by my heading where I am but your imagination cannot picture to you the horrors of this place; nor can my pen describe the scenes which here meet the eye. Picture to yourself a river, on whose surface, floated by the dozen, chargers, who, like their riders, had met death; here and there a dead soldier lodged by the bank, who was floated thither , to be reported in that long list of 'missing;' two bridges ruined, two steamers sunk, and docks run over with the grass, show the desolation that reigns; while two pontoons, side by side, are busily employed, one to bear up the stream of hale, hearty men going to reinforce Grant, the other to bear the burden of mangled humanity going to reinforce that throng of witnesses, now so numerous in the hospitals and in the land of spirits, who cry out against the conspirators, 'guilty, guilty, guilty.’ You enter the town, once evidently beautiful, now inexpressioly ugly and hideous—on every side of you are the marks of war; every building is riddled by shot, some of them rendered totally uninhabitable; yonder litter contains a dead body, this one a dying soldier. There is one borne to struggle with death; God grant him a victory. Here is one that will live, a shattered hulk; God grant him patience. There lie two dead bodies, yonder a couple of legs, here two fingers, only a few steps beyond, an arm. Every building is occupied. Is it a store? See the counters, the lower tiers of shelves, and the floors covered with wounded. Is it a church? Pews are ripped out and the whole floor is one vast altar, on which the sacrifices are laid which have been offered up to our country. Is it a hotel? A multitude of guests are there. Oh! the heart bleeds to see the poor fellows, in whose welfare we all take so deep an interest, as they lie weltering under a hot sun, suffocating in a stifling atmosphere impregnated with the stench from their wounds; some dying, others struggling hard for life, all lying on cols which to them, just from the field, seem luxurious , but to you at home would seem too hard, too poor to keep in your prisons—on which you in perfect health would scarcely trust yourself for a night’s rest. Oh, you who have given of your abundance to the sanitary Commission, bless God that you have; and you who have not, delay no longer to do so! The sanitary and Christian Commission are the two redeeming institutions of the town; the surgeons do all they can, but they are so busy."
