
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST.,ROOM NO.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:- FRANCIS JACKSON,EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor..
Our country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL XXX . NO. 24.  BOSTON .FRIDAY, JUNE 15, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER,1538.
<c01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
From the St. Louis Bulletin.
GARRISON'S LAST.
The late anniversary week in New York has furnished Mr. Wm. Lloyd Garrison and his confreres with a fresh opportunity of indulging in their accustomed luxury of cursing and swearing at the Constitution and the Union. Their execrations on this occasion were rather more piquant and undiluted than usual. Garrison was in fine leather,and raved and howled with a ferocious vehemence, reaffirming all his oft repeated blasphemies with added vigor of feeling and expression. His speech comes to us reported in full in the Boston Liberator, and forms rather instructive reading in its way. Mr. Garrison is a firm believer in social and political development and progress. In his magnanimity he has some pardon to bestow upon the framers of the Constitution, and the ancient devotees to the Union, because they lived in days of ignorance. The sun of Black Republicanism had not then flooded creation with its splendors. It had not then been discovered, as a law of political ethics, that solemn compromises made on a of equal justice, and form from which during nearly a century the whole country had derived its amazing prosperity, were leagues and covenants with the devil. On the contrary, Mr. Garrison thinks that not only the Constitution, but the star-spangled banner, is to be 'abhorred.' He gnashes his teeth furiously at this symbol of our national glory, tells us that it is 'clotted with blood,’ and gives us the remarkable and interesting information that it has been 'torn down,' a fact which will be now to most readers,who will be apt to imagine that the experiment of tearing it down would task the collective intrepidity of the whole tribe of Yankee Abolitionists. He tells us that it is in the power of the North to emancipate the slaves in the South in a single hour, and that with out the shedding of a single drop of blood, though he does not enlighten us as to the particular method by which this singular social phenomenon could be effected. We have no space nor disposition to analyze Mr. Garrison's loud plea for treason, but it is certainly remarkable as a logical development of the famous Rochester speech of Senator Seward. As such it will take its place in the Abolition literature and acta of the times, as an expression of Northern fanaticism and hatred to the South, which the leaders of the crusade against Southern rights might not think altogether politic perhaps, but which does not vary much from what they think and hope.

THE ANNUAL HOWL.
Hell is loose, 
And all the devils are here.'-Tempest.
Yes, reader, they are all here, and the 'howlings' began-in the regular way-on Tuesday. We refer, of course, to the annual meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, the main objects of which seem to be, to come together once a year, to deify Sambo, to anathematize the Church, to execrate the Union, and to denounce the Constitution as a league with death and a covenant with the wicked one. These fanatics do not choose Gotham as their place of rendezvous because of any peculiar affinity of the sentiments of our people with their own; on the contrary, it is well understood that the opinions of the great mass of this community are adverse to the shrieking fanaticism of such men as Parker, Garrison, and Phillips; but New York is selected for the yearly howl mainly for the purpose of getting gratuitous advertisements in the widely-circulated metropolitan journals, and of having the movements of the howlers thus kept prominently before the people. 
We have hitherto been wont to look upon these fanatical people with some degree of allowance, considering that in the ravings of their leading spirits, they were only blowing off a superfluity of long pent up malignity, and that their wild rhetoric was but the precursor of the year's docility which was to follow. But at this time the doings of this Convention of the ‘out-and-outs' ought not to be underestimated, intimately connected as it is in sentiment, if not in action, with the Sectional party which is soon to meet in conclave at Chicago. Under guise of religion, these 'shriekers for freedom' are endeavoring, as usual, to push along the car of radical Abolitionism. It cannot be pushed much further, certainly, without touching, and getting Republicanism to harmonize with it. Indeed, we can have no better proof of the Abolition tendencies of the Republican party than will probably be afforded by the action of these anniversary folk. We may expect from them the highest laudation of Lovejoy in Congress, and Old Brown in Virginia, with the customary maledictions and anathemas upon everything and everybody that does not come up to the spirit and letter of their infatuation.-N. Y. Express.

From the Fayetteville  (N. C)  Presbyterian.
DANIEL WORTH.
The conduct of this deluded fanatic, since his return to the North, fully establishes the truth of the charges on which he was arraigned before the Courts of North Carolina, and the justice of the treatment which he received for violating the laws. His guilt was most clearly proved at his trial, but if any ground existed for a reasonable doubt, it has been removed by his acts and acknowledgments since his departure. He came here as an Abolition emissary, and the society under whose auspices he was sent selected him for the mission on account of his supposed fitness for the work. Great leniency was manifested towards him during the trial, and the heaviest part of the penalty which he had incurred was remitted in consideration of this age and the holy calling which he had assumed, and which he so shamefully dishonored. The punishment prescribed for the offence is imprisonment for not less than twelve months, and it is left to the discretion of the Judge to sentence the culprit to the pillory and the whipping-post. Worth was  convicted after an impartial trial before a jury, a large majority of whom were non-slaveholders, and after an able defence by two of the first lawyers in the State. The Judge magnanimously remitted the most ignominious and severe part of the punishment, and the reverend incendiary was sentenced merely to imprisonment. From this sentence he was released on bail, and the required bond was given by two slaveholders. A third slaveholder conducted him in safety from the State, and in all possible haste he fled to his friends and allies at the North. The first Sabbath after his arrival in New York, he is exhibited in Cheever's pulpit as a hero and a martyr, and on the next night (Monday of last week) the citizens of New York, white and black, old and young, men and women, 'assembled at the City Assembly Rooms to hear the statement of Rev. D. Worth, of North Carolina.'
‘TOO MUCH NIGGER.'
The Newburyport Herald, a Republican paper,says, feelingly--
‘There are 18,000,000 people in the free States, who have interests of their own to look after; they have commerce and fisheries, agriculture and man
<c02>
ufactures, Pacific railroads and internal improvements, all neglected in the everlasting/wrangle that the South forces upon us.We have no objection to their having skunks to play, with in their parlor, to; sleep in their beds, to flavor their broth; but when we go to church or political caucuses with them, we do have objections to their being carried there. So they may have their negro at home; but when the we have a joint political platform, we don't want the negro's head stuck in there; when we have a tariff bill, we don't want a negro's wool there; when we go to church, we don't want to have a little negro to worship at the door before we can bow at the altar. We have had negro administrations enough; and it is time the white man should have his chance now; and if Pennsylvania don't fail in November, he will have.'
So, to get rid of the' everlasting nigger,' the' Herald would place the Government in the hands of negro-worshippers:-on the principle of homœopathy, we suppose. That is to say, if you are suffering under an excess of' negroism' take more of it.-N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
Massachusetts, through her representatives, is inflicting nothing on the country but evil. In both branches she is arraigning the local institutions of fifteen sovereign sister States, the people of which are as competent, in every way, to determine what is best for them, as the people of Massachusetts are to determine what is best for her. How long will the people continue to endorse such folly? Will they follow Sumner into still deeper Abolitionism? or, will they resolve to return to the spirit of the Union of the Fathers?-Boston Post.

THE LIBERATOR.
POLITICAL  ANTI-SLAVEBY CONVENTION.
[Presuming that our readers would like to know something of what was said and done at the Political Anti-Slavery Convention held at Boston on the 29th ult., in response to a call issued by Stephen S. Foster, Rev. John Pierpont, J. H. Stephenson and others, we have condensed the following from the reports in the Boston papers. The reader will know how to make allowance for the prejudices as well as the haste of the reporters.] 
At 10 o'clock, A. M., Tuesday, May 29th, some fifty persons assembled in Mercantile Hall, pursuant to a call for a new political organization against slavery. J. H. Stephenson called the meeting to order, and read the call [for which see LIBERATOR of May 25th]. On his motion, the following officers were chosen:-
President-Rev. John Pierpont; Secretaries-Philemon Stacy, J. H. Fowler; Business Committee-S. S. Foster, J. Redpath, N. G. Allen, C. W. Eldridge, R. J. Hinton.
On taking the chair, Mr. Pierpont declared that he had always advocated political action in reference to slavery, as well as all other reforms. He quoted lines of his own, composed twenty years ago, to illustrate his views. He urged eloquently on the men of New England action at the polls. The South asks to be let alone. That is just what the devil asked of Jesus of Nazareth. He proposed to initiate measures that should not let slavery alone.
Mr. J. P. Blanchard, of Boston, announced himself as a Republican voter, for he was willing to get all he could from them, but he could see that the Republicans fall far short of the work to be done, and he was willing to co-operate with this meeting.
A letter was then read from Mr. James Redpath, declaring that he had no faith in conventions, but only in the sword and insurrection. He had attended, but one anti-slavery convention since last December, and then he saw not the platform for the scaffold of John Brown. He said he was pledged to the work of inciting an armed insurrection among the slaves of the South, and therefore could have nothing to do with peaceful agitation. There is no help for slavery in hair-splitting New England, but only in the rail-splitting North-west. He closed by declaring that he should vote for Lincoln and Hamlin, believing that their success would benefit the slave.
Mr. S. S. Foster declared himself astounded that such a man as Redpath should declare his willingness to vote for a man like Lincoln, who declared his willingness to be a slave-driver general. There is not a particle of difference between the Republicans and Democrats.
[Here a large number of persons denied Mr. Foster's positions, and he read the fourth resolution of the Chicago Platform, declaring that each State has the exclusive right to manage its own domestic institutions.
Mr. Foster continued, and endeavored to show that the Republican party has always sustained slavery inviolate in the States where it exists. He said the object of this organization is to put the spirit of Garrisonianism into the forms of law, and have an uncompromising political party. He declared the United States Constitution to be entirely anti-slavery, and that if its provisions were carried out, slavery would cease in an hour. [A gentleman asked Mr. Foster to favor the audience with the new light he had received on the Constitution, Mr. Foster having always declared the Constitution to be pro-slavery.]
Mr. H. C. Wright rose and declared that he would not discuss slavery as a moral question. He would put his heel on all Constitutions, Bibles, parties and religions that recognize the right of property in man.
Mr. R. J. Hinton spoke in behalf of Mr. Redpath and his views, and declared that the people of New England cannot appreciate the position of such men as Redpath. In New England, men think and deliberate, but the West reduces to practice. He defended the masses of Republicans as being soundly anti-slavery, but only such men as Mr. Redpath are ready to reduce anti-slavery principles to practice.
Mr. Wright resumed by asking whether the Constitution sanctions slavery. It is purely a political question, and a fair one. The South have the Constitution in their favor. If parties, Congress, Legislatures and Courts can be relied on, it sanctions slavery. Mr. W. did not see how any man could escape the position of the slaveholder. Their position is impregnable, and slavery is constitutional.
Mr. Pierpont spoke in behalf of the anti-slavery view of the Constitution, and briefly but clearly defended the Constitution as an anti-slavery document.He made a very logical and thorough speech, and con.
<c03>
cluded that, conceding that the parties framing the Constitution intended to recognise slavery-conceding that the concession was grammatically made, even then the parties could not band themselves and successors to sustain slavery, for it is morally wrong, and therefore could not be constitutional. He said the time had come for the North to rise up and insist that the Constitution should be literally carried out.
Mr. Pierpont said, till to-day he had resolved to vote for Lincoln and Hamlin, but he had to-day received the Tribune, which contained an extract from Mr. Lincoln, and he said it with inexpressible sorrow, that he (Lincoln) is not in favor of the unconditional repeal of the Fugitive Slave law. He could not vote for a man who held to that view. He could not be counted as a Republican, if such was the position of its candidate for the Presidency.
Mr. Roberts, of Stockton, Me., was glad to see that Mr. Foster had abandoned his old heresy, and he hoped he would be consistent, and simply endeavor to bring the majority up to the right ground, and place the government under anti-slavery influences. He recommended the meeting to vote the Republican ticket.
Here quite a struggle took place for the floor, and. it was awarded to a stranger, who replied to the legal argument of Mr. Pierpont in a very able and thorough manner.
At 2 o'clock the meeting adjourned.
AFTERNOON SESSION.-Mr. S. S. Foster, Chairman of the Business Committee, read the following resolutions as the platform of the association:-
1. Resolved, That the primary object of the movement we have this day met to inaugurate, is the immediate and entire extinction of slavery throughout , the whole country, by incorporating into the administration of the Federal Government the broad and comprehensive principles of the Declaration of Independence, upon which the Union was originally founded. We hold that it is both the right and duty of the slaves, equally with freemen, to defend their own liberty by every means which God and nature have placed in their power, at whatever cost to the master and his abettors. We also hold it to be the imperative duty of the National Government to protect all the inhabitants of the country in the full enjoyment of all their natural rights; and the administration or party which seeks to evade this duty, under any pretext whatever, we regard as false to the principle of democratic government, false to the Constitution, false to every principle of moral obligation which binds us together as a civil community, a dishonor to the country, and utterly unworthy of the confidence and support of any sincere friend of freedom.
2. Resolved, That the United States Constitution, fairly interpreted, is entirely and unequivocally on the side of freedom. It prohibits the existence of slavery in the States, and invests the Federal Government with ample powers to abolish it wherever found, whether under Territorial or State legislation, and we insist upon the immediate application of these powers to the removal of an evil which has already made our country a reproach to the cause of freedom throughout the civilized world.
3. Resolved, That we repudiate the anti-democratic doctrine of the Democratic party, that the Supreme Court is the ultimate arbiter in all questions involving the interpretation of the Constitution. By our theory of government, the people are the only rightful rulers of the country, and the Courts, as well as the Legislature and the Executive, are their agents, with authority simply to execute the popular will. Hence it is the right and duty of the people to review, and for sufficient reasons to reverse, their decisions; and any Court, the Judges of which should refuse to obey the clearly-expressed wishes of a popular majority, would be an intolerable despotism, which should be at once abolished.
4. Resolved, That the assumption that the Constitution recognizes slavery ‘by tacit consent,' ‘by indirect implication,' by equivocal terms,' ‘by an outside understanding among its drafters,' and' by the uniform interpretation' given it by a corrupt government, composed mostly of slaveholders, when the word slave does not occur therein, nor any words which adequately describe a slave, nor any terms which imply that there can be property in man, when its expressed objects contradict it, and many of its positive provisions forbid it, or are altogether incompatible with it; when slavery at the time had not the shadow of positive law for its establishment in the country, but, on the contrary, had been pronounced illegal by the King's Bench in the Somerset decision, and legally abolished by the Declaration of Independence. To make this assumption, in view of these facts, is to reverse the well-established principle that law should be interpreted to favor justice, and to render a just government among men an impossibility.
The Chairman called the attention of the meeting to the presence of Rev. Mr. Worth, of North Carolina, who had been incarcerated for months in a Southern jail for circulating Helper's book, as a proof that political action is necessary to protect the citizens from oppression.
Mr. S. S. Foster said the friends of anti-slavery are destroying each other by their divisions. Union among the friends of anti-slavery is of the first importance. There ought to be a platform on which all can agree. There ought to be a political platform on which a Garrisonian can stand, and a Garrisonian platform on which politicians can stand. Mr. Foster defended at length the Constitution as an anti-slavery instrument, giving a historical and logical exposition, and detailing the process of his own change of opinion. [The Chairman here exhibited a photograph of Thaddeus Hyatt, which was received with demonstrations of applause.]
Mr. Foster finished his speech by saying that he believed that a party acting on this platform only lacks numbers to give freedom to every slave.
Mr. Henry C. Wright controverted the positions of Messrs. Pierpont and Foster, and said, the only consistent thing for them to do, is to come out and advocate a Northern Confederacy, and not seek by this now movement to' whip the devil round the stump.'
Mr. Foster made further remarks, and 
Wendell Phillips took the floor, and said that while he had respect for the talent of those who held that
<c04>
Constitution is anti-slavery, he had yet to see the smallest homoeopathic amount of reason in all that had ever been said. He declared that Omnipotence could not have framed a more unanswerable way of settling the fact that the Constitution was intended to sanction slavery than history records. And such a party as is here contemplated can never accomplish anything. Mr. Phillips gave the principles of the new party a terrible overhauling, that seemed to be responded to by most of the audience. He said he was not sent into this world to free slaves, but to keep his troth with his brother, and then if slaves got free, well and good; if not, the consequences rest with God. He characterized the government proposed by this movement as a nuisance, and the movement itself as a farce.
Rev. Daniel Worth (out on bail from a North Carolina jail for circulating Helper's book) said that moral action is insufficient to overthrow slavery. We must have political action. He said no vice could ever be controlled without political action, without law to suppress it. He said he was here to collect money to pay his bail, ($3,000,) or he must return and spend his days in a Southern jail.
Meeting adjourned.
EVENING SESSION.-At 8 o'clock a small audience was called to order, and Mr. J. H. Stephenson took the floor. He gave to the Garrisonians great credit for the anti-slavery sentiment of the country, but he knew of no way of abolishing slavery but by voting. The Democratic and Republican parties are not anti-slavery. We must attack slavery where it is, and not, as the Republican party does, where it is not. Even the Republicans condemn insurrection, and thus deny the right that every man possesses-the right of revolution; they confine their anti-slavery efforts to opposing the extension of slavery. But we must have a political party based on anti-slavery principles.
Mr. J. B. Swazey could not admit the reasoning of the advocates of this new movement, and he must be allowed to suppose that Mr. Foster was as much mistaken now as he admits he has been for twenty years. The question of all others with the speaker is a practical one. What good can such a party do? It could accomplish nothing, and he preferred to remain outside of government and all parties, and protest against the act of our Government in enslaving four millions of men. He thought it was a new and hurtful attempt at splitting the anti-slavery household. He thought all who desire anti-slavery action had better vote the Republican ticket.
Dr. Mellen here attempted to speak, but it was not pleasant to a portion of the hearers, and after an amusing discussion on the subject, Mr. Mellen spoke five minutes, and subsided with the declaration that he had been incarcerated in an insane hospital because the political parties feared that he would mar their plans.
Mr. Hinton, from the Business Committee, then reported the following additional resolution, after paying an eloquent tribute to Thaddeus Hyatt:-
Resolved, As a preparatory means to secure the desired result, we now form ourselves into an association, to be known as THE NEW ENGLAND POLITICAL ANTI-SLAVERY ASSOCIATION, and we recommend to the friends of liberty throughout New England, who sympathize with us in these views, to form affiliating associations on these principles, for the purpose of discussing them before the people, and preparing for their practical realization; we also recommend to our friends throughout the West to organize in the same manner and for the same purposes; and we hope soon to see formed a general United States Association of Political Abolitionists, and very soon to see a National Political Anti-Slavery party, organized upon a platform of uncompromising hostility to slavery in every part of the United States, and as determined in their efforts throughout the whole extent of the country as the most rabid Southern State is now determined on its perpetuation.
[Another resolution was offered, eulogistic of Thaddeus Hyatt and his position.]
Mr. J. H. Fowler said that the Republican party was not an abolition one at all, and this drove us to form a new party, and he was ready, if need be, to put a dagger, a Sharp's rifle, or anything else in his hand to assist the slave in obtaining his freedom. He would not support the nominees of the Republican party.
Mr. Bunting, of Boston, a Republican, defended the Republican party. He said that the Republicans had started the right movement, and Mr. Lincoln was going to carry it out.
Dr. Doy, of Kansas, denounced the Republican party, and spoke in favor of the new movement. An excited debate ensued between Messrs. Bunting and Doy in relation to these two parties.
Mr. Foster again took the stand, and said that he was surprised to hear Mr. Phillips say that men holding such sentiments as he (Foster) and Pierpont held in relation to the Constitution could not be men of common sense. He replied to Mr. Phillips's argument at great length, and at the conclusion of his remarks, on motion of Mr. Hinton, the Convention adjourned to meet in Worcester some time during the summer, the time of meeting to be left with the President of the Convention and the Chairman of the Business Committee. 

CHURCH ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
This society held its anniversary by two public meetings at the Tremont Temple on Tuesday, May 29th. The speakers were Rev. J. R. W. Sloane, of the Reformed Presbyterian church, New York; Rev. A. W. Ide, Congregational church, Stafford, Conn,; Rev. John Duncan, Baptist church, Boston; Rev. Daniel Worth, North Carolina; Rev. R. Dunn, Free Will Baptist church, Boston; Rev. J. S. Green, Sandwich Islands; Rev. Dr. Cheever, New York. The Secretary, Rev. Henry T. Cheever, of Connecticut, submitted the following resolutions at the morning meeting, which were adopted:-
1. Resolved, That when the politicians of the most advanced political school or party in our country are coolly asserting that the only solution which the question of African slavery admits of, among us, is the' confessedly cruel and unchristian process of driving them out'-it is time for the friends of God and man,
<c05>
who are opposed on grounds of eternal justice, to any solution of this question, that is cruel and unchristian, to make themselves heard against such a policy; and so much the more, because it is gravely argued, that, although the philanthropy and mercy of sensitive hearts may wail out their protests against its sin and its miseries, yet the fast-footed system of American slavery so laughs to scorn all the notions of humanity, and so threatens, if slavery be touched,' to pull down the pillars of the political communities associated together, under a common government, that it will not do to entertain the question of the immediate emancipation of the servile race, where they are found.
2. Resolved, Further, that when it is seriously maintained' that the separation of the white and black races is all-important as a means of promoting national harmony and progress;' and when the idea of ‘negro equality,' and of a common participation, by the black man, in the protection and privileges of a free government, is ignored or scouted by political speculators and journalists, as belonging only to dreamers and enthusiasts,-it is time for men of principle and men of prayer, who believe that God hath made of one blood all nations of men, for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and that the rights of man, as man, are sacred and inalienable, without distinction of blood or races,-it is time for such Christian men, of all sects and denominations, to protest unitedly against these infidel views, in the name of our common Christianity, as being a practical denial of the fatherhood of God, and the common brotherhood of man.
3. Resolved, That it is for the Church Anti-Slavery Society, in the name of Christ, and as acting in behalf of the great company of fellow-citizens with the saints, and of the household of God, everywhere to erect a break water against the infidel views, in regard to' negroes, and the descendants of negroes,' which are becoming alarmingly prevalent in Church and State.
4. Resolved, That in the judgment of this meeting, there is grave reason to fear that the decisions of our judiciary, respecting' negroes and the descendants of negroes,' which have contravened, not only the first principles of Natural Justice, but the very cardinal notions of Christianity itself; and the recent slurs in the United States Senate, at the protest and plea of a Christian conscience against usurpation, (a plea, by reason of which we are a Republic, to-day, because, in the language of Senator Hale,' men were found in the olden times who set up their consciences against the law of the existing governments,') there is grave reason to fear that these, and other alarming strides of despotism, will bring Christianity and the government into conflict, and, if not arrested, will ultimately array Christian churches, and Christian ministers, against the unchristian laws and policy of the land.
5. Resolved, That we therefore deem it to be a legitimate work of the Church Anti-Slavery Society, to rouse, and give expression to the Christian conscience of the nation against slavery, and against whatever legislative or judicial Acts or Decisions are contrary to God's law and to natural justice, and by so doing, TO MAKE THE CHRISTIAN ELEMENT OF THE COUNTRY MORE POTENTIAL IN PUBLIC AFFAIRS, AND TO PERVADE, IF POSSIBLE, THE REALM OF POLITICS WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF RELIGION.
At the evening meeting, the Secretary offered a series of resolutions, respecting the imprisonment of Thaddeus Hyatt, in Washington jail. He also read a very eloquent letter from the prisoner. The following are the resolutions:-
Whereas, at the moment we are assembled to discuss, with unfettered freedom, all the aspects of our great national sin, and its relations to our government, there lies incarcerated in the Washington jail, at the order of the United States Senate, an eminently worthy citizen of the United States, for the alleged crime of refusing to acknowledge the right of a Senatorial Committee to compel him to testify, at their bidding, in the interest of slavery; therefore we, in behalf of many Christian freemen insulted in his person, would take this occasion to proffer him our warm sympathy, and our grateful acknowledgments for the integrity and firmness with which he has resisted a most dangerous usurpation of the Senate at the behest of Slavery.
Resolved, That while we are justly indignant at the betrayal of liberty in this case by honorable Senators from the North, who took an unworthy and unlooked-for part in procuring the incarceration of our honest fellow-citizen, we have no language left to stigmatize the baseness of others who would turn away the public odium from the authors and abettors of this outrage, by slurring at the position of Mr. Hyatt as that of a mock philanthropist, envious of the glory of martyrdom. Incapable of believing that in the evil days of venality and corruption on which we have fallen, any one can be found to stand and suffer for a principle, they are forced to seek a motive for a disinterested act of courage and patriotism in the realm of selfishness and vanity.
Resolved, That we congratulate the friends of freedom that there is found among us a Hampden, who not only refuses to pay ship-money to Charles, but freely offers his own money from the prison-house of tyranny, for the best loyal and popular essay upon the very question for the assertion of which he is in bonds. And we trust that the motto of the noble Hampden, Nulla Vestigia Retrorsum, will be maintained to the last by our suffering brother, with the uncompromising resolution to linger, and, if need be, die in prison, sooner than to purge himself of the alleged crime of contempt of the United States Senate' by purging himself before God,' in declaring that , he believes the self-constituted Court of the Senate to have the constitutional right and authority to compel him to make answer to their interrogations.
<illegible>MASS MEETING.
A crowded and most enthusiastic assembly gathered in the Melodeon on Thursday evening, May 31st. R. J. Hinton, of Kansas, called the meeting to order, and it was organised by the choice of J. H. Stephenson, Esq., as President, and R. J. Hinton, as Secretary. The case of Thaddeus Hyatt, in jail at Washington, was the subject before the meeting. Samuel
<c06>
E. Sewall, Esq., the counsel of Mr. Hyatt, was the first speaker, and commenced by presenting resolutions condemning the imprisonment of Mr. Hyatt in strong terms.
Mr. Sewall remarked that all ware familiar with the main points in the Hyatt case. A man is in a prison cell for no crime, but for an alleged contempt of the Senate-a contempt based upon the fact that Mr. Hyatt wished to present his reasons for not appearing before that body. The committee appointed to examine into the Harper's Ferry affair, summon witnesses, &c., originated in the brain of Mr. Mason, author of the Fugitive Slave Law. The true object of the committee was to stigmatize the leaders of the Republican party; the avowed object, to ascertain who had committed crimes called treason by Virginia. But the direct object failed; the party is not injured by it, although they have acted meanly in reference to it. Men were sent for to convict themselves of crime! Giddings, Howe, Stearns, Andrew, &c, and Sanborn from your own midst, who was rescued by your noble men, and women, too. Refractory witnesses were reported by Mr. Mason; a marshal was sent to Boston for Hyatt, and returned with him, one of his most heinous crimes being the raising of twenty-four hundred dollars for John Brown's family, with no pecuniary profit to himself. Mr. Sewall stated that Mr. Hyatt's refusal to answer the demands of the Senate was on constitutional grounds, that it had no right to act in a judicial capacity; and when two questions were propounded to him by the Senate, (1st, what excuse he had for not appearing? and 2d, are you now ready to answer questions? &c.) he laid his argument before them, and this was called 'contempt,' and he was hurried to jail. Hyatt is suffering for a great principle, and deserves aid and sympathy.
F. B. Sanborn, of Concord fame, was next introduced, and received with most tumultuous applause. He avowed a peculiar interest in the occasion, a personal interest in constitutional rights violated by the Senate. He spoke modestly of his own experience, and set forth in clear language the constitutional grounds taken by himself and other' refractory witnesses’.  Northern Senators were notified of the expected summons to Northern men, men who would never be taken alive to the tribunal at Washington; but the warning was of no avail; the Senators must sacrifice principle to party. Sanborn said his case was settled; John Brown, Jr.'s was settled; the whole United States cannot take him from Ohio. It is possible to take a man from Massachusetts; it has been done twice. Mr. Hyatt's case has peculiar claims, because he threw himself into the jaws of the lion, for the sustaining of the rights of all citizens.
Rev. Dr. Cheever, of New York, said the Senate in getting hold of Hyatt had caught a Tartar, and the people have found a hero. Dr. Cheever read a spirited, high-toned letter received from Mr. Hyatt, who said he supposed he was to fight slavery in Kansas, but no! 'twas in the prison, and as he 'understood  the lions there, he could stir them up.’
Give us a Judiciary who have a sense of right; a heart and conscience in the people to take the Constitution, and apply it legally as it can be done, and slavery will be abolished.
The Constitution can be used as a free instrument, and would that the gifted orator (Phillips) would use his magic eloquence in showing that slavery could claim no protection under the Constitution! The Court is free, if put in the hands of freedom lovers. Hyatt's argument should be made public, and he has now the leisure to do it. A principle is being urged upon us that people are to obey wicked laws enacted by Congress; Chief Justice Hale proclaimed the supremacy of God's law in the conscience, and perhaps this idea may get into the heart of the American Board in this, their year of Jubilee-a Jubilee to pay old debts! Let them make it a real Jubilee by declaring that no slaveholder shall become or remain a member of any church under their charge. This would be a Jubilee.
Because Hyatt talked of a conscience, 'twas contempt! We all have a heartfelt conscientious contempt of the Senate, but where is the law to punish? A jury trial is guarantied to all by the Constitution, but, in this Hyatt case, every right given us by our laws is violated. The Constitution gives the Senate no power such as has been exercised; and if the Senate can assume it, as it has, what is the use of a Constitution? Where is the article giving any power to the Senate to use compulsory processes in testimony from witnesses forced before a mousing, miserable committee? ‘Twould be a blessing if our government could be tied up for fifty years, and prevented from enacting any law save one for abolishing slavery. It is a sad omen that this Hyatt case is received so quietly by the American public; I endorse the remark made by an eminent divine, who has spoken in this city this week, who, when going into his prayer-meeting after hearing of the incarceration of Hyatt, said, 'Brethren, I am so mad I can't pray. This is a madness that God will not disapprove of; it is a' holy indignation'! People are bound to take Hyatt out of prison-I do not say how; let Providence point the way. If the Senate can use lynch law, why wonder that other mobs do likewise?
Dr. Cheever's address was most enthusiastically applauded.
James Redpath was next called for, but declined being made a human sandwich between Cheever and Phillips.
Wendell Phillips was received with tremendous applause, so long continued that the orator said the audience had made the speech for him. Referring to Dr. Cheever, he asked what he could say when John Knox had spoken. He could not gainsay him; let him thunder in God's name against every evil. He went on in his own impassioned style, receiving great applause. While giving Dr. Cheever the compliment of being the noblest clergyman in the United States, and according him the highest praise as a fearless champion of liberty, yet, he could not agree with him on the constitutional question. Linking Hyatt with the glittering list of the safeguards of liberty, he analyzed the whole Hyatt subject in a masterly style, though in his own radical way. He offered two resolutions, bearing upon the subject before the meeting , which were adopted.
The meeting broke up at the late hour of 104.

NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution in'a covenant with death,and an agreement with hell'
The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution.. . .There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THIS RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. . . . No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'
WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE PLOT AGAINST MR. SUMNER.
The following circumstantial account of the several efforts made by suspicious persons to obtain a private interview with Senator Sumner on Friday night, is given by the correspondent of the New York Post -
About 6 o'clock P. M. Friday, a gentleman called upon Mr. Sumner, who was alone, and was cordially received by Mr. Sumner. He opened his conversation by saying that he was one of that class who had been slandered by his late speech ; that he was a Southern man and a slaveholder, and that he had called to hear him explain his speech, and to hold him responsible for it. Mr. Sumner replied that he had no views to present other than those contained in his speech, to which he referred him, and informed him that he wished to have no further conversation with him, at the same time pointing him to the door. The gentleman insisted upon talking, and Mr. Sumner ordered him to leave. Finally Mr. Sumner rose and crossed the room to ring the bell, for the purpose of bringing a servant to show the gentleman out. The gentleman then arose from his seat and stood in front of Mr. Sumner, with his right hand behind him, saying that he was a public man, and as such he had a right to call upon him; and announced that he was one of four who had come from Virginia, for the express purpose of holding him responsible for the sentiments contained in his speech, and that they would call upon him again, and demand a private interview. He then left, with the remark that ï¿½he had repeatedly been ordered out, and, by-, he had not obeyed the summons.
ï¿½After this stranger left, Mr. Sumner sent for his friend Wilson to consult with him as to the best course to be pursued in the matter.
Whilst Messrs. Sumner and Wilson were in conversation, another gentleman called and inquired of the servant if Mr. Sumner was in his room. On being answered in the affirmative, he inquired if he was alone. The answer was in the negative, when he sent word to Mr. Sumner that he had called to see him, but, not finding him alone, he would call again Mr. Wilson, hearing the message, immediately repaired to the door, and met the gentleman, and urged him to go up to Mr. Sumnerï¿½s room. He declined, as he wished to see him alone. Mr. Wilson could not induce him to see Mr. Sumner.
About nine o'clock, three gentlemen called and made the same inquiry, and receiving the same answer, that Mr. Sumner was not alone, sent word by the servant-woman that Mr. Henry and two friends had called, but not finding him alone, would call again in the morning, for the purpose of a private interview, and if they could not have such an interview, ï¿½they would cut his d-d throat before the next night.'
Early Saturday morning, a number of Mr. Sumner's friends were at his room, when Mr. Wattles, a friend of Mr. Sumner, called, and at the same time a gentleman by the name of Darien. Both names being announced together, it was supposed that this Darien was a friend whom Mr. Wattles had brought with him; both were admitted at the same time. Mr. Wattles proceeded to shake hands with all in the room, after which the stranger, still standing in the door, announced that he wished to see Mr. Sumner, who replied, ' I am Mr. Sumner.' The stranger said. 'My name is Darien, and I wish to see you privately.' Mr. Sumner replied: ' You can see me here, and now. I do not know you.' The stranger refused to enter, and proceeded to back out. Messrs. Burlingame and Potter-not knowing that he was one of the party to the threatened assassination, and thinking Mr. Sumner might have been hasty-advanced to the stranger, and urged him to enter, but he refused, saying, if he could not see Mr. Sumner alone at that time, he would call again. By this time, suspicion being aroused, one of Mr. Sumner's friends went after the stranger as he went out; but before he could get down the stairs, the stranger was out of sight, having disappeared in one of the adjacent houses.
It is proper to add, that Mr. Sumner and his immediate friends were exceedingly anxious that the matter should be kept quiet, but some one sent a dispatch to Boston, and it was useless longer to attempt to keep it secret.

WILLIAM S. BAILEY.
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune:
SIR: For years past I have given to Wm. S. Bailey, ' editor of the free South newspaper, letters asking the friends of liberal opinions in the United States and elsewhere to aid him by pecuniary donations. For reasons satisfactory to myself, I feel it my duty to recall all such letters and recommendations.
C. M. CLAY.
WHITE HALL, April 30, 1860. 
P. S. -Boston Atlas, New York Evening Post, Anti-Slavery Standard, Boston Liberator, and other liberal journals will favor public justice by publishing the above. C.
[The above letter was published in the New York Tribune, May 9th, 1860ï¿½.-W. S. B.] 
After the Chicago Convention, I wrote the following letter for the Tribune, which was not published. I therefore send it to other journals, and ask that liberality and fairness for a hearing claimed for America to all her citizens:-
NEWPORT, Ky., May 21st, 1800. 
Editor of New York Tribune: 
SIR: I see in your paper of the 9th inst., a card from C. M. Clay, recalling all his letters for years past, commendatory of myself and labors, to the friends of freedom. Why he did this, I know not. 
To correct any wrong impression his letter might make against me, permit me to state that he requested me, last fall, to abandon my (our) Kentucky Free State Platform, stating that he (they of Madison county) had adopted, simply, the Philadelphia Republican Platform of 1856. So I republished said Platform for the sake of unity, as we expected to vote with the Republican party in 1860, acknowledging Mr. Clay as our leader, but did not abandon our Kentucky State Platform as he requested; for I still thought that the citizens of Kentucky should take some State action for the final abolition of slavery among us; which, I thought, would be as consistent as it was for other States that had done so, and that are now free. I think so still. 
For us, Kentuckians, to raise our voice against the ' extension ' of slavery, and yet have nothing to say against the evil of it in our own midst, would be, I think, ridiculous before the world, and inconsistent with ourselves. 
I have no apology to make to Mr. Clay for my course; and if he has none to make to me for his. I bid him farewell. His letter, I think, will do me but little harm. May it do as little to him! I wish him no ill. I have always been true to principle, and trust ever to remain so. But, I must say, his letter is a cold and unnatural thrust, without cause. I have been his shield and helper, and now, in a crushed condition and needy, he seeks my ruin. 
I have lately procured a small quantity of type, and got my small printing-press at home, by which I hope soon to let all my friends hear from me; and I trust in this hour of peril they will not forsake me. 
My suit is still pending against the mobites, and I hope for redress for the injuries I received at their hands; after which, if not before, I shall issue The Free South again ; and, though mobs, fire and persecution have been my fate, and though misguided 'non-extensionists' may forsake me, I shall continue to do my duty in the great work of human freedom-shall maintain the liberty of speech and of the press in Kentucky, and contend for the return of our citizens that were banished from Berea, and other parts of our State. Men should never be banished from their homes because they love liberty, nor will any true man ever lay down his pen, or close his lips against his fellow-sufferers, while such usurpations last. 
Friends writing to me will please address Box 9, Covington, Ky., instead of Newport, as the postmaster here (J. Q. A. Foster) is a pro-slavery mobite, in person, in the destruction of my office. 
The Covington postmaster, Doctor Holt, is an honorable gentleman, and is an opposer of mobs. 
Respectfully yours. 
WILLIAM S. BAILEY. 
P. S. Editors who published Mr. Clay's letter, and who favor equal justice, please copy. W.S.B.
Fredrick Douglass has returned to the United States. He came unannounced, and had been home several weeks before the fact was known to the public. It is now announced in his paper, in contradiction or reconsideration of a notice that appeared a few weeks since, that Frederick Douglass's paper will not be discontinued, but will be issued regularly every week.
<c02>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, JUNE 15, 1860.
THE INSURRECTION OF 1776!
The eighty-fifth anniversary of this great American triumph will be celebrated by a grand MASS MEETING, in the handsome and commodious Grove in FRAMINGHAM, on Wednesday, July 4th. Turning with abhorrence from the mockery of commemorating the achievements of Freedom by servility to Slavery, let all who hate despotism in the garb of Democracy and Republicanism as well as of Monarchy, and would overthrow it by every weapon that may be legitimately wielded against it, assemble to consider the solemn and pregnant issues of the hour-how we may best preserve the principles of the Revolution, and carry them forward to a speedy and enduring triumph. 
Special trains will run upon the different railroads, as heretofore. An able corps of eloquent speakers will be in attendance. [Particulars hereafter.] 
FRANCIS JACKSON, WM. LLOYD GARRISON, E. H. HEYWOOD, HENRY O. STONE, CHARLES A. HOVEY, GEO. W. STACY, Committee of Arrangements,
IMPRISONMENT OF THADDEUS HYATT.
SPEECH OF WEDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ. 
At the Melodeon, Thursday evening, May 31. 
Phonographic report for THE LIBERATOR by J. M. W. YERRINTION.
Mr. PHILLIPS, on coming forward to speak, was greeted with cheer upon cheer of spontaneous and most enthusiastic applause. When the tumult had somewhat subsided, he said:-
I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, you have made the speech, for I certainly have nothing to offer worthy of such a welcome. What can I say, when JOHN KNOX [Rev. Dr. CHEEVER preceded Mr. PHILLIPS] has spoken? (Applause.) Whatever he may do, God grant Scotland may melt in his hand! I could not find it in my lips to gainsay any principle by which he can make his diocese include the Carolinas Let him thunder in God's name against every system of wickedness all over the land. I will only bid him God-speed!
But we come here to-night for a great constitutional principle, impersonated in one man. The Senate has stretched out its hands for some dozen individuals- given them the most winning and flattering invitation to visit Washington, at the expense of the government. (Laughter.) There was our friend who has just addressed you [FRANK B. SANBORN, Esq.,]-Senator Mason beckoned to him most lovingly. It was the old ditty of the nursery-
'Come into my parlor, 
Said the spider to the fly, 
'Tis the prettiest little parlor 
That ever you did spy'-
but, singularly enough, our friend would not go. Mr. Hyatt saw his duty differently. It takes all sorts of men to make a world. He thought he saw a great principle at stake between the nation and the individual-thought the time had come, the hour, when another stone was to be laid in the temple of individual liberty. He took time, but at last he went to Washington. He wanted to arm himself with argument; and, like the monster that Hercules attacked, he wanted first to touch Mother Earth, and be strengthened. Where did he come? Thank God for so much credit to the old city, he came and hid himself under the laws of our Commonwealth, and called on that noble descendant of three judges, who stood on this plat-form to-night, SAMUEL E. SEWALL, (applause,) and that other favorite of the State, JOHN A. ANDREW, (renewed applause,) to fill his hands with argument for the Senate of the United States; then he went to Washington. Some men say he was a fool to go. Well, that is the need that such men usually earn. Hume thanks the Puritans for saving the liberty of England; while of the Puritans, or of their brothers, the Covenanters, it was said, 
ï¿½They bought, stern rushing upon Clavers' spears, 
The freedom and the scorn of after years,ï¿½
That is the penalty which all such men pay for saving races. They are the dead lumber, the scaffolding ; when the building is finished, thrown aside, unsightly, gotten out of the way, or making the path over which triumphant posterity walks to the enjoyment of its victory. But your duty and mine is to see behind the man, the principle. It rests wholly on our shoulders. One of my predecessors on this platform said the Republicans had meanly sneaked off from the post. What could they do better? An empty bag cannot stand on end! (Laughter and applause.) Do not ask them for bricks-they have no straw, nor hay either! (Renewed merriment.) They are engaged on the Territories-far off; they are looking to the, election, and to see whether the national anthem shall run 'tweedle-dum' or 'tweedle-dee.' (Laughter.) They cannot defend us, they cannot help us, and you ask too much when you expect it. Lament it as much as you please. It is very hard measure, when we see our idols all clay, breaking to pieces before our eyes; but it is God's lesson, and we are to learn it. William H. Seward saw the bauble of the Presidency glittering before him, and when Thaddeus Hyatt, representing constitutional liberty at the bar of the Senate, sat there, turned his back on him, and went out of the door. (Cries of 'Shame,' 'shame') He paid that price for the ghost of a chance of a nomination. Ought we not, after a fair view of the real interest of men and the times, to thank God that he was cheated out of it? (Applause.) Is it not better for the nation's health that such should be the result? He should have read the lesson of his time better- but the looker-on can always play the game better than he who holds the cards. His grandson will see the day when he would have thanked God a thousand times more to have heard such lips as those we have just listened to link his name with Hampden, with Cromwell, with Washington, with Hyatt, with John Brown, (enthusiastic cheering,) than drag it through the kennel of Polk. Buchanan and Pierce. (Applause and hisses.) The Republicans, therefore, cannot help us. We stand in an hour when we are to make law, as all our past law has been made. We hitch along- we Saxons-with uneven wheels, gaining an inch at a time. Our Constitution is no stately temple, like a Frenchman's, harmonious, every part, balanced and shapely, according to architectural rule. It is an old English mansion, full of gables and windows, entries that lead no where, and passages that no one can find his way out of. Mr. Hyatt is in one: of them. It is a scanty foothold won by poor men from despotism, by snatching their opportunity; it is an armory of weapons, forged each for a special occasion ; it is a record of struggles, every one of them consuming a century, eating up a generation; and leaving some hard-earned writ, with a barbarous name, like habeas corpus, as the trophy and result of ages of straggle. That is what our Constitution is; and we stand to-day just in this crisis of making a new precedent for liberty; and hereafter the name of Thaddeus Hyatt is to float down the stream of time linked with a new safeguard for individual rights. (Applause.) Let me set before you my impression, and in order to do it, let me read to you two resolutions that I want to offer to this meeting, to show what our idea of the true safeguard of individual liberty is :-
Resolved, That the practice of legislative bodies to punish a citizen at their discretion for acts which they consider contempt of their authority-seeing that neither the offence nor the punishment is fixed by known laws, bat depends largely on the discretion and 
<c03>
passing mood of the Legislature-is one of the worst features of despotism, rests in reality on the principle of an ex post facto law, is utterly unjust as making one party not only judge in its own case, bat executioner of its own sentence, and is therefore properly no part of the common and parliamentary law adopted in this country, being wholly repugnant to the principles of the United States and every State Constitution, as well as utterly subversive of the rights of the citizen; and however sanctioned by custom or heedless submission, should be met always with determined resistance by every lover of liberty. (Applause.) 
Resolved, That when an individual disturbs the quiet of a legislative hall, or refuses to obey the order of a Legislature, the only power it has over him is to commit him to the executive to await punishment, like any other law-breaker, and such individual is entitled to have his offence and his punishment described and fixed by settled and known laws, to trial before a jury, and to all the other safeguards that free institutions throw around the citizen, and that to admit any other power in a Legislature is to violate the cardinal principle of free government, by mixing the legislative and judicial and executive powers; is, in fact, to yield up sacred individual rights to party hate, personal caprice, or official discretion, which is but another name for despotism. (Applause.)
I mean to be very short, for it is late, and the man whose words are bullets [JAMES REDPATH] is to come after me; but I wish to state my views of the hour in which we stand. I do not agree with Dr. Cheever that we have got a Constitution with a nose of wax. I believe that when four million of people made the Constitution, they knew what they meant, that they wrote down what they meant, and that what those four million of people meant, and what twenty-five million of people acquiesce in to-day, is the law of the land. Dr. Cheever stands here to-night, and points us with terrible emphasis to the Senate's violation of the Constitution of the United States. Half an hour before, he had said that he hoped the day would come when the swarming millions of the North would take that instrument into their hands, and wrest it in be-half of liberty. That same principle justifies the Senate in wresting it to-day according to their ideas of right. (Applause.) That sword has a double edge. If our Dr. Cheever may stand on the shifting sands of an equivocal Constitution, and lift it up to the level of his conscience, and call it law, John C. Calhoun may take his stand also on the same un-meaning document, and sink it to the level of his conscience and ideas of law. (Applause.) I want no such double-jointed limp and wet brown-paper instrument as the ideal of my Constitution of the United States. The labors of three centuries did not culminate in such a cheat. The great principle of written and limited Constitutions,-the land-mark on the ocean of the world's civil progress,-is no such sand line, to be wiped out with every shifting wave. No; Sir John Eliot, the great prototype of Thaddeus Hyatt-the victim in a dungeon of Charles I. to similar illegal imprisonment which Thaddeus Hyatt, his legitimate child in the nineteenth century, endures to-day-the fruit of that martyr-death in an English jail, is no such cheat, no such bitter ashes on our lips. We have a Constitution. I am going to try to show you by it that the Senate of the United States are tyrants; and in order to do that, I must acknowledge that the Constitution has a fixed and definite meaning. My friend said of me, with kindly compliment, that he wished I could see eye to eye with him, and swell the torrent of his eloquent denunciation, until, echoed back by the Rocky Mountains, we could sweep the North, and pour it out, as in the days of the Crusades, on annihilated Carolina. (Loud applause.) As far as mere wish goes, I wish so too. I would do anything to serve my country, but I would not tell a lie to save it. (Renewed cheering.) What would he think-(pardon me a moment, if I am jealous of any criticism on this movement)-what would he think, if I went to the door of that Union Place Church, and said to him, ' Show me your creed! Atonement-Trinity-Election-and all the time-honored symbols of Orthodox theology' I sign it. Suppose I have imbibed the sentiments of our idolized and beloved friend, Theodore Parker. (Applause.) But I sign it nevertheless, and he turns to me and says, 'What, you believe in the Trinity?' 'Never!' 'What, you a convert to Election?' 'Not a bit of it!' Why, then, is your name there?' 'I want to get inside your Church in order to convert it; I want a pedestal upon which to stand; I want to say aye, when my soul says no, in order to get inside your defences, and fight to better advantage.' My Bible says that once upon a time, in the records of far off ages, a certain one took a Divine Spirit to the loftiest pinnacle of the Temple and said, ' Fall down and worship, and I will give you the world for an inheritance.' These ethics would have advised, ï¿½Fall down, and when you have got the world, kick the Devil out of it the first thing you do, for he has no right there' (applause)-(that is, supposing one who vaulted into a throne with such a double-dealing and Jesuit oath, would not be the most real and the tallest Devil of the two.) But my record reads that he said, ï¿½Get thee behind me, Satan!'-and angels came and ministered to him; (applause,) mightier in that moment, than if, by the Devil's permission, he had sat on the throne of the Universe-and the same is true of reigning in the White House at Washington or Pandemonium either; and I ought to have put Washington last, to save the climax. (Laughter and applause.)
But, we have a Constitution; we got it with a great struggle. What is the history of liberty? Government began in despotism and usurpation-began in the violence of the soldier and the trickery of the priest. By and by, after the king for centuries had said, ' This is mine,' and took it without paying for it; 'That house is mine,' and took it without compensation; there arose the middle class, the House of Commons, and said to Royalty, ' Thus far, no farther. The king shall not have the right to put a man into jail because he says he has committed contempt.' They girdled his authority. He stays whipped to-day. But the cunning House of Commons, the Legislature and the Courts, retain that very power; only they call it the power to commit for contempt. Thus we stand to-day. If I should owe Chief Justice Taney twenty-five dollars, he can not touch a hair of my head, not until he gets the verdict of twelve men to say it; but if he asked me a question, and I refuse to answer, that same Constitution which puts a jury between him and me, on a question of twenty-five dollars-according to the Senate of the United States-and William H. Seward going out of the door, (laughter)-says he may put me in jail for life. If I load my revolver, and shoot Chief Justice Taney to-night, I go free, unless twenty -three men indict, and twelve men say I am guilty; but if I refuse to answer any question, he chooses to ask-and I have no right of appeal to know whether the question is a proper one-he may put me in jail for life, without warrant, evidence, trial, defence, or right of appeal. And that, according to your Republican, legal, recognized, submitted-to' Constitution, is the law of the land! I don't believe it, and I believe that Providence gave us Thaddeus Hyatt to conquer this new safeguard of liberty. William H. Seward says that there is an ' irrepressible conflict betwixt Slavery and Freedom,' and that one or the other must conquer. Our interest is to see to it, that if Slavery conquers, the fewest possible weapons be left in her hands. Give the slaveholder Archimedes the right to commit for contempt as the spot on which to plant his lever, and it will be easy work for him to call the roll of his slaves on Bunker Hill, and have the Chief Justice of Massachusetts to keep the check-list. (Applause.) She only wants so much, and she can lasso the nation to her feet. She is trying the experiment. Tyranny never commences with a popular man. It doesn't take a Governor, with a State behind him. It gives Gov. Wise a wide berth. It does not take a man with a party. The New York Herald gave column after column to show that William H. Seward knew something about John Brown. Tyranny would not begin with him-he was too high up on the ladder. Tyranny takes a hated 
<c04>
man, a revolutionary man, an unpopular man, and grinds him up into a precedent, and, when it has smoothed its jaws with so much, finds space to swallow a Governor. That is what she is doing to-day. She is settling a precedent. She is saying to New York and to Boston, 'I will summon the most factious, the most irrepressible of your lawyers, your merchants, your statesmen, whenever I please, at the dictation of a Chairman of a Committee; I will put him in jail without bail; I will break up his business; I will let him linger there for months, long enough to make it utterly impossible that, whatever be his profession, it shall go on, and thus I will bring the dreaded North to my feet.' That is the precedent she is establishing to-day. What we need is to understand it. The vice of our age is, we have got too much brains. (Laughter.) We are all brains-we run to seed in brains. Emerson says that' a Yankee has as much brains in his hand as a man of any other nation has in his skull'; but the difficulty is, that the Yankee has not got any hand. When Charles the First turned the scowl of his despotism on John Hampden, four thousand gentlemen of Buckinghamshire saddled their horses, leaped into their saddles, and went up to London to see what the king was going to do with John Hampden. (Applause.) They probably had never listened to an argument on constitutional rights,-their brains were smothered in the roast beef and October ale of Great Britain; but they had mighty ready fingers, and a very curious English disposition to see a fight, and they concluded it would be best to be ' counted in,' as they say out West, and be on hand. New York stays at home-discusses Mr. Hyatt-analyzes him-holds him up and looks at him, and one paper thinks he is a lunatic, another regrets that he is a martyr, and a third pronounces him a fool-and then they are perfectly satisfied! We must take the age as we have it; but I should have loved to see that sort of temper in the Empire State that would have shown its face in Washington, and, as our eloquent friend [Dr. Cheever] said, taken Hyatt back to New York, and discussed him in his presence. (Loud applause.) I think if the Empire State had been, instead of in the Yankee humor of discussion, in the English humor of action, that it would have been a better phase of the public mind. But we have not got it, and we must be content to ' hitch along,' as I said, as we are able. But: we stand in an hour that makes history and law. Those men in the Senate House, with the exception of our own oldest Senator, Mr. Sumner, (applause,) have not backs strong enough to carry this burden of liberty, and we must strengthen them. Let me read a few words from a letter received from Mr. Hyatt. He says:-
ï¿½My work is ended. God has put me into this prison. I propose to remain here until he has work for me elsewhere. When that time comes, he will bring me out. The Senate itself will die, every man of them, before I tire out. (Loud applause.) They cannot worry me out. I am in no hurry, so long as God is not. I guess he can wait as long as the Senate can. I think old Crittenden seemed to be a little hazy as to which authority, God's or a magistrate's, is greatest: but when he finds himself on the tines of that pitchfork down below, I fancy he will begin to understand that there may be a contumacy worse even than setting the authority of the United States at defiance.' (Laughter and applause.) 
That is the stuff out of which we carve constitutions; these are the men who are ground up into the seed of the Church. 
This is a broader question than that merely of slavery. It is your question and mine. This cause is teaching us now, what it has taught us often, that every road leads to the end of the world; that you cannot touch the rights of the humblest without making the whole machinery of constitutional liberty tremble. Dr. Channing thanked the Abolitionists for saving him the right of free speech in the city of Boston. John Quincy Adams, on the floor of the United States House of Representatives, (the last session, I think, in which he stood there,) said, turning to the abolition petitioners, when their petition was at last received and discussed, ' Thank God! I have lived to see the seal broken!' He saw that a right broader than that of the negro had been vindicated; and to-day, we stand here to make resistance to that which gives to the President a power which we refuse to the most guarded judiciary of the land. Erskine said that the whole end of government, the whole purpose of English liberty, the whole result of a thousand years of struggle and education, was to put twelve honest men in a box. He saw, and in the image represented, the great result of Constitutional liberty, which is, to put between the irresponsible power of the magistrate and the unprotected citizen, twelve men. All else of government is a nuisance. That is the culminating idea of Saxon liberty. Now the Senate, and our courts of justice, are claiming the right to stretch their hands over the jury-box, and drag the citizen to their feet. We are fighting to-day the great battle for the twelve men of Saxon history; we are contending for that Democratic supremacy which puts the common sense and the consciences of twelve men, promiscuously taken, betwixt power and the citizen-the very Gibraltar of government. The arguments which have been given us to-night by Dr. Cheever, Mr. Sanborn, and Mr. Sewall, on the principles of the Constitution, are only too trite to be repeated. Our fathers did not leave us unprotected. We fixed our gaze on the golden pavement of Wall street, and let Slavery have the principles of the government to herself. To-day, we are called to lift our eyes upward, and see the shadow of Despotism creeping over the mirror of the future. If we are heedless, the children into whose cradles we look down to-day, will have a fiercer battle to fight, a darker sky on which to look. Every father who values the peace of the generation which is to come after him, must man this Thermopylae, fill this chasm of the Forum, into which this noblest Roman has flung himself for our example. 
I know that this claim may seem like fanaticism- it is not; oh, no, we are speaking only of old and time-honored principles lying at the root of our National existence. We might use the glowing words of Strafford, before he fell:-'We vindicate what? new things ? No! our ancient, legal and vital liberties, by re-enforcing the laws enacted by our ancestors, by setting such a teal upon them as no licentious spirit shall dare hereafter enter on them' 
So clear and ancient is our claim, that the weapons are all ready to our hands. I am a patent Democrat to-night. I am only speaking to you the words, in regard to this very doctrine, which Thomas Jefferson left on record in the third section of his Parliamentary Manual. I am only speaking to you the: words which Judge Tucker, of Virginia, left on record in his Commentary on Blackstone, denying the authority of a legislature to commit for contempt. I am only, like a parrot, repeating the arguments of a man, out of whose brain Jefferson and Tucker might have been cut, and he would not have missed them Edward Livingston-the greatest Democrat that the ranks ever saw. When he drew up his 'Code,' he struck out of existence the right of Courts and Legislatures to commit for contempt. Nay, the genealogy of our doctrine goes back to the highest and proudest lights of English jurisprudence, for Black-stone himself, year ago, pronounced this whole doctrine of committal for contempt alien to the spirit of the Common Law. It has been foisted into our practice only because our huckstering fathers were willing to take two per cent, a month, and let the South have her way with their souls. Yes, it was only because Yankeedom was making money-like Mammon, in Milton's Paradise Lost, raking up gold, and satisfied, if it could make the heap high and massy, no matter what became of justice and right;-and to-day,-yes, to-day!-the only advice that the noblest and most Christian clergyman that stands in an American pulpit can give to you in the city of Boston, with Hyatt for a text, is that, (with all re-
<c05>
spect be it said,) with Yankee trick, you should cheat yourselves into victory! Old England put her hands into her pocket, took out twenty million of pounds, and poured them out on the West Indies, saying, 'Let me make a bridge with gold, if only the slave may walk over it to liberty!' But Yankee Sam Slick,-her child, -unwilling to part with a dollar, takes the Constitution, pores over it, until between the chinks of the equivocal language, or some doubtful phrase, he finds he can cheat Carolina out of her bargain, and stands before the world an abolitionist-without costing him a penny ! (Laughter and cheers.) God grant that the slave may have liberty at any cost! Yes, meted out and trodden under foot, plundered and despoiled, herded with the beasts, even if our own Massachusetts goes down to be huckster and cheat-even at that cost, let the negro of the Carolinas stand up a free man in the sunlight of God's world ! (Great cheering.) But would to God that he could take his place on the level of the nations without dragging down the sons of the Pilgrims to a deed that can admit neither of defence nor apology. I say, as an anti-slavery man, that I would rather admit, as I stand in the broad light, that John Adams and John Hancock committed a mistake-that, tried with a seven years war, plundered and poor, timid of the future, lacking faith in God, they compromised with evil, and said, ' Is it not a little thing ? Let us find a refuge!' They sat down at their hearthstones-their commerce whitening every sea-Boston throat away the timber of her wharves, and built them of granite-she widened the palaces of her merchant princes, filled them with ivory and marble, and grouted them with the blood of the slave;-and God paid back the sin by sending emptiness into the hearts of her children, making her pulpits a refuge of every unclean beast, and her politics rottenness itself! (Enthusiastic cheering.)
No man ever touched pitch without being defiled, and the Yankee, with all his patents, has not yet found out the way to do it. (Laughter.) Do you ask for the grandsire of South-Side Adams? He was bred and died on yonder hill, and your fathers went to look on his honored features as he lay in the cerements of the grave on the portico of the Hancock House in Beacon street. Do you want the predecessors of the Halletts and the Cushings, that make one wish for clean water to rinse his lips, when their names have once passed them? (Laughter.) John Adams, Elbridge Gerry, and the patriots of 1789, were their fathers, for they tried to cheat the devil, and he gave them back these monstrous births for children. (Loud applause.) It could not be otherwise. God forbid that it ever should be God forbid that, under the great laws of his Providence, we could ever plant nettles and gather grapes! No; the fathers planted iniquity, and they reaped the whirlwind. The duty of their sons is not to endeavor to ' skim and film the ulcerous place,' but to open it to the sunlight of heaven; on their knees, at the feet of the victim race, the negro, to say, ' Share our wealth; partake of these garners which your toil has filled; silk and velvet, " the rich dye of Tyre and the fine web of Nile," halls of learning and mansions of luxury, are for you as well as for us; and let us feel, when you sit side by side with us, under your vine and fig-tree, which your own labor has planted, that at last America has a right to lift her unspotted and queenly brow in the sisterhood of nations, and ask the blessing of God!' (Loud applause.) Thaddeus Hyatt opens one door. What he asks of us is to help him. The use to be made of it is, to cut up by the roots this remnant of despotism, the doctrine of contempt. For one, I thank him for having awakened the nation to the doctrines of Livingston and Jefferson. For one, I thank him, that I am not to hold my personal liberty at the beck of any Chief Justice or any Legislature. For one, I thank him for the text by which I can preach to an enlightened and awakened people the danger of leaving even one link of the chain of despotism. If we are to have the reign of irresponsible power, God give me a decent Bourbon!-give me an honest, however crazy, Guelph!-give me a responsible king, standing in the face of the nations, and responsible to them for his acts. Infinitely safer at shall I feel myself than at the beck of forty foul Democrats, skulking from responsibility in the mob of the Senate Chamber! (Laughter and cheers.) That is the true symbol of power. When, in Europe, one man stretches out his irresponsible hand and crushes his fellow-man, they call him Nicholas, the Czar; they call him Napoleon, the perjured; and when he does it on the banks of the Potomac, they call him Mr. Chairman Mason, or Mr. Chief Justice Taney. I like the old names of Napoleon and Nicholas. If the charter of bondage is to run at all, I would rather have it signed with a grand historic name, than to take a starving county lawyer of Virginia, put him at the head of a Senate Committee, and give the free speech of New England into his hand.(Loud applause.)

THE NEW ENGLAND CONVENTION. 
In using degrees of comparison, we are apt to be impulsive and extravagant. Still, it does seem to me, that our late 'Anniversary-week Convention was one of the best ever held. The unabated interest, evinced by the pressing multitude in constant attendance, was an evidence of the character and power of the speeches, and the manner in which our cause is appreciated. Thank God for the good seed sown! 
There was one feature, however, manifested by a few of the speeches, which, in plain English, is disgusting and intolerable. I refer to the egotistical manner in which some of the ministers commenced their remarks. As for instance-'Mr. President, I am an Orthodox minister, but yet I can stand on this platform, known as a Garrisonian one.' And then followed sundry reasons for such a hazardous step. For one, I am tired of this. It is arrogant and nonsensical. We are all but men, and some of us poor apologies at that. 
Is it not as far from our platform to the clergyman, as it is from the clergyman to the platform? And, by the law of reciprocity, ought not the minister to consider it as much a luxury to stand by our side in the battle of right, as it is for us to listen to his voice? Of course it is. Away, then, with these simple and uncalled for words of apology! What has a profession, or theological differences, to do with the restorations of the rights of oppressed and imbruted millions? We have no time for such dainty sectarian etiquette, As well ask for an introduction to the drowning man,' before we leap to his rescue. Our talk is herculean, and we have no time to trifle away. God never-no, never, sent us into this world to settle dogmas at the expense of human rights. 
A shade was cast over the mind in view of our loss in the death, as we call it, of our lamented friend, THEODORE PARKER. But, thank God, who giveth us the victory, we cannot make him dead. No, our absent and beloved brother still lives, to aid and bless the cause he loved. And, like the revered Channing, whose last effort on earth was for the bondman, and whose beautiful spirit and pregnant words are still permeating human minds-so Parker, with his large and benevolent spirit, bends over us with a blessed benediction. And, in years to come, the spirit which made him willing ' to be without reputation,' shall enshrine itself in thousands of hearts, who ' call him blessed.' The grave in Florence, covered with the Beatitudes of the ' Sermon on the Mount,' shall ever and anon receive the grateful tear of every manly and womanly heart that may chance to beat over it.
How little did those know Mr. Parker, who flippantly called him an unbeliever! In no human breast could a stronger faith in immortality rest. A year or two since, in one of the last interviews I had with him while at Milford, he related in a most impressive, and yet pleasant manner, this incident. Said he, ' Not long since I met with some six of my
<c06>
old Unitarian minister associates ; and while they were disposed to think me rather infidel, it chanced that I turned out to be the only true and positive believer in the room. For while they said -we hope or trust, or believe in immortality, I could say more. "Why, brethren," I remarked, "I know I am immortal, I feel it in every fibre of my soul with me it is more than faith-it is knowledge.ï¿½ï¿½
Let us be cheerful, since the ' morning light is breaking,' and keep green the memory of our not lost, but absent brother, by doing the work which he did so well and so faithfully. G.W.S.

ESSEX COUNTY ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The annual meeting of the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society was held in Georgetown, June 3d, commencing at 10 o'clock, the President in the chair.
The Nominating Committee reported the following list of officers, to serve the ensuing year:- 
For President- CHARLES LENOX REMOND, Salem.
Vice Presidents-William Ashby, Newburyport ; Thomas Haskell, Gloucester; James N. Buffum, Lynn; Martha O. Barrett, South Danvers ; Lucy Ives, Salem ; D. P. Harmon, Haverhill ; Henry Ellwell, Manchester ; John Cutler, Danvers; Moses Wright, Georgetown.
Recording Secretary- Lydia Tenny, Georgetown.
Corresponding Secretary-Sarah P. Remond, Salem.
Treasurer- T. W. Roberts, Danvers.
Executive Committee-Mehitable Haskell, Gloucester; Caroline Putnam, Salem ; E. F. Burnham, South Danvers; Maria S. Page, Danvers.
The Recording Secretary having declined to serve any longer, a vote of thanks was given him for the fidelity and promptness with which he had discharged the duties of that office during the last three Years.
Parker Pillsbury reported the following series of resolutions, which were approved and accepted:-
1. Resolved. That American slavery is the 'sum of all villanies,' a compound of all cruelty and crime.
2. Resolved, That slaveholders are, therefore the sum total of all villains, and stained with all manner of cruelty and criminality; and, as slaveholders, have no rights that any human being is bound to respect, but should be treated as outlaws against humanity, whom Gen. La Fayette, Capt. John Brown, or any other righteous deliverer, who believes in forcible resistance to tyrants, may lawfully and justly compel to release their prey.
3. Resolved, That our ' Union with slaveholders' is no less a sin and crime, which no possible circumstances could have warranted in its formation; and surely, no conceivable conditions justify in its longer continuance. 
4. Resolved, That the so-called governments of the Slave States are but organized bands of robbers-living by plunder and piracy on the avails of unpaid and unpitied toil. 
5. Resolved, That it is the solemn and imperative duty of the Senators and Representatives of the non-slaveholding States to return at once to their constituencies, and take immediate and determined measures for the formation of a new Northern Republic, that shall be indeed FREE-an asylum for the oppressed of all nations-uncursed by tread of slaveholder, unstained by blood of slave. 
6. Resolved, That the sin of slavery is not in its extension more than in its existence, and the cruelty and guilt of the African Slave Trade are no greater than the woes and abominations of slave-breeding and slave-trading in the Slave States themselves; and the returning of fugitive slaves is not more atrocious than standing as guard, or watch-dog, to the plantations to prevent the escape of slaves, or the hanging of the Capt. John Browns, who, in the spirit of the ' Golden Rule,' attempt their deliverance; and as in all these propositions, there is, on the avowal of Republicans themselves no difference between Democrats and Republicans, and as these are really the elements through which slavery is upheld and exists, there can be no essential difference in supporting the Republican or Democratic party. 
7. Resolved, That a Union with slaveholders under a Republican President, pledged to the support of slavery, is no less guilty, and may be more fatal to Freedom than such a Union with a so-called Democratic Chief Magistrate; and, therefore, the merits of Republicanism over and above Democracy in our country are scarcely apparent even, to any but the blindest devotees of political partisanship. 
8. Resolved, That the Legislature of Massachusetts, in spurning the petition of fifteen or twenty thousand citizens, for a Personal Liberty Law, at its last winter session, proved itself as devoted a vassal to slavery, and as unfit to be the guardian of freedom, as any Democratic body of law-makers either side of Mason and Dixon's line.
9. Resolved, That the Church of the slaveholding States, that permits and practices the breeding., buying and selling of God's own image like cattle, trampling down marriage and the whole family relation, forbidding its own Bible and all other books to the enslaved, is most emphatically the 'synagogue of Satan '; and every church and minister in the North, that does not so regard and treat it, notwithstanding its hypocritical and blasphemous pretensions and professions, its Bible, Tract and Missionary Societies, its revivals, its baptisms and sacraments, is false to the Christian name and trust, and, like the southern Church, is worthy only the scorn and abhorrence of mankind. 
10. Resolved, That in the death of THEODORE PARKER, we feel that the cause of freedom is bereft of one of its most devoted and earnest and self-sacrificing friends, one who gave to its service a mighty intellect, vast attainments, and a large and noble heart, and that we take this occasion to express at once our sense of our own loss in this sad event, and our deep and fervent sympathy with those who were nearest and dearest to our departed fellow-laborer, and with the slave, the poor and the suffering everywhere, in this their great bereavement. 
These meetings were well attended, especially in the afternoon and evening, by an attentive and respectable audience. The speakers present were, C. L. Remond, H. Ford Douglass of Chicago, Parker pillsbury, and Charles C. Burleigh. 
In the evening, Mr. Samuel Cummings, of Georgetown, took the stand, and made a lengthened speech, maintaining that the Constitution was an anti-slavery document, and with it they were going to do away with slavery; but how he was going to effect it by voting for a man who gave it a pro-slavery construction, he did not define.
C. C. Burleigh replied to him in a very logical and effective manner. 
Mr. Pillsbury also made some searching and telling remarks, bearing upon the speech of Mr. Cummings, and also read some extracts form speeches of the Republican candidate. showing the absurdity of voting for men holding such sentiments.
Mr. Douglass was again called for, who made a short and interesting speech. 
Voted, That the next yearly meeting be held at Newburyport. the first Sunday in September.
Nineteen dollars were collected for the cause. 
Adjourned, sine die. 
MOSES WRIGHT, Secretary
ROSA BONHEUR'S painting, the Horse Fair, now on exhibition at Williams Everett's, is probably the most admirable of her works. Its greatness consists, not merely in its exact representation of the external form, but in its hold on the internal life, of the animals she paints. If horses have souls, Rosa Bonheur has succeeded in conceiving and representing them. The intense vitality which streams form the eyes of two of the horses in the group is more than physical. Every body who desires to see the highest combination of the natural and ideal in the artistic rendering of 'cattle,' should study this picture. 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER FROM REV. JEHIEL CLAFLIN. 
WEST BROOKFIELD, Vt., May 26, 1860.
DEAR MAY: In the notice of the New England A. & Convention, I find every New England State strongly urged to be represented there. As I do not know as any one will represent Vermont, in person, in your Convention on the 30th and 31st inst., I wish to say, that the true and tried friends of our cause were never firmer in their convictions of the truth and ultimate triumph of abolition principles than now; and, to my mind, every new development deepens these convictions. I feel the utmost assurance that this anti-slavery movement is based on the solid foundations of truth and justice.
The apparent permanent division of the Democratic party is a hopeful indication, so far as political action affects this question, and, as a result, the Republicans will probably elect a President, and they will get the control of the government for the next four years; but as they are, and will be, controlled by policy, and not by principle, the slave will have little or nothing to hope for from that party when in power, it being the white man's party. Their oft repeated assurance of their loyalty to the Constitution, with its admitted pro-slavery compromises, as seen in their Chicago platform, will place them in a hostile position to the purposes and measures of the abolitionists; yet, their position as compared with the past shows progress.
The coming campaign will be disastrous on the minds of many, being tempted to vote 'this once,' and so lose their consistency and moral power.
I much prefer that the Republicans should come into power, and earnestly hope that the satanic Democracy of this nation has already seen the fearful hand-writing on the walls, 'Mene, Tekel.’ Humanity has but little to hope for from any political party. From their position, it is impossible for them to be true reformers.
I wish still to be identified with you as an uncompromising, Garrisonian abolitionist, regretting that I cannot be there, as on former occasions, to listen to the sublime and earnest utterances of those great and earnest souls, who shall be assembled there to speak for God and humanity. Praying for God's blessing to attend the Convention.
I am yours fraternally,
JEHIEL CLAFLIN'
MEETING OF COLORED CITIZENS.
DEAR MR.GARRISON-As a substitute for the proceedings in full, (which have been delayed unduly,) you will confer a favor on the several parties interested, by a Liberator insertion of the following abstract. W. C. N.
Boston, June, 1860.
A meeting of the colored citizens of Boston was held in the Joy-Street Church, April 30th, when a report was submitted of the appearance of their Committee before the Legislature, and its action, including the second gratuitous veto of Governor Banks of the Bill for removing the word white from the statute book.
The thanks of the meeting were unanimously tendered to the Hons. Nathaniel H. Whiting, Carver Hotchkiss, Dexter F. Parker, G. F. Bailey, and I. N. Luce, of the Senate; also, to members of the House, Moses Kimball, Amos B. Merrill, J. T. Eldridge, Henry L. Pierce, and to all others of both branches who exerted themselves in favor of the proposed and much desired reform; and to Robert Morris, Esq., Dr. John S. Rock, Rev. J. Sella Martin, and William C. Nell, who addressed the Committee on Federal Relations in behalf of the petition. 
The meeting pledged a renewal of persistent agitation, until the object sought for is accomplished-the removal of the word white from the statute book of Massachusetts.
Suggestive queries were also introduced, as to the proper mode of demonstration by the colored voters at the polls next campaign, in the event of Governor Banks being nominated by the Republicans.
The fact that two colored citizens of Worcester (Francis U. Clough and William H. Jenkins) had been recently drawn as jurymen-the first of such instances in the history of Massachusetts-was appropriately commented upon, and hailed as an encouraging sign of the times.
THE LIGHT OF OUR HOME. A most beautiful little picture with this title has been published by Mr. C. H. Brainard. It is the portrait of a female child, drawn from life by Thomas M. Johnston, one of our most gifted artists, and photographed by Black & Batchelder. It is a little gem, that cannot fail to be admired by all who see it. The following letter to the publisher, acknowledging the receipt of a copy of the picture, gives an excellent idea of its merits:- 
MALDEN, June 1, 1860.
DEAR BRAINARD-I thank you forever for the 'Light of our Home.' Never before was I moved so deeply by a portrait, or an ideal picture of the kind. It is battle-worn faces chiefly that thrill me; faces that bear the marks of long years of thought and care-of conflict with the world, the flesh, and the Founder of Slavery; Cromwell's, for example, among warriors, which, when I first saw it, made me tremble and quiver with delight; or Carlyle's, among thinkers, which I regard as the most beautiful because the manliest face of the age. Is it singular, then, that I should almost idolize that fair young face- ‘The Light of Our Home'? I think not. Who are adorable if not heroes and little children-those who are fresh and pure from God's heart; and those who, after a life of battling with the world, are still worthy of a seat within sound of its throbbings? The beautiful face of your picture seems to me an ideal of the American child, which shall be the mother of that coming flower of the ages-the ideal American woman. The purity, the independence and bravery of character, the hope which fears nothing, though seeing every obstacle, the poetic susceptibility and physical beauty which we dream of when we image her-they are all embodied in your portrait. You should have called it, however, not 'The Light of Our Home'-for there are many types of infancy that deserve that title-but ‘The Light of Our Future,' which it, and it only, so perfectly portrays. 
Gratefully, your friend,
JAS. REDPATH.
NEW SERIES OF ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS.
The new Series now consists of Six Tracts, to which we would again call the attention of our readers and of all friends of Anti-Slavery Reform, as just the publications which the times and the cause now require. Call for them-send for them-circulate them:
No. 1.Correspondence between Lydia Maria Child and Governor Wise and Mrs. Mason, of Virginia. 5 cents.
No. 2. Victor Hugo on American Slavery, with letters of other distinguished individuals, viz., De Tocqueville, Mazzini, Humbolds, Lafayette, &c. 5 cents.
No. 3. An Account of some of the Principal Slave Insurrections, during the last two Centuries. By JOSHUA COFFIN. 5 cents.
No. 4. The New Reign of Terror in the Slaveholding States, for 1859-60.10 cents.
No. 5. The Right Way the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the West Indies and elsewhere. By L.MARIA CHILD. 10 cents.
No. 6. Daniel O'Connell on American Slavery; with other Irish Testimonies. 5 cents.
The prices will be one third less where a dozen or more copies are taken.
To be had at the Anti-Slavery Offices, 5 Beekman street, New York; 107 North Fifth street, Philadelphia; and 221 Washington street, Boston.
Reply of Dr. Mann to C. K. W., on Non-Resistance, soon. Many other communication on file. Our columns were never more crowded than now.
<c02>
NEW SYSTEM OF GYMNASTICS.
We are gratified to learn that the citizens of Boston and vicinity are to have an opportunity to become acquainted with the new system of Gymnastics, introduced by Dr. DIOCLESIAN LEWIS, who has been extensively lecturing and experimenting through the country with great success, every where receiving the strongest testimonials.
The system of gymnastics taught by Dr. Lewis is known as the Swedish. It differs widely from the German system, so generally adopted in the United States. Unlike this, it is equally adapted to both sexes. The strongest man finds in the Swedish system all he can do, while the feeblest girl can never be injured. 
The apparatus consists chiefly of clubs, balls, bags, bells and poles.
Dr. Lewis's success in public instruction may be noted in the following facts:-In one city, at the close of a winter's labor. Dr. L. was presented by the citizens with an entire service of silver plate; in another city, with a splendid Bible; in another, with a silver Pitcher and Goblet; in still another, with a rich Salver; and in several other cities, with beautiful and valuable testimonials. 
Dr. L. intends to make Boston his future home. 
At a meeting of the Professional Class at Concert Hall on Friday, June 1st, the following resolutions were reported by the Committee whose names are annexed and unanimously adopted-Dr. DOUGLAS in the Chair:-
Whereas, The 'Professional Class' in Gymnastics, composed mainly of Clergymen, Physicians and Editors, with their wives, have lately been under the instruction of Dr. D. Lewis; and whereas, under the tuition of the Dr. and his assistants, they have gone through divers exercises in Swedish Gymnastics with great pleasure to themselves, socially, and. as they believe, with the most excellent effect physically-therefore, by the Professional Class aforesaid, individually and collectively, be it
Resolved, That we are under deep obligations to Dr. L. for the instruction we have received, and that we hereby tender him our sincere thanks therefor.
Resolved, 2d, That we believe the system of Dr. Lewis possesses immense advantages over others with which we are acquainted, for many reasons, prominent among which are these:
1. It is a system by which ladies and gentlemen can exercise together-the social enjoyment thus afforded by pleasant intercourse and rivalry, rendering the several tasks agreeable, rather than onerous and wearisome. 
2. The two great principles of work and play are so happily combined, that even severe exercise does not fatigue, but produces the highest state of exhilaration, bodily and mentally.
3. By skilful combination of different motions, all the muscles are brought into action, especially those which are usually most neglected, thus tending to produce the highest and most harmonious physical development, correcting deformities produced by sedentary habits or other abnormal conditions.
Resolved, 3d, That God gave us bodies as tabernacles of the soul; that he who neglects the one, sins against the other; that we rejoice in the belief that the public generally, and especially parents and teachers, are waking up to their sins in this regard; and that we hail Dr. Lewis as an Apostle in the good work of redeeming men and women from the evil consequences of too long neglected physical culture, which have threatened to entail a curse not only upon the present, but upon future generations.
Resolved, 4th, That we believe Dr. Lewis to be a public benefactor, engaged in a noble mission; that we have found him to be a gentleman both by culture and conduct; and that we cordially recommend him to the public, as deserving the most liberal pat. ronage and the heartiest confidence of all.
Resolved, 5th, That a copy of these resolutions be presented to Dr. Lewis, and one furnished to each of the city papers for publication.
IRA D. BROWN, D. G. COREY,  W. B. COVENTRY, Committee.
Utica, June 1, 1860.
THE ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE, FOR MAY. We have read this number throughout, and must congratulate our British anti-slavery friends on having so vigilant and able a coadjutor in their work, and representative of their cause, as the Advocate. This number alone lays before them work for a lifetime, (not in America only, but in England also,) and presents the best and highest motives for engaging in it. We wish we could hear that a hundred thousand copies, monthly, of this useful and spirited little paper were spread throughout Great Britain and Ireland, and wherever in Europe the English language is read. The Advocate is now in the sixth year of its existence, having been from the first a faithful exponent of true and uncompromising anti-slavery, and richly meriting the support of all anti-slavery people, whether in America or Europe. The present number is largely occupied by communications from our friend C. K. WHIPPLE, designed to put English abolitionists on their guard against being deceived and blinded by certain pro-slavery religious journals of this country, and by certain pro-slavery Doctors of Divinity, and others, who annually, at this time, inflict their presence upon the too credulous religious public of England. M. 
In the June number of the Advocate, [just received,] we find the following tribute to the memory of Theodore Parker:-
'As far as the progress of any good cause can be effected by the loss of a single helper, it is to be feared that the efforts for the abolition of American slavery will be seriously crippled by the absence of so upright, so brave, so learned, and so laborious a worker as Mr. Parker. He combined in a remarkable degree physical with moral courage; he was in different to 'the bubble reputation,' or to the praise or blame of others, except as indications of the spirit or judgment of those who bestowed them. In a country where any unscrupulous adventurer of great endowments can readily attain to wealth and eminence, no stronger proof of integrity could be given than Mr. Parker gave in the fidelity with which he adhered to the Anti-Slavery cause, and the sternness with which he rebuked the popular sins of a people so impatient of censure as those of the United States. Amongst all the eminent sons of Massachusetts, there are few who, in time to come, when passion, prejudice, and sectarian bitterness have abated, and posterity has had time to form a just and deliberate judgment, will be regarded with greater veneration than the devoted, high-minded Theodore Parker.' 
A LOOK AT THE LIFE OF THEODORE PARKER, is the title of a sermon delivered by Rev. Jas. Freeman Clarke, and published by Walker, Wise & Co. It is very warm in its general praise of the man, the thinker, the scholar, and the reformer, while at the same time exception is taken to points in his theology and peculiarities in his temper. Mr. Clarke sympathizes with his aims as a reformer, but thinks his severity was often 'false because extravagant, unjust because indiscriminate, unchristian because relentless and unsympathizing.' 
COMPLIMENTARY. While we were presiding at the late annual meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society at New York, the following complimentary note was forwarded to us by an unknown hand:-
This note from a Patriotic National Citizen, To the infamous President of the Anti-Slavery Society,-You ask for Contributions-I hereby give you mine,- From the day you desecrated the Sacred edifice at Boston (Fanuel Hall,-)with your infernal harangues, & for which you and your confederate were deservedly driven from it & not again, allowed to occupy it, I have known you, and closely watched your nefarious career, and have not yet learned that with all your pretended Love for the Negro, you have ever delivered any of them from their Slavery bondage, and instead of ever placing yourself in peril for their sakes, you have instigated others to acts which caused ruin & bitter sufferings to be their reward,- Infamous Wretch, you court the wrath of the American People, and the time is not far distant when you will receive it in full measure,-your only solicitude, is to bleed the purses of your Victims,-W.-
We publish this note verbatim, trusting the writer of it feels greatly relieved, by this time, by the discharge of so much bile.
An American schooner, with 400 negroes on board, has been captured, and taken to Key West.
<c03>
FREEDOM OF SPEECH IN CONGRESS.
In the Massachusetts House of Representatives, on Tuesday last- 
Mr. Griffin, of Maiden, asked leave to introduce the following resolves:-
RESOLVES RELATING TO FREEDOM OF SPEECH.
Resolved, That the Legislature of Massachusetts, in the name of her free and enlightened people, demands for her representatives in the National Legislature entire freedom of speech; and will uphold them in the proper exercise of that essential right of American citizens.
Resolved, That the thanks of the people of this Commonwealth are due, and are hereby tendered to the Hon. Charles Sumner, for his recent manly and earnest assertion of the right of free discussion on the floor of the United States Senate; and we repeat the well-considered words of our predecessors in these seats in approval of ' Mr. Sumner's manliness and courage in his fearless declarations of free principles, and his defence of human rights and free institutions.' 
Resolved, That we approve of the thorough, truthful and comprehensive examination of the institution of slavery embraced in Mr. Sumner's recent speech; that the stern morality of that speech, its logic and its power, command our entire admiration; and that it expresses with fidelity the sentiments of Massachusetts upon the questions therein discussed.
Resolved, That His Excellency the Governor be requested to transmit a copy of the foregoing resolves to the President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives, and to each of the Members of the House of Representatives from this Commonwealth in the Congress of the United States.
The question being on granting leave, Mr. Griffin called for the yeas and nays, and they were ordered; and the roll being called, leave was granted by a vote of 111 to 54.
Mr. Plunkett of Pittsfield moved that the resolves be referred to the Committee on Federal Relations.
Mr. Pierce of Dorchester moved that the rules be suspended, so that the resolves might be immediately considered, and on this motion asked for the yeas and nays, which were ordered. 
Mr. Pierce proceeded to speak in defence of the resolutions, eulogizing Mr. Sumner for his late speech and his public services.
Messrs. Johnson of Dana and Nottingham of Adams briefly expressed themselves as opposed to the introduction of the resolves at this time, as being injudicious and untimely. 
Mr. Haskell of Ipswich said he was a Republican, but he did not think it necessary to introduce these resolves, and he should vote against them. 
Mr. Griffin of Maiden replied to the remarks of the previous speakers. He alluded to the remarks of certain conservative Republican newspapers, such as the New York Times and the Courier and Enquirer, declaring that Mr. Sumner does not represent the Republican party in any degree. It is necessary that Massachusetts should uphold her Senator. 
Messrs. Hills and Smith of Boston spoke against the introduction of the resolves. 
On motion of Mr. Wright of Worcester, the previous question was ordered, and the roll being called, the motion to suspend the rules was rejected, 93 to 58, (two-thirds not being in the affirmative.) 
Mr. Pierce of Dorchester moved to amend the motion to refer the resolves to the Committee on Federal Relations, by attaching instructions to report forth-with.
Mr. Fuller of Whately moved that the motion to instruct lie upon the table. Rejected. 41 to 87.
Mr. Prince of Essex addressed the House in favor of the resolves.
Mr. Plunkett of Pittsfield called for the yeas and nays on the motion to instruct. Lost.
Mr. Kimball moved to substitute the Judiciary Committee for the Committee on Federal Relations. Agreed to. The motion to instruct was then carried.
SENATE.
At the evening session, the Sumner resolves came up from the House, and, under a suspension of the rules, were ordered to take their several readings at the present time.
Mr. Rich of Suffolk moved to indefinitely postpone the resolves. 
Mr. Luce of the Island District, Mr. Blake of Norfolk, Mr. Hotchkiss of Franklin, and Mr. Odiorne of Suffolk, advocated the passage of the resolves. The latter suggested that the name of Hon. C. F. Adams be also included in the resolutions. 
Mr. Parker of Worcester passed a high eulogium on Hon. Henry Wilson, and moved to amend the resolves by adding the following:-
Resolved, That the thanks of the Legislature, acting as the agents of the people, be and are hereby tendered to the Hon. Henry Wilson for his able, fear less and always prompt defence of the great principles of human freedom, while acting as a Senator and as a citizen of the Old Bay State.
Mr. Slade of Suffolk opposed the resolves, saying that he had come to legislate respecting the cattle disease, and he was in hopes 'the everlasting nigger’ would be suffered to rest.
The yeas and nays were ordered on the question of adopting the amendment of Mr. Parker, resulting as follows:-
YEAS-Messrs. Bailey, Blake, Claflin, Cole, Eddy, Farwell, Fisk, Gilmore, Hotchkiss, Luce, Nash, Nortor, Odiorne, Parker, Randall. Underwood, Whiting,-17. 
Nays-Messrs. Rich, Slade-2.
Mr. Parker then moved to add the following resolve:-
Resolved, That this Legislature most cordially support and sustain the course of our Representatives in the present Congress, and heartily endorse their action in upholding the freedom of speech, opposing the introduction of slavery into the territories, and in opposing the corrupt measures of the present National Administration.
Mr. Eddy of Worcester hoped the Senator would so modify his amendment as to exclude one of the Representatives from this States, who, in his opinion, was not worthy to be the recipient of such commendation. 
Mr. Cole of Berkshire favored the resolutions, but said that as they stood, he should vote against them, unless that requiring the Governor to send a copy of them to Washington was stricken out, as he thought it would only add to the present excitement there.
Mr. Parker said, that from suggestions he had received, he thought it unnecessary to press the passage of his last amendment, and he should with draw it.
Messrs. Claflin of Middlesex and Whiting of Plymouth both spoke at some length in support of the resolves.
The motion of Mr. Rich was declared lost.
The question of ordering the resolves to a third reading was taken by yeas and nays, and carried, as follows:-
YEAS-Messrs. Bailey, Blake, Claflin, Eddy, Fisk, Gilmore. Hotchkiss, Luce, Nash, Norton, Odiorne, Parker, Randall, Underwood, Wniting-15.
NAYS-Messrs. Cole, Rich, Slade-3.
HOUSE.
At the evening session-
The Committee on the Judiciary, to whom were referred the resolves relating to freedom of speech, reported that they were unable to agree, and asked to be discharged. The report was considered and accepted.
The question recurring on ordering the resolves to a third reading, Mr. PIERCE, of Dorchester, called for the yeas and nays, and they were ordered.
Mr. HILLS, of Boston, moved to lay the whole subject on the table. Lost-67 to 70.
Mr. RIDER, of New Bedford, moved that the House adjourn till 9 o'clock in the morning. Lost.
Mr. RIDER, of New Bedford, moved an indefinite postponement of the resolves. Lost-57 to 18.
Mr. GRIFFIN moved the previous question, and it was ordered.
The roll was called, and the resolves were ordered to a third reading-86 to 44.
Mr. JOHNSON, of Dana, moved a reconsideration of the vote. Lost.
The resolves relating to the freedom of speech having been reported from the Committee on Bills in their third reading, the rules were suspended on motion of Mr. ELDRIDGE, of Canton, and after some slight opposition, they were passed to be engrossed, and sent to the Senate.
They were subsequently returned with an amendment, which was concurred in.
The Appropriation bill came down with an amendment striking out the $720 appropriated to pay for the 240 copies of the General Statutes ordered by the House, and the amendment was concurred in.
The engrossed resolve, fixing the compensation of the officers and members of the Legislature at the present session, was passed to be enacted.
Mr. HALE, of Boston, moved a reconsideration of the vote whereby, at the morning session, the report inexpedient to legislate on the order to consider the expediency of withholding the bounties to the several Agricultural Societies for the present year was accepted. The vote was reconsidered-72 to 36.
The question recurred upon passing the resolve to a third reading, and, after some discussion, the resolve was rejected, by a vote of 57 to 62.
The Committee on the Pay Roll reported a schedule, accompanied by an order allowing and paying out of the Treasury of the Commonwealth to the members of the Legislature the sums set against their names, amounting in all to $13,920. The order was adopted.
<c04>
SENATOR SUMNER THREATENED WITH PERSONAL VIOLENCE.
WASHINGTON. June 9th, 1850.
Last night Hon. Charles Sumner was visited by a man, claiming to be one of four from Virginia.
He asked impertinent questions about his late speech.
Mr. Sumner replied that it was no place for such a conversation, and ordered him out.
He refused to go, but after several orders went, saying he should report to his friends that he had been ordered out, but that, by God, he would not go.
He threatened Mr. Sumner in the most violent and bloody terms.
After that three others came, but were refused admittance, and left threatening violence.
Four such calls were made last night-another this morning.
Most of the Massachusetts delegation, and many others, have visited Mr. Sumner, offering their services.
Mr. Burlingame and Mr. Sumner's Secretary remained all night in Sumner's room.
Messrs. Wilson and Burlingame accompanied Mr. Sumner to the Senate this morning.
Mr. Sumner's friends are apprehensive of an assault from private men, not from Congressmen.
The Kansas men here are determined that Mr. Sumner shall not be taken unawares or alone again.
The matter is not generally known.
WASHINGTON, June 9.
Information was lodged with Mayor Berrett, without Mr. Sumner's knowledge, that his room had been improperly invaded, and threats made against his life. The matter was investigated, and the principal offender, named Captain Henry, called with the Mayor on Mr. Sumner, and made an apology, which was accepted. Capt. Henry was intoxicated at the time of committing the offence.
WASHINGTON, June 12th.
A good deal of dissatisfaction is expressed by the friends of Mr. Sumner that Mayor Berrett does not find any trace of Draper, or any of Capt. Henry's associates, who backed Henry in the Club room before he started to interrogate and insult Mr. Sumner.
A number of leading Kansas men have called on Mr. Sumner, to assure him that the Tribune's idea, that his speech injured the prospect of the admission of their State, never found lodging in their minds. They thank him for it, and assure him that, of their own knowledge, the fate of the bill was decided before he took the floor.
WASHINGTON, June 13th.
In the Senate to-day, Mr. Sumner presented a memorial asking the discharge of Thaddeus Hyatt, and moved its reference to the Harper's Ferry Committee.
Mr. Fitch objected. He said the Senator from Massachusetts presented the other day a petition from negroes, which was referred to that Committee without their knowledge.
Mr. Fessenden asked if negroes had no right to petition Congress.
Mr. Fitch objected to negroes petitioning as citizens, when the Senate did not recognize them as such.
Mr. Wilson said these were extraordinary proceedings. His colleague had a right to present the petition, and ask its reference, and he hoped the freemen of the country would take notice of the position taken by the Senator. He would not say that it was an insult, but that it deserved the rebuke of every gentleman. 
At Mr. Mason's suggestion, Mr. Fitch withdrew his objection, the former saying he cared not for the opinion of the Senator of Massachusetts, and did not class him in that category.
The petition was referred to a select committee.
A SLAVEHOLDER MURDERED-THE ASSASSIN BURNED AT THE STAKE.-AUGUSTA, Ga., June 12th.-William Smith, planter, in Oglethorpe county, was murdered by one of his slaves on Saturday. The murderer was burnt at the stake yesterday.
Rev. John Chambers, residing in Montgomery county, N. C, was shot and instantly killed by one of his negroes, on the 23d ult., while in the act of passing through his gate into the yard of his dwelling.
SLAVE HUNTER ASSAULTED EY NEGROES.-BLAINSVILLE, Penn., June 12th.-A constable from Springfield, Virginia, was attacked by some negroes last night, and barely escaped with his life. He was in quest of six fugitive negroes from that place.

COLLECTIONS 
By Finance Committee, for Expenses of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, May, 1860.
Joshua Coolidge Jr. $1 00 Mrs. C. Cowing 1 00
Charles T. Hanson 1 00 Joshua Perry 1 00
Josiah Henshaw 1 00 W. H. Helme 1 00
F. C. M. Henshaw 1 00 S. Briggs 25
Martha B. Goodrich 1 00 E. P. Perkins 50
F. H. Cowing 1 00 Lydia M. Paddock 1 00
O. M. Mirick 1 00 John Walker 1 00
N. H. Whiting 1 00 Albert Brown 1 00
Mrs. Horn 1 00 S. H. Cowing 1 00
M. B. Richards 25 E. R. Place 1 00
Edmund Quincy 1 00 H. C. Horton 1 00
J. B. Whitcomb 1 00 Rufus Bates 1 00
A friend, by L. Maria M. M. Hunt 1 00
Child, 2 00 Wm. Adams 1 00
E. D. Draper 1 00 Paulina Gerry 1 00
E. S. Grandin 1 00 Mary Plumer 1 00
Peter Libbey 1 00 M. F. Jenkins Flint 1 00
W. Ashby 1 00 Josiah Hayward 1 00
Wm. Jenkins 1 00 Josiah Hayward, Jr. 1 00
John Bailey 1 00 Huldah Bates 1 00
N. R. Johnston 1 00 Anna T. Draper 1 00
Maria W. Chapman 1 00 Sarah M. Whipple 50
Mary May 2 00 E. H. Merrill 50
Mary G. Chapman 1 00 N. Page, Jr. 1 00
Justine de P. Hovey 2 00 A. Merrill 1 00
Samuel J. May 1 00 John S. Pratt 50
J. E. Bruce 25 M. M. Sawin 1 00
J. W. Forbush 50 J. M. Hawks 1 00
J. K. Hosme 25 Thos. M. Brown 1 00
H. W. McConnor 25 Mrs. T. S. Drowne 1 00
R. H. Ober 1 00 Nathaniel Robbins 1 00
-Fernald 50 John T. Page 1 00
J. M. Buckley 50 B. R. Downes 50
A. M. Chase 1 00 B. W. Loud 1 00
Benjamin Chase 1 00 A. L. Whipple 50
Robert R. Crosby 1 00 F. M. Burt 50
Polly D. Bradish 1 00 H. I. Ireson 50
A. J. Ballou 1 00 Sarah South wick 1 00
E. Richards 1 00 Zenas Jenkins 1 00
J. L. Whiting 2 00 Elbridge Sprague 1 00
A. A. Bent 50 Samuel G. Gilmore 50
H. H. Brigham 50 A. Stanwood 1 00
M. Haskell 50 T. W. Hartshorn 1 00
Wm. Sparrell 1 00 George W. Gilmore 1 00
L. G. Jarvis 1 00 Priscilla Perry 1 00
E. M. Stephenson 25 S. A. Fayerweather 50
W. B. Sturgis 1 00 Lizrie A. Elwell 1 00
Samuel Barrett 1 00 Miss Lunt 25
J. M. Aldrich 1 00 D. B. Bartlett 50
Mary Brigham 1 00 C. K. Whipple 1 00
Charles T. Tucker 1 00 Cyrus White 50
Edward Brackett 50 Miss Shankland 1 00
E. M. Powell 1 00 Mr. Wilson 25
J. B. Pierce 1 00 Phebe Cartland 1 00
Abraham Folsom 1 00 Samuel Reed 1 00
Elijah Hobart 1 00 Matilda Farrar 1 00
Louisa Hobart 1 00 B. J. B. 25
Earl Boynton 1 00 Wm. Boynton 1 00
S. Boynton 1 00 H. W. Blanchard 1 00
Two friends 1 00 N. Allen 1 00
Jonathan Buffum 1 00 Mary L. Willard 1 00
Francis Hinckly 1 00 Gertrude Barrett 50
H. C. Fifield 1 00 M. Jarvis 25
E. B. Chase 1 00 Mrs. J. W. Smith 1 00
George Miles 50 Stephen Baldwin 50
D. M. Allen 50 Joseph Merrill 1 00
Harriette M. Carlton 50 E. B. Whitcomb 1 00
Mrs. Jona. Buffum 1 00 –Hinckley 1 00
L. H. Ober 50 Wilson Murray 1 00
S. L. O. Allen 50 Charles W. Warren 1 00
L. Hurd 25 -Lawrence 1 00
S. A. E. Ford 1 00 L. H. W. 1 00
Samuel May, Jr. 100 Harriet H. Lincoln 1 00
T. B. Drew 1 00 C. B. Lambert 1 00
J. Young 1 00 M. C. Porter 1 00
Helen E. Garrison 1 00 R. Howland 1 00
W. L. Garrison 1 00 Joshua H. Robbins 1 00
George. T. Garrison 1 00 A. T. Foss 1 00
W. L. Garrison, Jr. 1 00 Augustus Haskell 1 00
Wendell P. Garrison 1 00 John Cushing 50
J. R. Manley 1 00 Richard Plumer 1 00
M. H. Pool 1 00 Lewis McLauthlin 1 00
Mary L. Richmond 50 John T. Hilton 50
Jacob Leonard 1 00 'Friends,' and cash
Isaiah C. Ray 1 00 in various sums 41 88

TO THE FRIENDS OF FUGITIVE SLAVES. 
A place is wanted for a fugitive slave, just in from the South-an able-bodied man, about 34 years of age. He has long been used to the care of horses, and is expert in managing and driving them, and can also work on the land. Apply to R. F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington street, or by letter to FRANCIS 
JACKSON, Boston.
All letters, &c., for the undersigned, should be addressed to Leicester, Mass.
SAMUEL MAY, JR.
<c05>
PLEDGES 
To the Mass. Anti-Slavery Society, at the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, May, 1860.
Francis Jackson, $200 00
Wendell Phillips, 100 00
Benjamin Snow, Jr., Fitchburg, 100 00
Abington Abolitionists, 100 00
Mrs. S. S. Russell. 100 00
W. W. Dutcher, Hopedale, 50 00
Mrs. M. A. Dutcher. do., 50 00
E. D. and Anna T. Draper, do, 50 00 
George and H. B. Draper, do., 50 00 
Mrs. Mary May, Boston, 50 00 
Weymouth Anti-Slavery Society, 25 00 
Josiah Henshaw, West Brookfield, 10 00 
M. H. Pool, Abington, 10 00 
J. H. Stephenson, Newton, 10 00 
Maria W. Chapman, 10 00 
Reuben H. Ober, 10 00 
William Jenkins, Andover, 10 00 
Jacob Leonard, East Bridgewater, 5 00 
Ira Gray, Reading, 5 00 
Elizabeth B. Chase, Valley Falls, 5 00 
Mrs. H. C. Fifield, Weymouth, 5 00 
J. Buffum, Lynn, 5 00 
Joshua Perry, Hanson, 5 00 
Elijah Hobart, 5 00 
Charles T. Tucker, Boston, 5 00
F. Weis, Boston, do., 5 00
Benjamin H. Smith, Rockport, 3 00
Dr. D. S. Grandin, 3 00
John Cushing, South Hingham, 3 05
Mr. McCrea, 2 00
Henry W. Carter, 2 00
Martin W. Stetson, 1 00
S. L. Young, 1 00
J. Harris, 30 Lynde street, 1 00
Homer Darling, Blackstone, 1 00
M. P. Chase, 1 00

DONATIONS 
To Mass. Anti-Slavery Society, at New England Convention,
May, 1860.
Mary G. Chapman, Boston, $10 00
Samuel Barrett, Concord, 10 00
A. M. Chase, Canton, 10 00
William Ashby, Newburyport, 10 00
Abraham Folsom, 10 00
Bourne Spooner, 10 00 
Friend in Weston, by L. Maria Child, 7 00
Samuel May, Jr., 5 00
S. S. Hemmenway, 5 00
J. K. Ingalls, 5 90
Two friends, $3 each, 6 00
Mrs. N. White, Concord, N. H., 3 00
Edward B. Perkins, Salem, 3 00
A. A. Bent, South Gardner, 3 00
C. L. Forten, Salem, 2 00
Maria S. Page, Danvers, 2 00
J. K. Mclntire, 2 00
E. D. Cheney, 2 00
Alden Sampson, 2 00
S. D. Chandler, 2 00
H. M. Hager, 2 00
S. S. Drew, 2 00
Perley King, 2 00
Mrs. JOHN BROWN, 1 00
George Miles, 1 00
William B. Sturgis, 1 00
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
RECEIPTS.
Mrs. Sarah S. Russell, Roxbury, for pledge to N. E. Convention, $100 00
Samuel May, Jr., for pledge at annual meeting, New York, 20 00
FRANCIS JACKSON, Treasurer.
A CARD-The subscriber, a practical Chemist and Manufacturer of Chemical Preparations, French Cosmetics, Fine Perfumes, &c, for the past seventeen years, now offers (free of charge) to all who desire it, the Recipe and directions for making a simple Vegetable Balm, that will, in from two to eight days, remove Pimples. Blotches, Tan, Freckles, Sallowness, and all impurities and roughness of the Skin, leaving the same-as Nature intended it should be-soft, clear, smooth and beautiful. This is no humbug or catch-penny affair, and those who think it such will please not notice the advertisement. Those desiring the Recipe, with full instructions, directions and advice, will please call on or address (with return postage). JAS. S. MARSHALL,
Practical Chemist, 
No. 32 City Buildings, New York.
New York, June 6. 3m
Among the many restoratives which nature has supplied to relieve the afflictions of humanity, there is no more favorite one for a certain class of diseases than the ‘medicinal gum' of the Wild Cherry Tree; but however valuable it is, its power to heal, to soothe, to relieve, and to cure, is enhanced ten fold by scientific and judicious combination with other ingredients, in themselves of equal worth. This happy mingling exists in that 
'Combination and a form indeed' 
Of medicine known as
DR.WISTAR'S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY, 
Whose value in curing Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Asthma, Pulmonary Affection, and Incipient Consumption, is inestimable.
Strong Testimony
From BENJAMIN WHEELER, Esq., Depot Master at South Royalton, Mass.
SOUTH ROYALTON, Jan. 4, 1860.
Messrs. SETH W. FOWLE & Co., Boston:
Gents.,-Although unsolicited by you, I cannot refrain from adding my testimony to the many already given in favor of your Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry.
In the spring of 1858, I was most severely afflicted with a hard, dry cough, with its usual accompaniments of night sweats, completely prostrating my nervous system, and producing such a debilitated state of health, that after trying medical aid to no purpose, I had given up all hopes of ever recovering, as had also my friends. At this stage of matters, I was prevailed upon through the influence of a neighbor to try Wistar's Balsam, though with no belief whatever in its truly wonderful curative properties, and before using two bottles, the effect was almost magical. My cough entirely left me, the night sweats deserted me, hope once more elated my depressed spirits, and soon I had attained my wonted strength and vigor.
Thus has this Balsam, as has often been remarked by persons conversant with the above facts in this vicinity, literally snatched me from the yawning grave. You are at liberty to use this for the benefit of the afflicted. Very respectfully yours,
BENJ. WHEELER.
Prepared by S. W. FOWLE & CO., Boston, and for sale by druggists and dealers everywhere.
May 25th.

PROSPECTUS.
A history of the great principles of our Republic, and of its grand design as contemplated by its founders, is a work which, though of the greatest importance to every American freeman, has not yet had a being. It is an observation of the wisest men of the ages, who have built up and reformed States, that a civil community cannot depart from its first principles without bringing upon itself certain ruin. The noble fathers of our Republic made the same observations, and declared that a frequent recurrence to first principles is absolutely necessary to the preservation of the State. For six years, the subscriber has been laboring to prepare a work unfolding the history of those great first principles which were originally established by our fathers as the foundation of the Republic. By perseverance in his researches, he has discovered many new and important facts, relating to this subject, which he is confident every honest American will consider as answering the great questions that are now before the country.
He has prepared this work without reference to any political party of the present day. It stands above all party.
The following is the title:-
OUR REPUBLIC:
The Glory of its Origin, Principles and Purposes.
The work will consist of nearly 600 pages. Price, $1 25.
E. C. ROGERS, Hingham, Mass.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in Milford, Mass., Sunday, June 17.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will speak in the lower Town Hall, in Andover, Sunday, June 24, at half-past 1 and 5 o'clock, P. M. 
H. FORD DOUGLASS will speak at Valley Falls, R. L, on Saturday evening, June 23d, and Sunday, June 24th.
Special Commemorative Services on the Death of Theodore Parker, at the Music Hall, on Sunday forenoon, June 17. Addresses by Ralph Waldo Emerson, Wendell Phillips, &c.
<c06>
READ THIS.
THE subscriber will furnish copies of the following Likenesses in response to orders accompanied with the cash, viz.:-
Lithograph of THEODORE PARKER,
Lithograph of JOHN BROWN,
Lithograph of WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
ALSO,
Lithograph of WENDELL PHILLIPS,
Lithograph of THADDEUS HYATT,
now in press, and soon to be published by C. H. Brainard, both in the highest style of the celebrated artist D'Avignon, each of these for one dollar.
Also on hand, a few copies each of the Photographs of John Brown, Lydia Maria Child, and Theodore Parker, each for 50 cents. These will be safely mailed without additional cost.
Send your orders to WILLIAM C. NELL, 221
Washington street.
June 15. tf
‘A thing of beauty is a joy forever.'
THE LIGHT OF OUR HOME.
A BEAUTIFUL picture of a beautiful female child, drawn from life by Thomas M. Johnston, and photographed by Black & Batchelder. Price, One Dollar.
Sent by mail, free of postage, on receipt of the price.
Published by C. H. BRAINARD,
322 Washington street,
at the store of Elliot & White.
June 15. 2wis
WEDDING AND VISITING
CARDS,
FASHIONABLY ENGRAVED BY
E. A.TEULON,
149 1-2 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON,
Directly opposite the Old South Church.
-ALSO-
WEDDING BILLETS, 'At Home,' &c.
WEDDING ENVELOPES, in great variety.
WEDDING CAKE BOXES, new styles.
MOURNING NOTE PAPER and ENVELOPES
ALL AT VERY LOW PRICES
May 18. eop6m.
PROUTY & MEARS'S 
CELEBRATED
HOT-AIR FURNACES.
PARLOR GRATES in great variety, embracing more than sixty different patterns, varying in prices from three to sixty-five dollars. 
PARLOR STOVES of superior designs, including the PORTABLE HOT-AIR RADIATING PARLOR GRATE, the most elegant heating apparatus for drawing-rooms and parlors ever invented.
COOKING-STOVES of the latest and most approved patterns, including the 'Clipper Improved,' 'Mount Vernon,' and 'Gold Medal.'
DINING-ROOM STOVES, with ovens, including the 'Beauty,' of new and chaste design, and in its operation entirely superior to any cast iron 'Parlor Oven Stove' ever introduced into this market.
-ALSO-
A large assortment of Office and Shop Stoves; Castings for the PROUTY & MEARS'S Stoves and Furnaces, &c. &c.
AT
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
BY
ALLEN S. WEEKS,
23 25 and 27 New Friend Street,
(Between Union and Hanover Streets,)
BOSTON.
June 1-eoptf
New Edition of a Great Work.
HELPER OUTDONE BY JUDGE STROUD 
IN HIS MASTERLY WORK,
'A SKETCH OF THE SLAVE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.'
EVERY man should own and read this book. Rev. Dr. Wayland says of it, in a letter to the author, 'I wish there was a copy of it in every family in the United States. No work could be more timely, or better serve the purposes of humanity.'
We want 500 Agents to sell this work during the present Presidential campaign. No more effective document can be circulated. Price, $1. Large discount to agents. 
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO.,
PUBLISHERS,
No. 20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON. 
May 11. 2mos
BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment.
Nos. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET, 
BROOKLYN, L. I.
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any 'Water Cure' Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements, as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at the Hotels.
Address GEO. F. ADAMS, M. D.,
April 20. Physician and sole Proprietor.
THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST.,
Mch16 tf BOSTON, MASS.

CARPETING
'All the Year Round'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bookings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings. 
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit.
Sept 16 tf
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
THE SLAVE'S FRIEND.
A Tribute to the Memory of Ellis Gray Loring.
What spell of tenderness hath touched
The ’golden lips' to clay?
Why bend the poor and rich alike,
Above you prostrate clay?
In no vain words of praise respond;
The memory of his deeds,
Enshrined in faithful hearts, is all
The eulogy he needs.
Let love, bereaved, pour forth its tears
Where Auburn's willows wave,
Let Nature's flower-wreath bloom and fade
Around his new-made grave!
Then write his name, his simple name,
On marble white and fair,
And let the stranger, let the slave,
Pay grateful tribute there!
The slave? alas! he may not dare
Beside this grave to rest,
He may not moisten with his tears
The turf on LORING'S breast.
Oh Time, deal gently with the dust 
That consecrates that mound,
Till the freed bondman's pilgrim feet
Shall tread the hallowed ground.
Then, wake the bard, whose Heaven-taught strain
Shall truth itself inspire,
And let him make the name we love
The burden of his lyre.
May, 1858.
From the Boston Daily Advertiser.
TO THEODORE PARKER.
BY MRS. MARTHA P.LOWE.
Brave, mighty spirit!-burning strong and hot 
With ceaseless passion for the truth and right!
A voice comes o'er the waters, ’Thou art not!'
Go up, go up unto the higher light!
God pardon us if we have wronged thy soul,
Or spoke a single cruel word of thee!
Thy arm was stretched to make the sufferer whole-
Thy doctrines rest between thy God and thee!
Have pity on our frailty, gentle God!
Who sit in our self-righteousness with men,
And scorn the traveler who the whirlwind trod,
Because he lost his reckoning, now and then.
Un flinching spirit, ’mid the hectic flush
That slow consumed his earthly tenement,
He labored with his thoughts' tumultuous rush,
Using till death the gifts the Master lent.
Would He lift up His eyes, and turn His head,
In holy horror at his heresy,
Who once rebuked his follower's zeal, and said,
'He who is not against me is for me'?
Ah! in D'vine compassion He did say
That he who spake a word against the Son 
Should be forgiven. Christians, did this man aye
Reject the Spirit, the Eternal One?
He worshipped with a full, adoring breast;
His spirit rose unwearied to the throne;
His God will lead him where he now may rest,
And sit a while at Christ's dear feet alone.

ELIZA HARRIS.
BY MISS FRANCES E. WATKINS.
Like a fawn from the arrow, startled and wild,
A woman swept by us, bearing a child;
In her eye was the night of a settled despair,
And her brow was o'ershaded with anguish and care.
She was nearing the river-in reaching the brink,
She heeded no danger, she paused not to think;
For she is a mother-her child is a slave-
And she'll give him his freedom, or find him a grave!
It was a vision to haunt us, that innocent face,
So pale in its aspect, so fair in its grace;
As the tramp of the horse and the bay of the hound,
With the fetters that gall, were trailing the ground!
She was nerved by despair, and strengthened by woe,
As she leaped o'er the ohasm that yearned from below;
Death howled in the tempest, and raved in the blast,
But she heard not the sound till the danger was past.
Oh! how shall I speak of my proud country's shame,
Of the stains on her glory, how give them a name?
How say that her banner in mockery waves,-
Her’ star-spangled banner,’-o'er millions of slaves?
How say that the lawless may torture and chase
A woman whose crime is the hue of her face?
How the depths of the forest may echo around
With the shrieks of despair, and the bay of the hound?
With her step on the ice, and her arm on her child,
The danger was fearful, the pathway was wild;
But, aided by Heaven, she gained a free shore,
Where the friends of humanity opened their door.
So fragile and lovely, so fearfully pale,
Like a lily that bends to the breath of the gale, 
Save the heave of her breast, and the sway of her hair,
You'd have thought her a statue of fear and despair. 
In agony, close to her bosom she press'd
The life of her heart, the child of her breast:
Oh! Love from its tenderness gathering might,
Had strengthened her soul for the dangers of flight.
But, she's free!-yes, free from the land where the slave
In the land of oppression must rest in the grave!
Where bondage and torture, where scourges and chains
Have placed on our banner indelible stains.
The blood hounds have miss'd the scent of her way;
The hunter is rifled and foiled of his prey;
Fierce jargon and cursing, with clanking of chains,
Make sounds of strange discord on Liberty's plains.
With the rapture of love and the fulness of bliss,
She plac'd on his brow a mother's fond kiss:
Oh! poverty, danger and death she can brave,
For the child of her love is no longer a slave!

From the Episcopal Recorder.
'IF IT BE POSSIBLE, LET THIS CUP PASS FROM ME.'
Let this cup pass, my Father! I am sinking 
In the deep waters which surround my soul,
And bitter grows the draught which I am drinking,
And higher rise the waves that round me roll.
Forsake me not in this my need extremest!
Let not Thy strenght'ning hand elude my grasp!
I know Thy love, even when Thou harshest seemest:
Father most merciful! Let this cup pass!
Life hath not laid her hand upon me lightly,-
I have known sorrow, disappointment, pain,
Have seen hope clouded when it burned most brightly,
And false love fade, and falser friendships wane.
But now fresh chains about my heart are linking,
And to my lip is pressed a fuller cup,
And from the draught my shuddering soul is shrinking,
Father! I cannot, cannot drink it up!
What have I said? Will not Thy grace sustain me!
Is thine arm shortened that it cannot save?
Powerless indeed if thou my God disdain me;
I can do all things with the help I crave.
Haste Thee to help me! that, on Thee depending,
I may have strength to say, ’Thy will be done,’-
<C02>
If this cap may sot pass. Thine angel sending, 
Aid me, as Thou of old didst aid Thy Son!
And Thou, my Savior, once our weakness sharing,
Tempted in all things, yet untouched by sin,
Hear my wild cry! leave not my soul despairing, 
Help me the cross to bear, the crown to win!

MISCELLANEOUS. 
WASHINGTON, June 1. 
To the Editor of the Boston Journal: 
The maiden speech of Hon. Charles Francis Adams, yesterday afternoon, attracted the general attention of the House. Even the Hotspurs of the South, who sneer at every man who comes from a Northern State, and delight in angry interruptions, insolent side remarks, or contemptuous comments-even they listened with respect. The writing-tables were deserted, the corridors were vacated, and on either side of the House every seat was occupied. Senators left their curule chairs at the other extremity of the capitol to join audience, and even the newspaper-men in the gallery listened;-they don't very often. 
Mr. Adams read his remarks from manuscript notes, on a desk temporarily placed in an aisle, and his manner, voice and gestures reminded us old stagers of his father, to whom be bears so strong a personal resemblance. His features, usually cold and passionless, glowed with excitement, and beamed with a consciousness that he was proclaiming the truth. His earnest voice occasionally rose until its tones broke, and he was forced to proceed in a lower key. His gestures were nervous, quick, earnest and effective. And as he sent back to the Democrats their charge, that the Republicans had introduced the negro into the House, where twenty of them hold seats based on the existence of negroes among them, he forcibly reminded those who were here in his father's time of that ’old man eloquent.' 
Yesterday's speech, however, proves in itself that Mr. Adams need not rest his claims for reputation upon the talents of his illustrious ancestors. Friends and opponents admit the vigor and ability with which he expounded the principles of liberty as laid down in the Constitution, displaying a clear and sagacious intellect, neither enervated by over culture, or luxurious indulgence in the emasculate literature of the times. It was a plain, logical, unanswerable argument, each sentence telling, as it fell upon the hollow reasoning of the slavery-extentionists, like the blows of a powerful trip-hammer. He disavowed any desire on the part of the anti-slavery men of the North to interfere with the constitutional rights of the South, but he asserted their right to organize against the aggressions of the Slave Power, even as citizens have organized in years past against the United States Bank, or against the manufacturers of the country. Yet, while unhesitatingly defining his position as a politician, Mr. Adams used no language unbecoming a gentleman. 
He reminded the old stagers of his father, and some of us could but remember, too, those troublous times in ’36, when he who had been the President of millions was here again as the representative of some forty thousand Massachusetts men, and who nobly demanded that they should not be deprived of their sacred right of petition. Well was it said that he then stood like a veteran gladiator, ready to meet any attack. The House would ring with cries of Order!' ‘Order!' but the member from Quincy would maintain his position, defying the angry tempest, like a New England oak, that knows its gnarled and knotted strength, and stretches forth its arms toward the foaming ocean, as if defying the storm-blasts. 
The present Representative from the Quincy district is one of a numerous and powerful party, of which his father was a pioneer. But where are the two gentlemen who sustained John Quincy Adams,' four-and-thirty years ago? Henry A. Wise, that quixotic knight of the sorrowful countenance, mounted a high-horse in his recent ridiculous tilt against the invaders of Virginia, with such a stride that he fell down on the other side, and has not been heard of since. And Caleb Cushing, who so nobly replied to Hardin's insolent attack on the descendants of the old Puritans of Plymouth, and whose anti-slavery speeches and letters have yet to be equalled—he is now the hope of the slaveholders in the irrepressible conflict raging in the Democratic party. Well may it be said by these gentlemen: Tempora mulantur, et nos mutamus in illis. 
To-day-since your correspondent began to write this letter-the House has been agitated by the unprovoked assault of Mr. Houston of Alabama upon Col. Train of Massachusetts. Mr. Houston has been a Representative here, (with the exception of one term,) since 1841, and he has assumed of late a dictatorial position at times exceedingly offensive. Col. Train, who has made himself obnoxious by his efficient cross-examinations of those examined before the Covode Committee, to-day provoked his bison-like wrath, and the Republican members of the House determined that his rudeness should not pass unrebuked. As I close this to save the mail, the ’irrepressible contest' rageth. PERLEY. 
Washington correspondence of the Bee & Atlas.
The House went into Committee of the Whole, when Hon. Charles Francis Adams got the floor to speak. He was immediately surrounded by the entire House. He stood near the imaginary ’Mason and Dixon's line’ on the floor, and the seats upon either side of him were at once packed. There was not an inattentive person in the Hall, even down to the pages. A dead silence prevailed over that usually noisy arena. Mr. Adams's voice is very weak, and his friends had feared he could not be heard; but every syllable of his able, polished, scholarly, but scathing speech, was distinctly heard in every part of the hall and galleries, from beginning to close. Indeed, one could almost fancy that the ’old man eloquent' was again holding this tumultuous body, spell-bound and entranced. As he went on, and warmed with his subject, the silence and attention became intense-a pin dropped could almost have been heard. Sentence after sentence, glowing with eloquence and lofty patriotism, rang through the hall. The Republicans scarcely breathed, while the Southern side sat as if entranced. He told the South that the Republican organization was composed of freemen, who would not menace others, nor would they submit to menace from others. It was one of the boldest speeches of the session, terribly scathing upon the institution of slavery and those who uphold it, and yet conceived in the most elegant and scholarly phrase; his classic allusions and eloquent and beautiful phraseology were a treat not often had in a political speech.
It was amusing to note the effect of this great shock upon the South side of the House. Gov. Winslow and John Cochrane promenaded, uneasily but silently, the outer aisle during most of the time. Barkedale, who usually interrupts every speaker upon the Republican side, sat pale and erect as a marble statue, and scarcely removed his eyes from the speaker. Curry, the eloquent Alabamian, found a seat near the orator, and seemed delighted with the feast, though every word stung like an adder. 
Pryor sat nervously in a seat in close proximity, and appeared riveted to the spot. He seemed determined break the spell, and with what seemed a strong effort, sprang to his feet and walked noiselessly out of the slip in which he sat, took a turn among the more distant and empty seats, and, as if under the influence of a fascination he could not throw off or resist, he returned to his seat, and did not move or take his eyes from the speaker till he closed. It was no doubt one of the most singular episodes in the present session. It was not less so than that which occurred during the delivery of Owen Lovejoy's speech. But it was its very reverse. While that was the wildest and most fearful exhibition of men's passions, ever witnessed in the House, perhaps; this was no less exciting and thrilling but the occasion produced the very opposite effect upon the combustible elements of the House. It was a proud moment for the son of the ’ Old Man Eloquent.' The Southern members did them the ’Old selves infinite honor in thus respectfully listening to Mr. Adams. Whether it was the recollection of the father, whose voice of warning and patriotism so often stilled the storms that rose tumultuously in the old hall, or whether it was purely the effect of the elegance and eloquence of the speaker himself, that produced this result, I will not pretend to say. But it is true, that such a scene has not been witnessed in this Congress, at least. 
Charles Sumner, who had been a deeply attentive listener, rushed to him when he closed, and most heartily congratulated him, as he did large numbers of his political friends in the House. 
<C03>
The Washington correspondent of the N.Y. Tribune say:-‘Charles Francis Adams made his debut in the House to-day, (Thursday,) and though the attendance was thin when he opened, no announcement of his purpose having been made, the benches of both sides were filled in a few minutes, and the galleries exhibited a corresponding interest. His speech was a philosophical, luminous and  most attractive review of the slavery question, or rather the problem of the representation which the” peculiar institution" had secured in the popular branch of Congress, the influence it commanded in the Cabinet, in the Supreme Court and every other Department of the government. 
Mr. Adams held the undivided attention of the House throughout, without an interruption, and extorted general praise for the elevated tone and candid spirit in which the subject was, discussed. Those who, like myself, were familiar with his father's style of speaking, were struck by the similarity of manner, voice and gesticulation, and particularly with the nervous energy which seemed to be common to both. He is evidently a chip of the old block, and certainly has made his mark on the House.' 
The Times correspondent says:-‘Hon. Charles Francis Adams, who resembles much his late distinguished father, delivered a powerful argument against slavery, and was listened to with profound attention by members of all parties. A whisper could have been heard over the hall at any time during its delivery.' 
Mr. Adams's speech appears in the Globe of this morning, and has been attentively perused by a large majority of the House already. It is unquestionably the best speech as yet delivered, and even those who do not endorse the positions taken in it on the slavery question admire its manliness, its freedom from offensive personalities, its honest Anglo-Saxon style. What citizen, familiar with public affairs, can hesitate to endorse the assertion of Mr. Adams,’ that, for the honor of the country, and of all who may be concerned in the administration of the government, there is an overruling necessity for a complete change of the persons now responsible for its direction? The reform must be wide enough to restore freedom as the guide of the federal policy, and to set aside the new idol which has usurped her throne. It must be deep enough to reinstate honesty above suspicion in the dispensation of the pecuniary contracts incident to the possession of great place. If the execution of such a policy as this constitutes good ground for a resort to extreme measures of resistance by any portion of the people of these States, then there is no hope of further harmony in America.' 

THE DEATH OF THEODORE PARKER.
At the close of the religious services at the Music Hall, in Boston, on Sunday, June 3d, a meeting of the Society was held, in view of the death of Rev. Theodore Parker. Charles W. Slack, Esq., Chairman of the Standing Committee, presided, and, in calling the meeting to order, stated that it was for the purpose of taking some suitable cognizance of the great loss they had sustained. 
Frank B. Sanborn, of Concord, then offered the following resolutions, before reading which, he said they had been drawn up with special reference to Mr. Parker and the Society, the preacher of which he had always regarded as far the most important office of his life. They are as follows: 
RESOLUTIONS.
Resolved, That we have received, with the most profound sorrow, the tidings of the death of our beloved minister and friend, Theodore Parker; who, by his long absence from our pulpit, as well as by his constant presence in it for so many years, has caused us to feel the strong and peculiar tie which joined us to him in the sacred relation of minister and parishioner. 
Resolved, That although the union between him and ourselves has been too closely knit by a common belief in the great truths of religion, by common hopes, sentiments and aspirations, and by long participation in religious and benevolent action, ever to be dissolved by distance or death; although we still recognize him as our minister, even though we see his face no more, we must, nevertheless, realize to-day how greatly we are weakened and saddened by this event, which breaks beyond hope of reunion the long-established and familiar intercourse of preacher and hearer, of pastor and people, and which removes forever from our, mortal sight the friend who loved us so well that he laid down his life in our service, and for the cause in which we had enlisted with him. 
Resolved, That we owe and offer to the good God whom it was his highest ambition to glorify and serve, our fervent thanks for the precious privilege which was our own for so many years, and which we have only learned to value the more by its loss, of listening to his teachings; of strengthening us by his example; of drawing consolation and hope from his affectionate ministrations on occasions of public and private grief, and of looking to him in all those countless offices which the true minister performs for the people of his charge, not as formal duties, but as a grateful and holy service. 
Resolved, That we will endeavor to testify by our lives (as he has taught us) to the good work wrought in us by the faith we profess, esteeming that the best honor to his memory, no less than the highest service of the loving Father, to whom he has so long offered our united prayers. 
Resolved, That we invite all former members of our Society, and all those, wherever they may dwell, who have looked up with us to Theodore Parker as their guide in spiritual things, to join with us in these expressions of our sorrow as members of one household of faith, and partakers in a common loss. 
Resolved, That we tender our sincere thanks to those friends of our minister, who cared for him in his last illness, and performed those sad and touching obsequies in a foreign land, which we, in the un-searchable providence of God, were not permitted to take part in here. 
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent to our dear friend, the wife of our belovod minister, and to the other members of his family, thereby assuring them of what they cannot doubt, our earnest sympathy in their bereavement, which is even greater than ours. 
E. Gerry Dudley, Esq., spoke briefly to the resolutions, paying a fit tribute to the memory of their departed pastor. He also read several extracts from Mr. Parker's writings, and gave interesting reminiscences. 
Mr. Garrison said, he did not strictly consider himself a member of Mr. Parker's Society, though he had always attended his ministrations when in his power. Ho came to be delighted by the copiousness of his teachings, and the moral heroism be exhibited to the world. He should always honor him as a teacher and friend, and should pour tears upon his grave. It was impossible to tell of his greatness in a commensurate manner. To stand in the presence of Mt. Blanc, and say it was great, would be to use trite language. To stand upon the shores of Niagara, and call it sublime, was tame. So, too, standing in the presence of Theodore Parker's soul, and uttering the common phrases of eulogy, was inadequate and trite. But he needs nothing of the kind. He least of all others in the world desired panegyric. His life is before us, and he speaks to us through his works to go forward and discharge our duties. His great example, as well for independence as for power of thought, is before us. The speaker alluded to the resistance he made to the popular prejudices of the age, and was glad they had had one to speak to them of the inalienable right to speak for themselves. His teaching was to prove all things, and hold to the good. He taught you that the deed consecrated the day, and that time is nothing. So of the plenary inspiration of the Bible-that he taught as false. He wisely discriminated between the true and the false. He was a manly man, and he preached a manly religion. Let us be not wholly disconsolate. God had yet great souls in store for us-greater, perhaps, than be who had been removed. Yesterday we had darkness and storm; to-day sunshine and bright skies. He felt, indeed, as if the resurrection had come. Let us go forward as a band of brothers; go forward with courage and faith to serve the world. 
Mr. Manley alluded to the inefficiency of any of the speakers to do anything like justice to the great topic which filled all hearts. Little things, he remarked, sometimes show the real man. Sixteen months ago to-day, Mr. Parker wrote a letter while abroad, asking him (the speaker) to get two boxes of strawberries and send them to Mr. Cass, an old and poor man, sick and nearly at the end of his life, living in Charles street court, for which the writer 
<C04>
would pay him. Last season he had received from Mr. Parker a single rose leaf enclosed in a letter. This, with the preceding, might seem a small affair, but it bespoke the man. There was a Hebrew title to one of the chapters in Mrs. Stowe's’ Uncle Tom's Cabin,' which he had asked Mr. Parker, by request, one Sunday morning in the ante-room of the hall, to translate. Mr. Parker wrote it down, but after thinking a little while said be had quite forgotten it. On returning home, he immediately sought out its meaning, and before he had eaten a mouthful, he had brought it to my door. Mr. Manley gave other instances, and in closing paid a tribute to Mr. Parker.
Mr. S. H. Allen spoke in a feeling and appropriate manner of their late pastor. 
Rev. Samuel May, Jr., of Boston, thought a eulogy would come from every heart, and therefore that no formal speeches were needed. He moved the acceptance of the resolutions. While he was up, he would take occasion to dissent from Mr. May, of Syracuse, in respect to calling upon the Unitarians to answer the questions of Mr. Parker. If they had suffered twelve years to pass-twelve years of injustice-let them not now attempt to retrieve themselves or insult his memory. If they have a word of regretful sorrow for the wrongs done Mr. Parker, he would be glad to hear them; but not to answer the questions. 
N. C. Nash, Esq., spoke briefly of Mr. Parker, his labors and works; and also of his own labors in the Society. He did not, as had been intimated by a portion of the press, think the Society would separate. Founded on Mr. Parker's solid and eternal principles, and irradiated by the light of his genius, it would live forever. He hoped some one as great as Mr. Parker would yet rise, and teach to them his glorious doctrines. 
The resolutions were then unanimously adopted. In reply to a question from Mr. Allen, relative, first, to the continuation of services by the Society; and second, as to the remains of Mr. Parker, Mr. Manly stated of the latter, that he had written to Mrs. Parker, but that before the letter was sent, intelligence had reached him of his (Mr. Parker's) burial, and that he had been buried in strict accordance with his desires-at the place where he should die. He had thought it desirable that his remains should be laid in Massachusetts; and he had hoped in Mt. Auburn. He presumed, however, that his request to Mrs. Parker would be strictly complied with. On the 17th or 24th inst. it was proposed to have services in this hall to the memory of Mr. Parker. Mrs. Parker was expected home by the 12th or 15th inst. If she did not arrive, the services would be postponed to the 24th. 
Of the continuation of the Society, he could state nothing definite. 
After some little discussion, a resolution was adopted to place on the records of the Society a desire that Mr. Parker's remains might be brought home for interment. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
The following resolutions were passed by the’ Fraternity' Friday evening, a copy of which is to be sent to Mrs. Parker:-
Resolved, That in the death of Theodore Parker, we mourn the loss of one who has been to us a minister indeed, faithful to every delegated trust, discharging all the functions of his office with a generous disregard of self, and a conscientious care for the welfare of his flock, which entitle him to our warmest admiration and gratitude; a teacher who taught us the highest truths at which he had arrived, however unpopular with the mass of men, and who never hesitated to utter what duty impelled him to speak, however painful the utterance may have been to him, or hurtful to the prejudices of others; thus seeking to warn us of all that was base and unmanly, to guide us in the way of virtue and toward every human excellence; never appealing to a low motive, but ever to what was highest and best in our nature; a friend who never, by reason of his superior gifts or attainments, set himself above those less favored, but treated all men and women as equals; who was as a brother to the humblest of men, the protector of the weak and helpless, the advocate of the rights of the oppressed, and who in his dealings with the unfortunate and degraded of every class showed a manly sympathy and a womanly delicacy and tenderness; a man whose integrity never failed, whose pure life and noble character furnish a lofty model which the humblest of us may well aspire to imitate, though none of us perhaps may hope to attain. 
Resolved, That while we gratefully and lovingly cherish the memory of our minister, and guide, and friend, we will do all in our power, individually and as a society, to disseminate still more widely the generous sentiments and great ideas of which he was the representative, and which he spent his life in promulgating; and so carry forward the good work in which he labored so long, so faithfully, and with such success. 
At the Bromfield Street Methodist Episcopal Church, Sunday evening, 3d inst., the Pastor, Wm. F. Warren, made Theodore Parker the exclusive subject of his discourse. In his death, said Mr. Warren, is the cessation of one of the great forces in the moral and immoral training of the world. He should speak freely of the great man gone, and thereby follow the example of Mr. Parker himself, who, in the face of a nation in tears, dared to utter his estimate of the character of Webster. He had been on terms of some intimacy with Mr. Parker, and in his library he had pointed out to the speaker the old worn Latin Dictionary, as the nucleus of his splendid library, and the product of the sale of blackberries picked by his own hands.
Mr. Warren conceded to the subject of his discourse several beneficent influences. He had contributed to popular education; to the cause of temperance, although opposed to the prohibitory law, and partly responsible for its non-enforcement in Boston. He had contributed to the Peace movement, Woman's Rights, and kindred reforms, being in advance of the public mind, and less radical than the peculiar apostles of these reforms. He had largely contributed to elevate the politics of his country into the sphere of morals, and had been opposed to those radical Abolitionists who played into the hands of the Southern politicians, by declaring that the Constitution is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell. He was hopeful of his country, and went to the ballot-box. 
The baneful influences of the ministry of Mr. Parker consisted in a tendency to fix in the popular mind a low and unworthy conception of God (!) He said beautiful things about God, and his God was better than the abominable deity of the Calvinists, or the old grandmother in a rocking-chair set up by the Universalists. But Theodore Parker's God never sent a ray of light or help to his children (!) How then could he be’ the tender father and mother, and mother of men'? Parker was behind the times in matters of science-holding to the natural development theory, in opposition to the views of the first scientific authorities, who acknowledged supernatural creation. He labored to abolish revealed religion, and made misrepresentation, side thrusts, sneers, sarcasm, bitterness and spleen the instruments of his work (!!!) 
Rev. James Belcher delivered, at Baldwin Place Church, a sermon suggested by the death of Theodore Parker, from the words-‘All flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man is as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof fadeth away; but the word of the Lord endureth forever.' I. Peter, 1: 24 and 25. He remarked, that to the illustrious dead of the past year had just been added a name which had found a place in the history of politics and of religion-the name of a true man, a philosopher, now carved on the very breastplate of humanity, to be erased only by the hand of Time-a name his hearers had already recognized as that of Theodore Parker. He approached the subject with trembling. Why, then, approach it at all? Simply because he regarded it as a duty, and to aid his audience in the formation of a correct judgment of a great character, and that be might pay a fitting tribute to one of the greatest instructors of the age. He should speak of him mainly as a man-as a man of large heart, of great intellect, of power and of courage. He was of a high pressure cast of mind. He worked ceaselessly, exhausting shelves of books, and using all in illustrating and advancing his idiosyncracies. His labor was of the most exhaustive character. Grant that he was bold and courageous, yet his heart was as tender as a child's. He was of necessity a philanthropist. The speaker sketched Mr. Parker's course of study, and alluded to his clerical experience, and from these points proceeded to review and protest against his theological theories. In conclusion, he said there had been many things in Mr. Parker's life which he had viewed with satisfaction, many which he had looked upon in sor
<C05>
row, and some which had led him to pray God for his pardon. ’But he was gone, and it was his duty now only to cast about that which he could not approve, the mantle of Christian charity. 
At the Bulfineh Street Church, Mr. Alger paid an eloquent and feeling tribute to the exalted traits of Theodore Parker as a moralist and reformer. 
In the course of the proceedings at the Unitarian Festival in Boston, anniversary week, Rev. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE said:-
If you will allow me to add a word further on my own account, I would like to speak of what I think must be in the minds of a great many of as here at this hour. The news came to us this morning, from the other side of the world, of the departure of our brother, THEODORE PARKER, who for so many years, in this hall, has manfully stood up for what to him was the highest and best idea of truth, and right, and religion; and I think, now that he is gone, and we shall never see his Socratic head in the streets of Boston any more, and shall never hear his voice again, and never read those burning, vivid words which came from his pen, fresh with the hot blood of a manly heart-I think we can all of as unite, and say, in the words which our brother King has addressed to us,’ Peace be to thee, our brother!’
In many things he differed from us; in many things we differed from him; but, after all, he was the fruit of our body. If he went further, and if in going further he went away from us, still he was in the line of our tradition, and he believed himself faithful to the principles which he had been taught while he was in this home. He was a thorough specimen of a New England man-of a manly New England man-a man not only with a manly heart and manly intellect, ready to grapple with all the great problems of life, and to utter freely and openly his word as God gave it to him; but he was, besides this, (what all do not know so well,) a man with a tender heart, with a feminine tenderness of heart, with a heart which overflowed with affection towards those he loved. 
We shall see him no more; we shall hear him no more, but I think there are many hours to come, in the great crises of our history, when we shall miss his manliness, his freedom, his energetic devotion to the truth, to God, and the right. 
I could not, sir, rise in this place, where he has stood so long, without doing great injustice to my own feelings, and I think great injustice to the feelings of many of you here, if not all, if I had sat down without as much as these few words. (The company testified their sympathy with the sentiments expressed by Mr. .Clarke by hearty applause.) 
THE CHAIRMAN-We all feel, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, how much-how very much American scholarship, American thought, American originality, American manliness, has lost in the lamented death of Theodore Parker. 
From the New York Tribune. 
DEATH OF THEODORE PARKER.
The tidings of Mr. Parker's decease, which has been anticipated from the last advices concerning the rapid progress of the malady of which he had long been the subject, are announced with the European news by the arrival of the Arabia. His death took place at Florence, on the 10th inst. 
Theodore Parker was born in Lexington, Mass., August 21, 1810, and was accordingly in the fiftieth year of his age at the time of his death. He was descended in a direct line from the Puritan settlers of the Massachusetts colony, his ancestors, almost without exception, having been farmers and mechanics, and usually active participants in the military affairs of their day. His grandfather, John Parker, was a soldier in the last French war of 1749-'50,’ and was present at the capitulation of Quebec. He was a zealous friend of liberty, and was captain of the soldiers in the Battle of Lexington, April 19, 1775. He formed the first line and drew the first sword in the war of the Revolution, ordering his men to load their muskets with powder and ball. ’Don't fire,' said he, ’unless fired upon; but if they wish to have war, let it begin here.' After the British left the field, be succeeded in taking prisoner a grenadier of the 43d Regiment, and obtained the first fire-arm captured in the struggle for Independence. This musket came into the possession of his grandson, whose visitors will well remember the satisfaction with which he was wont to exhibit it among the curiosities of his ample library.
The father of Theodore was a millwright and pumpmaker, a man of robust habits and sturdy sense, a great reader, fond of mathematics, with which branch of science he was well acquainted, an independent thinker, a Unitarian in belief, and possessing remarkable powers of expression and argument. His mother was a highly-cultivated woman for that day, a model of personal beauty, fond of literature, and with an enthusiastic taste for poetry. From his parents, Theodore inherited an earnest and thoughtful mind. Much of his time from the earliest childhood was spend in reading when at home, and before he was eight years  old, he had finished Homer and Plutarch (in translations,) Rollin's Ancient History, and in two years after had become familiar with Pope, Milton, Cowley, and Dryden, reading, in fact, all the poetry he could find. At the age of 12, he took to metaphysics, a pursuit from which he did not desist to the last year of his life. His memory was so retentive, that be could repeat whole volumes of poetry, and would often learn by heart a poem of four or five hundred lines from a single reading. He began to write poetry at the age of eight. He early became interested in the study of botany, and soon learned the names and habits of most of the plants in the vicinity. Before the age of ten, he knew all the shrubs and trees of Massachusetts, and had made catalogues of all the vegetable productions which grew on his father's farm. In his tenth year he began to study Latin at the common school in the Winter, reading the usual elementary books required for admission to college, and at eleven commenced the study of Greek. In the Winter of 1825-6, he had passed beyond the range of knowledge possessed by his teacher, and pursued a course of self-instruction in Natural Philosophy, Astronomy, Chemistry and Rhetoric. In the Spring of 1827, he attended Lexington 
Academy for one term, and in 1827-28 he taught school him self for 17 weeks. This employment he continued for four successive Winters, working on the farm and in the shop at home during the rest of the year. In the Fall of 1830, he entered the Freshman class of Harvard College, intending to labor at home until he was 21, and then join the class. At that time he finished the College course as far as the sad of the Junior year, and read a large amount of Latin and Greek and Mathematics not required by the regular College course. 
In the spring of 1831, he went to Boston as a teacher in a private school on a salary of fifteen dollars a month and board. He taught Latin, Greek, Mathematics, and Natural Philosophy, and at this period he had read Virgil twenty times, Horace nearly as many, and had stored his memory with the finest passages of each. Here he found a teacher in French and Spanish, which he learned to read and write with accuracy, and soon after entered upon the study of German. In 1832, he opened a private school in Watertown, where he remained for two years, and at the same time studying the higher branches of mathematics, and entering upon an extensive course of Greek and Latin classics, metaphysics, and German literature. With these he united the study of Hebrew and theology, and having decided that it would be of little use to join his class as an undergraduate, he entered the Divinity School at Cambridge in 1834, with an advanced standing of one year. Here he remained a little more than two years, pursuing a wide range of study beyond the routine of his class, including the principal modern languages-especially Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Modern Greek. 
Mr. Parker left the theological school in 1836, was settled over a small rural parish in West Roxbury in 1837, visited Europe in 1843, returned in 1844, was invited to preach in Boston in 1845, and became minister of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society in Boston, February 16,1846. From that time his career has been prominently before the public. His congregation soon grew to be the largest in the city of Boston, including not only a wide and devoted circle of personal friends, but an immense throng of strangers, who were attracted by his fame to bear his discourses. The great purpose of his preaching was the application of common sense to theology, and of sound ethics to practical life. None of the exciting interests of the day escaped his attention, and none which promised to benefit society, promote the cause of knowledge, and advance the progress of man, failed to win his sympathy. He was plain, outspoken, and uncompromising in the utterance of his convictions; not without a natural love of controversy; but in all the 
<C06>
Intercourse of private life, he exhibited an almost feminine gentleness and affectionateness. In the domestic circle, he inspired perpetual administration by the affluence of his conversation, his colloquial <illegible> incredible extent and precision of is knowledge, the readiness and fidelity of his memory, and the benignant wisdom and cordiality of his discourse. No one would recognize in the genial and playful talker, the warm-hearted friend, and the considerate and tender adviser, the stern old iconoclast who delighted to wield the battle axe, and rush into the midst of the affray when the question of human freedom or social rights was at <illegible> Mr. Parker was one of the most truly benevolent men of the day; and had not his brilliant fame as a public man eclipsed the reputation of his private virtues, he would have been celebrated as ’the Man of Ross.' In the receipt of a generous income from his profession and his literary labors, one third of his surplus for many years past has been religiously devoted to deeds of unostentatious charity. The sincerest mourners at his death will be the troops of young people, whom he has helped to an education and an establishment in life, and the poor unfortunate, whose wants never appealed to his sympathies in vain.

IT IS NOT A DYE!
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S 
WORLD'S 
II AIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a 
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others.
'IS THERE ANY VIRTUE IN 
Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorative?'
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
'Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis. 'St. Louis Presbyterian.
MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE has given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet. 
'Ch'n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.
'MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.'
Philadelphia Christian <illegible>
'Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used. 'N. Y. Evangelist.
All are compelled to acknowledge MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S as the Hair Restorer. 'N. Y. Independent.
'MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.' Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.' <illegible> Presbyterian Witness.
'There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN's 'Buffalo Christian Advocate
Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye-Mrs . S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER will do this.’ U. S. Journal.
In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S world’s HAIR RESTORER. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.’ Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESSING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.' Philadelphia Mercury.
'There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects effect ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the ’World's Hair Restorer.’ Newark Register.
We have reason to be assured that ’Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficacy is generally appreciated.' Rahway Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have been remarkable. Weekly Visitor, Franklin N.Y.
‘From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that ’Mrs. S. A.ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER' performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless wasted of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to perform. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.’ 
St. Louis Ledger.
'Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER.-As we were traveling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was grey, and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen's Restorer. She did so, and applied it according to directions, and before a year had passed, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer.' Providence Daily Tribune.
'We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER are correct.' Boston Olive Branch.
'Its remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.' Norfolk Argus.
'Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.' Boston Transcript.
It is just what it purports to be. 'Cleve. Leader.
We might swell this list, but if not convinced, TRY IT.
We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States.
It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principal wholesale and retail merchants in the U. S., Cuba, or Canada. 
DEPOT 355 BROOME STREET, N. Y.
Where address all letters and inquiries.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine assigned, Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink. Beware of counterfeits.
See next issue of this paper for more information or send to Depot for Circulars.
FOR SALE EVERY WHERE.
