 
<c01>
THE LIBERATOR.
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING, 
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLAES, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters, relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions.  Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 9.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1863.
WHOLE NO. 1673
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
CONNECTICUT DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION.
At the Democratic Convention held at Hartford, Conn., at which Hon. Thomas Seymour was nominated for Governor, a series of resolutions was adopted of the most rabid Copperhead description.  Here is a sample of the:—
Resolved, 1st. That the United States are a Confederacy of States, co-equal in sovereignty and political power; independent in their separate organizations, and reserving to each, all rights not granted by the Constitution to the Central Government.
2d. That while, as citizens of Connecticut, we assert our devotion to the Constitution and the Union, and will hereafter, as we have heretofore, support with zeal and energy the authorities of the United States in the full constitutional exercise of their powers, we deliberately avow that the liberties of the people are menaced by congressional and Federal usurpations, and can only be preserved by the energetic action of State authority; and we are determined, to maintain and defend the honor of our State, and the rights of her people.
3d. That while we denounce the heresy of secession as undefended and unwarranted by the Constitution, we as confidently assert that whatever may have been the opinion of our countrymen, the time have been the opinion of our countrymen, the time has now arrived when all true lovers of the Constitution are ready to abandon the “monstrous fallacy” that the Union can be restored by the armed hand; and are anxious to inangurate such action, honorable alike to the contending factions, as will stop the ravages of war, avert universal bankruptey, and unite all the States upon terms of equality, as members of one confederacy.
4th. That the Democracy of Connecticut, sympathizing with their conservative bretheren of the Middle and Western States, pledge themselves to unite with them in the adoption of all honorable measures, having in view the cessation of hostilities between the North and South; the reconstruction of the Union on such terms as shall thoroughly define the rights of the States; the reproduction of those fraternal feelings which form the true foundation of the federation, and the erection upon a more enduring basis of the temple of the Constitution.
5th. That the Militia of Connecticut are the natural guardians of the liberties of her people, subject to the control of her chief executive officer, acting under and by authority of the laws of the State and any and all acts of the Congress of the United States, violative of the sovereignty of the State in relation there to, should receive the execration of a people justly jealous of their liberties, who know their rights, and 
“Knowing, dare maintain.”
6th. That the Militia bill recently introduced into the Senate of the United States by Senator Wilson, of Massachusetts, is subversive of the sovereignty and rights of the States, and designed to make them mere dependencies upon the central government: unconstitutional in its provisions and dangerous to the liberties of the people, the authorities of each of the States should sternly resist the operation of a scheme so fatal to the just relations which should always exist between the Federal and State Governments.
7th.  That the “Banking system” recently passed by the Senate of the United States, based as it is upon an unconstitutional and irredeemable issue of paper currency, cannot fail, if forced upon the people of the States, to prove destructive to the existing moneyed institutions of the several States, and is covertly designed to establish a vast central “money power.” alike unknown to the Constitution of the United States, and dangerous to the principles upon which our government is founded.
8th. That the President of the United States, by his Emancipation Proclamation, has struck a serious blow at the rights of the States; erected an almost impassable barrier between the North and the South, in attacking the people of fifteen States through a domestic institution which is blended with their social fabric, and over which the individual States possess exclusive control and power; and regardless of the great lessons of the past, the National Executive, in pandering to the insane fanaticism of the abolition faction, has ventured upon a system of public policy which, if successfully inangurated, would disgrace our country in the eyes of the civilized world, and carry lust, rapine and murder into every house-hold of the slaveholding States.
Resolved, That the act of the Federal Administration, in suspending the writ of habeas corpus, the arrest of citizens not subject to military law, without warrant or authority—transporting them to distant States—incarcerating them without charge or accusation—denying them the right of trial by jury, of witnesses in their favor, and counsel for their defence—withholding from them all knowledge of their accusers, and the cause of their arrest—answering their petition for redress by repeated injury and insult-preseribing in many cases as a condition of their release, test oaths, arbitrary and illegal:
In the abridgement of freedom of speech and of the press—in suppressing newspapers by military force, and establishing a censorship wholly incompatible with the freedom of thought and expression of opinion: 
In the establishment of a citizen of espionage by a secret police to invade the sacred privacy of unsuspecting citizens:
In declaring martial law over States not in rebellion, and where the courts are open and unobstructed for the punishment of crime:
In attempting to strike out of existence the entire value of property in slaves throughout the country: 
In the attempted enforcement of compensated emancipation:
In the proposed taxation of the laboring white man to purchase the freedom of the negro, and place his labor in competition with the white man thus taxed:
In the dismemberment of the State of Virginia, erecting within her boundaries a new State without the consent of her Legislature—
Are each and all arbitrary and unconstitutional, subverting the Constitution, State and Federal, invading the reserved rights of the people and the sovereignty of the States, and if sanctioned destruction of the Union, establishing upon the common ruins of the liberties of the people and the sovereignty of the States, a consolidated military despotism.
And we hereby solemnly declare that no American citizen can, without the crime of infidelity to his country’s Constitutions, and the allegiance which he bears to each, sanction such usurpations. Believing that our silence will be criminal, and may be construed into consent, in deep reverence for our Constitution, which has been ruthlessly violated, we do hereby enter our most solemn protest against these usurpations of power.
Resolved, That in connection with our fellow-citizens of other States, we will use our utmost influence to prevent the payment of a single dollar of 
<c02>
the money of the people, unconstitutionally appropriated for the unwarranted project of compensated emancipation.
Resolved, That we sympathize with the soldiers who enlisted to sustain the Constitution and the  Union, in the great deprivations and hardships to which they have been subjected in sickness and in health, and that we demand, in the name of justice and humanity, that the great frauds which have deprived them of proper food, raiment and care, shall be exposed, and their authors duly punished.
Resolved, That the enormous plunder of the public treasure by self-constituted patriots, which has been rife throughout the country, demands the closest scrutiny, and the severest punishment should follow a just exposure ; and that we insist upon their being promptly paid for services rendered.
Selections.
THE NORTHERN DISLOYALISTS.
The sole object of the Democrats, now constituting the disloyal Northern opposition, is to regain political power. For this purpose, they mean to destroy the Republican party, and, if necessary, to submit to a dismemberment of the country, running their risk of being able to compromise it together again.
To destroy the Republican party, there are two methods:
1. To oppose the war.
2. To oppose the management of the war.
3. Both these modes are energetically in operation,
and with much success of a certain kind.
The present leaders of the Democrats are men purely politicians, and of the immoral kind.  They have thrown away all principle whatever, and have the advantages which recklessness gives to wicked men.  These advantages just now are monstrous. First, it is, to a great extent, the more patriotic, moral, and thoughtless class of voters who have gone to the war, leaving say and cowardly and wicked and disloyal men at home.  Second, the leaders of the Republican party have so managed the war as to destroy the party, and the party so as to destroy itself.  Even patriotic citizens are weary with the burdens of the taxes, and are afflicted with the horrible waste of lives and treasures which has resulted from the feeble action, the foolish lenity, the vacillating advances, the awful slowness of moral growth, of the Government. Even good citizens—in intention—may be found who whisper the coward words, Peace at any <illegible>
These tremendous advantages have been used by the Democratic leaders with a boldness, promptitude tude, acute far-seeing perception, and shrewd tactical conduct, of a very high order of political merit— and wickedness; in both these qualities fully equalling and in many traits resembling the policy of the rebel Government in civil and military administration.
The actual methods by which this opposition has been conducted, as well as the intermediate objects sought, are quite various, though they may all be classed together as practices which openly justify, or only faintly blame, or do not blame at all, the rebels; but find fault not only with the way in which the Government measures are executed, but with every one of those measures themselves.
They say the rebels are right. Senator Richardson in a speech at Springfield, Illinois, said in so many words, that “the rebellion cannot be subdued, and ought not to be.” Olds, of Ohio, calls on his State legislature to refuse to furnish more troops.  The Cincinnati Enquirer recently asserted that “the real, genuine democracy of the country were never at heart for the war.” Eaton, of Connecticut, loudly declared that the Connecticut Democrats would not let Massachusetts troops go through their State to Washington.  The Chicago Times and Cincinnati Enquirer assert that there was ample cause for the rebellion.  The Republican Farmer (Bridgeport, Conn.) says, “The South had a right to defend themselves.” Eastman, Democratic candidate for Governor in New Hampshire, a few days ago, made a speech from which a stranger could not have learned that there was a rebellion. True, he said that something must be put down. It was “abolitionism.”
They openly plot further dismemberment of the Union. It is needless to specify from among the concerted outcries of all the leading Democratic papers, and even of messages of Governors, the incessant and reiterated assertions that New England abolitionism or fanaticism or radicalism began the war, and is responsible for it; that the Northwest, the West, the Middle States, are the natural allies of the South; that the proper way to end the war is to "reconstruct” the Union without New England. It would be a curious and edifying exercise to listen to a Democrat reconciling his two doctrines of  "New England Out in the Cold,”  and “The Constitution as it Is, and the Union as it Was!”
They hinder recruiting, stir up disaffection, and promote discouragement in every possible way.  The writer has personally come into direct collision with Democratic influences in recruiting service.  James Brooks, a member of Congress elect, declared on December 30th, that neither officers nor soldiers were bound to obey or respect the Proclamation of January 1st: a direct endeavor to raise mutiny in our army. 
They oppose, tooth and nail, all measures to counteract treason at the North. The writ of habeas corpus, they say, cannot be suspended by the President; and if Congress had done it, they would have said it was the President's business.  They have not been satisfied with any punishment of a Northern traitor; not one.  Every imprisonment of such a person, or stoppage of his newspaper, or impediment of his conspiracies, they call tyranny and oppression.
They uphold slavery without limit or qualification, and oppose utterly everything tending to destroy or weaken it; inventing a corban to keep colored men out of the service of their country.  It makes no difference to them that slave States are actually emancipating by State action in good faith; these superserviceable outsiders declare that the Emancipation Proclamation as law is null and void, that no one need obey or respect it, that the courts will annul it; that as a military measure the soldiers will not fight for it, the slaves don't see it, and will ; not rally to it. and that it will “fire the Southern heart” more than it is fired now ; and they threaten that the President shall be forced to withdraw it.  In New Hampshire, their State convention resolves against emancipation; in Pennsylvania, their members of the legislature introduce a bill to exclude negroes from the State.
They are everywhere and vehemently arguing for peace; insisting on an armistice, or a convention to negotiate on a compromise; on the restoration of the condition before the war.
And they are with one accord assuming an extreme state-rights position, regardless of its logical result in annihilating our nation, provided it will serve their temporary party purpose.
<c03>
The full significance of this inconsistent set of measures cannot be apprehended until we consider its relations to the policy of the rebels.  The rebels consistently and vehemently refuse to come back on any terms whatever, always asserting that recognition must precede negotiation, as appears in so many words in Davis’s recent speech to the Mississippi Legislature, in various recent rebel public documents and leading newspapers.  The demand of the Democrats to negotiate cannot therefore mean anything but a demand that the Administration shall surrender; a proceeding which would serve the Democratic party purpose, by putting the Government into their hands at the next election, of course. Again: Democratic machinations and outcries grow more violent exactly as the rebels are harder pressed; that is, they are trying in every way to help their Southern friends. Again: the Southern and Democratic views on slavery are absolutely identical; that is, the whole polity of the two bodies swings and centres on one and the same gigantic system of crime. Again: the Democrats call on the Administration to grant an armistice when the rebels do not ask it. They require victors to beg. What good motive can dictate such a course?
In short, for the purpose of gaining a party victory, the Democrats are laboring to destroy the very nation whose money and power that victory should give them; like pirates who blow themselves up by firing the magazine, while rioting after the gold of their prize. And at the same time they have so entirely inverted their time-honored party position as necessarily to destroy all their moral strength, and thus again to show how exclusively their object is selfish and temporary. A universal suffrage party from the start, it has been working to disfranchise soldiers in the field by the hundred thousand, to keep their votes out of the way at home. A party of progress, and devoted to “the largest liberty,” they have rallied with one accord to turn the tide of freedom up stream, and secure slavery upon four million men; and now, finding conservatism a good cry, and constitutionally unable to use its tools, they have invented their present method of being conservative on anarchic principles. An “unterrified” party, the furious and determined makers of the wars of 1812, and with Mexico, they now growl out “Peace” from under incongruous sheep's clothing. Their patron saints were those,
red-hot rocks of Unionism, Jackson and Douglas, and now they move earth and hell to compromise with rebels; justify secession, make mobs, and threaten murder to uphold it; and to help it the better, they scheme out another secession.
The tactics by which all these plans are to be realized in the election of candidates are too notorious to require more than a reference.  Specimens are, the drunken threats of Senator Saulsbury; the armed mob which, for the first time in our history, forced the election of a United States Senator, Backalew, at Harrisburg; the similar mob that tried I to do the same thing at Albany; the secret order, now growing great, bold, and open, of the Knights of the Golden Circle.  Disfranchisement, disaffection, mutiny, and mobs, are their chosen instrumentalities.
This vast, skilful, and energetic party machine, trading, not upon its own merits, but upon the weak military and political management of the Administration, has already secured some success.  It has carried State elections, has increased its representation in Congress, has injured the sentiment of the army and the patriotism of citizens.  Urging motives of interest, anger, passion, and prejudice upon North and South alike, it has done much to uphold slavery, encourage rebellion, protract the war, destroy the lives of patriots (chiefly its political opponents), waste the national treasure, and disorganize political beliefs quite enough weakened and decentralized, by adding disunionism; to aggravate habits already bad enough, of lawlessness, immorality in politics, voting without principle, and electing bad rulers.
If this be success, the Northern disloyal opposition has advanced far on the road to it.—New York IndependedIndependent.
NEW ENGLAND.
JOHN RANDOLPH AND TRISTAM BURGES. 
The systematic and persistent attempts of the rebel sympathizers to divide the North, and to create such a prejudice against New England as shall, in their proposed reconstruction of the Union “leave her out in the cold,” reminds one of the attack of John Randolph upon New England many years ago.  Unlike some of the slanderers of our section of the country at the present day, especially the viper nourished in the bosom of our own University, who has recently so defiled himself in attempting to defame New England before a New York audience, Randolph had as an apology for his conduct, eccentricity, that almost approached to insanity, and prejudices, the result of a life-long education.
A generation has passed away since, the whole country was electrified with the speech of a New England man who dared to defend the soil that gave him birth against the attacks of the representative of the old Virginia aristocracy. At that time, 1827-1829, Randolph ruled the House with almost despotic sway. His sarcasm and invective beat down all opposition, and all feared his frown, almost his notice, lest they should fall his victims. New England was the special object of his abuse.  On all occasions, in season and out of season, he omitted no opportunity to vilify that portion of the land.
During a debate in the House in the Twentieth Congress upon the tariff question, Randolph interrupted, with even unwonted insolence of manner, Tristam Burgos, who was then addressing the House, and after an uncommonly severe fling at  the cherished object of his hate, closed by saying “New England! what is she? Do you remember that appropriate exclamation, ‘Delenda est Cartha-go!’”  Burges instantly replied: “Does the gentleman mean to say. Sir, that New England must be destroyed? If so, I will remind him that the fall of Carthage was the precursor to the fall of Rome. Permit me to suggest to him to carry out the parallel.”
The next day, Mr. Burges continued his speech—a speech replete with learning, argument, and bitter irony. He defended New England in the most masterly manner, and closed with that burst of eloquence and withering retort so often declaimed by school boys, and yet so well to be remembered in these sad and gloomy hours of the nation.
“The policy of the gentleman from Virginia,” said Mr. Burges, “calls him to a course of legislation resulting in the entire destruction of one part of this Union. Oppress New England until she shall be compelled to remove her manufacturing labor and capital to the regions of iron, wool and grain; and nearer to those of rice and cotton. Oppress New England until she shall be compelled to remove her commercial labor and capital to New York, Norfolk, Charleston and Savannah. Finally, oppress that proscribed region until she shall be
<c04>
compelled to remove her agricultural labor and, capital.  No, she cannot remove that.  Oppress and compel her, nevertheless, to remove her agricultural labor to the far-off West; and there people the savage valley and cultivate the deep wilderness of the Oregon. She must, indeed, leave her agricultural capital; her peopled fields; her hills with culture carried to their tops; her broad, deep bays; her wide, transparent lakes, long-winding rivers, and populous waterfalls; her delightful villages, flourishing town, and wealthy cities.
She must leave this land, bought by the treasure, subdued by the toil, defended by the valor of men, vigorous, athletic, and intrepid; men, godlike in all making man resemble the moral image of his Maker; a land endeared, oh! how dearly endeared, because shared with woman, pure as the snows of their native mountains; bright, lofty, and overawing as the clear, circumambient heavens over their beads; and yet lovely as the fresh opening bosom of their own blushing and blooming June. ‘Mine own romantic country,’ must we leave thee? Beautiful patrimony of the wise and good; enriched from the economy, and ornamented by the labor and perseverance of two hundred years! Must we leave thee, venerable heritage of ancient justice and pristine faith? And, God of our fathers! must we leave thee  to the demagogues who have deceived and traitorously sold us? We must leave thee to them; and to the remnants of the Penobscots, the Pequods, the Mohecans and Narragansetts; that they may lure back the far-retired bear from the distant forest, again to inhabit in the young wilderness, growing up in our flourishing cornfields and rich meadows; and spreading, with briars and brambles, over our most ‘pleasant places.” 
All this shall come to pass, to the intent that New England may again become a lair for wild beasts, and a hunting-ground for savages; the graves of our parents be polluted; and the place made holy by the first footsteps of our pilgrim forefathers become profaned by the midnight orgies of barbarous incantation. The evening wolf shall howl again on our hills, and the echo of his yell mingle once more with the sound of our waterfalls. The sanctuaries of God shall be made desolate. Where low a whole people congregate in thanksgiving for the benefactions of time, and in humble supplication for the mercies of eternity, there those very houses shall be left without a tenant. The owl, at noonday, may roost on the high altar of devotion, and the “fox look out at the window,” on the utter solitude of a New England Sabbath.
New England shall, indeed, under this proscribed policy, be what Switzerland was under that of France. New England, which,<illegible>  Switzerland, is  In the eagle nest of freedom; New England, where, as in Switzerland, the cradle of infant liberty ‘was rocked by whirlwinds in their rage;' New England shall, as Switzerland was in truth, be ‘the immolated victim, where nothing but the skin remains unconsumed by the sacrifice;’ New England, as Switzerland had, shall have ‘ nothing’ left but her rocks, her ruins, and her demagogues.’ The mind, sir, capable of conceiving a project of mischief so gigantic, must have been early schooled and deeply imbued with all the great principles of moral evil.
What, then, sir, shall we say of a spirit, regarding this event as a 'consummation devoutly to be wished’ ?-a spirit without oue attribute, or one hope, of the pure in heart; a spirit which begins and ends everything, not with prayer, but with imprecation ; a spirit which blots from the great canon of petition, ‘Give us this day our daily bread,’ that, foregoing bodily nutriment, he may attain to a higher relish for that unmingled food, prepared and served up to a soul 'hungering and thirsting after wickedness;’ a spirit which, at every rising sun, exclaims, ‘Hodie! Hodie! Carthago delenda! 'To-day! to-day! let New England be destroyed!’
Sir, Divine Providence takes care of his own universe.  Moral monsters cannot propagate. Impotent of everything but malevolence of purpose, they can no otherwise multiply miseries than by blaspheming all that is pure, and prosperous, and happy. Could demon propagate demon, the universe might become a Pandemonium; but I rejoice that the Father of lies can never become the father of liars. One adversary of God and man is enough for one universe. Too much! oh! how much too much for one nation!”
Bowen, in his life of Tristam Burges, says: “Mr. Randolph could not withstand the unparalleled severity of this retort. He immediately left the hall, and his voice was never raised there afterwards.” Providence Journal.
GREAT MEETING AT BRIST0L SPEECH OF GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
A crowded meeting was held at the Broadmead-Rooms, in Bristol, (England,) on the evening of the 28th ult., “to express approval of and sympathy with the Anti-Slavery policy of President Lincoln and the Federal Government of the United States of America.”  The chair was taken by Mr. G. Thomas, who made an able and lucid introductory speech. He was followed by Mr. Handel Cossham, who offered, and advocated in an eloquent manner, the following resolution:-
“That this meeting views with the greatest sorrow the degrading institution of slavery, which has so long held in bondage millions of our fellow-men in the United States of America, and regards it as the true source of the horrible civil war in which that great country is unhappily involved. That it nevertheless cherishes for the people of the United States, to whom they are so nearly related, the deepest sympathy in the present divided; and distracted condition of their national affairs, and, while regretting that any circumstances should appear to involve British citizens in the guilt of abetting slavery, or seem to throw doubt on the sentiments of this country toward its western sister, this meeting is firmly convinced that the people of Great Britain entertain the most cordial unity and good-will for the citizens of the United States, and would earnestly deprecate any occurrence which should threaten to interrupt the close fraternity which should ever subsist between nations so allied in language and blood, and occupying the foremost positions in the civilized world.  That, therefore, it acknowledges with grateful pleasure the sympathy and kindness which have been shown by Americans to our fellow countrymen rendered destitute by the war, and regards the generous contributions to their relief as a favorable omen that the harmonious relations which have so long subsisted between the United States and the mother country will never be  interrupted.”
Mr. A. VICKERS presented the following as an amendment:-
“That this meeting, while it wishes to express its utter abhorrence of all slavery, and its desire to see the universal emancipation of all slaves, white, black, or colored, and expresses its hope that the civil war in America may result in the total abolition of slavery on that Continent, at the same time cannot but regard the policy of President Lincoln in relation to slavery, on partial, insincere, inhuman, revengeful, and altogether opposed to those high and noble principles of state policy which alone should guide the counsels of a great people.”
<c05>
Mr. Vickers contended that the people of Bristol were quite as well able to judge of the history of the strife in America as the speakers who had addressed them, and they did not need a stranger like Mr. Thompson coming to instruct them on the subject. (Hisses, cheers, and great confusion, which lasted for some time, and Mr. Vickers could not proceed until he had apologised to Mr. Thompson for the mention of his name.  He then proceeded to criticise very sharply the conduct of Mr. Lincoln, but was interrupted by occasional cries of “Cossham.”
Mr. Cossham arose once and essayed to speak, but the majority  were against hearing him again, and at last he sat down.)
Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON then rose, and was received with vociferous applause. He commenced by saying that if there was any platform in England upon which, being a stranger, he might claim a favorable hearing, it would be upon a platform in the city of Bristol, (hear, hear, and cheers,) where thirty years ago he was permitted to address crowded audiences upon the question they were considering that night. (Cries of “No, no;” “Yes, yes,” and confusion.) The gentleman who had last addressed them (A Voice-“Keep to the question”) had put before them what he considered the strongest argument in proof of the insincerity, the inhumanity, the revengeful spirit of Mr. Lincoln, (hear, hear,) and he almost concluded his speech by saying that  Mr. Lincoln had over and over again declared that he cared nothing for slavery. (A Voice—“No more he don't.”  Another voice-“How about the 300 Coolies?”) The speaker continued by saying that he was correctly quoting the language of the last gentleman, and having uttered those words he concluded by calling upon any gentleman on the platform to prove the contrary. (Hear, hear.) He (the speaker) was not in a position to prove the negative he desired (hear, hear, cheers, and confusion) ; but he was in a position emphatically to deny the accuracy of the words he employed as applicable to Mr. Lincoln, and defied him to quote, from any language 
Mr. Lincoln had ever used, the words which he ascribed to him. (Hisses,and cries of  “bravo.”) And now he  would deal fairly with the argument placed before them. (A Voice—“Read the Proclamation.” Several voices—“Sham,” cries of “ You have had it,” and great uproar.) The gentleman who moved the amendment was accurate when he stated that on a particular occasion, to which he did not specifically refer, but to which he (the speaker) would, namely, when he replied, in the columns of the Tribune newspaper, of New York, to a letter addressed to him by the editor, Horace Greeley, he did <illegible> (Hear, hear, and cheers.) That is the object which as President of the United States, sworn to preserve the Union and maintain the Constitution, I have to accomplish. If in my efforts to restore the Union, disturbed by the Southern States, it should be necessary to abolish slavery entirely, I will do it. (Hear, hear, and confusion.) If that necessity for the restoration of the Union should require me to abolish it only in part, I will do it. (Hear, hear.) If the Union can be restored without the abolition of slavery in any degree, I will not abolish it. (Hear, hear, and cheers.) That, he (the speaker) admitted frankly, was the language employed by President Lincoln in his letter to Horace Greeley.  He as frankly admitted that in the proclamation issued on the 22d or 23d of September, one hundred days of grace were allowed the South. The words were correctly reported in which Mr. Lincoln declared that if during that period they should demonstrate their loyalty by sending representatives to Washington, the appearance of such representatives, in the absence of strong counter evidence, would be received as a proof of the loyalty of those States (hear, hear); and the proclamation would not be executed within them. (Hear, hear, and cheers.) He was there to defend the constitutionality of the conduct of Mr. Lincoln in both these statements. (Cheers.) No man could possibly understand that question, whether he lived in London, or whether he lived in Bristol, unless he comprehended clearly what were the constitutional duties of a President. (Hear, hear.) The gentleman who stood upon that platform a few moments ago knew well that in that Constitution, drawn up in the year 1787-8, and ratified by the people, and which Constitution every President down to Mr. Lincoln had had to administer—he knew well that that Constitution contained specific guaranties with regard to slavery itself; and it did not confer either upon the President or upon the Congress of the United States any power whatever to free a Dingle slave within any one of the United States. (Hear, hear, cheers, and confusion.) Mr. Lincoln, therefore, could only exercise his prerogative as commander-in-chief of the forces of the United States, by pointing to the exigencies of the war, and making it apparent that the abolition of slavery was necessary to the attainment of his constitutional end. (Hear, hear, and cheers.) Mr. Lincoln was not elected upon an abolition platform; he was elected by a party that comprised all the abolitionists of the Northern and Western States, save and excepting those only who stood outside of the Constitution by their own act, in consequence of regarding it as a compromise with slavery itself (hear, hear); and so guarded were those who framed the platform en which Mr. Lincoln was elected, that they put into it, or rather, they omitted from it many objects proposed to be accomplished by the party should it come into power. When Mr. Hale, of New Hampshire, was brought forward, and when Mr. Fremont was subsequently nominated, and when he came to use the platform of that party which elected Mr. Lincoln, they stood upon the principle of. recognizing slavery within the States,  and excluding it from the million and a quarter of square miles of territory lying beyond.  (Cheers.)
While, on the one hand, Mr. Lincoln had done no unconstitutional act (hisses, cheers, and confusion) in favor of the emancipation of the slaves, be had throughout his administration placed the government of the country where it never stood before (cries of  “No, no,” and uproarious laughter)—on the side of freedom (cries of “No, no,”cheers, and great confusion)—and had bad administered the Constitution in the spirit of freedom.  (Cries of  “No, no.") If gentlemen would not interrupt him, if they would not say “No”  until he had stated his facts, they would do more justice to him, and more credit to themselves. (Cheers and laughter.) They anticipated him, and the consequence was they were always in the wrong.  (Loud laughter, cries of  “No, no,” and much confusion.) He had no objection to a  “No” when he had stated his acts, because he knew that no intelligent man, whether be were an Englishman or an American, would venture to dispute a single fact that he should utter on that platform that night.  He said again that Mr. Lincoln had administered the Constitution of the United States since he came into office, in the spread of universal freedom. (Cries of “No no,”  and “Yes yes.”) Before he came into power the national District of Columbia, comprehending ten square miles, was the seat of the internal slave trade—was filled with slave prisons, slave pens, slave auctions, slave
<c06>
coffles, slave dungeons: and there were thousands of slaves held by the residents in the District of Columbia. Through Mr. Lincolu's interposition and that of the Congress returned by the Republican party, they could not find now through the length and breadth of those ten square miles of national territory a single slave prison, or pen, or coffle, or auction. (Cheers.)  No obligation rested upon Mr. Lincoln to do that; but he could do it constitutionally. (Hear, hear, and cries of  “No, no.”) He did do it, and in the doing of it, from that solitary spot of the American soil over which he, as the President and the Congress, had unlimited jurisdiction—upon that national spot, and within the limits of his jurisdiction,  he  had demonstrated  himself an immediate Abolitionist. (Cheers,) and a “voice, How many square miles?") He repeated, ten square miles, containing the only population placed under the exclusive jurisdiction of the Congress.  He could constitutionally check abroad and banish the importation of slaves; and whereas under the regime of Mr. Buchanan, his predecessor, of Mr. Pierce before him, and Mr. Fillmore before him, not less than forty slave vessels cleared out of the harbor of New York annually; the law prohibiting the slave trade on the coast of Africa being winked at by the pro-slavery government of New York, Mr. Lincoln had purged that city from every trace of connexion with the slave trade, and for the first time in the history of America, without a feeling of clemency—stern and inexorable, he had caused a slave trader to expiate his crime upon the scaffold. (Cheers.) Under the regime of the Slave Power, all the efforts of England on the Coast of Africa to repress the slave trade were rendered comparatively nugatory by the prostitution of the American flag. Mr. Lincoln spontaneously, without a despatch from Lord Russell to our Minister at Washington, addressed himself voluntarily, anxiously, to give to England a right of search (uproarious cheering and hurrahs)-power on the high seas over a Federal vessel, that if she had on board slaves, or those implements which distinguish a slaver, to take her into any port where a mixed commission was sitting, and have her condemned as if she were a piratical corsair.(Loud cheers.) 
During the regime of the Slave Power, there were two interesting Negro Republics, the one was one of the finest of the Antilles, the Island of Saint Domingo, while the other was on the West Coast of Africa, ("Question,") built up by blacks from America. These two interesting Negro Republics had been recognised by the Courts of Europe; but while the slave trade was in the ascendancy in America, they were never permitted to have even a   <illegible> in the city of New York  (“Shame.”) No sooner <illegible> of office, than he opened a diplomatic correspondence between those two republics and himself, and now they were admitted into the territory of the United States, into the place where met the representatives of all nations; the swarthiest of blacks from Hayti or Liberia might walk into the White House, side by side. (Cheers, and cries of “No, no,” and “Yes, yes.") He stated a fact, which all the “noes”  that could be sent up from all the throats in England could not disturb (hear, hear, and laughter)-the fact that at this moment the blackest representative from Port-au-Prince or Monrovia might walk into the White House of Washington by the side of the palest and the proudest of Europe's representatives. (Cheers.) Wherever he had constitutional power to exert, he  had exerted it (cheers); and if his name was never uttered without a blessing from the borders of Maryland to the extremities of Maine by the colored men (confusion)- if “(Godbless Abraham Lincoln” was the prayer to Heaven of every heart like his (pointing to Jeff. Davis's colored coachman) in the free States—was it for England; when he had obtained the love, the gratitude, of those whom he had blessed—was it for England to charge him with insincerity? (Cries of  “No, no,” cheers, and great confusion, mingled with exclamations of “Go on, Thompson.”) There were better judges of Mr. Lincoln than they could be there. (Cries of  “How?) There (continued the speaker, pointing to the coachman) sits a man who was a slave till he entered the tent of Gen. McDowell, Federal commander. (Cheers.) Are there any here who sneer at that? (A Voice—“They are no Englishmen if they do, that is all.”) Let me clank the chains in your ears, and let me flourish a slave whip over your; let me mark you down “chattels personal” to all intents and purposes; let you live in slavery for 29 years and 7 months, and then walk seventy miles through the woods, and then come trembling into the tent of a Federal general, and hear the words, “You are a free man;”  then let me ask you. if the charge should be made by the traducer who has just quitted the platform, though he should have 500,000 to endorse his amendment, that Mr. Lincoln was insincere, partial, inhuman, and revengeful, what would be your answer? "Whether it be so or not, we cannot say; one thing we know, that whereas we were once slaves, we are now free.”
(Loud cheers.)
The speaker went on to say that they had been told by the mover or seconder of the amendment, that Mr. Lincoln had abolished slavery-(A
voice, “No")-Mr. Thompson: Wrong again, you see—(laughter)-that he had abolished slavery where he had no power, and had rivetted more firmly upon the slave his fetters in the places where he had power. Now, it was just the reverse. (Hear, hear, and cries of “No. no.”) In the South he had right, justice, law, Constitution, the sympathies of man, the approval of God. o power! He had declared that, from and after the 1st of January of the present year, those slaves were now, henceforth, and forever free.  (Cries of “No, no.”) Did they ask him where was his power to execute that proclamation— what answer? In the souls and museles of the 3,000,000 he had declared free (cheers)—in the omnipotence of justice itself; there he had the power. (A Voice—“No argument.") He could not help that individual’s want of perception.  (Loud laughter.) He was replying to the assertion, that Mr. Lincoln had on paper abolished slavery where he had no power, and had not abolished it where it was alleged he had the power. He was discussing the right of the one. First, it was right to abolish slavery, because when they rebelled, the States could 
claim none of the guarantees or benefits of the Constitution;
 they were outside of it; they had tramplad it in the dust; they had supplanted it; they had defied the United States Government to arms, and they were now in the attituded of armed traitors. (Cries of "No, no;” "Yes, yes,” and confusion.) Mr. Thompson: If I say this gas is burning, that gentleman (alluding to one of the audience) would say “No.” Why he remarked, they gloried in the name of traitors; they were not ashamed of it, and why should we deny the fact? He who sought to overthrow the Government under which he had lived was a traitor. (Cries of "No, no.") If they doubted it, let them try the experiment, and they would soon see whether he was not. (Great confusion, and a voice, “Where is Cromwell?”) It had been said that Mr. Lincoln had not abolished slavery where he had the power, and for this reason, that in the so-called
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land to all the inhabitants thereof."
 I lay this down as the law of nations. i say that military
authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal
institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; 
and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the State where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THEARMY, UAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVERS..... From the instant
civil, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war power of CONGRES extend to interference with the institation of 
slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH from a claim of indemaity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slaves, to a foreign power. . . . It is a war power, I say it is a war power; and when your country is actuallyis war, whether
it to a war of invasion or a war of insurrection. Congress
has power to carry on the war, and must CARRY IT ON,ACCORDING to THE LAWSOF WAR; and by the laws of war an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institution swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKEN THE PLACE OF THEN. when two hostile armies are set in martial arry the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J.Q. ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Loyal States, Mr. Lincoln could exercise no power. (A Voice-” Is Garibaldi a traitor?” and great uproar) That was notorious; for in March last, Mr. Lincoln sent a message to Congress (A Voice—“Sit down”) recommending that Congress should pledge itself to indemnify the masters of slaves in the Border States, in the event of their adopting measures of emancipation. The Congress adopted that resolution. Mr. Lincoln called the border representatives together before the Congress adjourned, repeated his proposal, and urged them to accept it. Then went his proclamation of the 22d of September:-“I went so far as to recommend an amendment of the Constitution, in order that slavery in every part of the Union might cease and determine by the conclusion of the present century.” (Cheers.) Putting these things together, he came to the conclusion, satisfactory to his own mind, that where he had the constitutional authority, Mr. Lincoln had exercised it in behalf of the slaves. (Cries of “No, no;” “Yes, yes,” and confusion.) If he had not utterly abolished slavery, it was because he had sought to maintain the Constitution he was sworn to administer; and that in his heart of hearts, he desired as earnestly as they did that the country of his birth, and of whose suffrages he was now chief magistrate, might <illegible> he died not hold within its expanded frontiers a tyrant or a slave. (Loud cheers.)
The CHAIRMAN then rose to put the amendment to the meeting. (which, together with the resolution, was read by Mr. Cossham,) when a forest of hands was held up against it, and but a few in its favor. The original motion was then put, and carried by a very large majority, amid loud and long-continued cheering, large numbers of the audience mounting their hats on their sticks, of the audience mounting their hats on their sticks, waving their cloaks and handkerchiefs with the greatest enthusiasm, cries of “Well done Bristol,” &c.

GENERAL ROSECRANS ON TRAITORS. 
The Legislature of Ohio having passed a resolution of thanks to General Rosecrans and his army, he acknowledges the compliment in the following energetic letter:-
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE CUMBERLAND, MURFREESBORO, TENN., Feb. 3.
To the Honorable the General Assembly of the State of Ohio:-
The resolution of thanks passed by your honorable body to the army of the Cumberland, its commanding General and his staff, has been duly received and published to the troops of this command. On behalf of all, I return you my heartfelt thanks.
This is, indeed, a war for the maintenance of the Constitution and the laws-nay, for national existence-against those who have despised our honest friendship, deceived our just hopes, and driven us to defend our country and our homes. By foul and willful slanders on our motives and intentions, persistently repeated, they have arrayed against us our fellow-citizens, bound to us by the triple ties of consanguinity, geographical position, and commercial interest.
Let no man among us be base enough to forget this, or fool enough to trust an oligareby of traitors to their friends, to civil liberty and human freedom. Voluntary exiles from home and friends, for the defence and safety of all we long for the time when gentle peace shall again spread her wings over our land; but we know no such blessing is possible while the unjust and arbitrary power of the rebel leaders confronts and threatens us. Crafty as the fox, cruel as the tiger, they cried, “no coercion” while they were preparing to strike us. Bully-like, they proposed to fight us because they said they could whip five to one; and now, when driven back, they whine out “no invasion,” and promise us of the West permission to navigate the Mississippi, if we will be “good boys,” and do as they bid us.
Whenever they have the power, they drive before them into their ranks the Southern people, and they would also drive us. Trust them not. Were they able, they would invade and destroy us without mercy. Absolutely assured of these things, I am amazed that any one thinks of “peace on any terms.” He who entertains the sentiment is fit only to be a slave; he who utters it at this time is, moreover, a traitor to his country, who deserves the scorn and contempt of all honorable men. When the power of the unscrupulous rebel leaders is removed and the people <illegible> which are common with ours under this Government, there will be no great difficulty in fraternization. Between our tastes and social life there are fewer differences than between those of the people of the northern and southern provinces of England and Ireland.
Hoping the time may speedily come when the powers of the perfidious and cruel tyrant of this rebellion having been overthrown, a peace may be laid on the broad foundation of national unity and equal justice to all, under the Constitution and laws, I remain, your fellow-citizen, 
W.S. ROSECRANS, Major General.
THE “BEAST BUTLER.”
When General Butler entered New Orleans, it was a city of rebels. During the three weeks immediately following his arrival, hardly a man, not a dozen persons of influence out of the “numerous Unionists,” came forward to give him the slightest encouragement, to exhibit in any manner whatever any satisfaction at the arrival of United States forces, and the appearance of protection to loyalty. Enemies, bold and insulting, were everywhere. The press was avowedly opposed to the “invaders,” and greeted their arrival with loudest abuse. A mob of the “submissive and orderly population” were engaged in the wildest riots, breaking open warehouses, stealing and destroying merchandise, burning ships and docks, tearing down the flag of the United States, raised upon Government buildings, sending off by rail and cart everything portable and serviceable to the rebel army. The soldiers and officers of the United States met with magnanimous forbearance every sort of contumely and threat. Even women, who by position should have been ladies, in the universal excitement and hatred against the “Yankees” forgot all decorum and decency, and by their conduct placed themselves on a level with the abandoned of their sex. Everywhere-the word is used advisedly-everywhere was coldness or open enmity. It is also a simple fact that when General Butler left, not only had trade begun to show manifest signs of life, our streets to assume something more like their wonted appearance, but that a population largely Union and Union-loving had been developed. The result of this revolution of feeling-and it has been an absolute revolution-is seen in the election of two members to the Congress of the United States by a much larger vote than was thrown for secession in the same districts. Indeed, the vote must be regarded as quite a full one, considering the number of absentees. The poor have been fed at the expense of secession. Labor has been given to them, and the welfare of the city secured. General Butler saw, in wealth or social position, nothing to secure immunity for the crime of treason. He handled rebellion severely and effectually. Those who hate the Government and Constitution of the country are bitter against him. No genuine Union man in the city of New Orleans can complain that Gen. Butler has willingly injured him. Men known as active secessionists, and sympathizers with secession, have gone North to accuse him, and have explained their secessionists, and sympathizers with secession, have gone North to accuse him, and have explained their acknowledged position of coolness towards the Government as caused by oppression from him, driving them into opposition, when their punishments received have been the result of their criminal action, and by no means its cause. 
A ludicrous idea is advanced, that the Foreign Legion was compelled to resort to arms to defend the rights of its members and foreigners in general. Such a demonstration would have been very effectual, if the men who had desired it could have obtained arms, and would have Jared to make any such appearance in disobedience to the Commanding General's orders. But even this piece of precious folly is surpassed by others of these wondrous specifications. Will the New York World, or its sapient and truthful Washington correspondent, be so good as to inform the anxious New Orleans public as to the date, the manner, all the circumstances, in fact, of the arrest of Fathers Perche and Mullen? But we cannot use space in noticing these falsehoods, 
“Gross as a mountain, open, palpable.”
We have taken pains to learn something of the Custom House business with which he is accused of interfering. He is charged with exacting money from the captains of vessels before allowing them to clear. The clearance of vessels is properly under the control of Mr. Dennison, the efficient agent of
<c02>
the Treasury Department, and acting Collector of the port. General Butler has never interfered with that control to grant or meddle with the clearance of a single vessel. The “tyrannical Custom House regulation,” to which the World refers, were made not by General Butler or Collector Dennison, but by the Secretary of the Treasury. He is accused of “making the sale of certain goods compulsory.” This occurred in three instances only. Twice the General, as a military necessity, took goods in this way for hospital purposes under the direction of Dr. McCormick, once some runs, and once some blankets. The other occasion was for the purpose of supplying some paper for printing the Delta, the medium by which he published his official orders, for which paper the full market price was paid the owner. The absence of the completion of certain formalities at the Custom House alone rendered this necessary. He is accused of “seizing upon the Custom House deposits.” He never touched a dollar of them for any purpose whatever. “Arbitrary prohibition against certain articles” was established not by him, but by Secretary Chase, for obvious reasons. He is said to have “disturbed, to the great prejudice of the commerce of the city, the whole system of exports and imports.” He has had nothing to do with exports or imports in any way or shape. We have taken pains to answer, because of their gravity, all of the charges preferred against him in the World, with reference to the Custom House. From what we have shown respecting these matters, some idea may be gathered as to the character of the source whence all these accusations proceed.
General Butler needs no defence from us. We would. however, advise the New York World to be careful how it traduces and villifies patriotic men, devoted heart and soul to their country’s service. Its blind zeal against the Administration and in favor of secession friends, its fondness for sensation editorials, its inclination to sacrifice truth for the sake of rounding a period, or to calumniate, in order to give point to a classical quotation, may yet involve it in difficulty. We shall always be found ready to protect, to the extent of our ability, any Union soldier against the unjust aspersions of a venal and unpatriotic press. It is our plain duty to support those using every effort to sustain the life of the Government. The World defames Union men with a hundred times the vigor of its defence of the Union. It advocates the cause of traitors with little regard for the wickedness of treason. We have not yet done with this co-laborer with Jeff. Davis.—New Orleans Delta.

GENERAL BANKS AND THE NEGROES.
The Unionists of New Orleans miss Gen. Butler. The rebels also miss him, but they are glad of it. Butler kept them well under—now they can come to the surface and blow, like social and political whales. When Butler heard the cry, “There she blows,” he was after them with a harpoon! Banks tries to coax them to come to his Union ship. The former was the effective way; the latter ineffective. But in the contest between the Unionists and disunionists, the poor negro has a hard task. He is treated most unjustly and cruelly—not by design upon the part of the Federal commander, but as a natural result of his lenient consideration of the master. We have hitherto made mention of the fact that since General Butler left, the order was issued that all negroes found out of doors after half-past seven o’clock, P. M. must be arrested and thrust into jail, unless they had their free papers with them to exhibit. Such an order created the utmost consternation among the blacks. It was a return to the old days of rebel rule. Multitudes of arrests were made, and hundreds of the colored men and women had to suffer. An aggravating feature of the regulation was, that it was put in force before a knowledge of its existence had been circulated, and thus very many offended ignorantly. No cause could be assigned for this proceeding—the negroes had been docile and quiet.
On the 29th of January, General Banks issued an order accompanying the President’s Proclamation of Emancipation. This order is argumentative, and, thus far, sound, but it did not meet the expectations of the Unionists. Its principal provision regarding the status of the negroes was the following:—
<illegible> compel or authorize their return by force.” 
That this is a singular comment upon the Proclamation, we need not say to our readers. The Proclamation says distinctly that all slaves of disloyal districts shall be free. It leaves no option with either the masters or the slaves. Neither does it impose any part of the work of making them free upon the army. It is not necessary for the officers or soldiers to “encourage or assist” the slaves to be free—they are so already. The last clause of this paragraph is as objectionable as the first. To say that the soldiers cannot compel the return of the slaves “by force” is to say that they can use any other means which comes to hand. They may argue the case, and assure the ex-slave that it his duty to return; they may use strategy and inveigle him into a return, but they may not use force. We need not say that this is contrary to the spirit of “General Orders, No. 1,” but also to the instructions adopted by Congress, declaring that the army shall not be used to return fugitives.
In its provisions for the control and care of the negroes, this order says nothing of the arbitrary arrest of which we have spoken. The colored population, not understanding this omission and feeling aggrieved by the injury done them, prepared a respectful address, which they sent to the Military Governor, Shepley, setting forth that they were free persons, and natives of that State and city, and all of them born free as well as their parents before them; that they are loyal citizens of the United States, and devoted to the Constitution; that many of them are property holders in the city, and, consequently, tax-payers, and that among them are to be found many descendants of those brave men of color whom General Jackson did not hesitate to call his “fellow-citizens”. and to summon to his aid to repel the enemies of their country. They pray the Governor for relief from these arrests, and for due respect for their rights. At last advices, no response had been made to this very reasonable request, but we hope to chronicle a change for the better. As things now exist, the secessionists are encouraged, and the Unionists downcast.—Cleveland Leader.

GENERAL BANKS AT NEW ORLEANS.
General Banks seems to have gone to New Orleans with an idea of trying over again the policy that has so many times failed, of conciliating the deadly enemies of the Union. He took the responsibility of declaring in a general order, that Louisiana was excepted from the President’s Emancipating Proclamation, an assertion for which he had no warrant, and which proved to be true of only a part of the State. Since receiving the Proclamation of January 1st—of which he took no notice till the 30th—he has published it with a general order that seems designed to make its effect as little as possible. The President invites the freedmen to enlist. Gen. Banks recommends to them not to leave “their employers.” He merely forbids officers to assist in returning to “their employers” such as leave them. The President requires officers actively to maintain the freedom of such persons. Worse still, while the President simply recommends the colored people to work for reasonable wages, General Banks undertakes to compel them to work, and to fix their wages for them. He directs the Sequestration Commission, “upon conference with the planters and other parties,” to propose and “establish a yearly system of negro labor,” the compensation for which “should be just, but not exorbitant or onerous. When accepted by the planters or other parties, all the conditions of continuous and faithful service, respectful department, correct discipline, and perfect subordination shall be enforced on the negroes by the officers of the Government.”
General Banks seems to forget that it is the labor of freemen which he is dealing with. He is chiefly anxious lest they should ask too much wages for their work, and therefore directs the commission to establish a rate that shall not be “onerous.” Our officers are to regulate the plantation discipline, and to see that the laborers are not only faithful in their work, but that they are perfectly subordinate and respectful, and do not take on too many airs in the presence of their betters. It is too bad that a man of whom such hopes were entertained should fail so miserably in the highest position to which he has been called. He has lost a great opportunity for himself, and been found wanting at an important crisis of the war. He evidently is not the right man in the right place.—Christian Watchman and Reflector.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1863.
NOTICE TO DELINQUENT SUBSCRIBERS.
The GENERAL AGENT of the Liberator begs leave to remind delinquent subscribers— I. e., such as are owing from January 1, 1862, to January 1, 1863—that, unless payment be made by the first of April, (which is granting a longer indulgence than usual,) their paper will be discontinued, in accordance with the STANDING RULE. It is hoped there will be no longer delay on their part in meeting their indebtedness, and no occasion furnished for curtailing the subscription list.

INEXCUSABLE SILENCE.
The Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln was issued only a few days prior to the opening of the present session of the Legislature of Massachusetts. Obviously, it should have promptly received the strongest endorsement of that body, not only in view of its magnitude and importance, but also to strengthen the hands of the President, and stimulate to fresh efforts for a speedy suppression of the rebellion in the most effective manner. Strange to say, nearly two months have been suffered to pass, without any proposition being made, or action taken upon that Proclamation, or in support of the Government, by this Legislature. It has yet to indicate that it is cognizant of the fact that the nation is bleeding at every pore—that armies are confronting armies on the battle field, in deadly civil war, and on a scale of unparalleled extent—that the Union is broken asunder for the establishment of a great slaveholding empire— that a hundred thousand Northern soldiers have been sacrificed in as yet unsuccessful efforts to quell the rebellion—that the Government is seriously menaced by factionists at the North as well as by the traitors of the South—and that volcanic explosions are liable to take place at any moment, to the imminent peril of all that pertains to the cause of freedom. Why this apparent insensibility and persistent silence? Both branches of the Legislature are overwhelmingly Republican, and the passage of the strongest resolutions in favor of the Proclamation and its vigorous enforcement ought not to be a matter of doubt. Is it replied, that such resolutions are uncalled for, because none can question where Massachusetts stands in this trial-hour, nor that she warmly endorses the Proclamation? The objection is futile, inasmuch as Massachusetts can speak officially and potentially only through her Legislature. In that capacity, she has not yet spoken, and her voice ought to be heard, her verdict placed upon record. She could have been the first of all the States officially to express her satisfaction with the issuing of the Proclamation; but, having lost that opportunity, and forfeited that credit, is she still to keep dumb? Suppose the soi-disant “People’s Party” had succeeded at the last election, how many days would it have waited, after the first of January, before entering a factious proslavery protest in a legislative capacity? No right testimony, at this crisis, whether on the part of individuals or of organized bodies, is unimportant. The Government needs it for its safety—the President needs it for his inspiration. It cannot be uttered too soon, nor registered too often, nor circulated too widely. The Legislature is seriously culpable for its inaction, and an indignant constituency should take some measures to compel it to SPEAK OUT. Every where the abettors of Southern traitors are hurling defiance at the Government, clamoring for a truce which means degradation and defeat, and plotting to inaugurate a reign of anarchy preliminary to the establishment of a military dicta <illegible>. They boldness and activity are worth of imitation, and should be surpassed, by those who wish well to the republic. We invoke, therefore, the Senate and House of Representatives to lose no time in giving to the country a bugle-blast that shall be inspiring music in the ears of the loyal, and a sound like deafening thunder in those of the “copperhead” conspirators.
“Now, while our land to ruin’s brink is verging,
In God’s name, let us speak while there is time;
Now, while the padlocks for our lips are forging,
SILENCE is CRIME!”

THE OLD BAY STATE.
It is to the exceeding honor of Massachusetts that she has always been, and still is, incomparably more hated, feared and anathematized by the traitorous Southern slave oligarchy, and their Northern minions, than any other State in the Union. With territorial extent that dwindles almost to a point, in comparison with that of many others, and with very limited political power in the settlement of any national question, she, nevertheless, leads the van in whatever relates to invention, skill, enterprise, industry, education, intelligence, progress, wealth, pecuniary generosity, world wide philanthropy, the cause of liberty, and true piety. She is the focal point of the world’s civilization, the best exemplification of republicanism and free institutions, wielding an immense moral influence over the country. She has more mind, more genius, more talent, more general enlightenment, more character, a higher attainment, a nobler ideal, in proportion to her extent and population, than any of the thirty-three. Therefore it is that whatsoever is oppressive, brutal, debased and anarchical in the land instinctively reviles and defames her. Of this glory she cannot be robbed: she has won it by steady development, by severe toil, by meritorious action.
Of course, we speak relatively—readily admitting that she has, in too many instances, “done those things which she ought not to have done, and left undone those things which the ought to have done,” Nevertheless, she is “the bright particular star” in the national galaxy, and still culminating in brilliancy and glory. In view of the present position, and the liberty-loving sentiment which animates her breast, at this tremendous crisis, more fitly deserved than ever is the eulogy that Mr. Webster bestowed upon her in 1830:—
“I shall enter on no encomium upon Massachusetts; she needs none. There she is. Behold her and judge for yourselves! There is her history; the world knows it by heart. The past, at least, is secure. There is Boston, and Concord, and Lexington and Bunker Hill; and there they will remain forever. The bones of her sons, falling in the great struggle for independence, now lie mingled with the soil of every State from New England to Georgia; and there they will lie forever. And where American Liberty raised its first voice, and where its youth was nurtured and sustained, there it still lives, in the strength of its manhood, and full of its original spirit.”
It is a foul bird that pollutes its own nest. Incredible as it may seem, and base and detestable as it is, there are those in human shape, who were born on Massachusetts soil and have been educated in her schools, whose special object it is to calumniate and defame her as the most truculent State in the Union, and as animated by a fanatical and disorganizing spirit it, and who see incomparably more to admire in the barbarous, slave-mongering, rebellious State of South Carolina, than in this time-honored, enlightened, patriotic Commonwealth. They are never weary of villifying her history, her character, her motives and aims. Their organs are the Boston Courier and Post, papers which should be excluded from every family possessing a particle of self-respect, or of regard for the honor of the old Bay State. It ought not to be possible for them to obtain sufficient patronage to contain heir publication a single fortnight. There influence is “evil, only evil, and that continually.” Whilst they are constantly denouncing the Government for exercising arbitrary power, the forbearance which is shown towards them is demonstrative proof of the falsity of their accusation. If they were dealt with according to their deserts, they would be summarily suppressed as instigating to sedition.
<c04>
NORTHERN FANATICS.
There is a class of men in the North, not large numerically, who yet wield a baneful influence upon the community. Victims of one idea-bound to a single hobby-they cling to it with a pertinacity worthy of a better cause. In all the large cities these enthusiasts are found. They scatter their incendiary doctrines through the press, from the rostrum, and, alas! that we should be compelled to write it, from the “sacred desk” itself.
Infatuation is ever pitiable, though the object aimed at the worthy; but when it is apparent to all right minded persons that a phantom only is pursued, “a false creation, Proceeding from the heat oppressed brain,” pity feebly describes our feelings.
There is a certain method in the madness of these men, and an assumed sanity that often deceives the multitude. Yet one had better catch the hydrophobia than their disease. The symptoms are easily detected. When a man interlards his conversation with the epithets “nigger” “Black Republican” and “d-d Abolitionist,” be sure he has got it bad. As water is said to throw a mad dog into convulsions, so the presence of a colored person is sure to develop all the virus that is in these poisoned natures. 
Canute, sitting regally upon the sea-shore, and for bidding the waves to advance further, is an inadequate symbol of these men. They are attempting a more hopeless task than his, the very acme of fanaticism. “Justice and humanity” say they, “are sentimentalisms; equality is a lie; slavery is right because it is profitable, and its victims are black. Woman whipping and baby selling is safe practice for a government. Might makes right.”
Opposed to these deluded or wicked persons is a conservative, clear-sighted body of men and women known as Abolitionists. Comprehending the great truth, that the moral laws of the universe demand as exact obedience as the physical or mechanical laws, and that disobedience must bring punishment and suffering, they early declared and preached the fact. They demonstrated that it is as idle for a nation to expect continued prosperity and happiness from wrong doing as for a ship to sail prosperously while disregarding the winds and tides. It was a plain, conservative, self evident proposition.
The pro-slavery fanatics replied by persecution, much as their lineal ancestors did to Galileo when he announced that the earth revolved. But the world kept moving, spite of their cruel treatment of the seer; so neither did the moral laws suspend operations, and in the fulness of time the retribution prophesied by the Abolitionists culminated in this civil war.
The remark made of the Bourbons, that “they never forgot and never learned anything,” is equally applicable to these fanatics. Thirty years of experience has profited them nothing. Every prophecy of theirs has been falsified, every argument refuted, every lie nailed. Yet the columns of the Boston Post, Courier, New York Herald and World bate no jot of billingsgate and falsehood. Compare the “Refuge of Oppression” in the Liberator of 1833 with the “Refuge” of to-day’s Liberator, and the intervening time seems inappreciable. The malignity, misrepresentation and diabolism of this choice collection of “elegant extracts” are unvaried and unique. One pen might have written all.
Impracticable theorists, practical only in their atheism, these men still disseminate their pernicious heresies,
“Perverting, darkening, changing as they go 
The searching truths of God.”.
How much longer will a discerning public permit by its support these dangerous demagogues to flourish?
-W. L. G., JR.

A NEW FANGLE.
It was a favorite, not to say fundamental, maxim of the late People’s Party, that the sum and substance <illegible> content with “the Union as it was, the Constitution as it is.” In the language of Mr. Seward, in that speech which cost him the Presidency, they were never weary of asking: “Are you more just than Washington, wiser than Hamilton, more humane than Jefferson? What new form of government or of union have you the power to establish, or even the cunning to devise, that will be more just, more free, more gentle, more beneficent, or more glorious than this?” And, like Mr. Seward, they vainly hoped that “by these simple interrogations” the captious would be “silenced and confounded.” The bay of the Courier, Post, et id omne, was always in unison. “The Union as it was! to every State its own concerns- no un friendly legislation-no East, West, North or South. The Constitution of our Fathers! fulfil its sacred guaranties-change not a letter of its faultless text-tear not a corner of its hallowed parchment. The Flag of our Country! every stripe intact- ‘not a star erased or polluted.’” 
The People’s Party, however, being a notorious in stance of lucus a non, died as soon as the a non was made manifest, -which happened of a fine November day when the People and the Party unaccountably got separated. To be accurate, though, the party still lived, with only the loss of the plumage which it had impudently borrowed. The factiousness and disloyalty which had gathered itself behind the shield of a fair-seeming name, fell, as soon as uncovered, into anonymous hostility, subtle, slime-bellied, venomous. Failing utterly in its attempt to extend the climate of South Carolina to Massachusetts, it has ever since lain shivering in the cold. Foiled equally in its effort to christen itself, it has, in common with the same treacherous element throughout the North, been forced to accept the descriptive epithet of its adversaries, and to be henceforth, crawling or erect, a Copperhead in nature and in name.
“Liars should have good memories.” The faction just described, in adopting a new shibboleth, have forgotten the proverb, and are become as crooked of speech as of back. A reference to the fourth resolution of Connecticut Copperheaddom, set forth on the first page in the proper place, will discover the fact that the C. C. aforesaid do have in view “the reconstruction of the Union on such terms as shall thoroughly define the rights of the States,” together with “the erection upon a more enduring basis of the temple of the Constitution.” What! juster than Washington? wiser than Hamilton? more humane than Jefferson? No longer content with the Union as it was, and the Constitution as it is? Clearly so. As clear, the reason why. The Union as it was can never restore Slavery as it was; the Constitution as it is, can never repair the clipped wing under which the system found refuge and protection of old. Between today and yesterday stands the Proclamation of freedom, and therefore the fork in the tongue of the Copperhead. Therefore, more thoroughly, must we define the rights of the States here, allowing the constitutional right of secession, alias the right of a nation to commit suicide according to law; there, reserving to each of the separate States the right to plunder the national treasury, seize the national mints, occupy the forts and arsenals, attack the capital in arms, wage an aggressive, barbarous war, and receive at the close a perfect immunity, with permission to liquidate in the funds of the nation the expenses arising from the exercise of this right. The temple of the Constitution must be erected on a more enduring basis. In order to harmonize with that fabric going up on the other side of the Potomac, the corner stone must be Slavery. Instead of three-fifths, there must be five-fifths slave representation. Instead of a circumlocutory fugitive slave clause, there must be one forbidding by its directness all difference of interpretation. The slave-trade re-opened; the territories delivered to whips and chains; no Black Republican victory possible at the polls, after treason it made legal; -the last spectacle in the ecstatic vision of the Copperhead is slavery reestablished in every Northern State,- New York leading off, in honor of her first petitioning to that effect, and New England to follow or wait for her senses in the cold.-W. P. G.
<c05>
LETTER FROM GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
LONDON, Feb. 5, 1863.
MY DEAR GARRISON-Since I last addressed you, I have attended meetings in the following places, viz: Sheffield, Heywood, Dumfries, Kilmarnock, Greenock. <illegible>, Paisley, Glasgow, <illegible>, Perth, Aberdeen, <illegible>, Edinburgh, <illegible>, Gloucester, Cheltenham, Bristol, Bath, Stroud, Kingswood, and London. The mention of some of these towns will bring old scenes to your remembrance, when we were companions and fellow-laborers—as, thank God, we still are. In Bath, thirty years ago, we saw the venerable Wilberforce, whom we afterwards followed to his honored grave in Westminster Abbey. In Sheffield, we visited that “holy family” that still resides at Wincobank Hall, where, however, there has been deep sorrow, caused by the translation to a higher sphere of the beautiful daughter of Mrs. Rawson. You will recollect, too, our pleasant visit to Perth, and our excursion from thence to Blair-Athol, in company with James Whittet, who still survives, and cherishes the most affectionate remembrance of you, and reads the Liberator with as much zest as ever. As for Auld Reekie, your recollections will be vivid, I am sure, both of the people and the city, and also of Glasgow, and our faithful friends the Smeals and the Patons. I am not without hope that we may together revisit these scenes, and renew our intercourse with friends who were true when many fell away, perverted by the wicked slanders so  industriously promulgated by those who sought the accomplishment of their own petty schemes more than the deliverance of the slave from his bonds.
Since I left Scotland, on the 22d ultimo, my meet­ings have been all on the American question—and such meetings! They have reminded me of those I was wont to hold in 1831, ‘32, and ‘33—densely crowded, sublimely enthusiastic, and all but unanimous. The opposition has been of the most insignificant and contemptible kind. Before this reaches you, you will have seen the report of the meetings above and below, and in the open air, around, Exeter Hall. I was the same evening engaged in holding a meeting at Stroud, which did not conclude till midnight. Three nights ago, I held a meeting near my own residence. Thousands were excluded for want of room. These outsiders were addressed by competent persons, and the cheers raised by the multitude found their way into the meeting I was addressing, and increased the excitement of my audience. I shall rest till the 10th, and then recommence my labors, which are in great demand. 
This Anti-Slavery movement is assuming gigantic proportions, and, if wisely and energetically conduct-ed, as I trust it will be, will have a powerful, and at the same time beneficial influence upon the counsels of your public men. It will be of vital importance in this country. It will read a salutary lesson to our public men. It will mould the decisions of our Government. It will neutralize the poison diffused by our journals. It will enlighten and stir up our ministers of religion. It will create the anti-slavery sentiment of the new generation. It will impregnate with the true fire the masses of our people. In a word, it will put England in her old and proper position. 
The arrival of the President’s Proclamation, of the 1st of January, gave me a degree of satisfaction and joy which words cannot express. It confirmed the hopes and fulfilled the predictions in which I had indulged. In spite of all prognostications and appearances to the contrary, I had cherished a confident belief that Mr. Lincoln would execute the decree of Sept. 22. Nevertheless, the suspense was painful. My  anxiety is now at an end as respects the fiat of emancipation, and I am waiting to see its fruits, which I trust will be abundant and peaceful.
On New Year’s day, I addressed a crowded assembly of unemployed operatives in the town of Heywood, near Manchester, and spoke to them two hours about the Slaveholders’ Rebellion. They were united and vociferous in the expression of their willingness to suffer all the hardships consequent upon a want of cotton, if thereby the liberty of the victims of Southern despotism might be promoted. All honor to the half million of our working population in Lancashire, Cheshire, and elsewhere, who are bearing with heroic fortitude the grievous privations which your war has entailed upon them! The four millions of slaves in America have no sincerer friends than these lean, palefaced, idle people, who are reconciled to their <illegible> and desolate homes by the thought that their trials are working out the deliverance of the oppressed children of your country. Their sublime resignation, their self-forgetfulness, their observance of law, their whole-souled love of the cause of human freedom, their quick and clear perception of the merits of the question between the North and the South, their superiority to the sophisms of those who would delude them, and their appreciation of the labor question involved in the “irrepressible conflict,” are extorting the admiration of all classes of the community, and are reading the nation a valuable lesson.
FRIDAY, 6th.
Our Parliamentary session commenced yesterday. Our future King was introduced to the House of Lords, and, after bring sworn a peer of Parliament, occupied a seat on the right hand of the throne. He is to be married on the 10th of March. The Queen’s speech was delivered by commission. Her Majesty is made to say that “she has abstained from taking any step with a view to induce a cessation of the conflict between the contending parties in the North American States, because it has not yet secured that any such overtures could be attended with a probability of success. She has seen with the deepest concern the desolating warfare which still rages in those regions, and has witnessed with heartfelt grief the severe distress and suffering which the war has inflicted upon a large class of her subjects,” &c. For the opinions expressed by Lords Derby and Russell, in the House of Lords, and Lord Palmeston and Disraeli in the House of Commons, I refer you to the debate as reported in the papers sent with this letter.
I have found constant occupation for William Andrew Jackson,—(Jefferson Davis’s late coachman.)
He has been very usefully employed in Manchester, Sheffield, and other places.  Last week, he accompanied me in my tour in the west of England, and this week he is engaged in South Wales. Next week he will be in Derbyshire, and will then proceed to Lancashire. I am happy to say, the impression every­where produced by his addresses has been a favorable one. I shall be able to obtain for him as much work as he can do for some time to come.
The London Emancipation Society is growing in numbers and in power. On the 18th, I shall speak as its representative in St. James’s Hall, Piccadilly, one of our finest west end buildings. To-night I am going to hear Mr. Spurgeon lecture on the subject of Slavery amongst Jews, Pagans and Christians. His chapel is near my residence. You shall have a report of the meeting. 
Ever sincerely yours,
GEORGE THOMPSON.
PUBLIC <illegible> IN HONOR OF GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
A number of the friends and admirers of GEORGE THOMPSON, E.q, have invited that gentleman to a <illegible> at the Whittington Club, Arundel Street, Strand, on Wednesday the 25th of February, 1863, in recognition of the important services rendered by him to the Anti-Slavery, Free Trade and other great progressive movement during the past thirty years. Addresses will be delivered by The Right Hon. Lord Teynham; Western Wood, Esq.. M. P.; Thomas Bazley. Esq., M.P.; Acton S. Ayrton, Esq., M.P.; The Rev. Jabez Burns, D.D.: The Rev. J.H. <illegible> A.K.C; The Rev.J. Sella Martin, late of Boston, U.S.; Professor Francis W. Newman; John Noble, Esq., J.P; Harper Twelvetrees, Esq.; Charles Henry Elt, Esq.; Washington Wilks, Esq.; and other gentlemen. The proceedings will undoubtedly be of great interest, and our only regret is that we cannot be present to participate in them.
<c06>
SPEECH OF MR.THOMPSON IN LONDON,
On the evening of the 3d inst., a demonstration of the inhabitants of South London was held in the large room of Taylor’s Repository, near the Elephant and Castle, for the purpose of expressing sympathy with the cause of negro emancipation in the United States. The meeting was advertised to commence at eight o’clock, but as early as seven o’clock a large crowd had collected around the entrance to the Repository, and by half-past the room was densely crowded, hundreds of persons being unable to obtain admission.
A second and a much larger meeting was improvised outside, and the proceedings throughout of both were marked by the greatest enthusiasm and the proceedings throughout of both were marked by the greatest enthusiasm and the most perfect unanimity.
The Rev. WILLIAM BARKER moved-
“That this meeting heartily unites in the general joy and thanksgiving which have been called forth by the proclamation issued by the President of the United States on the 1st of January, 1863, by which more than three millions of slaves in the United States were declared the <illegible> and forever free; and are of opinion that the promulgation of that decree-founded not less on justice and the inalienable rights of slaves than on considerations of military necessity-entitles Mr. Lincoln to the sympathy, encouragement, and moral support of the friends of freedom throughout the world.”
Mr. Barker supported the resolution is a brief but effective speech. 
Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON (who was received with repeated rounds of applause) next rose to address the meeting. He said that it was with the greatest satisfaction that he had observed, within the last few days, a general revival of the old anti-slavery feeling of this country. (Cheers.) He never doubted its existence. He knew that the ignorance, prejudice, and malevolence were confined to some of the newspapers rather than distributed among the people. (Cheers.) He had been addressing public meetings in all parts of the country during the last eighteen months, and he could never find any opponent who was able to obtain more than a dozen or twenty votes in favor of any amendment which he proposed. (Applause.) He did not need the great demonstration at Exeter Hall to convince him that the judgments, the convictions, the hearts, and the consciences of the people were sound upon the question. (Cheers.) This rebellion in America was simply and exclusively a slaveholders’ rebellion-a rebellion conceived in the brains of slaveholders-a rebellion projected thirty years ago by slaveholders, who only waited their time till their power should culminate, and a Northern man put the genius and spirit of the Government on the side of freedom. (Cheers.) An American came over here to learn for the first time that the tariff was an element in the question. (Hear.) It had no existence in the list of grievances put forth by the slaveholders, and there never was a tariff passed for which a majority of the Southern representatives did not vote, and against which a majority of the Northern representatives did not vote. (Cheers.)
Proceeding to notice the course pursued by Mr. Lincoln, Mr. Thompson said that he always gave a man credit for good motives, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, and, judging Mr. Lincoln by the exercise of his constitutional authority, he thought he deserved their confidence and approbation. (Cheers.) Entering the Government under the most disadvantageous circumstances, and with these slaveholders consolidated against him, he had done more since he came into office than had been done in this country in thirty years. (Hear, hear.) It took thirty years to abolish slavery, and then they had to abolish it in spite of princes, peers, prelates, clergy and aristocracy. (Cheers.) All the diatribes of the press fell on him (Mr. T.) like the rain from heaven on the plumage of a duck. (Laughter and cheers.) He was quite familiar with these rehashes of the Times, the Telegraph, and the Standard he had read all their arguments before in John Bull, in Fraser, in Blackwood, and in the <illegible> who did the work much better in their day. (Laughter and cheers.) He thanked God that these papers did not represent the people of England. The Times was so notorious for its vacillation, for waiting in the rear till victory was assured, that the people treated its statements on this question with scorn. (Cheers.) Well-to-do gentlemen, who got up their polities during a five minutes’ ride in the omnibus, might find it convenient to be set up by the articles of the Times- (laughter)-but the people neither read it, nor would they trust it if they did read it. (Cheers.)
Mr. Thompson then, amid great enthusiasm, proceeded to notice the various great acts performed by Mr. Lincoln, which showed his opposition to slavery. After describing the origin of the Republican party, and the infamous Dred Scott decision which Mr. Lincoln’s Attorney-General had pronounced unconstitutional, he said that every slave emancipated by Mr. Lincoln’s glorious proclamation was now a citizen, and could claim the protection of the laws of the United States. (Cheers.) When he found the President thus, in despite of obstacles, steadily prosecuting one great purpose-when he found this great emancipation proclamation preceded by acts, any one of which evidenced his sincerity-he took his proclamation not only with thankfulness, but with the deepest gratitude to the good man who had promulgated it. (Loud cheers.) It was no sham. It might be a tragedy-it might be a jubilee-it might lead to one of the most glorious events in the world’s history since the Messiah trod the earth-or if Jefferson Davis’s threat was carried out, it might lead to that, the thought of which chilled the blood. It was no sham, but the Magna Charta of the negroes’ rights. (Enthusiastic cheering.) It was written, spoken, declared, and it never could be revoked. (Cheers.) The negro must either be a man rejoicing in the rights of a man, or the victim of those demi-demons who, through the lips of Jefferson Davis, threatened his extermination. Jefferson Davis threatened with extermination four millions of people. (Sensation.) He (Mr. Thompson) thought that that man was a demon, but now he knew it. Who was to exterminate the? The Southerners, rather than give England cotton, burned it; and rather than give the negroes freedom, they would slay them. He thanked them for coming out in their true character; but though they might threaten, they could not perform. (Applause.) There was a vitality in four millions of people that would exceed the devilism of Jefferson Davis. (Cheers.) It was easy for him to tear the babe from his mother-to deflower the undefended maiden-to rob the laborer of his hire; but to stand up before God and the world, and butcher four millions of people, he could not do it. (Applause.) 
In conclusion, Mr. Thompson stated there never was an instrument that proceeded from purer motives-that was more just in its object-or that would be more salutary in its effects, than that proclamation. He concluded a long and eloquent speech in the words of the poet:-
Spirit of freedom, on!
Oh! pause not in thy flight,
Till every clime be won 
To worship in thy light
On, till thy name is known
Throughout the peopled earth! 
On till <illegible> alone,
Man’s heritage by birth!
(Enthusiastic cheers.)
The Rev. Mr. HAWKINS supported the resolution.
The resolution was then put, and carried amid the greatest enthusiasm. 
A VOICE-Three groans for the Times! (Groans) 
The Rev. J. H. RYLANCE, in an able and eloquent speech, proposed the next resolution:-
“That the chairman be desired to forward a copy of the foregoing resolution to his Excellency, C. F. Adams, the American Minister, with the request that he would forward it to the President of the United States.” (Cheers.) 
Mr. W. S. NORTHOUSE, in a humorous speech, seconded the resolution.
The resolution was then put, and carried unanimously.
The meeting, which had throughout been of the most enthusiastic character, terminated with three cheers for President Lincoln.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
ENGLAND ALL RIGHT.
We are receiving from all parts of England, the proceedings of public meetings held to vindicate the anti-slavery sentiments of the people, to express unqualified approval of the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln, and to denounce the “confederate” traitors of the South. There is a <illegible> of feeling as surprising as it is unexpected-the demonstration is all one way, and overwhelming.
Very much of this is due to the indefatigable efforts of George Thompson, Esq., (in connection with the London Emancipation Society,) two of whose speeches we give in our present number, and who well deserves a handsome testimonial from America.
At an immense meeting held at Bristol on the 28th ult., the following resolution was adopted:—
"That this meeting regards with the deepest interest the rapid growth of anti-slavery principles in the Northern section of the United States, and congratulates the true friends of the negro on a result to which their long and <illegible> labors have contributed; that is the opinion of this meeting the course of events in the United States, as far as it affects the slave population, is tending towards an object which must be hailed with satisfaction by philanthropists of every nation; that, without expressing any opinion on the political objects of the war on either side, or on the propriety of resorting to the sword for the attainment of freedom for the slave, this meeting desires to express, in the <illegible> of righteousness and humanity its full sympathy with the cause of speedy and complete emancipation, and firmly hopes that whatever incidental calamities the civil war may yet entail, and whatever may be the political issue of the contest, which can be determined only by the Supreme Arbiter of human destiny, it will be one result of the disastrous visitation to purge the United States for ever of the stain of slavery, and to give early and permanent freedom to the millions now in bondage; that this meeting fervently desires that the great country of the United States may speedily be delivered from its present calamities, and that when the civil war shall have been succeeded by an honorable and righteous peace, there may await it a future of prosperity and glory, for which her present sufferings may be only the needful preparation.”
The following address to President Lincoln was also enthusiastically adopted at the same meeting:—
To his Excellency:
SIR,—As an assembly of Englishmen, and having no corporate capacity, we venture to address to you a few words of respectful sympathy. Language fails as to express how deeply we deplore the calamity which has befallen your country, how earnestly we desire to hear of the cessation of the fearful struggle which afflicts it, and how fervently we hope that the system of slavery, which has caused the war, will perish with it. That the struggle between slavery and freedom has arisen from your elevation to the presidential chair, we take the liberty of considering as the highest honor which could be accorded to you. We deem it disrespectful to yourself, and to the great people whom you are called to govern, to pronounce any opinion on your political measures; but we beg permission to as sure you of our full appreciation of the heavy burthen of responsibility under which you labor, and our earnest desire that you may be able to accomplish an object which must be dear to every philanthropic heart-the freedom of the slave. Should this be, as we devoutly hope, one of the issues of the war which now distresses your people, we believe that a more hearty and confiding amity will be cemented between them and the people of Great Britain than has ever previously existed.
Meanwhile, we trust that neither the severity of criticism nor the apparent complicity of some British citizens in upholding slavery will be allowed to disturb the good-will which ought ever to prevail between two great nations so closely allied; and we welcome with sincere satisfaction, as an expression of national good-will, the liberal contributions by American citizens to the relief of our distressed operatives.
To this expression of our sympathy, we desire to add our prayers that you may be divinely guided through the difficulties of your exalted position, and that in the emancipation of millions of bondsmen the afflicted widows and orphans of your people may find some alleviation of their sorrow.
With sentiments of profound respect,
We are, sir, your obedient servants.
At a public meeting of the citizens of Glasgow, (Scotland,) the following admirable address to the President was adopted with great unanimity:-
To His Excellency Abraham Lincoln,
President of the United States of America:
SIR,-We who offer to you this address are citizens of Glasgow, in public meeting assembled; and through our chairman now approach you, with all the respect due to your position, as a constitutional chief of a great-nation, linked to ourselves by innumerable ties of lineage, of language, of social and material interests, and of religious faith.
We have been long accustomed to regard with veneration and gratitude the founders of that great Republic of which you are now the legitimate head. Throughout the past career of the United States, we have followed with feelings of genuine friendship every step by which the liberties of our race have been widened, education has been advanced, and the various elements of a noble public prosperity have been developed by the free action of a self governing people.
One thing alone has restricted our sympathies, namely, the continued enslavement and consequent degradation o! certain children of that God who “hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth.”
Since, however, through the disruption initiated by the Slave Power itself, a way is being opened up to the entire enfranchisement of every slave in America, and decisive steps are being taken towards extending to ALL the rights of citizenship, independently of any distinction of color, our heartiest sympathies have been with you, your Government, and your people.
By the distinct adoption of an anti-slavery policy, your administration will seal the doom of the “sum of all villanies,” and command the respect of all who desire that the bonds of wickedness should be unloosed, and the oppressed set free.
We regard the proposition and attempt, now made for the first time in the history of the world, to establish a nation upon the basis of slavery, as infamous in itself, and an unparalleled outrage upon humanity at large. Do not, we entreat you, give heed to those who, covertly seeking their own ends, regardless of consequences or principles, would sow the seeds of discord between our country and your own. The great heart of the British people beats, we assure you, true to freedom. Freemen ourselves, our hearts go forth to freemen. We recognise, as the plain issue of the contest now tasking the heroism and self-sacrifice of America, the question whether the Slave Power shall master a continent for itself, or be overthrown as a curse unto the earth. As men, owning one brother-hood with the great human family, and worshipping one God, even the Father of all, we can do no other than hold slavery a cursed, and rejoice at every blow that deprives it of authority and strength. We feel assured that those who would divide our nation’s sympathies from you, in this terrible struggle, are chiefly those who oppose liberty at home, and who are ever ready to distract our people by foreign excitements. They are becoming more and more powerless as your Government develops more and more fully an anti-slavery policy, and they will entirely lose all power to toment quarrels between America and Britain from the very day in which your country is established, without any sectional exception, as the “home of the free.” and when America practically exemplifies its entire belief in the words of its great founders-“All men are created free and equal.”
Within the brief period of your Excellency’s Presidency, more has been done for the glorious work of emancipation than during the whole preceding period of the existence of the United States. We honor you, and we congratulate you. The world has learned, during your Presidency, that America cannot stop short of the complete, absolute, and final uprooting of the iniquity of slavery; and as free men we rejoice in every measure tending to hasten this great consummation.
That the day may soon dawn when no slave shall tread American soil from North to South, and the United States become indeed and of a truth the United States of free men; that from year to year the ties binding our beloved country and your own may be strengthened, and our citizens be united with each other in bonds of amity and peace; and that you, sir, when your term of office expires, may be known as the President who saved his country by doing righteously and unloosing the heavy burdens of an oppressed race, is our sincere and earnest hope and prayer.
Signed, in name and by appointment of the meeting,
CHAIRMAN.
City Hall, Glasgow, 4th February, 1863.
The following is the address to the President of the United States which is to be signed by those in Birmingham, (England,) who sympathise with the war now waged by the North:-
“We, the undersigned, inhabitants of the borough of Birmingham, desire to express our deep and heart felt sympathy with you in your endeavors to preserve the union of that great and free country over whose destinies you were elected to preside, and whose Constitution you have sworn to defend. The attempts of the Southern States to form-as their leaders unblushingly avow-for the first time in the history of the world-a confederacy with slavery, and the extension of slavery to yet unformed States, for its basis, we re-
<c02>
gard with horror and abhorrence. And we earnestly pray hat the Great Ruler of events may strengthen you and your cause, in ordering that the present unholy contest may be speedily brought to a successful issue; and, as the crown of all, that liberation and freedom, with all their accompanying blessings, may he given to the millions of our colored brethren now in bondage. That you may be the chosen instrument in effecting this glorious emancipation is our earnest hope. And if, in your aspirations for the freedom of the negro, the sympathy and good wishes of all men who love liberty can cheer your heart in moments of doubt and perplexity, you may assuredly feel convinced that such sympathy and good wishes are not withheld. For ourselves, we beg to assure you of our strong belief in the justice of your cause, of our warm sympathy with your noble efforts for emancipation, and of our certain faith in your ultimate triumph. We hold that your cause is the cause of humanity, of religion, and freedom; and in this belief again express our sympathy with you in your present onerous and trying position, and assure you that, whatever may be said to the contrary, the vast majority of the English people are anxious for your success in this great and terrible contest.”
UNION AND EMANCIPATION SOCIETY OF MANCHESTER.
The following address has been issued by this Society, which is in coöperation with the London Emancipation Society:-
The Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester has been formed (in cooperation with the London Emancipation Society) to give expression, on behalf of the population of this district, to their earnest sympathy with the cause of freedom, and fraternal regard towards their kinsmen of the United States; and to resist all recognition of the slaveholding Confederacy.
We emphatically repudiate those unworthy expressions of satisfaction at the contemplated disruption of the American Union, which have disgraced the columns of some of our journals, and the utterances of too many of our public men and members of Parliament.
We deplore the systematic perversion of facts in regard to the vital questions involved in the American struggle, and the habitual suppression, by leading organs of the press, of reports of meetings at which views hostile to the slave power have been expressed. We feel that the credit of English journalism and the honor of our country are compromised, by these unworthy attempts to foster jealousy of a growing kindred power, to create a desire to see that power humbled, and the progress of popular government thereby impeded. These perversions, suppression, and misrepresentations have unfortunately created in the minds of the American people, North and South, an impression that the English nation is hostile to the Federal cause, and would be exultant at the downfall of the great republic.
The breaking up of the American Union into two or more separate governments would be a world wide disaster, and entail many grievous calamities. Such a disruption would substitute for a single and cheap government two or more of a very expensive character; would impose upon each the necessity of keeping up large standing armies, which would absorb, as in Europe, a third of the resources of the State, imposing heavy taxes upon the people; would provoke, sooner or later, other wars as disastrous as the present; would encourage the secession of other States, and thus paralyze that magnificent development of human activity and constitutional liberty, which has been the admiration of the civilized world; and would re-open the African slave trade with all its horrors and barbarities. We are, therefore, deeply convinced that the maintenance of the Federal Union of America is an object of unspeakable importance to the whole human family, and that its disruption would prove a calamity to the cause of freedom and to the interests of civilization.
We know that the sentiments of the great bulk of the people of this district, and we believe of the country generally, are decidedly in favor of the Federal Government, and of those principles of freedom and equality in defence of which it is making such noble and patriotic sacrifices. With every wish to uphold the principle of non intervention and strict governmental neutrality, we are impelled to declare that the nation is by its moral feelings inclined, as by its antecedents bound, to give its whole moral support to the cause of order, of civil freedom, of constitutional government, and of emancipation, all of which are represented by the North in its struggle to maintain the Union.
The so-called “Southern chivalry” is waging war against a free, popular government, with the intention, unblushingly proclaimed, of forming a new confederation whose chief corner stone shall be the execrable system of human bondage. The men who initiated this wicked rebellion did so by perjury, robbery, and fraud committed against the community by whom they were paid, and whose constitution they had sworn to defend. The slaveholders, who are the main-spring of the conspiracy, form but a small section of the people over whom they exercise an absolute domination. The success of the rebellion would, therefore, promote only the sordid interests of a few, whilst it would, in all probability, indefinitely prolong the bondage of the negroes, and the degradation of the poor whites of the South.
The Federal Government, on the other hand, was elected on the policy of restricting slavery within existing State limits, and on the principle that the normal condition of all the territory of the United States is that of freedom. It was against this that the slave-holders rebelled.
Since the commencement of hostilities, President Lincoln has made many practical advances towards a complete recognition of the Declaration of Independence, that all men are created equal. He has procured the liberation of the slaves in the District of Columbia, and the interdiction of slavery in the territories; he has enforced the laws against the African slave-trade, and for its more effectual suppression has concluded a treaty with England granting the right of search; he has decided to receive ambassadors from the negro republics of Hayti and of Liberia; and following the good example of Great Britain, he has proposed to purchase the liberty of all slaves in the loyal States; and his Attorney General has pronounced free negroes to be citizens of the Union, which previous governments had denied. To crown this series of just and humane efforts for freedom, President Lincoln, as Commander-in-Chief of the forces, has proclaimed unconditional freedom to all bondsmen of the rebel States.
The conduct of those public men amongst us, whose policy has been to retard the progress of liberty at home, (pretending to ignore the distinction between the aims of the constitutional government at Washington and the slaveocracy, headed by Jefferson Davis,) may be understood; but for liberal minded men to countenance these rebels and enemies of mankind, in their nefarious designs against public order, moral law, and social progress, is as opposed to the teachings of Wilberforce, Clarkson, Granville Sharp, and Henry Brougham, as slavery itself is to the genius of the Christian religion.
Apart, however, from the higher considerations upon which the actions of public men and the policy of nations should be based, we know that the working men of this district regard with astonishment the civilization which can look complacently upon 4,000,000 of human beings in a state of the most abject bondage. The operative classes are convinced that the labor markets of Europe are injuriously affected by the system of slavery; that the value of our commercial relations with four millions of people, enjoying the fruits of their own labor, will be vastly enhanced; whilst, by the success of the Federal cause, that odious system of slave breeding for the auction pens of Richmond, which calls for the indignant reprobation of mankind, will receive its death-blow.
Deprecating war and deploring its ruinous consequences, we most cordially and earnestly desire the speedy establishment of a sate and enduring peace, on the basis of the complete emancipation of every chattel slave in the American States, believing that nothing less will justify the policy of the North, or recall to reason the slaveholding oligarchy of the South.
We commend to the thoughtful consideration of our countrymen the momentous question involved in the great conflict now desolating the American continent. This is no matter of doubtful import or party issue. The lines are clearly drawn, and every one must soon take his stand either with the enemies of mankind, the slaveocracy of Richmond, or with the friends of freedom, as represented by the Federal Government at Washington.
Signed on behalf of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester,
THOMAS B. POTTER, President.
SAMUEL WATTS, Jr., Treasurer.
JOHN C. EDWARDS, EDWARD OWEN GREENING, Honarary Secretaries.
Offices, 51, Piccadilly, Manchester, Jan. 1863.
*By a recent act, the conscripiton in the South includes all men between 16 and 60 years of age, exemption being granted to the owner of six slaves, and so in proportion, for every six slaves a male relation or friend is exempted. General Neal Dow says the people in the South avow that “this is a rich man’s war, but a poor man’s fight.”
On the 3d inst., a large deputation of the Committee of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society waited upon Hon. Charles Francis Adams, for the purpose of presenting a minute on the American crisis, to be forwarded to President Lincoln. Several speakers testified to the fact that there was no question as to the sympathy of the great masses of the British people with the movement in the United States for the entire abolition of slavery. Mr. Adams, in reply, made some remarks explanatory of the position of President Lincoln and of the national issues now at stake.
<c03>
LOUIS NAPOLEON.
Genealogies are useful, because they enable the inquirer to establish certain inclinations towards excellence or defect in a race.
A universal denial of a self-evident truth must result in a verdict of want of capacity to discern it, or an equal want of capacity in asserting a notorious lie.
When the only nation that ever committed the stupendous crime, before the most high God, of denying his being and existence, did it, they at the same time secured for themselves an unbelief as to their capacity of development.
The capacity of the French for self-government is small, because the moral sense of the nation is deficient. This is as much a physical and moral defect in their formation as is a peculiar excellence or defect of any class of animals a mark of their race.
When France is thought of, it is not with the idea that its inhabitants are the most industrious people on earth; that they excel all others in mechanics and manufactures, in machinery and inventions, in railroads and agriculture. We do not pass through our minds the vision of teeming plenty, and a well-fed, happy people, with a commerce that covers every sea, and communicates with every clime; far otherwise. And it is not a dim vision which we behold of a flag in advance of closed battalions of cavalry, infantry and artillery, upon which is inscribed, Glory and France. When France is heard, it is not with a voice which cries, Give us liberty or give us death, and not to us only, but, in the name of Jesus Christ the righteous, to the whole human race; but we hear with sorrowful hearts the victorious thunders of artillery, and instead of Liberty, Fraternity and Equality, the shout of Vive l’ Empereur.
If we turn to Napoleon III. as an exponent, we are met (as a further proof of French capacity for development) with the addition to the motto upon the national flag, of Napoleon III., Glory and France.
There was at the beginning, Liberty, Fraternity, and Equality; yet, the loyal President of the Free Republic slew these French infants, and, baptizing his soul with this, the best and most innocent blood of France, ascended the throne by a coup d’ etat.
The same genius that enabled Louis Napoleon to give this proof of his sincerity and honor, enabled him also to comprehend his position, and see what measures should be taken to secure to Napoleon III. Glory and France.
Venice, through the monopoly of the India trade, became mistress of the Mediterranean, and was the great power of the time.
By a canal and railroad across the Isthmus of Suez, and a close alliance with and control of the policy of the countries bordering that sea, through which the trade of India must pass, and the possession of lauds on its southern border, (Algeria,) Napoleon III.—Glory and France—would be put in process of development.
It was necessary, however, to consolidate Italy into a friendly power, which would be ever ready, from self-interest, gratitude and matrimonial connection, to withstand the interference and jealousy of Russia and Greece, which nations would naturally wish to put their capital in so rich a venture.
The Catholic priesthood were the great stumbling blocks in the way of such an arrangement, being a political power bound to support itself by interfering with every other; and the united efforts of all France and malcontent Italy, after the humiliation of Russia, were directed to accomplish the temporal ruin and poverty of Catholicism. This was all but consummated, and Rome would have been long since the capital of the House of Savoy, had not Napoleon III. stood squarely out to prevent it.
There is a reason for all things, and the reason of this apparent contradiction will be made manifest.
By a total destruction of the temporal power of Pius IX. it would surely follow that the spiritual power of the priesthood would decay; and without support from headquarters—without a head—the priests would soon each one set up for himself, and in the end marriage would become honorable and desirable among the ecclesiastics—in homely phrase, “ the pot must boil.”
It was at this juncture that French policy and intrigue in another, but no less important quarter, in relation to the trade with India, and French possessions in the Pacific and China, came to a head.
After many vain attempts to get possession of Nicaragua, and the control of Central America and the Isthmus of Panama, under Walker and others, the American rebellion succeeded; and here the interest of Napoleon III., Glory and France, was as strongly called upon to ruin the Republic of North America, as it had been to give comparative freedom to Italy by the erection of a monarchy, or rather its extension.
By the establishment of a despotic form of government in the Southern States, and the invasion and conquest of Mexico, France would become the arbitrator; and when an Eagle or a Condor is arbitrator over the carcass of a bullock, it is known beforehand what the arbitration will amount to. The United States, from being a first rate power, would diminish to be a second rate. California and Oregon would become independent; and all the immense moral and physical force of a people, united to support a perfectly free form of government, would be dispersed and wasted, and of no avail to set a continual example of what the French people, and those of all Europe, might become by binding together and securing the like results. Then, the many small navies of divided American States would no longer cloud the prospect of France becoming the first naval power of the world, maugre Great Britain, who might yet be made to suffer for having compiled Napoleon I. to eat dirt so many years in St. Helena, and who, encumbered by immense possessions abroad, and a starving population at home, would offer a tempting prize for another successful expedition from Normandy. Therefore it was that a stop was put to Italian consolidation.
It is most evident, that up to a certain late date, Louis Napoleon has been a curse in the mouths of Catholic Priests everywhere. Annihilation was not looked forward to with any complacency by them, and they hated the person by whom it was to come. If Rome had been made the capital to the kingdom of Italy, the Roman See would have become a beggar. The concentrated hate of the despoiled church would have been always directed towards him and his: but Mexico was not yet conquered, neither was the Republic of the United States for a certainty separated, and liberty slain.
The Emperor had already slain infant France, and the same thirst for republican blood and life urged the death of sick Mexico and young America; but the spiritual physicians, those who could drug the conscience, and sear the inward vision, and poison the religious sense of those communities, were Catholic priests, children of the Romish See; and should he crush the mother, or spare her, and by so doing make her children his friends and coadjutors by fine promises, and some real aid, to father his schemes for the possession of India, or the short rout to it by way of Panama—and the death of freedom all over the earth, by the destruction of the United States?
Of course, Napoleon III., Glory and France, and latterly the basis of freedom for the French people, imperatively demanded that Pius IX. and the Catholic priesthood should be spared for the present, until all their assistance bad been secured to conquer Mexico, and divide and ruin the United States of America; and then the venerable Romish See could be smothered whilst asleep in the dreadful darkness of the night that would follow.
When an Emperor, with such distinguished antecedents in favor of liberty, speaks to the question, and cajoles French inventors with the idea that he is busily occupied laying the basis of freedom for the French people, we know from the experience of a Republican President having so suddenly changed to a Republican Emperor, that there is much meaning in his words. He means exactly what he says—only the language is his own, a foreign one to most of his hearers, but to those who can interpret it, perfectly plain and to the point. It means Napoleon III., Glory and France.
<c04>
To compliment a natural enemy upon his looks, and excellence of his character, is the same as to praise a whirlwind for throwing dust in your eyes.
Of equal evidence as to sincerity would it be to approach a lion-always a precocious brute-although the king of brutes, and apply terms of endearment and praise upon his comely face, his gentle voice, and the suavity and exceeding justice of his government. If the lion were a reasoning brute, he would be apt to consider before he trusted to farther intimacy, and ask whether his flatterer were a fool, or meant to make a nearer approach in order to stab him; and this he might well do, even if his pretended friend was an Emperor.
If Louis Napoleon would like to form an enduring basis for the liberties of the French people, (and he meant that, or directly the reverse, by his speech to the Inventors,) why does he not begin? Where is the first beginning of a common school system in every commune for the whole people? Where is the practical toleration for all religions? Where are the Agricultural Societies, made up of peasant proprietors, who are instructed by the first minds of the nation? We see no marks of such improvement; and in a country which has no roads or paths, we have a right to believe there are no inhabitants.
But God reigns. The Gamins are not all dead. The Lion of the Latin Quarter hungers, and the French people are counselled, now that a basis of French freedom is openly advocated by Napoleon III., to see to it that they assist the Emperor to lay it faithfully-and any how, so that it is laid.
The great centres of freedom are Great Britain, Russia, and the United States. At no distant day, the people of Great Britain will take upon themselves an improved form of government. The opening for Russia by the Amoor country on the Pacific is all that can be wished for a development of that mighty nation; and it is a most desirable thing that an alliance between these three nations should be of the strictest kind.
A wise ruler has carried emancipation to a successful issue in Russia. It the present rebellion is speedily put down in the United States, and the integrity of Mexico is secured against future French intrigue, all that would be necessary to do to curb Imperial Republicanism would be to complete our steam communication across the continent by the way of Fort Benton and the Dalles of the Columbia, (only 500 miles of rail,) and to make a strict treaty with Russia and Great Britain, guaranteeing the use of the short routes to India to all nations. We should then obtain a consolidation of power which the genius of these nations would assuredly direct in an upward and onward progress, unfolding great wealth, immense populations, and much happiness. CARBON.

LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL FOSTER.
CAMP OF THE 33D MASS. VOL.,
Stafford Court House, Va.
DEAR GARRISON,-I think I see the dawn of a brighter future. It is true, this army is now stuck in the mud, and for a while, all military movements here are impossible. But every day of fair weather will improve the roads. I note with great joy a marked change in the feelings of the soldiers. Despondency, disgust, and a deep, intense feeling of homesickness, are giving place in the army to confidence and a longing for the promised work.
Gen. Burnside is a true soldier and an able General; but he lacks the prompt decision and the indomitable will before which all opposition is in vain. For more than a year, all the pro-slavery journals of the North, all the pro-slavery politicians, also, have striven to create and disseminate the idea that McClellan was the ablest General in our army, and, indeed, the only man who could lead our forces to assured victory. They have clamored for him, and against all the men of prompt action and earnest purpose in this war for a free as well as a united fatherland. I knew, before the Court Martial in the case of Porter published it to the country, that Gen. Pope was purposely sacrificed by officers withholding aid in his need, in order that their favorite chief, then in disgrace, might again be called to lead our army, The battle of Antietam, which Hooker and Burnside fought and won, but the tremendous results of which were thrown away by McClellan’s failure to follow up that victory by an instant and overwhelming pursuit, thus became a barren victory.
At length, our long-suffering Chief Magistrate removed McClellan from the army, and put the earnest and loyal Burnside in his place. From that moment, the partisans of McClellan in the army roused their whole energy to decry the President, magnify their discarded chieftain, and prophesy failure under Burnside. The impunity with which these men with shoulder-straps were allowed to damn the Proclamation, and seek to demoralize the army, showed fearful lack of nerve in the Chief in that crisis. The disaster at Fredericksburg is to be traced to the influence of men slow to help Burnside, both before and on the day of battle, because their heart was given, not to their country, but to a discarded chieftain. The whole army feels to-day, that with Hooker, when Franklin stood so strangely slow and inactive on that day of disaster, we should have won the heights of the Rappahannock, and been ere this in Richmond.
Well, Gen. Burnside threw up the command, and Hooker was called in. From that day till this hour, the aspect of things with us has brightened. The officers who have been wont so unsparingly to curse the President’s policy of Emancipation, and to swear that McClellan is our only General, have subsided into a meekness surpassing Moses. They have discovered that such a course leads to swift and inevitable disgrace. They find a commander now who will not tolerate such treason for a moment, so they have subsided. The soldiers all realize that there is directing, commanding will now at the head of this army, with whom traitors cannot trifle. The influence of that master mind is felt in the heart of every soldier. It inspires confidence, assurance of victory, and a longing for the work which our Chief will give us to do, which we shall surely accomplish when we attempt it, and the doing of which will cover the Army of the Potomac with glory.
Up to the advent of Hooker, for the last four months, or since the September Proclamation, the army has been deluged with treasonable papers like the New York Herald and World. It was well-nigh impossible to get a Tribune. Now, it is manifestly Impossible for the army to read these papers without feeling discouraged and homesick. Herein, also, the influence of our Commander has worked the needed change. The Herald and the World are not permitted to be brought to the army. Now we get the Tribune and Post and the Washington Chronicle once more, the influence of which journals upon the soldiers is healthy and inspiring. And let me say at this point, that it is a matter of the greatest importance that the soldiers be supplied with interesting and salutary reading matters. If the subscribers to your paper will send me the Liberators and Standards whenever they can spare them, I will put them into the hands of men here who will read them with eager interest. So, too, every copy of the Atlantic, Continental, Harper’s Monthly, and Christian Examiner which I can have for circulation, will help to fix patriotic men more firmly in their purpose to consecrate all to the service of their country. (1)
And so, as I said in commencing this letter, I see a brighter future dawning. The copperheads are about to receive the infamy due them from a betrayed country, which they have brought so near to a fearful ruin. The reaction against them has commenced. Fremont, Butler, Hunter, Phelps, Lane, and such men, must now be put forward to train and lead the armies of freed slaves who are to be set on their feet, and armed to fight for freedom and country. I pray God that I may be put at the head of a company in this new order as captain, to lead them in the coming
(1) We hope this hint will be promptly and generously carried out by the periodicals here referred to, and others of a similar spirit-[Ed. Lib.
<c05>
fight. And, finally, I close by saying, with Philips, that I cannot bring myself to believe that God has lifted this nation to the sublime height of the Proclamation only to dash it in pieces.
Yours, for the Gospel Brotherhood, under the Almighty Ruler who is no respecter of persons,
DANIEL FOSTER.
AWAY WITH ALL CROAKING AND DESPONDENCY! One of the most timely and instructive pamphlets which the war has elicited is entitled, “How a Free People Conduct a Long War”-being a chapter from English History, by Charles J. Stille. Its object is to show under what domestic discouragements and seditious complainings the lingering Peninsular War was conducted on the part of England, the result of which, nevertheless, “was not only to crown the British arms with the most brilliant and undying lustre, but also to retain permanently in their places the party whose only title to public favor was, that they carried on the war against the most serious obstacles, and brought it to a successful termination.” The writer pertinently say:-
“If we, in our dark hours, are inclined to doubt and despondency as to the final result, let us not forget the ordeal through which England successfully passed. We shall find that, in the commencement, there was the same wild and unreasoning enthusiasm with which we are familiar; the same bitter abuse and denunciation of the government at the first reverses; the same impatient and ignorant criticism of military operations; the same factious and disloyal opposition on the part of a powerful party; the same discouragement and despondency at times on the part of the true and loyal; the same prophecies of the utter hopelessness of success; the same complaints of grievous and burdensome taxation, and predictions of the utter financial ruin of the country; the same violent attacks upon the government for its arbitrary decrees, and particularly for the suspension of the writ of habeus corpus; the same difficulties arising from the inexperience of the army; and the same weakness on the part of the government in not boldly and energetically supporting the army in the field. These are some of the more striking parallelisms between the Peninsular War and our own struggle.”
The following description of the opposition of that day, taken from the Annual Register for 1812, bears so striking a likeness to the peculiarities of the leaders of an insignificant, but restless faction among us, that, omitting the old-fashioned drapery of the proper names, they seem to have sat for the photograph:-
“It may be remarked as a most singular circumstance, that those persons in this country who profess to have the greatest abhorrence of ministerial tyranny and oppression, look with the upmost coolness on the tyranny and oppression of Bonaparte. The regular opposition do not mention it with that abhorrence which might be expected from them; but the leaders of the popular party in Parliament go further. They are always ready to find an excuse for the conduct of Bonaparte. The most violent and unjustifiable acts of his tyranny raise but feeble indignation in their minds, while the most trifling act of ministeral oppression is inveighed against with the utmost bitterness. Ready and unsuspecting credence is given to every account of Bonaparte’s success; while the accounts of the success of his opponents are received with coldness and distrus.”
How TO HELP THE CAUSE. Parker Pillsbury writes from Eastern New York as follows:—
“I am having excellent meetings. Last night, the Democracy and Conservatism attempted to interfere, but could not have helped me better. They issued a Card, very blasphemously taking my name in vain, as declaring a truth not fit to be told, to the disadvantage of the Medical Profession, namely, that “Pills” do “burg,” and so should be discarded, as they very benevolently proposed to have them, at least in my case. Then they circulated a report that a despatch had been sent to town, saying I could not come. To these they added, that if I attempted to speak, there would be disturbance, and various characteristic demonstrations.
The upshot of the whole was, I had one of the largest, most attentive and respectful audiences ever gathered in the town. They heard me two hours, paid five dollars for the hall and advertising, and gave me over six dollars besides. And nearly every person appeared interested and instructed, and I received several pressing invitations to other towns; and the lecture was one of very extreme character.”
THIS ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for March, has a rich table of contents as follows:—1. Christopher North, by Joseph Dana Howard. 2. “Choose Ye this day whom Ye will Serve,” by Oliver Wendell Holmes. 3. The Horrors of San Domingo, by John Weiss. 4. A London Suburb, by Nathaniel Hawthorne. 5. The Vagabonds, by J. T. Trowbridge. 6. Willie Wharton, by Mrs. L. Maria Child. 7. A Call to my Countrywomen, by Gail Hamilton. 8. The True Church, by Theodore Tilton. 9. Under the Pear Tree, by Mrs. Hopkinson. 10. The Last Cruise of the Monitor, by Grenville M. Weeks, Surgeon U. S. N. 11. Lyrics of the Street, No. 5-The Darkened House, by Julia Ward Howe. 12. America the Old World, by Prof. Louis Agassiz. 13. Pericles and President Lincoln, by Henry M. Alden. 13. Reviews and Literary Notices. Ticknor & Fields, publishers, Boston.
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, for March, 1863, contains the following papers:—1. Turkey. A. Comte, Jr. 2. False Estimations. 3. The Blue Handkerchief. 4. Gold. 5. Last Words. Ingoldsby North. 6. Parting. Edward S. Rand, Jr. 7. A Merchant’s Story. By the author of “Among the Pines.” 8. The Captain of ‘63 to his Men. Mary E. Nealy. 9. The Vision of the Monk Gabriel. Eleanor C. Donnelly. 10. The Century of Inventions. Charles G. Leland. 11. The Lady and her Slave. 12. For and Against. 13. European Opinion. Hon. F. P. Stanton. 14. The Huguenots. Hon. G. P. Disosway. 15. Montgomery in Secession Time. 16. The Union. Hon. Robert J. Walker. 17. The Soldier’s Burial. Literary Notices Editor’s Table.
HARPER’S NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE, for March, 1868, presents the following attractive table of contents:—1. Continental Money, a very interesting and useful historical paper, with numerous illustrations. 2. A Californian in Iceland. 3. Doctor Hawley. 4. Romolaf, by the Author of Adam Bede. 5. Musicians of Field and Meadow. 6. For Better, for Worse. 7. European Souvenirs. 8. After Vicksburg. 9. Mrs. Henderson’s Anniversary. 10. Little Jenny. 11. Our Prophets. 12. The Small House at Allington. Together with Monthly Record of Current Events, Editor’s Easy Chair, Fashions for March, &c.
For sale by A. Williams & Co., 100 Washington Street.
RECRUITING FOR THE 54TH REGIMENT. William Wells Brown, Dr. Smith, and Charles Lenox Remond, all colored, have been appointed recruiting agents for this regiment. The camp was opened at Readville on Saturday last, with thirty recruits.
Mr. Remond delivered a very eloquent address at Joy Street Church, last Sunday evening, and warmly urged colored men to enlist in the 54th Regiment.
The Providence Journal says that with the sanction of Gov. Sprague, an office has been opened in that city to enlist recruits for the Massachusetts 54th Regiment. It is expected that one or two Rhode Island companies will be raised. The expense of transportation and outfit will be met by Massachusetts but it is understood that the companies will be reckoned as a part of the quota of Rhode Island.
It is also stated that several colored men are on the way from Philadelphia to Massachusetts to enlist in this regiment.
A war meeting of the colored citizens of New Bedford, was held on Thursday evening. Rev. William Jackson was president. He announced his willingness to go to the war, and urged his friends to volunteer.
Senator Chandler has written a letter home, stating that Michigan will have the honor of sending a negro regiment to the war.
The President is well pleased with the Florida exploit of his colored soldiers, and thinks he shall let them keep the white prisoners they took, and see what the man of “retaliation” will do about it.
<c06>
ATROCITIES OF THE REBELS. A Corinth correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette forwards the following statement of the horrible persecutions to which the Union people are subjected in that section:—
“Abraham Kennedy and J. A. Mitchell, of Hackelbo settlement, Munroe Country, Alabama, have been hung by the rebels for indulging Union proclivities. Mr. Hollwork and daughter of the same country have been shot; and Rector Lewis, an immediate neighbor, of suspected Union proclivities, was hunted down by bloodhounds and captured. The houses of J. A. Palmer, Worly Williams, and other Union men were burned over their families’ heads, and the people living in the neighborhood were notified that if they harbored them, their own houses would be burned. Mr. Peterson, living at the head of Bull Mountain, was killed for Union sentiments. Two women in Tuscumbia county were torn to pieces by bloodhounds. In addition to the foregoing, 100 families, driven out of Alabama, reached Corinth on foot without food or clothing. Some of the fugitives are old men, 80 years of age.”
The perpetrators of these shocking barbarities are the murderers with whom we are counselled by traitors at the North to cultivate feelings of amity and peace.
For a heart-rending narration of other rebel atrocities, see our last page. What fiendishness!]
GEN. BUTLER AND HIS TRADUCERS. The announcement, that Gen. Butler will soon return to New Orleans, seems to give universal satisfaction, as he is conceded to be just the man for the place. The stories to the effect that the General was “feathering his nest,” to the tune of millions, is pretty effectually smothered by the fact, that recently the General settled with the Government, to the entire satisfaction of the latter. The General had proper vouchers for everything, all his accounts were found satisfactory, and he paid over to the Government over one million three hundred thousand dollars in cash, after deducting the expenses of his department. As he had previously remitted seven hundred thousand dollars, this gives a total of two million dollars as the profits of his administration! Pretty good, that!
GEN. MCCLELLAN. The Boston correspondent of the Haverhill Gazette says-“The star of Gen. McClellan seems to be rapidly sinking below the horizon. Already his name is hardly mentioned, except by the few whose sympathies are manifestly on the side of the rebellion. This is true at Washington as in Boston, and I believe that loyal hearts need no longer fear that he will ever be reinstated with his former power. His visit to New England, contrary to the expectations of the New York politicians, who planned it, has decidedly cooled the enthusiasm of even his most zealous admirers. More than once, during the evening of his most brilliant levee in this city, the General was left with only a single member of his staff, to compose his “circle of attractions.” Even his photographers failed to catch a beam of intellectual brilliancy, and gave up in despair.”
GEN BURNSIDE AT NEW HAVEN. Gen. Burnside passed through New Haven last Wednesday week, en route for Washington, and was greeted by a large crowd at the depot with much enthusiasm. The Palladium says he was loudly called upon for a speech, and responded, in substance, as follows:—
“Fellow Citizens-I thank you sincerely for this second warm reception, which I value the more highly because tendered by Connecticut people. I am frequently asked what are my views of this war. I have only to say that I feel the same confidence of success that I did when the first gun was fired upon Fort Sumter, (cheers,) and I left my office to enter the service of the country. I have no doubt of the ultimate success of our cause; and in that confidence I am now proceeding to Washington to again enter the field in the service of the Government.” (Cheers.)
ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATION OF GEN. BANKS. The New Orleans correspondent of the Boston Journal makes the following statement under date of Feb. 12:
“This evening, as Gen. Banks was passing out at the ladies’ entrance to the City Hotel for the purpose of attending the French Opera, and before he stepped into his carriage, a pistol was discharged from a recess in the wall, and a ball whizzed close to the person of Gen. Banks, and close to an officer who attended him. The General was not hit, and the dastardly assassin escaped through the crowd. The police are on his track, and he cannot long avoid capture.”
Chapter III. of the original Tale we are publishing on our last page, entitled “The Connecticut and Shenandoah,” was not received in season for our present number. Hereafter we presume the continuity of publication will not be broken. We ask for a careful perusal.
NOTICE.
The Martyrdom of Crispus Attucks (March 5th, 1770) will be commemorated at Tremont Temple, Thursday evening, March 5th, 1863, by an entertainment consisting of choice selections from the operas, by the “BLACK SWAN,” and Signor MARIO-interspersed with remarks from several distinguished gentlemen, who, with the officers of the Massachusetts 54th (Colored) Regiment, have been invited to participate.
For particulars, see the daily papers, and programmes of the evening. Tickets, 25 cents each.
WILLIAM C. NELE.
Boston, Feb. 22, 1863.
MR.ALCOTT’S CONVERSATIONS.—Mr. A. BRONSON ALCOTT will speak on CONCORD POETS AND AUTHORS, at the Hall of the Sons of Temperance, corner of Bromfield and Province Streets, on Monday evening, March 2d, commencing at half past 7 o’clock. Tickets to be had at the door.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will deliver a lecture on Slavery and the Rebellion, in the Town Hall at EXETER, N. H., on Monday evening next, March 2d.
THEODORE D. WELD will deliver a lecture in PHILADELPHIA, on Monday evening, March 9th.
Copies of the photographic picture, by ALLEN, of the Music Hall stage, in Boston, as arranged for the 29th Anti-Slavery Subscription Anniversary, may be obtained by application to ROBERT F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price, one dollar.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.—Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4. P. M.
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St. October 24. 6m
WEIS & ZOEBISCH,
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street,. 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer. nov?-3m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE FRONTISPIECE OF THE LIBERATOR.
Years came, and passed; and still it pictured stood,
The prophecy that Slavery should cease.
How many eyes, like mine, have longing dwelt
Upon that contrast of the slave and free!
How many, too, have sighed, "How long, O Lord!"
When rampant Slavery dared take in vain
The holiest name of earth's Almighty One,
As sanctioner of brother selling brother-
(Both made, as records tell, in His own image)-
Driven with cattle to the public mart;
As if the Almighty bound in holy ties
His human families, wife, husband, child,
For man to sever at the call of gain!
Poor Mammon-worshoppers! they do not see
His altar hides the Christian’s God from view.
Long have the slave-pen and the chattel mart
Been doomed; long has the trusting eye foreseen
The cruel master cower’ neath the clear gaze
Of human nature's purest, holiest type,
Jesus of Nazareth. Yes, crawl away,
With shaded eyes, from that benignant face,
Terrible only to the vile oppressor
Of his poor helpless brethren! This new year-
Grant it, O Father! Maymay this coming year,
From the historic records of thy children,
For ever see that darkest blot effaced,
The sale and purchase of thy sons and daughters,
Because their whiter brethren have the power!
Long had the slaves’ true friends waited, long borne
Insults, and sneers, and falscst calumny;
Yet patient, full of hope, still they toiled on,
Cheered and supported by the certainty
Evil is not eternal; Wrong is doomed,
However strong and rampant, to extinction.
Blest are ye, Abolitionists! your work
Shall prosper, founded on eternal justice.
Blest are your eyes, that live to see the slave
Freed by your efforts, blest by the Most High!
Blest, too, your dead. Like aged Samuel,
They, too, beheld in glad prophetic vision,
The great salvation they had hoped to forward,
Liberty, liberty, to their black brethren!
Hastings, Sussex, England. JANE ASHBY.

From the Atlantic Monthly.
“CHOOSE YOU THIS DAY WHOM YE WIL SERVE."
Yes, tyrants, you hate us, and fear while you hate
The self-ruling, chain-breaking, throne-shaking State!
The night-birds dread morning,-your instinct is true,-
The day-star of Freedom brings midnight for you!
Why plead with the deaf for the cause of mankind?
The owl hoots at noon that the eagle is blind!
We ask not your reasons,-’t were wasting our time,-
Our life is a menace, our welfare a crime!
We have battles to fight, we have foes to subdue,-
Time waits not for us, and we wait not for you!
The mower mows on, though the adder may writhe,
And the copper-head coil round the blade of his seythe!
“No sides in this quarrel,” your statesmen may urge,
Of school-house and wages with slave-pen and scourge!-
No sides in the quarrel! proclaim it as well
To the angels that fight with the legions of hell!
They kneel in God’s temple, the North and the South,
With blood on each weapon and prayers in each mouth.
Whose cry shall be answered? Ye Heavens, attend
The lords of the lash as their voices ascend!
“O Lord, we are shaped in the image of Thee,-
Smite down the base millions that claim to be free,
And lend Thy strong arm to the soft-handed race
Who eat not their bread in the sweet of their face!”
So pleads the proud planter. What echoes are these?
The bay of his bloodhound is borne on the breeze,
And, lost in the shriek of his victim’s despair,
His voice dies unheard.-Hear the Puritan's prayer!
“O Lord, that didst smother mankind in Thy flood,
The sun is as sackcloth, the moon it as blood,
The stars fall to earth as untimely are cast
The figs from the fig-tree that shakes in the blast!
“All nations, all tribes in whose nostrils is breath,
Stand gazing at Sin as she travails with Death!
Lord, strangle the monster that struggles to birth,
Or mock us no more with Thy ‘Kingdom on Earth’!
“If Ammon and Moab must reign in the land
Thou gavest Thine Israel, fresh from Thy hand,
Call Baal and Ashtaroth out of their graves
To be the new gods for the empire of slaves!”
Whose God will ye serve, O ye rulers of men?
Will ye build you new shrines in the slave-breeder's den?
Or bow with the children of light, as they call
On the Judge of the Earth and the Father of All?
Choose wisely, choose quickly, for time moves apace,-
Each day is an age in the life of our race!
Lord, lead them in love, ere they hasten in fear
From the fast-rising flood that shall girdle the sphere!
OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.
THE PRESIDENT’S GUN.
[At a great Unconditional Union Meeting at St. Louis a few evenings since, the following spirited verses were read:]
Ratify! ratify!-Ratify what?
The President's Proclamation!
The heaviest gun that has yet been fired
At the enemies of the nation. 
“Dahlgreens” or "Union" are nothing like it,
Those enemies to bother;
It ranges and carries across the whole land,
From one extreme to the other.
Hurrah! hurrah! for the President’s gun-
Well named “The Proclamation!”
‘Twas made of the metal of stern resolve,
And run in the hearts of the nation.
Already the cheeks of each traitor host
Are white as their staple cotton;
For they find that their boasted “corner-stone”
Was made of a rock that is rotten.
Henceforth let the President’s gun advance
With the armies of the nation;
And morning and evening they’ll all salute
The “rifled” Proclamation.
And in future years, as the Stars and Stripes
In peace float out above it,
We’ll strive to teach the erring hosts,
Who hate it now, to love it.
W. D. GALLAGHER.

From the Anti-Slavery Standard.
SWEET LIBERTY.
We hear the sweep of wings!
In the crisp atmosphere
The bell of freedom swings!
How clear its music rings!
Sweet liberty is here.
Ye murmuring streams that flow,
Pulsing from lake to sea,
Ye wandering winds that blow,
Let the chained bondmen know
That they henceforth are free.
Ye lightnings, swiftly ply!
Flash freedom in the stroke!
Ye thunders, shake the sky,
For God is passing by
To break the Nation’s yoke.
Men harnessed for the fight,
Upon the land and sea,
Brave men who dare do right,
With heart and voice unite
In songs of Jubilee.
GEORGE W. BUNGAY.

PROVE YOUR ACOUSATION.
Give me good proofs of what you have alleged:
Tis not enough to say-in such a bush
There lies a thief-in such a cave a beast;
But you must show him to me ere I shoot,
Else I may kill one of my straggling sheep:
I’m fond of no man’s person but his virtue,-SHAKS.
<c02>
The Liberator.
A BOOK FOR THE PEOPLE.
"THE DUTIES OF MAN. By Joseph Mazzini. London: 1862.” pp. 220.
This admirable work of the great patriot and statesman of Italy, though commenced twenty years ago, and written at various periods since, was not published in Italy until 1858. It then appeared in two Italian papers, which were the object of incessant persecution and frequent sequestration by the government. The abundant fruit springing from the adoption of its counsels among Italian working men has induced the (unnamed) English translator to hope for it a proportionate appreciation in England. He was induced to translate and publish it, not only from the intrinsic value of the work itself, but because the Religious Faith which is the basis of its morality is the explanation alike of the character and career of its author, both as a statesman and as a man.
The testimony of the translator respecting Mazzini is as follows:-
“Sixteen years of earnest study of his teachings and of his public acts have made this Revolutionist known to the translator as the severe supporter of every legitimate authority; this Anarchist, as essentially a man of Order; and this most zealous opponent of the established religion of his country, as the most enlightenened and devout Religious Thinker of the present day.”
The contents of the book amply justify this high eulogy. The sauthor's preface and his introductory chapter declare the publication to be intended for “the Italian working class.” But its objects, and the method of their treatment, are of the highest interest and value to all classes of men, everywhere. We also, spite of the boasted virtue and intelligence of this country, have much to learn respecting “the duties of man,” as well as much need of practising better the part already admitted in theory. And this work, alike in substance and manner, in form and spirit, in the duties it enjoins, the motives it urges, the clear simplicity of its explanations, and the noble purpose that pervades it, is of the very highest order. The work of long and profound thought, it makes the loftiest conclusions of that thought clear to the common understanding.
Mazzini’s introductory chapter explains to the oppressed working men of Italy why he speaks to them of their duties before mentioning their rights; why he speaks of self-sacrifice rather than of conquest; why he urges moral improvement and self education as the indispensable preliminaries to material well-being, He shows how the mere pursuit of rights without regard to duties, the mere contention of lower against higher classes, the mere struggle for material welfare and selfish enjoyment, must ever be, as they have ever been, imperfect and unsatisfactory.
In the second chapter, entitled “God,” he shows the true foundation of duty, deducing also from the unity of man, (a being created by God in his own image,) the obligation of practical brotherhood among the whole human family.
Treating next of “The Law,” and assuming that the fact of life necessarily implies a legitimate. Law of life, he admirably illustrates these positions, viz:-that God is the sole Lawgiver to the human race; that human laws are only good and valid in so far as they conform to, explain, and apply the Law of God; that they are evil whensoever they contrast with or oppose it; and that it is then not only the right but the duty of men to disobey and abolish them. Taking up then the momentous question how men are to know this Law, be shows the insufficiency of each of the answers ordinarily made to it, and gives his own better solution. He proceeds to show that the most important duties are positive; that it is not enough to avoid acting against the law, but that we are bound to act according to the law. It is not enough to do no harm to your brethren; you are bound to do good to them.
Progress is to be effected by the combined and continuous action of conscience and intellect, carried for ward by successive generations. Individuals die incomplete, but humanity, the race, lives and learns forever. The amount of truth men have thought, the sum of good men have done, dies not with them, but is gathered and treasured by their successors. Morality is progressive, and new light in regard to it is to be sought, and welcomed, from all sources. Men are not guilty because they are ignorant, but they are guilty whenever they resign themselves to ignorance; whenever they allow the faculty of reflection to be dormant within them, and accept as truth, without examination, the assertions either of the temporal Powers, or of the Priest who has sold himself to them.
In his chapter on “Duties toward Humanity,” Mazzini says-
“Foremost and grandest amid the teachings of Christ were these two inseparable truths:-There is but one God; all men are the sons of God.”
“We have yet to teach mankind not only that Humanity is one sole Being, and must be governed by one sole Law, but that the first article of the Law is Progress.”
“"In whatsoever land you live, wheresoever there arises a man to combat for the right, the just and the true, that man is your brother. Wheresoever a man is tortured through error, injustice or tyranny, that man is your brother. Free men or slaves, you are all brothers.”
Treating next of “Duties towards your Country,” our author declares the watchword of the Faith of the Future to be, Association, and fraternal cooperation of all towards a common aim; a work as far superior to the giving of charity as the spacious edifice built by combined labor is superior to the hut raised by a single savage. Men should fraternally associate to form a Nation, and nations should fraternally associate for the benefit of the race. Each man in his own country should peacefully but untiringly combat the existence of privilege and inequality in that country.
The Country should be each man's Temple, having God at the summit, and a people of equals at the base. All secondary laws (of men) should be but the gradual regulation of their existence by this supreme law of God; and that they may be such, it is indispensable that all the people should aid in framing them.
Next we have “Duties towards the Family.” The author tells his people, that their mission is ever more to sanctify the Family, and to link it ever more closely with the country. Nowhere does this fervid Italian more thoroughly show the deep foundations of his principle than where he says-“ Distinctions of country, sacred now, may possibly disappear whenever man shall bear the moral Law of Humanity inscribed upon his own heart; but the family will endure while man himself endures.”
He gives not only the stereotyped precept of moralists-Love and respect for Woman-but he adds-“Cancel from your minds every idea of superiority over Woman.You have none whatever.” He proceeds to say that long prejudice, an inferior education, and a perennial legal inequality and injustice, have created that apparent intellectual inferiority which has been converted into an argument of continued oppression. And he shows how the oppressor ever seeks his justification and support by appealing to a fact of his own creation.
The slaveholders of America, says Mazzini, declare the black race radically inferior and incapable of education, and yet persecute those who seek to instruct them. We men (he continues) have ever been and still are guilty of a similar crime towards Woman. In the sight of God there is neither man nor woman, but the Human being-one is whom those characteristics which distinguish Humanity from the brute creation are united, namely, the social tendency, and the capacity of education and progress. The Mosaic Bible has declared-God created Man, and Woman from Man; but your Bible, the Bible of the Future, will proclaim that God created Humanity, made manifest in the Woman and the Man.
Under the head of “Duties towards Yourselves,” our author says, that since the existence of life presupposes a Law of life, the one duty of men is to develop themselves, to act and live according to their
<c03>
Law of life, and that the fundamental character of this Law is PROGRESS.
Treating next of “Liberty,” he shows that without it there can be no fulfilment of duty, no true morality, no true society; and further, that there can be no true liberty where a Caste, a Family, or a Man assumes to rule over others in virtue of a pretended right divine, or from any privilege of birth or riches. Liberty must be for all men, and in the face of all men. He distinguishes how far the will of the individual must be sacred, undisturbed by the will of the people, and maintains that there must be perfect freedom of opinion, of expression, (by the press or otherwise,) and of association.
Under the head of “Education,” he maintains that development of all his powers is the duty of each individual, and that the State is bound to lend its aid in the accomplishment of this work.
Treating of “Association,” he claims as sacred the right of “communion among brothers” declaring this to be one of the most important lessons taught us by Christianity. Association should be progressive, peaceful, and public, and is bound to respect in others those rights which spring from the essential characteristics of human nature.
A final chapter treats of “The Economical Question,” showing how the poorest men may effectively combine in association to commence the removal of their evils, and showing the insufficiency of “Communism,” both as a remedy and as a system. The translator tells us that every important town in free Italy contains a Working Man’s Association, founded on the basis recommended in this Economical chapter.
The lessons of this delightful and instructive book bear no small resemblance (in substance, not in form,) to those of the two admirable works of Lamennais, the “Words of a Believer,” and “The People’s Own Book,” to which our author makes respectful reference. The highest themes are here treated in a concise, lucid, and most attractive manner. We ought to have, without delay, an American edition of the book.-C. K. W.

THE ARCH TRAITORS-THE "BETRAYERS AND MURDERERS.”
Moderate language for ordinary occasions. But there are occasions when temperate words are intolerable-are compatible only with cowardice, or worse criminality. There comes a time when to shrink from characterizing prominent public functionaries by the use of significant speech, would be treacherous to our best convictions-treasonable to the trusts held in common by all on whom it is incumbent to act with fidelity to the interests of the human race. If the present be not super-eminently such a time, when has such a time been?-when may we look for such a time to be?
There is such a thing as saying too much-piling censorious epithets too high on the heads of eminent individuals, until the desired effect may be lost in the appearance of persecution or detraction. On the other hand, there is such a thing as too much of tameness toward delinquent popular favorites-too much of deference, to preferment unworthily attained, the occupancy of place unrighteously procured, the retention of power corruptly grasped or bestowed, and iniquitously used. To the readers of the Liberator, it is scarcely necessary to say that my communications are not those of a politician.
The most guilty and dangerous men, in this most terrible national tragedy, are they who, for self-gratification with gold or self aggrandizement, have done the most to sell the North to the South; to induce those who should be the reliable friends of freedom to be bribed into baser servility to slavery, making further compromises with it, and giving it stronger guaranties. These men are not in the South-they are in the North. And they are not among the most undisguised and out spoken servants of slavery in the North-not the Woods, Seymours and Vallandighams. They are the Weeds and the Sewards. Thurlow Weed and William H. Seward are equally cowardly and prostitute-basely bowing themselves at the beck of tyrants, and bartering their own birthrights, together with the birthrights of all those they can bribe or beleaguer, for the miserable mess of pottage granted them by their gracious masters. These two heartless aspirants, and their compeers, in the persons of New York capitalists, have made themselves most efficient in this inhuman process, because they have possessed for it the most talent, the most favorable opportunities, and the most corrupt inclinations. Energized by lust of political preferment, they have compassed the continents, and failed of nothing that could be accomplished by foul strategy, and attained to by base intrigue.
It is folly for Horace Greeley to waste wind and time deprecating Fernando Wood's threat to have the President seized, and subjected to Southern subserviency; and for Gerrit Smith to do the like, placing himself in similar attitude toward Horatio Seymour. Be it known to these excellent men, of some misdirected patriotism in this momentous matter and mortal crisis, that Weed, Seward & Co. have already had the President seized, bound hand and foot, and subjected to Southern subserviency, now nearly these two full years, in manner and effect more fatal to human freedom, because more blinding and dementating to the masses, than any demonstration possible to be made by inferior traitors, South or North.
In the New York Tribune’s Washington Correspondence, dated Washington, Nov. 3, 1862-but not appearing in the Tribune till after McClellan’s removal-I find the following:-
“Up to this time, Mr. Seward, for reasons doubtless satisfactory to his judgment, has been the unflinching and all-powerful advocate of the Fabian policy of delay-a policy as certainly ruinous to us in our circumstances as it was beneficial to Rome. And even Mr. Blair, it is said, has at last lost faith and patience with the General [McClellan] whom he so long aided Mr. Seward in supporting, and now declares himself ready for a change of commanders.”
So it seems that others, as long ago as that, had begun to be of the opinion-and constrained to make declaration of it-that Montgomery Blair has not been the “all-powerful advocate” in the Cabinet, of the policy that delays the doom of slavery-but that that advocate has been William H. Seward. There is a man with whom I have had some acquaintance for many years-and who is no politician-who, in his private walks and public utterance, ever since Weed sent Seward to Illinois to secure the Premiership, has constantly declared it as his opinion that William H. Seward has been the stumbling-block in the path of the President, preventing his doing anything to disturb slavery, or in any way to dissatisfy the South. This opinion has been founded on the acts of this wily intriguer going back of that Premiership plot, and coming forward to the present hour. This individual, entertaining and expressing this opinion thus founded, has sometimes closed his statements of reasons rendered for this opinion, by saying that the President is in Seward’s pocket, Seward in Weed's pocket, Weed in the pocket of Wall street capitalists, and Wall street capitalists in the pocket of Cottondom.
It is nothing to the purpose, at this point, to pour us out a volume of assurances that the President is an “honest man.” Honest or dishonest, he has shown himself too weak to withstand the “all-powerful” manipulations of these plotting political magnetizers. A Southern slave may be more honest than his master, and yet be a slave, kept by his master from adding his weight and measure to the cause of freedom. No slave in the South can be more helplessly and hopelessly doomed to the restraints of his chains than Abraham Lincoln seems to be to the sorcery of William H. Seward. When this arch-conjuror apprehends he is losing hold of his victim, he has only to start up and threaten severance of the tender ties that bind them; and no deluded, crippled, enfeebled victim of plantation discipline was ever more alarmed, and ready to beg his master not to proceed to the dreadful extremity of separation.
There was a time when Thurlow Weed, William H. Seward and Horace Greeley were the regency of the Whig party. There was a time when Horace
<c04>
Greeley was assaulted and battered, in the streets of Washington, by ruffian Rust. There was a time when William H. Seward, in Congress, while alluding to this brutal attack, spoke of the brute who made the attack as “the Honorable Member,” &c.-thus indicating his deference to anything standing on the floor of Congress as the representative of Southern sovereignty, whether acting the part of a man, or the part of a monster of inhumanity. There was a time when William H. Seward, in servility to slavery, said in the Senate that “John Brown was justly hung.” There was a time when Horace Greeley wrote a private letter to William H. Seward, withdrawing from the political partnership of Weed, Seward & Co. There was a time when William H. Seward was base enough to feel the need of undertaking to make political capital by publishing that private letter-or suffering it to be published. There was a time when Horace Greeley prevented the nomination of William H. Seward for the Presidency, and secured the nomination of Abraham Lincoln. There was a time when Weed-if we may judge from the circumstances and manifestations-may be presumed to have said to Seward that the latter should go to Illinois, see the President elect, and secure to himself the Premiership; and, thus doing, they [Weed and Seward] would be able to put Lincoln in their pockets, and have the “reins of power firmly in their own hands,” by the conducting of which they would secure to themselves Southern favor, in spite of Greeley and other friends of freedom. There was a time when Seward, on his return from his Illinois mission, met Weed before reaching the Astor House, where he [Seward] could not conceal his joy, but manifested it by telling the “New England Society” of New York city, then holding a meeting at the Astor House, that he loved South Carolina, and that he would have all right within sixty or ninety days; that the Government was only slightly out of gear, from protracted usage without repair-a piece of machinery that needed a new cog or gudgeon, which a skilful engineer [like himself] could soon supply. There was a time when this self-appointed engineer went about this work of fitting up the old machinery to suit Southern superintendence and con ductorship, altering the organic structure in compliance with Southern dictation, and making the alteration” unalterable”-and there was also a time when this machinist made the machinery remove all legal obstructions to the occupancy of Federal territory by the Southern institution. And now we have just been told most reliably, that there was a time when Senator Seward was closeted with James Buchanan-and that that time was when this high “public functionary” was plotting the subjugation of the North to the South. Immediately following this, we find this same Senator Seward closeted with the delegation from that infamous “Peace Convention,” and pledging himself to them that, the reins of power being once firmly in his hands, he would surely and soon settle the matter to the full satisfaction of the South. After this, there was a time when Premier Seward perverted law and reason to criminate a faithful executor of the rules of war and the rights of his Government, for the benefit of the representatives of Southern treason and piracy, who were thus set free and sent on their pernicious errands, doubly armed for mischief.
The Democrats-otherwise Northern pro-slavery sympathizers and supporters-having pretended to join in making “the North a unit” against the Southern conspiracy-the pretension proving to have been only a cloak, under which to procure the appointment of Democratic commanders for the army, so that the Northern covert conspiracy might be more efficient than the Southern overt-all they whose eyes are now beginning to be opened, to see in its dreadfulness this deep, dark plot against human freedom, are, in conviction and in expression, beginning to bring out and to brand these wretched delinquents with names somewhat appropriate to their acts. So deep is the indignation felt by those who have been thus blinded and betrayed, that they search in vain for words, and struggle in agony, to give utterance fully expressive of their feelings. To denounce the crime and enormity as treason, betrayal and murder, scarcely begins to bring relief. No words are potent for the purpose.
Well, if the strongest language hitherto manufactured be impotent for the proper exposure of the covert conspirators who, under the name of Northern Democracy, have seized on the subordinate command of the army and navy, for the salvation of slavery and the destruction of freedom, to the end that rival politicians may get glory and honor and bread and butter, how much more must be felt the impotency of speech to characterize the crime of those who, under the name of Republicanism, have clandestinely seized on “the reins of power”-placed by the people in the hands of their appointed Commander in Chief-to outdo their rivals in devotion to slavery, to the end that they may gratify their own lust of power and gain!
These latter are Thurlow Weed and William H. Seward. George B. McClellan, Fitz John Porter, and other criminals, concealed, and criminals convicted, in this category, have been but the subalterns of Thurlow Weed and William H. Seward.
Just as the Northern Democratic demagogues blinded their dupes with the pretension of joining to make “the North a unit” against Southern conspiracy, so Seward was but blinding others to his iniquitous intriguing for power, to put the necks of the producers under the heels of the consumers, when at St. Paul, Sept. 28, 1860, he would have it thought that Northern politicians had finally risen superior to cupidity, and devoted themselves to patriotism-that they could no longer be bought or terrified out of the interests of humanity into the interests of barbarity-boyishly belittling himself for effect, and insulting the intelligence of his audience in that high latitude with the babyish boast-“Who’s afraid?
Nobody's afraid; nobody can be bought”!
For their fidelity to slavery in this struggle, Seward and McClellan are popular in Austria and in Richmond-except it be that, in Richmond, Seward is distrusted for the bottomless baseness of his treachery. Fully to appreciate him in this regard, it takes Northern traitors, like James Gordon Bennett. The treachery of the subordinate Porter is a small affair compared to that of the superior Seward.
Such are some of the facts and reasons justifying the words used at the head of this communication, to point out and designate such monster-delinquents as Thurlow Weed and William H. Seward.
ORSON S. MURRAY. 
Foster’s Crossings, Warren Co., O., Jan. 30, 1863.

DR. CHEEVER IN WASHINGTON.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 15,1863.
We have just returned from the Senate chamber, where we listened to a most earnest and powerful discourse from that moral giant, Rev. Dr. Cheever, of New York. He preached two sermons. Subject in the morning, “The nature of the war power as ordained of God.”." Subject in the evening,” The reactionary movement, and consequences of a return into Egypt.” The day was rainy, yet about one thousand persons assembled in the morning. The lecture was very able, sharp and forcible in logic, faithful and direct in its appeal to the consciences of all present.
But the evening lecture exceeded in eloquence and power even the morning address, and was heard with profound attention, interrupted only at times by outbursts of applause, by a full house. It was indeed gratifying, in that hall where the infamous Slave Power had ruled so long, and whose floor was stained by the blood of Freedom's Senator, to hear from a true priest of the Most High the rights of human nature so faithfully defended. The speaker seemed filled with a holy enthusiasm that was contagious and explosive, and the atmosphere of the room was redolent with the spirit of liberty. It seemed as if the spirits of those who, when upon earth, and living in the flesh, were known as the champions of freedom, were with us again. It needed no stretch of fancy to suppose that Paul and Luther, of whom we read, and Owen Lovejoy, Dr. Bailey and John Brown, whom
<c05>
we remember with tender interest, were with us, and we with them. We doubt not that much good will result from the meeting, and that many went away with a deeper hatred of slavery, and a more determined purpose to labor for its destruction. We could not forbear, in behalf of the Abolitionists in our dear old Commonwealth, to thank the speaker for his noble and fearless sermon.

HORRIBLE REBEL BARBARITIES.
NEW ORLEANS, Feb. 6th, 1863.
I give below the full particulars of some of the horrid barbarities that are being inflicted upon innocent Union people, by the desperadoes of Texas, as related to me by Mr. Gowing Wilson Plummer, a refugee from the town of Orange, Texas, and who is now living with his family upon the charity of government, at Pilot Town, this State, the rebels having robbed him of all he possessed.
During the month of June, 1861, Jim Worshem. Ben Saxton, Charles Saxton and Joe Jordan, all having been for years notorious thieves and murderers were engaged by a party of chivalric secessionists to murder a Mr. Mr. Kees, a native of Canada, on account of his anti-slavery views. Mr. McKees was an educated man, and his parents having been people of means, sent him to a military academy in Canada, where he acquired a thorough knowledge of military tactics. Being of a roving disposition, he left home, and after taking a trip to China and Australia, he came to Texas in a reduced state of circumstances. He was soon employed by John Livingston, a ship builder in the lower part of the town of Orange, upon the west bank of the Sabine river. The rebels of Orange, learning accidentally one day that McKees understood military movements, applied to him in a body, and demanded that he should instruct them in the school of the soldier, and when McKees said he should have no spare time, they insisted upon his teaching them, and made use of threatening language in case their wishes were not complied with. Finding resistance an impossibility, he agreed to their demands, and after drilling them six weeks he got tired of the business, when his employer, Mr. John Livingston, advised him to give up drilling, and devote his time to his trade, which was that of a ship carpenter.
He feigned sickness, and was relieved from duty by the rebels. Wishing to escape the fate which he saw awaited him, (the rebels talking of appointing him their captain,) he soon recovered from his illness, and pretended to be a rabid secessionist; and in order to carry out his plans for an escape, be said he was anxious to see some active service in the field, and that he intended to go to New Orleans, and join the Confederate army. In part remuneration for his services as drill-master, the rebels had given him a fine horse, and watching the most favorable opportunity, he mounted, one stormy night, and started for New Orleans. He had been gone but a few hours when they missed him, and upon finding the horse gone, some of the rebels started off at daylight the following day, and with fearful imprecations upon their lips swore, if they caught the d-d abolitionist, they would hang him to the first tree. At Lafayette, a small town in the western part of Louisiana, the ruffians overtook their innocent victim, and conveyed him back to Orange, Texas, where they carried him before a civil court on the charge of horse-stealing, accusing him of having stolen the identical horse they themselves had given to him in part payment for his services.
The court returned a verdict of not guilty, and ordered McKees to be discharged, as the evidence of any intent to steal was not sufficient to warrant his committal. The decision enraged the assassins, who were bent upon his destruction, and the mob seized him as he left the court room, and conveyed him to an old barn, half a mile distant, where, after taunting him with all manner of insults about his views on slavery, they stripped him, and administered a coat of far and feathers. Procuring a rail, they rode him into the town of Orange, followed by a brutal and insulting crowd, whom they invited to shower insults of any kind upon McKees. The rowdies spat tobacco juice in his eyes, and as they arrived in front of the bar-rooms his persecutors would throw him violently on the ground, for the amusement of the cruel and debased creatures, who usually congregate about such places. After the mob had shouted their approbation, McKees was taken up and conveyed to the next shanty, where the same operation was performed. McKees fainted several times from complete prostration, and buckets of cold slops were thrown over him to restore him to consciousness. He begged them to kill him if it was any satisfaction for them to torment him in such a manner.
Getting tired of their sport, they took him to an old shanty, and securing an old decrepid negro, they made McKees shake hands with him, and then, amid the jeers of the crowd, told him to take “a drink with his old uncle” and compelled him to “drink old Abe Lincoln’s health.” After this they seemed to be satiated with demoniac sport, and two of the ruffians prevailed upon the others to release him, but if he was caught again attempting to escape, they vowed they would hang him. McKees was no sooner out of their clutches than he fell into the hands of others of the same party, who heaped all sorts of indignities upon him in the street, hired boys to pelt him with rotten eggs, and call him a “nigger lover.” Being hourly in fear of his life, he resolved upon another attempt to escape from his intended murderers, and he starred on foot for the mountains, hoping to reach Mexico. When six miles from Orange, the excited band overtook and completely surrounded him, and with cowhide and pistol in hand swore if he made any attempts to escape or offered any resistance, they would blow his brains out.
Jim Worshem grabbed him by the throat, and accused him of being a d-d miserable abolitionist, while Joe Jordan applied the lash to his back, and whipped him till his strength was exhausted. Jim Worshem stripped the clothes from his body, and exchanged the bloody garments from his victim for the shabby clothes he had on. McKees had put on his best suit of clothing, not expecting he would ever return. This done, McKees, who was speechless, motioned for them to spare him, as he saw Joe Jordan take from his coat pocket a clothes line for the almost dying man knew they were going to hang him. The gang, which consisted of the two Saxton brothers, Jim Worshem, Joe Jordan and three others whose names Mr. Plummer had forgotten, then seized the defenceless man, and placing the rope around his neck, carried him across the road to a large tree, where they hung him. The news was soon circulated through Orange, that one d-d nigger-stealing abolitionist was taken care of, and those citizens who knew Mr. McKees saw this fiend, Jim Worshem, parading in front of the bar-rooms, infuriated with liquor, swearing boastingly of what he and his confederates had accomplished for Texas, by ridding her soil of an abolitionist, while on his back they recognized poor McKees’ clothing.
The next morning, Mr. Hope Cooper, a farmer of Orange County, was driving to the town of Orange, when he was horrified at the sight of McKees’ lifeless body suspended from a tree, at the roadside. He drove back, and informing one of his neighbors, they both returned, and cut down the ghastly and terribly distorted form of the murdered man, and buried the body in an adjoining field. As soon as Jim Worshem, Joe Jordan and his followers, beard what Mr. Cooper had done, they swore with terrible oaths that they would cut out the heart of the Yankee sympathizer that had removed the body of an abolitionist; but Mr. Cooper and his neighbors were cautious when questioned about the body to plead entire ignorance of the whole affair.

HUMANITY OF TEXAS REBELS-A DOUBLE MURDER
In the month of August, 1861, a man by the name of James arrived in the town of Orange, from Galveston, and put up at King’s Hotel. He reported, during the course of conversation with a crowd in the bar-room of the house, that he had just arrived a few weeks previous, at Galveston, from California. It is said that in the evening of the day of his arrival he was seen conversing with one or two negroes, by Jim Worshem and his gang, who were laying in ambush for him.
In his interview with the negroes, it is asserted that he told the negroes his mission was to liberate them, and that if they would prepare themselves the next night, he would secrete them on board a small schooner which belonged to him, and which was anchored on the Sabine river on the Louisiana side. One of the negroes to whom he revealed his plans, and who was the property of a Mr. Smith, a New Yorker, who had been in Texas about a year and a half, went to Smith, his master, and narrated the full particulars of the conversation that had taken place between Mr. James and himself, telling his master that James wanted to meet him (the slave)
<c06>
that night at 12 o’clock, and that he had promised to do so. Smith, upon learning this, determined to ferret out the foundation of the negro's story, and accordingly he dressed himself in the slave's suit of clothes, and blacking himself sallied out at the appointed hour to meet Mr. James. So complete was the disguise, that with the knowledge of the whole conversation as detailed to him by the ignorant or treacherous negro, Smith succeeded in drawing from his unsuspecting confidante the whole of his plans. Making an agreement to meet him again, the supposed negro vanished. The next morning, Smith reported to Charley Saxton, Jim Davis, and Jim Worshem, what he had heard, and it was at once decided to murder Mr. James, who was expected to leave Orange that day. About nine o’clock, Mr. James chartered a small boat, and hired a Mr. Marshall to row him across the Sabine river.
Both James and Marshall were in the boat, and Marshall was standing up pushing off the boat from shore, when Jim Davis, a notorious horse thief, and his companions, came rushing down to the bank. The boat was not more than a dozen yards from the bank, when Jim Davis, with a terrible oath, aimed a revolver at Mr. James, exclaiming with an oath, “You are the d-d Yankee scoundrel that tried, last night, to entice our niggers away, and I am going to shoot you on the spot, you miserable thief!” Mr. Marshall stood in front of Mr. James, expostulating with Davis, telling him he was mistaken in the man, and begging him to spare Mr. James's life. This intervention roused all the beastly fury of Davis, who swore he would kill both of them. and suiting the action to the word he fired upon Mr. Marshall, who fell into the bottom of the boat, shouting, “Great God, what have you done?” The ball entered the right breast, and passed nearly through the body.
They then put out in a small boat, and brought both James and Marshall on shore, and securing James, they laid Marshall under an old shingle shed, where the hideous monster, Charles Saxton, took out his jack-knife, and began to probe the wound for the bullet, cursing Marshall for groaning at the pain he was suffering. Marshall besought him to let him alone, and in the name of God to send for his wife and family that he be might see them before breathing his last. At first this request was refused, but after earnest entreaties the unfeeling wretches granted the dying man’s only wish, and Mrs. Marshall, with her family of five small children, arrived just in time to witness the extinction of the vital spark. Mrs. Marshall was so terribly stricken with grief at the loss of her husband that she survived his murder but ten days. Her babe of two years, and a bright little boy of six years, were laid at the side of their parents in two weeks after their death, Mr. Marshall was a native of the Western part of Louisiana, a brickmaker by trade, and had always been respected as an honest and hard working man.
After these desperadoes had got rid of the body of Marshall, they turned their whole attention to Mr. James. They carried him before the civil authorities on the charge of enticing negroes to desert their masters. Jim Davis produced several letters, which were known by loyal witnesses in the Court to have been forged, and affirming under oath that he found these letters in Mr. James’s coat pocket, the testimony was so strong and conclusive that he was found guilty, and the sentence of death was passed upon him by the Judge, early in the forenoon. At nightfall a mob broke into the jail, and dragging Mr. James to the nearest tree, hung him on the spot. After the body had been suspended fifteen or twenty minutes, it was cut down, and eight or ten bloodthirsty fellows removed the corpse to the interior of the jail. In a few minutes. Dr. Hudson, of Orange, and another doctor of the same town, assisted by the crew whose; malicious perjury on the witness-stand had been the cause of the sentence, began to mutilate the body, and while doing so gave vent to the most horrible sentiments.
Dr. Hudson cut out the heart, and placed it in a glass pickle jar filled with Louisiana whiskey, and this murdered man’s heart has been seen by various persons since his execution, and it can be seen to day in the drug and paint store of Dr. Hudson, in the town of Orange. After this they actually tried out all the fat from the flesh, and divided it among each other for the oiling of their fire-arms. One of the doctors, not Hudson, secured the head and carried it home, telling his wife to boil it until all the flesh should drop off. Mr. Plummer could not at the moment recollect this brutal doctor's name, but the wife refused to have anything to do with the head, and was horror-struck at the barbarous sight. Her husband compelled her to place the skull in a large copper kettle, and boil it for several hours, when he took charge of it, told his wife he had long desired an abolitionist’s skull for his study, and now he had got one.
Charles Saxon, a most inhuman man and daring robber, gave a ball a week or two after the murder in honor of the Vigilance Committee, whose business was to clean out all anti-slavery people from Texas. He invited all the secesh of Orange, of both sexes, to the ball, and as an inducement to attend the assembly, he told them he should exhibit a genuine “Yankee” skull. He had borrowed the skull from the doctor, and fastening it to a shelf, placed a candle in each eye-socket, and while most of the guests looked on with exultation and satisfaction to behold the Yankee head, he made the remark that “Yankee candle-sticks were a decided improvement over the old fashioned ones.” The females who mingled in this wicked orgie were the lowest creatures of their sex, as might be expected. The next morning Jim Davis and Saxton tied the pieces of mutilated flesh in a meal bag, and threw it into the Sabine river, supposing, of course, that when the tide flowed it would float off, but the bag kept floating to and for two days, until a Mr. George Kneeland, whose house was on the river-bank, went to Saxton and Davis and told them if there was any law in the land, he would instantly prosecute them, if they did not remove the remains from the river, and bury them properly.
Fearing this threat from Kneeland, who is an earnest rebel, the scoundrels buried the portions of the body. 
In order fully to convince your readers that this fearful crime has been committed, I will relate the following incident:-Mrs. Freeland, a daughter of Robert Jackson, of Orange, one of the first Union families in Texas, was anxious to borrow or purchase a large sized copper kettle, for the purpose of making preserves. She was well acquainted with Mrs. Doctor-, and knowing nothing at the time of the dissecting of Mr. James's body by the doctor, she visited Mrs.-, for the purpose of securing the kettle. While there the conversation went from one point to another, until the doctor's wife told how she was obliged to boil a human skull in one of her kettles, for her husband. Mrs. Freeland was horrified, and left the house. 
The following persons will vouch for the truth of the statements I have made in relation to the murder of Mr. McKees, a native of Canada:-
Mr. Marshall, a mechanic of Orange, and Mr. James, of Galveston, recently returned from California; John Livingston, David Livingston, Samuel Livingston, ship carpenters in Orange, Texas, three brothers; Mrs. Nancy Jane Jackson, mother of Mrs. Freeland; William Jackson, her son, employed in his father's saw mill, at Orange; Gowing Wilson Plummer, Mrs. Plummer, and Albert Plummer, his son, narrated to me while stopping at Pilot Town, the foregoing particulars. Mr. Plummer is a New Englander, and was born in the town of Addison, Washington county., Maine. He has been in the employ of the United States as lighthouse keeper at the “Texas Light.” on the east bank of Sabine Pass, for the past four years-Corr. Boston Traveller.

HANGING NEGROES.
The correspondent of the New York Herald, giving an account of the Mississippi expedition, says:
“At the plantation of Judge Griffin, at Chicot Bend, we ascertained that several negroes who had visited our boat at another point three weeks before, had been executed by the neighbors. The facts concerning the case were these: On New Years’ day, when the steamboat Tigress was bound down the river, we stopped to get some wood on Mr. Moore’s plantation. Soon, several negroes appeared on the bank, mounted on mules. It seems that when Mr. Moore had seen our steamboat coming, he had sent the negroes off to the woods; but instead of going to the woods, they rode round to the river to our steamboat. The servants on Judge Griffin's place said that these negroes, for that offence, had since been hanged by the neighbors. They also said that a few days before, when one of our steamboats was passing, some negroes came out on the bank, and hailed her; but the steamboat passed on, without taking them on board. Next day, some planters, who had seen them from the other side, came across the river, and hung them.”
