THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three <illegible>ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 of three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LlBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.;-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXV. No. 27. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1865 WHOLE NO. 1796.
Selections.
<c01>
GREAT FUNERAL.
Died, in Richmond, Va., on the 3d inst., of a severe attack of the Great Union Army, in convulsions the most violentin contortions and writings the most painfulThe Foul Spirit of Secession. It was <illegible> in Charleston, S. C., in 1860, and though but four years old it at one time possessed great vigor, but of late it has been in a declining condition. This horrid monster, though cut off in its childhood, lived long enough to work great wickedness in the nation. It ravaged the land with fire and sword, it drank the life-blood of millions of men, and filled the whole country with lamentations of widows and orphans. It at last grew so detestable that even its friends, its foster-parents, showed the utmost resentment whenever called by its name, and now it is dead there “are none so poor to do it reverence."
The funeral ceremonies will take place at Charleston, S. C., on the 14th of April, when a Grand Procession will be formed.
ORDER OF PROCESSION.

THE DEMON OF REBELLION,
Drawn in a Flaming Car by, Ignorance, Arrogance and Knavery.
JEFF. DAVIS AND HIS CABINET,
with halters around their necks.
THE REBEL CONGRESS,
Two and Two, each with Cap and Bells.
THE SPIRIT OF NULLIFICATION,
As Chief Physician.
PALL BEARERS,
Slavery, State Sovereignty,
Aristocracy, Injustice,
Inhumanity, Anarchy.
HIS SATANIC MAJESTY,
(With his tail between his legs) as Chief Mourner.
THE GREAT COPPERHEAD SERPENT,
With his fangs drawn and head bruised by the Goddess of Liberty.
ESCORTTwo Hundred, Knights of the Golden Circle, handed by Cl-m nt V-ll-nd-gh-m in sackcloth, with brazen helmet.
THE GODDESS OF DISCORD-In Weepers.
Is her right hand a torch expiringIn her left a bloody broken sword.
BENEDICT ARNOLD AND AARON BURR, 
With standardMotto; ”Birds of a Feather flock Together."
THE SOUTHERNER WHO WAS EQUAL TO FIVE YANKEES, (very gaunt.)
StandardMotto; ”We've driven the enemy into Richmond!”
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE”SUPERIOR RACE."
In a Donkey Car, bearing this Motto-"We retreat only that we may not be contaminated by the touch of base-born mudsills."
SECESSION NEWSPAPER SCRIBBLERS,
With Motto“We told you so!"
A BODY OF THE ENGLISH TORY NOBILITY,
With Motto—“The Bubble of Republicanism has burst, and blown us all to the devil."
NASSAU BLOCKADE RUNNERS.
Motto-"Our occupation's gone."
BRITISH BUILDERS OF REBEL CRUISERS,
In weeds-Motto: ”The Confederacy has gone to look after the Alabama."
THE GENIUSES OF THE NEW YORK NEWS, BERIAH BROWN, ETC.,
In their original blackness.-Motto: ”The days of our years are few and evil."
A CART, piled with Confederate Currency and Bonds, in reams, marked ”Waste Paper."
THE SOUTHERN CONFEDERACY.
Standard-Motto:
"Since I was so soon done for, 
I wonder what I was begun for."
-San Francisco American Flag.

MR. NASBY”MAKES A DELEGASHUN UV HISSELF," AND VISITS THE PRESIDENT,
INT'S REST, (which is in the stait uv) Noo Gersey,) May 15, 1865.
All the staits uv the North, and the heft uv them recently subjugated, all the Sosieties, Assciashuns and Churchis that ever I heard uv, hev sent delegashuns for the purpus uv volunteerin 2 advise Jonson, the noo Presydent. Feelin that Noo Gersey should not be behind in the advise bizness, I elected myself a delegashun, borrered a clene shirt, and traveled 2 Washington. I wuz announst ez ”a delegashun from Noo Gersey," and wuz to wunst ushered in 2 the presents.
“Wher is the delegashun?" ejakulatcd the President;" hurry em up, for I've thirteen more to reseeve this afternoon."
“Androo Jonson," said I, impressively,”I represent Noo Gersey, a stait that hez just dun honor to the deceest Presydent."
“Troo," returned he;”sich staits honour patriotsafter they'er dead."
“I resent the insinooashun, with skorn. Ez proof that the murder uv the Presydent rung the poplar hart uv Noo Gersey, let me say sir, that the Caniden and Amby Drekturs, at a meetin called for the pupus, abslootely votid 2 carry the corps uv the deceest Presydent over the road for half fare! a honor never be4 akordid to enny livin or ded individjooal. But let that pars. Noo Gersey needs no speshlpleeder.Ther she stand. Looks. at her-of you hev a mycroscope.
"I cum, Androo,ez a originel Dimocrat, who, whatever uther sins he may hev committed, never skratcht his tikkit or dilootid his whisky. In behalf uv that Dimocrisy I speak.
“Ez hez been mensbund 2 yoo wunst er twict, a immense responsibility rests on yoor sholders. The Southern staits struggled for their rites, but were squelcht. They fought like heroes, but fell, becoz uv overpowerin numbers agin em. They’re down your iron heel is on 2 their Recks. What will yoo do? Will yoo grind em, or will yoo be magnanimous?
Wunst we wuz a happy nashun, and we kin be so agin-again—it resetsrests with yoo. You must consiliate the Dimocrisy.Our party North is magnanymus. We stand reddy to forgive yoo fer havin drafted us, fer havin taxt us to support a unconstooshunel war, pro-
<c02>
vidin yoo'll stop now. Woo our Suthhern bretherin back with jentle words. They air a high-spiritid and sensative race, that kin never be subjoogatid. Take em agin to yoor buzzum, and dont humiliate em by degradin condisbns. Give, em a chanse 2 fergive us fer whalin uv em. Restore ther niggars, pay ther war debt, invite Magoffin and Vance and Brown and the rest uv the Guvners back 2 their various capitols-give Lee and Forist and Boregard their posisbuns in the regular army, and pensbun the disabled confedrate heroes.
Ther musn't be no hangin. Yoo've cot that unfortnit staitsman, Davis—he fell in 2 your hands becoz he wuz ignorent uv the style uv yoor [laite Linkin's] minyuns. He mite have knode that the sojers never seed a woman takin to the woods without chasin her. But he must not be hung. Democrisy looks upon the matter thus:
"Yoo can't hang a man fer conspirin agin the Government onless he taiks up arms.
“Ef a few take up arms, it's only a riot, and no hangin matter, cept when Ablishnists like John Brown do it. In such cases, hangin is alluz in order.
“Ef a number of staits do it, it's a revolooshen, and them ez yoo capcher must be treeted ez bellyjigger ants, and prizners uz war. To hang prizners uv war, Androo, is murder.
This wood probably satisfy the South. At the North, less is reqwired. The Dimocracy is eesly consiliated. Give our leeders enuff uv the offises 2 support cm, with the privylege uv managin things 2 soot us, and the trubble is ore. On them terms we'll support yoor Administrashen, or any other man's, corjerly and hartily, and peese will agin wave her white pinyuns over the land, and will continue 2 wave em ontil the Suthern hart is agin fired.
I hev dunNoo Gersey hez spoke.
I rather spect my words will bare froot. Look out fur a change uv policy.
PETROLEUM V. NASBY,
Lait Paster uv the Church uv the Noo Dispensashun.”

TRIBUTE TO ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
Extract from a Memorial Address on Abraham Lincoln, delivered at the Hall of the Mechanics' Institute, in Saint John, N. B., June 1, 1865, at the invitation of the Citizens, by Charles M. Ellis, Esq., of Boston:-
Once justice, liberty, law, the nation; now, expediency, slavery, the States. You know what were the spirit and purpose of earlier days. But now public men, the rostrum, the pulpit, the professional chair, moralists, publicist, jurists, taught that the basis of all nationality was compromise, expediency. Ignoring the elements of national law, the principles of liberty, they sought to revive a long-exploded system of morals and of men. Unblushingly, nay with fervor and zeal, with sheer madness that fancied itself patriotism, they proclaimed that that morality which regarded absolute justice was puerile, foolish, impious; that one nation, any nation was possible only by compromise; that patriotism was the noblest practical limitation of universal philanthropy, and the only standard of duty was utility. The ethics of nationality had been forgotten. Secession, treason were the legitimate result. The policy of the parties, the measures of leading men, the statutes, decrees of the courts; popular preaching; the press, teachings of schools and colleges; the tests of social, political fellowship; the laws of 1793 and of 1850; the policy of territorial extension from Louisiana to Texas, Kansas, California; the dogma of Calhoun; the constitutional theory of Webster; the compromises of Clay; Andover; Princeton; Cambridge; judges; lawyers; divines; writers and scholars-all, all social, political, commercial influences joined in assertions that the original law of liberty was a sham. They united to undermine the ancient nationality.
Their rule was absolute, and seemed to be sure. Arrogant, intolerant, they began the work of proscription. The mails were rifled; speech and the press muzzled; liberty sacrificed; the States stood first; the Nation was their servant, and Slavery's. Slavery ruled. Nationality was dying out. If peace had continued, revolution would have been completed, ruin have come.
A few moralists who taught justice; a few divines who preached the law of God; a few statesmen who held to the eternal obligation of divine law; poets who sang for freedom; and popular writers and orators who nursed the nation's love for liberty, most of them without position or power, and powerless to act against all this machinery of evil,-Channing, Garrison, Adams, Parker, Whittier, Stowe, Sumner, Chase, and such,-kept alive the nation's heart.
So revolution was going on; the country was drifting to ruin. Slavery had controlled, and nearly practically extinguished both liberty and nationality.
But the tempest of war came, and cleared the air a again. When the shot was fired on Sumter, and the flag hauled down, the scaffolding of the old parties, creeds, philosophies, fell to the dust in a moment. It was obvious that it was treason against patriotism; secession against nationality; compromise against principle; slavery against humanity; expediency against justice. Parties dissolved. All this machinery stopped. The people hastened to undo the vile work of generations. The nation had been living on, and turned even the work of evil to its account.
It was plain, too, that all this machinery was thrown out of gear, useless, powerless, in a moment. For it had all depended on the civil administration of the government in its several branches, and the modes of controlling the masses in the walks and ways of peace; and now came war! The whole people must move as a military body, with their commander, by the laws of war. So all that vanished. Slavery, the naked, deadly, loathsome monster, must be met face to face. There could be no parly, no compromise. It was life or death with them now.
All at once the old nation was alive again; morals were taught; religion was preached; justice decreed; the Constitution was read as it had been in the beginning. The war power, as legitimate, as necessary as the civil power, brought to an instant test parts of the political system that had never been thoroughly tried before.
It was the fortune of Abraham Lincoln to move with his people, its leader and head, in this vast movement of American society, sweeping on again in the tide of humanity, and in his brief term sweeping away before it to oblivion the shades of seventy years.
You have noted his gradual development, mind, heart and soul; and as the reason, Sentiments, and conscience of the people stirred, he regulated the acts of the military and civil power; vast armies; the resources of a continent; the events of generations, ages, crowded into these four years, so that, at the helm, he brought safe this mighty ship back to her ancient course again.
So, in four short years, this man who came, unheralded, unknown, from the mass of the people, by his native greatness, or because he was a man of the
<c03>
people.- a true man, untrammelled by social, scholastic, ecclesiastical, political or legal creeds, theories, or precedents, obliged to confront the powers and against the country, with the true principles and whole power of the government in open war; obliged as well as inclined to heed the heart and conscience of the people and of humanity, and that alone,- did more by his acts to shape the course after the law of human progress than any other man.
And without regarding the power he had vested in him by his high office and supreme command, it would be difficult to conceive how any man could have acquired over so vast an empire such complete moral control; as it is impossible to name one whose motives in the exercise of supreme power were so completely unquestionable. Therefore the people of his country recognize him as you all do; as the representative Americanthe most American of Americansthe exponent of American life.
Under him, what a revolution has been wrought! From profound peace, with no preparation for war, an army of two million men, war on the vastest scale; from a little navy of twenty-six vessels, now about seven hundred vessels of war; manufactures developed enough to reimburse this outlay of thousands of millions; the enfranchised labor of a race enough to repay it; the energy, courage, principles of the people developed; from an inferior the country became a first rate power; it has advanced more in these four years of trial than in fifty of prosperity, as a young man grows more in one year of adversity than in many of apparent success.
But all this material progress is nothing besides the moral regeneration of the country; nothing whatever.
Under him, by the blessing of the good God, the people preserved the country entire; the law of Liberty was restored to rule; Nationality triumphed.
It is now plain that Nationality is Humanity; that, in fighting our cause, we have fought for you, for self-government, and liberty regulated by law everywhere; for civilization, and the progress of mankind.
The work of his day, his work, was well done, all done: the work of war felling and burning the forest. If the work of this day and the coming times, of clearing, culture, civilization, be done as well, it will be his glory to have redeemed America. If we fail, now or hereafter, and the roots of evil sprout and grow again, his will be the glory of having begun that work, ours the shame of its failure. Few, if any, name will stand out stronger or brighter in history than that of Abraham Lincoln.
How fortunate in his death! Having meekly, manfully, religiously, a faithful servant of his people and his God, done the greatest work of the ages; still the same simple, honest, trusting Christian, he laid aside the robes of mortality to see his country united, free, its Union sanctified and cemented by his martyrdom; its heart throbbing with love and gratitude inexpressible for him; and men of every clime, humanity joining in benedictions to him the good, the great, the true.
Blissful translation! Sufficient reward; that a life of such glorious service should have been crowned with a death not less serviceable to the holy cause to which his life was devoted, which enlisted for country and for him the sympathies of the world. On earth his name will last, long after the monuments men will erect shall have all crumbled to dust. As it is inscribed in the motto above you, “The memory of the just is blessed." The best monument will be the completion of the work that follows emancipation. Let the four million he freed as men be men. To teach a boy to work, set him to work. To make a man a good citizen, make him a citizen. If there be risks as there are, take them. There can be no risk so great as that of leaving a root or fibre of the evil in the ground. Let us leave “no distinction which may increase; none to recall the evil days. Let us root out slavery, and all trace of it, now and forever.
Then will the world see the true glory of this war now closed, and of his life of devoted patriotism; that the law of all laws is the divine law; know the meaning and the strength of self-government; that no State can stand secure that violates the law of human liberty and the justice of God.
These colonies are all but waves of a mighty race, sweeping to those and to other shores;. to Plymouth rock and to Canada; to California, India, and Australia. In the course of centuries, the lessening differences of time and form will all be forgotten. Little will be remembered but such mighty convulsions in its course, if the unity and current of the life of the race itself be clear.
Possibly, at some future day, your colony and ours, of common origin; inheriting the same, institutions; with the same native love for liberty and law, justice and the right; alike in climate, productions, wants, position; with one history in common; one common destiny; contiguous; with no natural barrier; so free in intercourse; so glad to receive tokens of good will, may be even more closely united.
But, whether ever united, or only joined in friendly alliance as now, till all shall have developed laws of self-government, and, in the progress of mankind, the people have become more a law unto themselves, you will ever feel a just pride that in this, their trial-day, our people, your kinsmen, proved true to the spirit of their fathers; defended their faith that religious truth is the basis of government, and will honor the name of Abraham Lincoln, the savior of his country, the martyr for American Liberty.

LETTER FROM ROBERT DALE OWEN.
NEGRO SUFFRAGE AND REPRESENTATIVE POPULATION.
TO THE PRESIDENT:
SIR: From the recollections, now twenty years old, of the years when we were Congressmen together, I derive an abiding faith in your probity, your patriotism, and your stern devotion to democratic principles. Suffer me to address you, and through you to the People over whom you preside, a few considerations touching a great measure of public policy. I know that it is your habit kindly to receive, if even from private and unofficial source, such honest suggestions as are of a character involving sectional harmony and the national safety.
There is an aspect of the negro-suffrage question which has, I think, arrested less attention than it merits: not the aspect of right; not the question whether, in restoring to a lowly and humble race, down-trodden for ages, their outraged liberty, we ought to give them the ballot to defend it; but a question more selfish, relating to our own race; one not of sentiment but of calculation; essentially practical and of imminent importance.
Permit me, first, to recall to your notice a few facts which any one, by reference to the census of 1860 and to the Constitution, can verify.
The actual population of the States composing the Union, and their representative population, have hitherto differed considerably: the actual population in 1860 being upward of thirty-one millions, (31,-148, 047,) and the representative population about
<c04>
twenty-nine millions and a half only (29,553,273). The difference between the two is nearly one million six hundred thousand (1,594, 774). See Compendium of Census, pages 131, 132.
The reason of this is apparent. In the year 1860 there were, in round numbers, four million of slaves (3,950,531) in these States. These slaves were not estimated, in the representative population, man for man. Five of them were estimated as three; for by the Constitutional provision regulating the basis of representation, (Art 1, Sec. 2, 3,) there was to be taken the whole number of free persons, and three-fifths of all other persons. Two-fifths of the” other persons” were left out. But two-fifths of four millions is one million six hundred thousand.
About two million four hundred thousand of the slaves are to be regarded as having entered, under the last Census, into the basis of representation. In other words, the white slaveholding population of the South obtained a political advantage the same as that which they would have reaped by actual addition to their population of two million four hundred thousand free persons. As under the last Census the ratio of representation was fixed at one hundred and twenty-seven thousand (Census, page 22.) the South, in virtue of that legal fiction of two million four hundred-thousand additional freemen, had eighteen members of Congress added to her representation. Her total number of representatives being eighty-four, she owed more than one-fifth of that number to her slave property. It follows that if, in a republican government, the number of free persons be the proper basis of representation, she had upward of one-fifth more political influence than her just share. Each one of her voters possessed a power (so far as the election of the President and of the House of Representatives was concerned) greater by one-fifth than that of each Northern voter.
No man friendly to equal rights, even if (being a white man) he restricts the principle to persons of his own color, will offer a justification of a partition of political power so unfair as this. It was not defended, on principle, by those who assented to it. It was accepted as a necessity, or supposed necessity, in the construction, out of discordant materials, of the American Union.
We of the North have hitherto acted upon it, as men under duressour hands bound by the Constitutionas it were under protest. We preferred unequal division of power, as regards the two great sections of the Republic, to the chance of anarchy. That was in the past. Are we, in the future, having got rid, by terrible sacrifice, of the cause of that injustice, still to tolerate the injustice itself, even in aggravated form? Doubtless, now that our hands are free, we have no such intention. Let us take heed lest we increase and perpetuate this abuse, as men often do, without intention.
Seldom, if ever, has there been imposed on any ruler a task more thickly surrounded with difficulties than that, now before you, of reconstruction in the late insurrectionary States. Uncertain as we are of the sentiments and intentions of men just emerging from a humiliating defeat, little more can be done than to institute an experiment, and then wait to see what comes of it. It would be premature to lay down any settled plan from which, let events turn as they will, there is to be no departure. We are traversing unknown and treacherous seas, and must take soundings as we go. Nor should we omit the precaution of a sharp look-out for breakers ahead. It seems to me that we may expect such on the course we are pursuing.
The present experiment appears to be, to leave the work of reconstructing Government in the late rebel South to the loyal whites; or, more accurately stated, to the whites who shall have purged themselves from the crime of treason (actual or implied) so far as an oath, taken from whatever motive, can effect such purgation. Will this experiment, if it proceed unimpeded, result in the permanent exclusion of the negro from suffrage?
In proof that it will, it might suffice to remember that these men have grown up in the beliefhave been indoctrinated from the cradle in the convictionthat the African is a degraded race. Add that the war has brought the blacks and whites of the South into antagonistic relations, exasperating against the former alike the rich planters, from whose mastership they fled, and the” poor whites," who always hated them, and to whom emancipation (raising despised ones to their level) is a personal affront.
But there is a motive for exclusion in this case stronger than anger, more powerful than hatred-the incentive of self-aggrandizement. They who are made the judges are to be the gainers-unfairly but vastly the gainers-by their own decision.
Observe the working of this thing. By the Constitution the representative population is to consist of all free persons and three-fifths of all other persons. If, by next Winter, slavery shall have disappeared, there will be no “other persons” in the South. Her actual population will then coincide with her representative population. She will have gained, as to Federal representation, 1,600,000 persons. She will be entitled, not as now to 84 members, but to 94; and her votes for President will be in proportion; Congress, if it intends that the Constitutional rule shall prevail, will have to alter the apportionment so as to correspond to the new order of things.
Now, if the negro is admitted to vote, the Constitutional rule will operate justly. For then each voter in the South will have precisely the same political influence as a voter in the North. The unjust three-fifth principle will have disappeared for ever.
On the other hand, if color be deemed cause of exclusion, then all the political power which is with held from the emancipated slave is gained by the Southern white.
For though, by law, we may deny suffrage to the freedman, we cannot prevent his being reckoned among those free persons who constitute the basis of representation. His presence, whether disfranchised or not, adds, in spite of all we can do, to the political influence of the State, for it increases the number of its votes for President, and the number of its representatives in Congress. Now, somebody must gain by this. The gain is shared equally by every actual voter in the State. If, in any State, the number of blacks and whites is equal, and if, in that State, blacks are excluded from voting, then every white voter will go to the polls armed with twice the political power enjoyed by a white voter in any Northern State. But again, this is on the supposition that every white adult in the State is loyal, and therefore entitled to vote.
Are the half of all Southern male adults at this time, or will they be for years to come, more than lip-loyal if even that? I think you will not say that they are. It would surely be an extravagant calculation. If more than half the whites in ex-insurrection States shall actually qualify themselves as voters, will you not find yourself compelled to administer the Government, in the late secession portion of the Union, through the agency of its enemies? One-third would be a full estimate, in my judgment, for the truly loyal.
<c05>
But let us assume that two-thirds of all the white male adults of the South become voters, and that they exclude from suffrage, by law or by Constitutional provision, all persons of color, what would be the political consequences under such a state of things? If, (as we may roughly estimate,) by destruction through war and by depletion of population through emigration to Mexico, to Europe and elsewhere, the number of whites throughout the late rebel States shall have been reduced until blacks and whites exist there in nearly equal numbers, then, in the case above supposed, each voter in these States, when he approached the ballot-box during a Congressional or Presidential election, would do so wielding THREE TIMES as much political influence as a voter in a Northern State. This vast advantage once gained by Southern whites, is it likely that they will ever relinquish it?
Nor, if we disfranchise the negro, is there any escape from such consummation, except by rooting out from the Constitution the principle that the whole number of free persons shall be the basis of representation. But that principle lies at the base of all free government. We abandon republicanism itself when we discard it.
Thus it appears that the present experiment in reconstruction, if suffered to run its course, and if interpreted as I think we have just cause to fear that it will be, tends (inevitably, it may be said) to bring about two results:
First: To cause the disfranchisement of the freedman. Whether we effect this directly, as by provision of law, or by a disqualifying clause in a proclamation, or whether we do it by leaving the decision to his former masters and his old enemies, matters nothing except in form and in words; the result is brought about with equal certitude in cither way. Passion, prejudice and self-interest concur to produce this result.
Second: It establishes-not the odious three-fifth clause, not even merely a five-fifth clause-but something much worse than either. It permits the investiture of the Southern white with a preponderance of political power, such as no class of men, in a democratic Republic, ever enjoyed since the world began.
I do not-believe me in this, Mr. President-overlook or underrate the grave embarrassments that beset your path, turn as you will. I call to mind the overbearing influence of passion and prejudice, and I admit that when these prevail, in exaggerated form, throughout a large portion of any nation, a wise ruler recognizes the fact of their existence, and regulates his acts accordingly. But the sway of passion and prejudice, despotic for a season, has but a limited term of endurance, and should be treated as an evanescent thing. It is too transient and unstable to furnish basis for a comprehensive system of policy. Tenderly it should be treated, but not falsely respected or weakly obeyed.
Mercy, God-like attribute as it is, may run riot. It is very well, by act of grace, to restore to penitent Southern insurgents their legally forfeited rights; let us be friends and fellow-citizens once more, as Christianity and comity enjoin. But to suffer each of these returning rebels, when about to cast his vote for President or for Representatives of the people, to be clothed with three times as much power as is possessed by a Northern voter exercising a similar right, is, very surely, a somewhat superfluous stretch of clemency.
And what manner of men, I pray you, are those whom we propose thus to select from among their fellows-granting them political powers unknown to democracy, investing them with privileges of an oligarchical character? It is ungenerous to speak harshly of a vanquished foe, especially of one who has shown courage and constancy worthy of the noblest cause; but the truth is the truth, and is ever fitly spoken. They are men whose terrible misfortune it has been to be born and bred under a system the most cruel and demoralizing the world ever saw. The wisest of those who have been subjected to such a surrounding have confessed its evil power.” There must doubtless," said Jefferson in his Notes on Virginia,” be an unhappy influence on the manners of our people, produced by the existence of slavery among us. The whole commerce between master and slave is a perpetual exercise of the most boisterous passions-the most unremitting despotism on one part, and degrading submissions on the other. The man must be a prodigy who can retain his manners and his morals under such circumstances." (" Notes," p. 270.)
These are the habitual results of the system. To what incredible excesses its occasional outbursts may run, we have frightful evidences daily coming before us; schemes of wholesale incendiarism, involving deaths by the thousand of women and children; schemes to poison, by the malignant virus of the yellow fever, an entire community; deliberate plans to destroy prisoners of war by insufferable hardships and slow suffering; plots, too successful, alas! to shroud a nation in mourning by assassination.
Many honorable exceptions no doubt there are, in whom native virtue resists daily temptation. Such exceptions are to be found in all communities, no matter how pernicious the surroundings. But in deciding National questions we must be governed by the rule, not by the exceptions.
The Southern whites subdivide into three classes The slaveholders proper, many of whom are excluded from pardon by the Proclamation of Amnesty; the “poor whites," and what may be called the yeomen of the South-of which last our country feels that her worthy President is a noble type, and of which we may regard stout-hearted Parson Brownlow as a clerical example.
If this last class, whence have come the sturdiest Union men in Secessiondom, constituted, like the mechanic of New England or the farmer of the West, a large proportion of the population, we might hope that it would leaven and redeem the extremes of society around it. But it is found sparse and in inconsiderable numbers, except, perhaps, in Eastern Tennessee and the northern portion of. North Carolina. The poor whites, of whom the clay-eating pine-lander of Georgia and other Gulf Stales is the type, far outnumber them. Of this, last class Mrs. Fanny Kemble, in that wonderful book of hers, “Journal of a Residence on a Southern Plantation," gives, from personal observation, a graphic description:” They are, I suppose," (she says) “the most degraded race of human beings claiming an Anglo-Saxon origin that can be found on the face of the earthfilthy, lazy, ignorant, brutal, proud, penniless savages, without one of the nobler attributes that have been found occasionally allied to the vices of savage nature. They own no slaves, for they are, almost without exception, abjectly poor; they will not work, for that, as they conceive, would reduce them to an equality with the abhorred negroes; they squat and steal and starve on the outskirts of this lowest of all civilized societies, and their countenances bear witness to the squalor of their condition and the utter degradation of their natures." (Journal p. 146.)
I have often encountered this class. I saw many of them last year while visiting, as member of a
<c06>
Government commission, some of the Southern States. Labor degraded before their eyes has extinguished within them all respect of industry, all ambition, all honorable exertion, to improve their condition. When last I had the pleasure of seeing you at Nashville, I met there, in the office of a gentleman charged with the duty of issuing transportation and rations to indigent persons, black and white, a notable example of this strange class. He was a rebel deserter; a rough, dirty, uncouth specimen of humanitytall, stout and wiry-looking, rude and abrupt in speech and bearing, and clothed in tattered homespun. In no civil tone be demanded rations. When informed that all rations applicable to such a purpose were exhausted, he broke forth: “What am I to do then? How am I to get home?”
"You can have no difficulty," was the reply.” It is but fifteen or eighteen hours down the river," (the Cumberland.)” by steamboat, to where you live. I will furnish you transportation; you can work your way."
"Work my way!" (with a scowl of angry contempt.)” I never did a stroke of work since I was born, and I never expect to till my dying day."
The agent replied quietly:” They will give you all you want to eat on board, if you will help them to wood."
"Carry wood!" he retorted with an oath. “Whenever they ask me to carry wood, I'll tell them to set me on shore; I had rather starve for a week than work for an hour; I don't want to live in a world that I can't make a living out of without work."
Is it for men like that, ignorant, illiterate, vicious—fit for no decent employment on earth except manual labor, and spurning all labor as degradation—is it in favor of such insolent swaggeres that we are to disfranchise the humble, quiet, hard-working negro? Are the votes of three such men as Stanton, Sumner or Garrison, Grant or Sherman, to be neutralized by the ballot of one such worthless barbarian?
Are there not breakers ahead? To such an issue as that may not the late tentatives at reconstruction, how faithfully so ever conceived and intended for good, practically tend?
The duty of the United States to guarantee to every State in the Union a republican form of government is as sacred as the duty to protect each of them from invasion. Is that duty fulfilled when, with the power of prevention in our own hands, we suffer the white voter in the least loyal, the least intelligent and the least industrious section of our country to usurp a measure of political power three-fold greater than in the rest of the nation a voter enjoys?
Will it be denied that we have the legal power in our own hands?
Unsuccessful Rebels cannot, by bits of paper called Secession ordinances, take a State out of the Union; but, by levying civil war, they can convert all the inhabitants of a State into public enemies, deprived, as such, by law, of their political rights. The United States can restore these rights—can pardon these public enemies. And we have a right to pardon on conditions; as, for example, on the condition that Slavery shall cease to exist; or on the condition that none of those persons, who form the basis of representation, shall, because of color, be deprived of the right of suffrage.
If we neglect to impose the first condition, the cause of the late Rebellion will continue, and will some day produce another. If we neglect to impose the second condition, an oligarchy, on an extended scale, will grow up in one large section of the country, working grave injustice to toward the voters of another section. The three-fifth abuse will reappear in a giant form.
But if we suffer this, it cannot fail to produce, as Slavery produced, alienations and heart-burnings. Under any plan of reconstruction involving so flagrant an injustice, it is in vain to expect harmony or permanent peace between the Northern and Southern sections of the Union.
It is not here denied, nor is it deniable, that under ordinary circumstances a State may, by a general law applicable to all, restrict the right of suffrage; as, for example, to those who pay taxes, or to those who can read and write. And it is quite true that the effect of such a law would be to give additional political power to those who still enjoyed the elective franchise. But a State can only do this after she has a State government in operation, and not when she is about to frame one. North Carolina is in the Union as she has always been; but her people, having lost, by war against the Government, their political rights, are not allowed to go on under their old Constitution and laws. They have to begin again. As Idaho, if desiring to be a State, would have to do, the people of North Carolina have to elect members of a Convention, which Convention has to frame a State Constitution, to be presented, for acceptance or rejection, to Congress. Now, just as Idaho, taking her first step toward State sovereignty, could not, on her own authority, begin by denying a vote in the election of members of her Convention, to half her free population, or if she did, would find her Constitution rejected, for that cause, by Congress, as not emanating from the whole people; so, in my judgment, ought not North Carolina having forfeited her State rights, and beginning anew as a Territory does, to be permitted in advance to reject more than a third of her free population-361,522 out of 992,622. I hope she will not so construe her rights as to venture on such a rejection. If she does, Congress ought to reject her Constitution as authorized by a part of her people only.
But, beyond all this, we cannot safely allow the negro-exemption clause to take its chance along with other possible restrictions to suffrage which a State, fully organized, may see fit to enact. First, because of its magnitude. It is an act of ostracism by one-half the free inhabitants of an entire section of country against the other half, equally free. Secondly, because of its character and results. It is an act of injustice by those who have assaulted the life of the nation against those who have defended the national life; an act by which we abandon to the tender mercies of the doubtfully loyal and the disguised traitor those whose loyalty has stood every test, unstained, unshaken; men ignorant and simple indeed, but whose rude fidelity never failed either the Union fugitive beset in the forest, or the Union cause imperiled on the battle-field.
The decision of a matter so grave as this should be taken out of the category of those rights which a State, at her option, may grant or may withhold; because, being national in its consequences, it is national in its character. This is a matter for Federal interference, because, like emancipation, it is a matter involving the Federal safety.
It is because I know the frankness of your own character, Mr. President, that at possible risk of conflicting opinion, I write to you thus frankly. It is because I am deeply impressed by the vast importance of the issues at stake that I write to you at all.
I think of our Union soldiers, the survivors of a thousand fields. I recall the last days, not of conflict but of triumph, when Confederate arms were
“Proclaim Liberty through all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that states of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slave-holding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, service, or foreign that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with Slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power I say it is a way power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of, and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”—J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
stacked and Confederate paroles were given, and the stars and bars fell before the old flag. I remember with what fierce fury those who surrendered at last, fought throughout a four years' desperate effort to shatter into fragments that benignant Governmemt under which, for three-quarters of a century they had enjoyed prosperity and protection, I remember all that was done and suffered and sacrificed before, through countless discouragements and reverses, treason's plot was trampled down and the glorious ending was reached. And as in spirit follow victors and vanquished from the scene of conflict, I think that never was nation more gratuitously or more foully assailed, and never did nation owe to her deliverers from anarchy and dismemberment a deeper debt of gratitude and good-will.
Then I ask myself a great question. Shall these soldiers of liberty, returning from fields of death to Northern fields of labor and of peaceful contest—of contest in which the ballot is the only weapon, and the bulletin of defeat or victory is contained in the election-returns—shall these veterans, who have never flinched before military force, be overborne, with their laurels still green, by political stratagem? Their weapons of war laid aside, is the reward of these conquerors to be this, that man for man the; shall be entitled to one-third as much influence in administering their country's Government as the opponents they conquered? Are the victors on fields of death to become the vanquished in the Halls of Legislation?
It is a question which the nation cannot fail, ere long, to ask itself; and who can doubt what the ultimate answer will be?
May God, who, throughout the great crisis of our nation's history, overruling evil for good, has caused the wrath of man to work out his own gracious ends—directing us, without our will or agency, in paths of justice and of victory which our human wisdom was too feeble to discover-direct you also, through out the arduous task before you, to the Just and the Right!
ROBERT DALE OWEN.
NEW YORK, June 21, 1865. 
A RACY SPEECH.
LONDON, June 17, 1865. 
There is very little, of any interest, pertinent to American affairs transpiring here, just now. We still keep up an intermittent discussion about the fate of Jeff. Davis, duly interspersed with what Mr. Carlyle used to denominate a " running shriek " as to the atrocity of manacling him, of feeding him on soldier's rations, and possibly terminating his mischievous existence with " edge of penny cord; " but I am not aware that anything particularly novel, or valuable, or amusing has been evolved there from. Stop, though! I am reminded of a curious letter which has appeared in The Star, advocating the American view of the question, and so felicitously condensing the modern instances on record against the British Government in the matter of its behavior toward traitors, real and imaginary, that I must quote; though, doing so at the beginning of a letter, coupled with the declaration I set out with, may look suspicious. I think, however, I should do the same if my budget were unusually full (as it has been of late) instead of proportionably scanty. The writer is Mr. J. Paul Cobbett, the son, I am told, of the famous William, and evidently emulating his father's wholesome democratic proclivities. He is worthy of the space I shall accord to him: 
"The history of the United States has shown that, in point of humanity, the Americans are about the same sort of people as ourselves. To anticipate a want of that Quality in them by speeches in our Parliament, and virulence in our press, can be of no service to individuals in peril, and will to a certainty add to that heap of mischief which has already been made between the two countries. 
Law, justice and expediency (taking the last of these in an honest sense) are the three things which our Government, in scores of cases, has had to consider. What, as to either of these, have we to say, why the American Government should not now be 'let alone'? Our advocates of a' highly conservative policy' perceive the necessity of condemning the ways of the Stuarts. They admit it to have been outrageous to force Sir Archibald Johnstone out of France, and Miles Corbett, Col. Okey, and Col. Barkstead out of Holland, and to execute these, They have no excuse for Charles the Second's attempt to kill Ludlow in Switzerland, or for the actual killing of Lisle at Lausanne. No; but then they draw their line at the end of our civil wars, between all the past admitted severities and a supposed new era of nothing but tenderness! 
But, sir, what of the hanging of Governor Wall, and what of the shooting of Admiral Byng? What of the international act of dragging home Napper Tandy, to send him to the scaffold? What of the inhuman treatment of Mr. Muir and his companions in suffering, and Pitt's endeavor against the lives of Tooke and Hardy? Washington was called murderer by thousands of pens and tongues, for the hanging of Major Andre; but how absolutely right was a deed like that when compared with the hanging of the poor sailor Cushman in 1817, and the transporting of the Dorchester laborers, and the execution of Henry Cook of Hampshire, in 1831; or, again, the putting to death of those sailors who were unlawfully taken from the American ship Chesapeake! 
Why, an impartial spectator, viewing many things we do, and hearing all we pretend to, might not unnaturally regard us as combining more of the sanguinary along with the by pocritical than any-other 
nation tolerated by Providence. We have of late years been not only most severe punishers of State criminals, but even the promoters of crime for the purpose of obtaining victims to make example of. You may remember that instance so worthy of renown, in which Lord Brougham volunteered his justification 
of the employment of spies for the hatching of treasons. We are so vastly 'liberal,' too, in this kind of work that (if recent correspondence between two Ministers of the Russian Government had any truth in it) those Ministers had reason to congratulate themselves on the fact that our Government were undertaking A to use our police in the office of detect-ing 
and betraying foreign political conspiracies. 
There is so much wildness in the rage against the American President, that we read; almost in the same sentence denunciations of his savageness as a conqueror alone; with warnings to him that the Rebellion 
is still alive, and not without hope. Here is a happy sort of logic by which to inspire 'mercy ' for the Rebel in the heart of the ruler!
It is said, again, in the same kind of reasoning, that Mr. Davis cannot rightfully be held to be criminal because he has been 'treated with' by the Union Government. Writers on this part of the law have said, that a Government should keep good faith even with subjects in rebellion; that is, in all things to the extent-which it makes agreements with them. But to what extent has the North ' treated with' the Confederates? Have our Ministers been in any way treating with the latter, while doing the same with Mr. Adams, as the representative of the whole '' United States'? There was, indeed, a guarantee given, and by an English officer, to save the lives of the garrison of St. Elmo at Naples, when they surrendered; nevertheless, they were put to death; and on that occasion Prince Carracioli, to the shame of England and Nelson, was hung at the yard-arm. There was also a general amnesty by Louis XVIII. on his restoration; but Marshal Ney was shot, although the allies at that moment, with the Duke of Wellington, were in fact the masters of all things in France, and it was our boast that the French King held his throne as the mere nominee of the English Prince Regent.
There are some people unfit to have anything to say on any question of mercy or magnanimity. The Times newspaper bawled out lustily for the putting of the First Napoleon to death. It said that caging him for life was no sufficient security; that our own safety could never be insured if he were suffered to live. I hear that this paper has now been making an ugly turn against the ex-President. That is characteristic of its practice. In abandoning the cause of those who come to misfortune, It commonly helps the weight of the fall by a back-handed blow from his own fist. The Standard, in January of 1835, pointedly recommended the assassination of Mr. O'Connell. Such an act, it declared, ' would not be without honored authority' It exhorted, in the words of the xcivth Psalm, 'Lord God, to whom vengeance belongeth,' &c. It screamed out, How long, merciful God, are we to endure this man? And if this thunders sleep, is there no other agency of thy justice?
Not wishing to be included in the large company of our mistaken prophets, I will not venture to foretell what views of expediency, or what feelings in the way of vengeance, the. Government for the people of the United States may exhibit in the case of Mr. Davis. But, assuredly, no insinuations of in
<c02>
humanity, much less insults from our side, will be of any service to him."
There! you won't catch The Times or The Standard offering a word of reply to this; throughout the four years of our civil war they have persistently ignored all that could be urged on the side opposite to that on which they chose to range themselves. Nor are the great mass of Englishmen capable of accepting any parallel to be drawn between the rights of our Government to execute justice and their own. " You're different! " is the common sentiment, and in that remark how much is implied! It means that being a hop-and-scramble Democracy (which we all naturally expected to go to pieces, and are very much puzzled to account for the contrary), you ought to consider yourselves only too lucky in having conserved your national existence, without arrogating punishment against gentlemen whose errors are quite venial in being directed merely against you, and who, therefore, cannot be regarded as conspirators and traitors against any old, respectable monarchy or despotism on this side of the Atlantic. It's all very well for us, or Louis Napoleon, or Francis Joseph, or Frederick William to execute for treason; but you—you're a republic, you know! and can't expect us to regard; you in the same light! Latent in the British mind, but thoroughly pervading it, lurks this idea, rendering it incompetent to treat the question fairly. An untravelled English-man doesn't understand putting a foreigner on his own level, or recognizing his equal rights. Hasn't Emerson a story of an Englishwoman who, hearing the word applied to her in France, resented it, saying "No! it is you that are foreigners, not we were English!" Hence, half of John Bull's perversity 
towards us and others. Lowell's lines are wonderfully pertinent to the subject:
"Of all the sarce that I can call to mind,
England doos make the most on pleasant kind.
'T is you're the sinner ollus, she's the saint,
Wut's good's all English, all thet isn't nint.
Wut profits her is ollus right and just,
And ef you don't read Scriptar so, you must.
She's praised herself until she fairly thinks
There ain't no light in Nature when she winks.
Haint she the Ten Commandments in her pus?
Could the world stir, 'thout she went tu,ez nus?
She ain't like other mortals, thet's a fact; 
She never stopped the Habeas Corpus Act,
Nor specie payments, nor she never yet
Cut down the interest of her public debt.
She don't put down rebellions—lets "'em breed—
And's ollus willin' Ireland should secederecede.
She's all thet's honest, honorable and fair,
And when the Vartoos died they made her heir."
Corr. of N. Y. Tribune.
LETTER, FROM CHIEF JUSTICE CHASE TO A COMMITTEE OF COLORED MEN.
The following letter of Chief-Justice Chase to a committee of colored men of New Orleans explains itself:
NEW ORLEANS, June 6, 1863.
"Gentlemen: I should hardly feel at liberty to decline the invitation you have tendered me, in behalf of the loyal colored Americans of New Orleans, to speak to them on the subject of their rights and duties as citizens, if I had not recently expressed my views at Charleston in an address, reported with substantial accuracy, and already published in one of the most widely circulated journals of this city. But it seems superfluous to repeat them before another audience.
It is proper to say, however, that these views, having been formed years since, on much reflection, and confirmed in a new and broader application by the events of the civil war now happily ended, are not likely to undergo, hereafter, any material change.
That native freedmen of whatever complexion are citizens of the United States; that all men, held as slaves in the States which joined in the rebellion against the United States, have become freedmen through executive and legislative acts during the war; and that these freedmen are now citizens, and consequently entitled to the rights of citizens, are propositions which, in my judgment, cannot be successfully controverted.
And it is both natural and right that colored Americans, entitled to the rights of citizens, should claim their exercise. They should persist in this claim respectfully but firmly, taking care to bring no discredit upon it by their own action. Its justice is already acknowledged by great numbers of their white fellow-citizens, and these numbers constantly increase.
The peculiar condition, however, under which these rights arise, seem to impose, on those who assert them peculiar duties, or rather special obligations to the discharge of common duties. They should strive for distinction by economy, by industry, by sobriety, by patient perseverance in well-doing, by constant improvement of religious instruction, and by the constant practise of Christian virtues. In this way they will surely overcome unjust hostility, and convince even the most prejudiced that the denial to them of any right, which citizens may properly 
exercise, is equally unwise and wrong.
Our national experience has demonstrated that public order reposes most securely on the broad base of universal suffrage. It has proved also that universal 
suffrage is the sure guaranty and most powerful 
stimulus of individual, social and political progress. 
May it not prove, moreover, in the work of reorganization which now engages the thoughts of all patriotic men, the best reconciler and the most comprehensive lenity with the most perfect public security and the most speedy and certain revival of general prosperity?
Very respectfully yours,
S. P. CHASE.
Messrs. J. D. Roudancz, L. Golis and L. Banks, Com.
LETTER FROM MAZZINI.
The following letter from Mazzini, addressed to the London agent of the United States Sanitary Commission, is interesting:
DEAR MR. FISHER: Has there been published, or is there about being published, a good accurate primary history of the late struggle, relating in one volume the events of the war, the progressive march which led to the solution of the tried problem, emancipation, 
and mainly the noble individual and collective 
efforts, the money raised by voluntary subscription, 
the doings of the Sanitary Commission, and all that tends to prove the immense vitality of your republican principle? What you have done is so heroic that I feel the profound necessity of having it publicly known in all our countries, and especially in my own. We would translate and spread the book everywhere.
Your triumph is our triumph; the triumph of all, I hope, who are struggling for the advent of a republican era. Our adversaries were pointing to the worst period of the old French revolution as to the irrefutable proof of republics leading to terror, anarchy and military despotism. You have refuted all that. You have done more for us in four years than fifty years of teaching, preaching and writing, from all your European brothers, have been able to do.
Complete your work. The United States stand now a leading power in Europe, too, and power is duty. You are called on by God to enter a new career. Your function had been hitherto to constitute, to organize yourselves, and to realize, within your own boundaries, the republican principle which is your life. It was natural that whilst doing that, you should carefully abstain from interfering with European movements or with the general march of mankind. That task is fulfilled: a second one must now begin for you. The life of a great people is twofold; inward and outward. Such an amount of heroism and strength as has been displayed by the United States must lead to more than to the solution of a mere problem of existence, and of an incomplete one. It is an implement given by God for the good of all. The abolition of slavery binds you to the onward march of mankind; and the admiration of all Europe calls you to take your rank—a leading one—in that onward march.
Above American life, above European life, there is mankind's life, mankind's education, mankind's progress. That is the common aim in which we are all brothers and combatants. There is our great battle-to which all local battles are episodes—fought on both continents and everywhere, between liberty and tyranny, equality and privilege, right and might, justice and arbitrary rule, good and evil, God and the devil. By these four years of noble deeds, and self-sacrifice, you have been enlisted to take a share in it wherever it is fought.
Remember this. Remember us, who are ready to help in the task. And remember the plan of which the first line has been visibly written by European despotisms in Mexico.
Believe me, dear Mr. Fisher, ever faithfully yours, May 21. JOSEPH MAZZINI.
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1865.
THE FUTURE OF OUR NATION.
The Oration delivered before the City Authorities of Boston, in Music Hall, by Rev. J. M. MANNING, on the 89th anniversary of Independence Day, was highly impressive and eloquent. Below is its peroration.
"Let it not be inferred, from the tenor of these remarks, that I see up peril in the future. What shall be the treatment of the disloyal, and what the basis of citizenship in the reconstructed States, are questions of grave concern.
Are we exhorted to be kind to the rebels? That appeal is needless. We shall be kind to them. Many of us have very tender reasons for treating them kindly. We always have been kind to them; erring on that side, and yielding to their unjust demands, until they inferred that we could not be aroused to maintain our rights. We may accept it as an axiom, that the people of the North" cannot be cruel toward the leaders in the South. All our danger, then, is on the other side. Let us not give other nations occasion to say that we make a commodity of justice. Let not the offenders themselves despise us for fearing to vindicate the majesty of the republic. Will good citizens feel altogether safe, in our country, if it is to have admired rebels roaming at large in all parts of it for a generation to come? Let us not be so kind to the disloyal as to be unkind to the loyal. Should not those in the South who have fought on our side be cared for before those who fought against us? Those who have been true to the government should be protected first. This is justice, whose claims are sacred. Nor is it magnanimity, but a crime which nature abhors, to cherish enemies who are outraging our friends. Shall we leave blacks in the power of the exasperated foe, knowing, as we do, that the savage spite which cannot touch us will be wreaked upon their unsheltered heads? I shall believe that the revolt of the rebel angels has succeeded, and that Satan now sits on the throne of God, if such horrible treachery can go unscourged of heaven. While the Savior of men was riding in triumph to Jerusalem, "He beheld the city, and wept over it." But those tears did not prevent Him from, saying, "Behold, your house is left unto you desolate." Imitating that divine act to day, we raise our bitter cry over prostrate treason, even while we call on Justice to draw out her sharp sword. There is no malignity in our hearts, but a reverent prayer that the sovereignty of the nation may be magnified and made honorable. They would have it so. They trampled on our forbearance and warnings, and defied the power which should be a terror to evil-doers. Let justice" be done without the least over-doing. Let their doom be so reasonable that no wicked sympathy shall dare lift its head. Let them be put where no "foreign correspondent" can glorify them; where no lying pens of their own can fill the world with histories of their treason disguised as patriotism, and of their attempt to nationalize barbarism painted as a struggle for human liberty. Let them be so punished that their example can never prove contagious, and be buried where the bloodhounds of despotism can never scent their graven.
Two acts of the struggle for liberty in America are past; the third and consummating act is now upon us. The first act closed under Washington, when the colonies were acknowledged to be free and independent States; the second act closed under Lincoln, with the vindication of the sovereignty of the Union; the third act will close when equal rights are conceded to all men. God grant that the last act may not, like the first two, deluge the land with blood! May the evil tree be plucked up in the hour of its weakness, before its roots have under grown and its branches overspread the Republic! The Emancipation Proclamation was but incidental to the war for the Union. Not in the purpose of man, but by the arrangement of God, it knocked off the chains of the slave. And it has done a negative, rather than a positive work. It has delivered the blacks from chattel slavery, but it has not introduced them into civil liberty. How this last act shall be achieved is the problem now forced upon the country. Our statesmen cannot evade it if they would; it is taxing their wisdom beyond any other question of the hour; and whoever solves it successfully will complete the grand American triumvirate. We could wish that the triumvirate, when full, might read—Washington, Lincoln, Johnson. Do any say that it is inconsistent to demand citizenship for the blacks in States now returning to the Union, while in many of the so-called free States only the whites are admitted to the ballot?? But the people of these latter States have not rebelled. Security for the future may require of disloyal communities what should not be exacted of the loyal. Only those who have broken the peace are put under bonds to keep the peace. " But the question of suffrage belongs to the States." So it does, while they are in their normal condition. Perhaps the day of military necessity is over; but is there not a necessity of State quite as pressing, which, if not yielded to, will ultimately become a military necessity. If you cannot do a righteous deed for its own sake, yet doing it to prevent war is better statesmanship than waiting for the war to come. A free government can he said to fulfil its purpose only when no class of persons under it have wrongs to be redressed. Emancipation is but a mockery of the blacks, especially while among their late masters, if they be not admitted to citizenship. Perhaps it did not occur to Mr. Lincoln, perhaps he thought it unwise at the time, to make his Proclamation perfect by adding to it: " And, that the promises herein contained may not prove illusory in the end, I do also proclaim, and cause to be published and proclaimed, that, in reconstructing the State governments now disorganized, the blacks shall be admitted to all the rights of freemen on the same conditions with the whites." How much present anxiety would have been prevented by some such golden clause! But we will believe that the question is in safe hands. Surely the Congress, if made wise by the events of the past, will not guaranty a republican form of government to any State, while there is manifestly, in that State, a spirit hostile to the very principles of republicanism. To the loyalty, wisdom and patriotism of our statesmen we confide this grave concern. They alone can decide it peacefully; and may God have them in His holy keeping!
Anticipating the gradual solution of all remaining difficulties, in a manner which shall fulfill the hopes of a generous patriotism, I see, before our country, a future too grand for my feeble portrayal; a development of the resources of nature, a growth of manufactures, a commerce, civilization and Christianity, which shall be the glory of the New World and the wonder of the Old. No man standing at the sources of the Amazon can bring within the range of his vision all its mighty course from the mountains to the sea; its broad tributaries with their interlacing streams, its silent advance through primeval forests, and vaster sweep across luxuriant savannas; the sails of adventurers, and of scientific explorers, moving up into its alluring mystery; the inexhaustible wealth of field and mine to which it-is a natural highway; the current, so like an ocean, with which it proudly yields at last to the ocean's embrace. And so, standing today by the sources of this new stream in American history, we cannot foresee all its unfolding volume; its distant greatness, and grandeur, and majesty; the destinies, mortal and immortal, of both nations and individuals, which it will gather upon its ample bosom, and bear onward and onward into the unbounded hereafter. We can only lift up our overflowing hearts toward Him whose rod has brought the water out of the rock, and ask that He would direct its wonderous course; draining the richness of all the civilizations into it, and causing it to bless the ages through which it shall roll, until it mingles in that sea of latter-day glory, whose law is peace, and whoso tides and waves are the pulsations of a perfect love."
<c04>
DEDICATION OF THE STATUE OF HORACE MANN.
In common with a goodly number of the most worthy citizens of Boston and vicinity, we were present on the morning of the Fourth of July to witness the dedication of the statue of Horace Mann. Appropriate and eloquent addresses were made by Dr. S. G. Howe. Gov. Andrew, John D. Philbrick, Esq., Superintendent of the Public Schools of the City of Boston, and President Hill, of Harvard College. A fervent dedicatory prayer was offered by Rev. Mr. Waterston. The Journal, says:—
The statue was erected, as is well known, to perpetuate the memory of Horace Mann, the first Secretary of the Board of Education; the founder of the first State Lunatic Hospital in this Commonwealth; the originator of the Normal School System; whose seal and eloquence have done more for our common schools than any other's in the country; whose life, was full of good deeds; to Horace Mann, the teacher and philanthropist—not to Horace Mann, the politician—has this monument thus been erected.
 The statue, which is of bronze, about nine feet in height, was executed by Miss Emma Stebbinsat Rome and cast at Munich, and cost about $5000. It is erected on a pedestal of brown stone, and. suitable dimensions and appropriate design, costing $1500 additional. It is not one of the least interesting facts connected with this memorial that the fund raised therefore was subscribed principally by people in the humbler walks of life. The larger portion of it was in sums from 25 cents to $1 contributed by children and teachers of the public schools of the Commonwealth. The cost of the pedestal was defrayed by a special appropriation by the Legislature. 
To Miss Stebbins, however, is more than ordinary credit to be given for the successful manner in which she has fulfilled the commission entrusted to her. She has labored unremittingly upon the work, moved as much by admiration of her subject as by love of the sculptor's art, of which she has here proved herself no unworthy devotee. Horace Mann's genius and goodness, wrought in her new inspiration as she has wrought into the rugged bronze the almost living lineaments of the departed philanthropist.
The statue remained veiled until the conclusion of the address of the Chairman of the Committee, Dr. S. G. Howe. Bond's Band furnished the instrumental and children from the public schools the vocal music. The audience was assembled upon the portico of the State House, upon the steps leading thereto, and in the enclosure in front.

"THE NATION."
"The first number of the new weekly periodical, having this comprehensive title, has punctually made its appearance, in the handsomest typographical dress, with a variety of well-considered and well-written articles on national affairs, literature, science, art, &c. It takes thorough ground on the question of reconstruction, and pertinently says:—
"The points we have to consider at the North, in deciding which course we ought to take in fixing the status of the negro at the South, are really reduced to two—the effect upon his condition of leaving him at the mercy of a hostile and semi-barbarous race, and the effect upon the national rule of shutting him out from all share in the local government. To suppose that he will receive fair play from white legislators, who are not responsible to him, who have no sympathy with him, and who, in their secret hearts, consider him a beast of the field, is to violate every rule of democratic government, and to make an open and shameless declaration of want of faith in our own principles. It is, moreover, to be guilty of cruelty as well as perfidy; for freedom bestowed on a man left in the position in which we have placed the freedmen, only increases the number of points at which he can be assailed and tormented. There is an alternative for those who fear to arm him for his own protection with the franchise, and it is one from which there is no honorable escape, and that is to continue, by some mode or other, to cover him with the sword of the national Government until he is either considered competent to take charge of his own interests, or his white neighbors can offer proof of the possession of humanity or of a sense of Justice. The community in whose hands we now propose to place him and his family is, it ought not to be forgotten, that in which our prisoners were tortured only six months ago, and in which the St. Albans raid was considered honorable warfare."

A FEATHER IN THE WIND.
An incident of which I was an accidental witness yesterday, the 4th of July, reminded me of the inscription which it was found desirable to put up in Gen. Butler's office in New Orleans, namely—"The venom of the he-and she-adder is precisely the same." As I passed two ladies on Washington Street, one of them seemed attracted by an engraving in a shop window, and took her companion's arm to stop her, saying, by way of explanation, "It's General Grant." The other said quickly, in an emphatic voice, "Don't look at it! Contemptible!"—and they both passed on, leaving me to judge to whom the word "contemptible " was properly applicable.
If such feelings are cherished and expressed in Boston, how must it be in South Carolina, Georgia, every rebel State which has felt, and has been forced to yield to, the power of the United States Government? Must we not believe the testimony that comes to us from so many quarters, that there is next to no Union sentiment in those States, and that women and men alike hate the power which has conquered them? Is it safe for us that men who took part in the rebellion should have any voice, either in the terms of reconstruction or the making of the laws after reconstruction? C. K. W.

TRIBUTE TO GRIFFITH M. COOPER.
Memorial, adopted at the Waterloo Meeting of Friends of Progress, held June 2d, 3d and 4th, 1865:-
Since our last meeting, GRIFFITH M. COOPER, a venerable man, ripe in wisdom and experience, who has been with us at times in person, always in spirit and desire, has passed on to a higher life.
Through a long and varied career, as a naval officer; as a preacher of the Society of Friends; as a guardian of the Indians on the Cattaraugus reservation from the rapacity of speculators (employed in that capacity by the Society of which he was then a member); as an early and faithful advocate of Human Freedom, of Temperance and Peace; as a reformer, stepping beyond the limits of sect, and transcending the bounds of arbitrary authority, he ever sought to be true to his own light. His clear, frank and faithful word was ready, in public or private, for the best truth he knew and felt.
We offer this brief testimonial to the genial qualities and manly virtues of a much-beloved friend, who, his course on earth well-finished, has gone to meet those of his dear family, " not lost, but gone before." 
On behalf of the meeting,
WILLIAM BARNES, Secretaries.
PHEBE B.DEAN, Secretaries.
"THE MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY." This remarkable narrative, upon its original publication in the pages of the Atlantic Monthly, attracted more general attention and comment than any article printed for a long time. It is now republished in a separate form, by general desire, by Ticknor & Fields, Boston, and at a price (ten cents) which will give it universal circulation at this period.
Bela Marsh, 14 Bromfield Street, has just published a small pamphlet, entitled " Is there a Devil? The Argument pro and con; with an Inquiry into the Origin of Evil, and a Review of the Popular Notion of Hell and Heaven, or the State of the Dead." By John Baldwin.
"DEMOREST'S ILLUSTRATED MONTHLY, AND MME. DEMOREST'S MIRROR OF FASHIONS," for July, is a jubilee number, and contains a National Jubilee Prize Song, Illustrated Scene on the Hudson River, Elegant steel plates, stories, household, and full-size patterns, etc., The price is only 25 cents per number, or $3 per year. Office of publication, 39 Beekman St., New York City.
<c05>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XXXVIL
NEW YORK, June 29, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
Subjugation is better than capitulation, if one compares Charleston with Richmond for example. So long as there appeared a resting place for the fugitive aristocracy of rebeldom, the places which once knew them were abandoned totally when Sherman knocked at the back door, or threatened to. Hence in Savannah and in the nest of secession our army found printing offices but no editors, and these types were seized by loyal men for loyal purposes, to the great advantage of people and Government. Not so at the capital of the Confederacy, which, being the last ditch, could not be evacuated for any safer refuge, and therefore teemed with all grades of public enemies. This need have caused no inconvenience under a proper regimen of jails and other surveillance, but to tolerate in their places the conductors of the Richmond prints was to invite disloyal expressions and prolong the rebellious spirit of the discomfited Virginians. For a moment it seemed as if the military authorities had been corrupted by their subjects. The horror of treason was exalted on the scene of its overthrow, and out of a mixed material and restored civil rule there sprung up a reign of terror which drove its colored victims for protection to the very feet of the President. This, though quickly terminated, sufficed to encourage the country planters to betray their animus toward the treedmen. They met together, and resolved upon sundry oppressive articles to which they gave the validity of a social code, deviation from which was to constitute a misdemeanor. They voted five dollars, in one county, to be the maximum of a negro's wages, requiring a recommendation from his last employer, and excluding him from any plantation which he did not approach on business—that is, with a disposition to be starved at the appointed rates. They voted, in another county, that they would him no colored man,—perhaps they said slave,-without the consent of his owner or according to his terms. Between the newspapers and these assemblies it became evident that a lesser revolution was brewing, and a warning was therefore extended to the one, and a prohibition to the other, with a nullification of their mischievous action. Gen. Terry's order lacked only one thing—that it was not issued from the White House; for it embodies a doctrine full of sense and humanity, and deserving of adoption by the Chief Magistrate of the nation. The hero of Fort Fisher is not to be troubled with paper constructions of whatever magnitude. He says to the F. F. V. s, your laws which discriminate against the blacks were made in support of slavery: that system having perished, the reason for such legislation has perished also, and your code abrogates itself. Hereafter, he continues, we know no distinction of color in this State, whether in respect of rights or protection. The laws are for all classes alike, and a common necessity rests upon all of being industrious and self-sustaining. No cant here of the right of a State to regulate its own suffrage, as a covert permission to prolong the sceptred sway of a slain barburiain. Only a simple enforcement of republican truisms in converting the aristocratic society of the South.
Gov. Holden, of North Carolina, and his neighbor Gov. Pierpont, of Virginia, have spoken by proclamation and message respectively. One preaches a social sermon to the blacks, the other lauds their heroism in the war. Both declare that they have nothing to hold out to them, except a release from shackles and the lash. Gov. Pierpont more bluntly informs the legislature that neither he nor it has any concern with the freedmen; and as President Johnson has uttered the same disclaimer, it would seem as if the irrepressible negro were to be " let alone " severely. Unhappily they refrain from him when it is their business to shield him from molestation, while the bulk of the white population have a very different notion about interference. Riots which would have done credit to Mackerelville and the Five Points have broken out in Norfolk and in Portsmouth upon the withdrawal of our troops, and the victims in either case have been the unfortunates whom the President leaves in charge of the loyal minority, and the loyal minority are quite unable to recognize as a component part of the State.
Mr. Johnson's conference with the South Carolina delegation developed two motives for his policy that are worth being put on record. I attach no novel importance to his emphatic asseveration that slavery must be rooted out of every State Constitution, and the anti-slavery amendment of the national charter be ratified, before the seceding, communities can resume their places in the Union. No inferior position was possible for the nominee of the Baltimore Convention and the successor of Abraham Lincoln. What is the secret of Mr. Johnson's haste to renew the civil machinery of the South? He says he thought the loyal men there who had been crushed and overawed by the rebellion ought, now that the despotic weight is removed, to stand on the same-footing with those at the North. Why does the President refuse negro suffrage? He does not say he had no lawful control over it. He rather implies that he has, but prefers to leave it with the States. He argues against it on the ground that the freedmen would vote as the capitalists, the land-owners, their former masters, should please. But such a mischance would subvert the political ascendancy of his loyal nuclei, and reduce them to that servitude to the aristocracy from which they have been emancipated no less than the blacks. I will not examine into this reasoning, but simply present the picture of the President's own State of Tennessee. There the loyalists are in a very decided minority, and owe their elevation to power entirely to the absence of their enemies in the Confederate service. This handful of Union men expect to disfranchise, first, the secession aristocrats, lay and clerical, including the large slaveholders and landed proprietors, who are certainly unrepentant and past conversion; second, those who have borne arms for the rebellion; and, third, the blacks. Such a course, besides being undemocratic, creates an opposition that cannot be smothered, and affords infinite room for conspiracies and commotions of which no man can foresee the end. Mr. Johnson selects too feeble depositories for his powers. He balances his pyramids on their apex, instead of planting them upon their base.
I have formerly had occasion to remark that there is no well-settled denial of the black man's right to the ballot, nor any formidable combination (at the North) to deprive him of it. Yesterday the Daily News outstripped the admissions of the World and the Observer by arguing quite ably the inherent political right of the freedman, hitherto kept in abeyance during his involuntary servitude; and by declaring that the South, which compromised away two-fifths of her legitimate power at the formation of the Union, is now determined to recover this portion by employing the franchise of her colored inhabitants. Of course, such a statement must be accepted with a liberal allowance, not less because the truth of history is ingeniously perverted to render plausible the policy announced. The insinuation, however, that Southern statesmen may make political capital by demanding negro suffrage, is worthy some attention. In this way it is conceivable that a coalition might be brought about between the uppet and the nethermost classes at the South, and the President may well be anxious for his loyal minority when he sees the mill in motion and the stones a-grinding.
M. DU PAYS.
The Anti-Slavery celebration at Framingham, on Tuesday, the 4th of July, held in accordance with a vote passed at the last New England Anti-Slavery Convention, was largely attended, and exceedingly interesting. An official account of the proceedings will appear in next week's Liberator. Speeches were 'made by Wendell Phillips, Charles W. Slack, An-drew T. Foss, Wm. Wells Brown. Charles C. Bur-leigh, and Stephen S. Foster. Those who were present were highly gratified, and nothing occurred to mar the pleasure of the occasion.
<c06>
THE FIVE REASONS.
There are five reasons why the American people may not take the life of any evil-doer connected with the Rebellion, even to satisfy striet justice-five reasons that change strictest justice to mercy.
I Slaveholders, and those who have been brought up under the influence of slavery, cannot be helf amenable to the civilized code of morals. They never have been so held, and they cannot be so now. Hentry Clay was not so held in the matter of dwelling, not Thomas Jefferson nor thousands of others in the matter of licentiousness with slaves. Slavery is rent of barbarism, and is barbarism, and its influence is to barbarize those who come in contact with it, and its effect, in thousands of instances, to make them saveges. Savage Indians, in carrying on their wars, cannot be held responsible to the laws of civilization, and no more can savage slaveholders in carrying on this war. The inhuman treatment of sour prisoners the butchery of our colored troops, the massacre the, Lawrence, and nameless other atrocities of the war,
were all savage, and inperfect keeping with the whole savagery of slavery for the past two hundred years, and with all the street fights, shooting affrays, bowie-knife reencounters, open day murders, and brutal more which have grown out of slavery, and particular with the hunting of slaves with bloodhounds, and burning them at the stake. Slavery is savage, and the world will yet pronounce that savages inaugurated and carried on a war of rebellion to sustain it. 
II. We of the North have been guilty of this slavery, as well as they of the South. From the first, we have done almost nothing but foster and pamper and pet their "peculiar institution." We may not now, then, turn round, hold up our hands in horror, and protest that we are innocent and they are perfect monsters. To clamor for their blood for their fidelity to slavery, when we have so long kept them company in that fidelity, and often gone beyond them in our example of it, would be to stamp us monsters, pharisees, hypocrites, and stupendously and immeasurably unjust Not to be magnaimous would be a small thing; but to do this would be, in the absolutest singnificance and emphasis of human language, not to be possibly just. In particular, the servile Northled led and lured the South into this very rebellion. Had not the whole the South into this very rebeillion. Had not the whole history of the North given the South to believe that we should at last yield to her threat of secession, or, at least, that a sufficiently large party in the North would side with that secession to make it successful the rebellion would never have been inauguarted. So that we have made the very rebels we now cry out to punish! And James Buchanan, Horatio Seymour C.L. Vallandigham, Fernando Wood and others lesser, are more guilty of the rebellion than all the Southern rebels put together; yet who thinks of taking their lives? No more—not so much-—think of asking to have the lives of any of those rebels taken.. And the editors of the La Crosse Democral and Chicago Times, and other similar Northern journals, together with numbers of Democratic permabulating orators, all of whom made a trade of inflaming the public mind against Abraham Lincoln as deserving of assassiontion, are more guilty of the murder of the late Press dent than Booth, or any of the conspirators whom they in part influenced to become their instruments; yet who thinks if taking their lives? No more-not—so much-as asking to have the lives of any of these conspirators taken! No, brethren, no; there is a better way of testifying against all these wrongs, a better way of doing justice to all these parties, ourselves with the rest, thus:
III. Pardoning slaveholders on the ground that they are savages will still be to inflict on them the utmost extreme of punishment; for what could be so terrible as to be so branded before the world? And pardoning them on the ground that we have been a party to
their slavery will also be both punishment and pardon—punishment to us, as having been guilty with them, but pardon to them, as no more than that punishment to us, seeing the guilt has been common to both. And pardoning rebels will be the same punishment and pardon of them and of ourselves—punishment ourselves because we helped make them rebels, and pardon of them because we spare them for being what we helped make them. And pardoning those I Southern rebels will be forevermore and most to bly punishing Buchanan, Seymour, Vallandigham, Wood & Co., by concluding them so much more guil ty of the rebellion than were those rebels the selves. And sparing the lives of the conspirators will be in the same way punishing ourselves of the North, first, for all our complicity with this slaves out of which the conspiracy immediately grew; secondly, for our hand in developing the rebellion, into which slavery at last grew, and out of which the conspiracy immediately sprung; and thirdly, for our further having had a great and formidable party at the North obstructing the Government in its efforts to put down the rebellion during all the time of its raging even to the day of its close. And still more will sparing the lives of the conspirators be terribly finishing those editors and orators who clamored for Lincoln's assassination, as forever writing them down far more guility of the deed than those who became their tools!—But thus, shall all we who wish to bare testimony against wrong, be both just and magnanimous—just to ourselves, as having then ourselves in the wrong, and magnanimous to others, as not Possi bly more in the wrong than we, but chiefly in it because of our influencing. This must be the sentiment-ment—that all parties have sinned together, and now all must repent together, that, by the united efforts of
all, the evil of the put may be atoned for by the good of the future. This is to be noble, just, magnani mous, right, all round.
IV. Southern slaveholders were always education to regard their slavery as more than all else, to be 
upheld and preserved at the expense of all else, even their religion, even the National Government
Religion had to be sacrificed to slavery, that is, cut down to be consistent with it; and the Union had to be consitent with it; and the Union had to be ordinate to slavery, that is, to State rights, which were only for the sake of slavery. Fealty to slavery became the one grand duty, till at last treason to the Government was lost in that fealty to slavery. In stead of being treason to the Union, it was fidelity to the South, to State rights, and to the institution for institutions which both the South and State rights existed. Let
the North put itself in the South's place, before it proposes to hang a single traitor under the ples of justiceplea!
V. There is no possible need of taking a life. The rebellion is dead. Its cause is dead. Slavery is no more. Paramount State rights have disappeared. The supremacy of the Union is established. Future secession is out of the question. The conspiratores
 The are in our hands, and can be, as they ought to be strained of their liberty to do further harm, by incarceration. So can bad, dangerous men among the rebels, if necessary, in view of what they have done, be punished with incarceration. But no life need be taken. No blood need to flow. Clemency to this extent can be shown, to Jefferson Davis himself. 
Land of the Free, North, South, East, West, throw open thy doors to this justice and magnanimity, the justice of mutual repentance, and the Magnanimity of universal forgiveness! 
JOSEPH TREAT.
Lisbon, Iowa, June 21, 1865.
The Editor of the Universalist, having been censured by a correspondent for intimating that jeff.
Davis should be hung, replies:
"After the excitement is passed and Jefferson Davis is hung, we may be sorry! But in all soberness
let us say, if Jefferson Davis is not hung, the hand 
that in this land ever after signs a death-warrant
should drop from its socket. If he is pardoned, let
pardon every prison-door open."
The Letter of Hon. Robert Dale Oven to President Johnson, on our first page, on the 
recon struction of the late Rebel States, suggests Consideration of the gravest importance. Read it.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
THE STATE TEMPERANCE ALLIANCE.
A CARD
The Metropolitan Police Bill and Jury Bill  having been defeated, ad a Constabulary Statute  substituted, which was not framed by the advocates of these bills, we deem it important to define our position in relation to these measures.
No statute can be adequate to the execution of the laws against the liquor traffic, unless it provides a sufficient force to secure a triumph in Boston, which is in league against the law, and is the Sebastopol of nullification. Here, where the question of success or failure is to be decided, the Metropolitan police Bill failure is to be decided the Metropolitan Police bill furnished a veteran force of three hundred and fifty trained men, the expense of which was to be defrayed by the disobedient district. The constabulary law provides, at the expense of the Commonwealth, not less than twenty for the county of Suffolk,” and the appropriation of the present year will not admit of much increase in their numbers.
With the ordinary action of an ordinary executive, the law would be a failure.
If, however, the Governor should sustain this, as he  has sustained some other measures;-if- he should pledge the power of the State to its execution,- if he should address the constabulary force in the tone with which he addressed the 54th regiment, a great degree of a success would be assured. And inasmuch as this measure originated with the Governor, and the appointment and direction of its officers are under his control, and since his Excellency informs us that” The presumption both of reason and the law must always be that those whom the law has carefully selected and chosen for any public duty will perform it," we have a right to expect from him in its execution the zeal and courage which have marked his administration in the cause of freedom, by which he has made the principles of humanity the law of official action.
If he shall thus enforce the Constabulary Statute against the traitors to our Stale laws, liberty and well being, he will crown his gubernatorial career with a fitting conclusion, In this work he will receive the hearty support of the people of the Commonwealth.
In the execution of this measure there are great but not insuperable difficulties to be overcome. There are said to be twenty-five millions of dollars invested in the liquor traffic in Boston alone. Those who are op posed to any measures for its suppression can control the daily press, and the political influence of our large cities. In the war against slavery, however, the same forces have been met and overcome. Then, as now, wealth, interest, the political press, and all the out ward elements of strength were on one side, and on the other only justice and the interests of mankind.
Then, as now, men were often unconscious of the influences that controlled their actions. They did not then mean to support slavery. They do not now mean to (support intemperance. Gradually the sophistices and deceptions by which slavery was defended were swept away, and the true nature of the contest was revealed. It will be so in the present contest.
Looking to the past, we have confidence in the future. With a firm conviction that the interests of the public demand the suppression of the liquor traffic, we shall steadily pursue that object, with no feeling of doubt or hesitation, but with perfect confidence that this remaining relic of barbarism will not be allowed permanently to control and nullify the laws of the Commonwealth.
Unanimously adopted at a regular meeting of the State Alliance, June 28. ,1865.
W.R SPOONER, President.
M.M THAYER, Secretary.
THE LAUREL PARTY.
NEWBURYPORT, June 30, 1865.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-I do not wish to plant a thorn of regret in your pillow, but I cannot refrain from telling you that much as those who hoped to see you at the ”Laurel Party," which” came off on the 27th  inst., lost, by your absence, you also were a loser. 
Every one admits that the present June is a month of those” rare and perfect days," and the annual gathering at the Laurel Grounds, last Tuesday, was in all respects worthy of the fame these gatherings have von. A new attraction was added this year. The guests, after meeting at the house of our hospitable en tertainers, ,were conveyed to the wharf where barges awaited them, which after receiving their happy freight, were lowed up the river, landing our party at a delightful point near the Laurel Ground. Nothing was wanting to make the day one to mark with a white stone. Such troops of lovely girls, such happy mingling of mothers and grandmothers with the young men and maidens, with a fair representation of the patters families, such a tempting table spread under the trees; and dinner over, it needed no miracle to enable the busy Marthas of the hour to take” twelve baskets full" from the plentifully supplied table, after the three hundred guests had eaten their fill. Then came our Minnesinger, the poet of the lovely river at our feet, with harp tuned to lays of peace; then followed genial speeches from various friends. This made the hours too short. The sail homeward, the beautiful river, the grateful breeze, the boats skimming like great birds across our path, all added to the common fund of delight.
That sixteen years have seen this group of friends, gathered under the delightful auspices of our host and hostess and their daughter, adds another feature of interest to this beautiful custom. I am sure you would have enjoyed the meeting, and joined most heartily with all who were fortunate enough to be present in the wishes expressed, in speech and song, for the long continued health and happiness of the Ashbys of New baryport. E.C.W.

REPUDIATION.
DORCHESTER, July 3, 1865.
FRIEND GARRISON,- It seems amusing to me that there should be so much said about what Mr. Phillips said at the New England Anti-Slavery Convention on the subject of repudiation.; Nothing was said in the Convention plainer to be understood than the language he used on that occasion:" I give notice now, that if the United States assume the rebel debt, I go for repudiation; and all those who hold government securities may depend on it."; The above may not be his exact words, but the sense is the same. What point would there be in saying any thing about it, if he meant only the rebel debt?; What sane man at the North would think of such an absurdity as paying his own hangman's bills? Friend Phillips was perfectly right in his theory. I own a small amount of Government bonds; but, sooner than pay one cent of rebel indebtness for their hellish schemes, I would sink my mite in the bottomless pit.
If Mr. Phillips really meant only the rebel debt, I will give up all idea of ever trying to understand any language again. All knowledge of Mr. Phillips, up to the present time, stamps the whole transaction with mystery, if he meant only the rebel debt.
J. LEONARD.
THE FRIEND OF PROGRESS, for July, contains the following articles:-Frances Power Cobbe, by T,.W. Higginson; Womanhood (Poetry,) by Lizzie Doten: ”Woman: woman and Herher Era" Monopolyvs A plea for the Masculine by J.V.V.R.; Monopoly in Religion, by Rev. O.B. Frothingham; the Truth in Error; Education; Mabel (Poetry,) by Cora L.V. Hatch; Relations of the Indians and the General Government, by Captain E.J. R,J Hinton, U.S.C.T.; Each Fights for All (Poe try,) by Geo S.Burleigh: Psychometrical Examination of Abraham Lincoln, by A.J.Davis; The Unsung (Poetry,) by Phabe Cary; The Inner Temple, by Estelle; A Single String; Relinquished (Poetry,), by Louise Palmer; Our Library.
This is an increasingly interesting periodical and worthy of liberal patronage. Subscription price, $2 per year payable in advance. Single copies, 20 cts. C.M. Plumb & Co., Publishers, 274 Canal Street, New York.
<c02>
MERCHANTS' MEETING ON SUFFRAGE.
In accordance with the following circular, a meeting of about forty gentlemen was held at the Board of Trade rooms, in Boston, on Friday noon:—
The undersigned invite you to attend a private meeting, disposed to consider whether the highest interests of the whole country do not require that the right of suffrage in the Southern States be independent of race and color; and also the practical measures which should be taken in relation to the subject. 
Theophilus Parsons, Osborn Howes, 
Charles G. Loring, Josiah Bardwell,
A. A. Lawrence, John M. Forbes, 
J. Ingersoll Bowditch,;, Geo. B. Blake, 
Benjamin E. Bates, Samuel Frothingham, Jr.,
James H. Beal, B. F. Nourse, 
Henry B. Rogers, Samuel G. Ward,
Homer Bartlett, J. J. Dixwell. 
F. B. Crowninshield,. 
A. A. Lawrence, Esq., called the meeting to order. Robert B. Storer, Esq., was chosen chairman, and Edward Atkinson, Jr., and R. K. Darrah, secretaries. 
Hon. Theophilus Parsons made an opening address in which he said that President Johnson needs and deserves to be supported in the steps already taken, preliminary steps, the beginning of an experiment, and he hoped the country will leave him at liberty to watch events, and see thereby what action shall be necessary to secure permanent safety and security. The slaves, Mr. Parsons argued, were now freemen, and must be counted among those who have the right of representation. Votes must be cast for them, and there was no reason why they should not cast votes for themselves when the proper time comes. The war had brought on us a tremendous debt, and the defeated whites would have an interest in trying to prevent its payment. It was a question of time only, and in the coming conflicts we should needed their ballots as much as we have in the past needed their bullets. We accepted the aid of colored bayonets, and victory was with us from that hour. Rebels say that was the turning point against them, and so in the future we might find that the ballots of the loyal colored population would secure us against the machinations of the disloyal whites, &c.
On motion of Mr. Barrows, a committee was ordered to direct a letter to the President, to be signed by Boston business men. 
At the call of Mr. Forbes, Mr. Parsons read a letter embodying the idea above alluded to, with some minor points, such as the dishonesty of freeing the blacks, making them fight for us, and then depriving them of votes, reorganizing the South without that vote, and so surrendering them to a vindictive legislation engendered by disappointment and ambition. The rest of the letter was devoted to an earnest appeal to the President not to hasten the work of final reorganization, but to delay and see the course, of events, so as to develop the animus of the late rebels, and enable corresponding action on our part to remedy whatever evils might be brought out. 
The subject was further discussed by Messrs. J. W. Forbes, E. H. Derby, Wm. Brigham, C. M. Ellis and Edward Atkinson. Mr. Ellis desired some movement to remove all disabilities from the negro everywhere.
The following gentlemen were chosen on the committee:—Messrs. Theophilus Parsons, J. S. Farlow, John: M. Forbes, Amos A. Lawrence and Alpheus Hardy. Subsequently, on motion of Mr. Parsons, the following were added to the committee:—Messrs. C. M. Ellis, Edward Atkinson, Jr., and Wm. Brigham. 
The meeting then adjourned.
ENGLAND AND AMERICA. At a recent large religious gathering in England, Dr. Edmond, of London, said the religious bodies had not done their duty by their friends in America. He did not apprehend war with America. He said
If war comes not, no thanks to the organs of public opinion from which our American friends gather the sentiments of this country. I wish those who felt otherwise could have rung in their ears, with thunder-peal of voices that could not be mistaken, that the heart of this country is a heart of brotherhood toward our American brethren. (Applause) In the interests of peace, sir, let it be known by us that, while in terms of this overture, we most cordially rejoice at the prospect of the speedy extinction of American slavery, and repe! the crime by which the President of the American States fell; we also wish the world to know that we reckon war between American and this country would be one of the greatest calamities the world ever saw; and this cannot come about without very heinous crimes on one side or the other. (Hear, hear.) Let us do our part, for we need to do it, to preserve perfect liberty in the two countries; and let us say our only rivalry shall be which of the two countries or rather, which of the two Churches-shall do the most to extend the gospel, which has always been the foe of slavery and war, and shall by and by entirely destroy them.
(Loud applause.)
PRINCETON COLLEGE. The degree of LL. D. was conferred on President Lincoln at the December meeting of the trustees, and the following letter was received in response to the letter of President Maclean, notifying him of the fact:
EXECUTIVE MANSION,}  
WASHINGTON, Dec. 27, 1864.
MY DEAR SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the reception of your note of the 20th of December, conveying the announcement that the trustees of the College of New Jersey had conferred upon me the degree of Doctor of Laws.
The assurance conveyed by this high compliment, that the course of the government which I represent has received the approval of a body of gentlemen of such character and intelligence in this time of public trial, is most grateful to me. Thoughtful men must feel that the fate of civilization upon this continent is involved in the issue of our contest. Among the most gratifying proofs of this conviction is the hearty devotion everywhere exhibited by our schools and colleges to the national cause.
I am most thankful if my labors have seemed to conduce to the preservation of those institutions under which alone we can expect good government, and in its train sound learning and the progress of the liberal arts.
I am, sir, very truly,
Your obedient servant, A. LINCOLN. 
Dr. JOHN MACLEAN.
NARROW ESCAPE OF CHARLES DICKENS. English papers say that Charles Dickens had a very narrow escape from death at the catastrophe on the Southeastern railway, recently. The carriage in which he was sitting toppled over the edge of the embankment, and hung there for a while, giving him an opportunity to scramble through the; window to the platform, where he found himself without scratch or bruise, greatly to his own amazement. When the dead bodies of the victims were laid out for recognition, one over-zealous gentleman, knowing that Mr. Dickens was in the train, recognized one. corpse as his, and this statement was at first credited.; The novelist was returning to his country seat, from a short continental trip, when the accident occurred.
SLAVERY. The only States in the country in which slavery has now an existence are Kentucky and Delaware, and the institution is in a frightfully moribund condition in each of them. In Delaware it is an absurdity, in its character as well as in its magnitude. In Kentucky, nearly all the able-bodied blacks have done service in our army, and are therefore free; and the fact that these men have done military service- makes all their wives and children free. So that. what remains of slavery in Kentucky is the mere skeleton, disjointed, lifeless, hopeless, with no present value, and no prospect in the future. The action of the States on the Constitutional Amendment will wipe out the institution clean.
GONE TO HIS OWN PLACE. Edmund Ruffin, who achieved an unenviable notoriety by firing the first gun at Fort Sumter, committed suicide at his residence, near Mattoax depot,; on; the Richmond and Danville Railroad, on the 17th ult.; He retired to his chamber at an early hour in the morning, and taking a seat in a chair, took a gun loaded with shot and slugs, and placing the muzzle to his mouth, discharged: the piece by pushing the trigger with a slick.; The upper portion of his head was entirely blown off. In a diary of his was found; a;  memorandum,; stating that he could never live under the United States Government, and took death in preference. In the some memorandum he said he would have committed the deed on the 9th of April, (the day that Gen. Lee surrendered) but was prevented by the presence of visitors in his house.
DULL WRITING. A Boston correspondent of the Springfield Republican characterizes Mr. Garrison as” "one of the dullest of writers." The ground on which this assumption is made to rest is, that Mr. G. has not ”a particle of imagination," &c. This may, be true, and yet it is quite as manifest that the writer to the Springfield paper lacks logic as that Mr. Garrison wants imagination. The reasoning is, that a writer is dull, because he fails to be imaginative. It were far more correct to affirm that a writer is dull, especially in such a sphere of writing as Mr. G. has worked in for a third of a century, if. he comes short especially In logic. Without this no man can be truly forcible, either with the tongue or pen, and it is hard hood to deny that Mr. Garrison is forcible in the use of both. Never otherwise could be have succeeded in the impression which he has made deep in the public mind. Few men use the English tongue with greater precision of clear and forcible statement and expression. To characterize such a man as one of the”dullest of writers" is" in simply absurd. It is about as correct as to say granite is soft.— Watchman and Refledor.
<c03
THE FREEDMEN IN VIRGINIA.
Gen. Terry has issued the following order, defining the rights and privileges of the freedmen in Virginia: HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF VIRGINIA,
RICHMOND, Va., June 23, 1865.}
“GENERAL ORDERS No. 77.; The laws of the State of Virginia and the ordinances of the different municipalities within the State having special reference to, and made to restrain the personal liberty of free colored persons, were designed for the government of such persons while living and a population of colored slaves; they were enacted in the interest of slave-owners, and were designed for the security of slave property; they were substantially parts of the slave code. 
Slavery has been abolished in Virginia, and there fore, upon the principle that where the reason of the law ceases, the law itself ceases, these laws and ordinances have become obsolete. People of color will henceforth enjoy the same personal liberty that other citizens and inhabitants enjoy; they will be subject to the same restraints and to the same punishments for crime that are imposed on whites, and to no others. 
Vagrancy, however, will not be permitted; neither whites nor blacks can be allowed to abandon their proper occupations, to desert their families or roam in idleness about this department; but neither whites nor blacks will be restrained from seeking employment elsewhere when they cannot obtain it with just compensation at their homes, nor from travelling from place to place on proper or legitimate business. 
Until the civil tribunals are reestablished, the administration of criminal justice must, of necessity, be by military courts; before such courts the evidence of colored persons will be received in all cases. 
By command of Major Gen. A. H. TERRY. 
ED. W. SMITH, Asst... Adj. Gen."
The following order from Gen. Hartsuff regulates negro labor::" 
HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF THE NOTTOWAY,
PETERSBURG, Va., June 22, 1865. 
GENERAL ORDERS No.. 8.; Until the civil authority is fully restored, no more public meetings will be held within the limits of this command to establish a fixed price for negro labor, or make distinctions prejudicial to the. interests and limiting the freedom of the blacks. Such meetings are combinations, which will result in injury to both parties. The proceedings in this respect of those already held are disapproved. 
Commanding officers of counties will see that the amount paid for labor is sufficient to meet all the necessary expenses of food and clothing, besides a reason able sum for the contingencies of sickness, &c. No difference in price for the same amount, kind and quality of labor will be permitted between whites and blacks. All the circumstances in each case will be carefully considered, and when a former master hires his former slave, and in addition keeps, feeds and clothes his family or some of his young or old and helpless relatives, who would otherwise become a tax and burden upon the laborer, the cost of their maintenance will be considered as a part of the laborer's wages. 
If the laborer is hired by the year, the rate per month may be reasonably less than when hired from month to month.
Measures will be taken to insure the fulfilment of contracts on the part of both parties, and the interests of each will be looked to equally. 
Commanding officers of sub districts will have these directions strictly carried out.; To this end, and for the purpose of keeping themselves thoroughly acquainted with the condition of affairs under their charge, they will visit all The stations of troops within their respective commands once each month.
By command of Major Gen. HARTSUFF,
GEO. A. HICKS, Asst. Adj. Gen." 
The Virginia Legislature has passed a bill to legalize and regulate the marriage of negroes.
LOUIS K0SSUTH, in the course of a private letter of the 28th May to the Editor of The Tribune, incidentally says:
"How happy you must feel in having been spared to see the triumph of those grand principles for which you have been contending all your life! The stain of Slavery is removed from the fair escutcheon of your noble land. The curse is dispelled which clouded the bright prospect of her future. The manner in which the genius of your people carried through the democratic principle in its first application to a vast community affords a sure guaranty that, to the benefit of all Humanity, you will know how to consolidate by wisdom and moderation what you have achieved by bravery and admirable perseverance. 
Yours, ever truly, L. KOSSUTH."
"MR. LINCOLN'S ESTATE. Judge Davis of Illinois, as administrator of the estate of Mr. Lincoln, gave bonds for $75,000, which has given rise to the story that Mr. Lincoln left property to that amount. The facts are that the estate is less than half that sum. Hon. Isaac W. Arnold, in a letter to B. B. Sherman, Esqfteq., treasurer of the Lincoln fund, says:
I write you as an old friend of President Lincoln to know what progress has been made in raising the fund proposed for the benefit of his family. I served in Congress during Mr. Lincoln's administration, and I say what I know when I say that his family are left in circumstances .of comparative poverty."
The tomb in which the President's remains, together with those of his little son, are placed, is kept carpeted with fresh flowers, and about and upon the coffins as they lie in view are garlands and clusters of buds and blossoms, ever fresh and fragant, so that the very breath of the sepulchre is rendered redolent and pure. 
Looking into the tomb, the visitor can discern nothing offensive-no token of the ”damp vault's rayless gloom”-but can deem himself gazing into some floral cave whose tenants are the graces and summer nymphs. The taste which is thus displayed in rendering the vault attractive is most commendable, and will brighten the recollection of every pilgrim who has here gazed in upon the dead. Since the 14th of May last, some two thousand names of visitors have been thus registered, representatives of every State of the Union, and also the Canadas.One hack upon every day during the week, and two upon the Sabbath, are kept running between the city and the cemetery for the accommodation of visitors, and all this has been done since the remains of our late President were placed at rest in this burial-place, since Oak Ridge has held the dust of this great man.
And in making this notice, we would conclude by adding that this is not only to be the resting-place of the President, but that there is to be erected a pile to his memory which shall stand through all ages to come. The rising ground immediately in the rear of the tomb has been selected as the site of the President's monument. Three acres upon this beautiful spot was selected by the Monument Association on Saturday last, and here it has been decided to build the shaft. The beauty and appropriateness of this site are such as would recommend it to the minds of all, and we are pleased to know so agreeable a selection has been made.—Springfield (Illinois) paper.
NEW YORK, June 24. A copy has been received in this city of the resolutions passed by the Senate of the free city of Frankfort on hearing of the death of President Lincoln. It is signed by Herr Groinper, Burgomaster, and expresses the painful regret of the Senate in regard to the mournful occurrence, as well as their indignation at the wicked deed. The Americans in Frankfort observed the day of humiliation on June 1, by special services at the watering places of Hamburg. Bishop Kip of California presided. The funeral discourse was in the principal church, and the English chaplain participated in the services.
McCLELLAN'S PREDICTIONS. In a recent speech, Senator John Sherman, of Ohio, made this statement:” A friend of mine, whose daughter is now at Rome, received a letter from her, written while Gen. Sherman was visiting North Carolina. She wrote: ’Oh, father, how fortunate you are! You know where  Sherman has gone, but we are in deep distress, for our  next door neighbor, Gen. McClellan, is croaking and saying that Sherman and his army can never march through that country, and will be destroyed as the Roman legions were destroyed under Varus.”
Howell Cubb was at Macon, recently, and it is pleasing to know he counsels, on the part of the people, a cheerful and prompt obedience to the Constitution and laws of the country. He believes that slavery is forever dead, but he is not at all despondent as regards the future of the South; on the contrary, he believes* that a bright future is ahead, and thinks it only remains for the people to put forth their best energies toward developing the resources of the country to insure commercial prosperity and success. 
ANOTHER PASSENGER CAR DIFFICULTY. Last evening, a colored woman got into one of the cars of the Union Passenger Line, on Ninth Street, near Locust, and was ordered to leave by the conductor, This she declined to do, when the conductor ordered the driver to resort to the usual expedient of running the car off the track. While this was being done, a number of colored people in the neighborhood got wind of the affair, and a large crowd began to assemble, and indications of a, disturbance were soon ap parent. The colored, woman was backed up by her colored friends, who resorted to the expedient of throwing stones at the car, as a means of giving vent to their feelings. Much excitement ensued, but we did not hear of any arrests being made. Philadelphis Ledger.
<c04>
TREATMENT OF FREEDMEN; IN VIRGINIA. Capt. C. Brown of the Bureau of Refugees,. Freedmen and Abandoned Lands, at Richmond, has issued an order to his subordinates, defining their duties as follows: 
"Your duties will be to protect the negroes in their rights as freemen, to see that in their present state of helplessness they are not oppressed or injured by their former masters, with false charges or unjust punishment. 

You will aid them by your advice in making contracts for their services, if such contracts are likely to be injurious to their interests; in all other cases, leave them free to make their own bargains. 
You will let then also understand that when their contracts for services are made with the whites, they are under obligations to and must fulfill the same. You will annul all contracts that may have been made with he freedmen that are injurious and unconscionable. Cultivate as far as possible among them a friendly spirit towards the citizens and their former masters, and explain to them the relations that exist between capital and labor, and how each is dependent upon the other. 
Yon will not issue rations to any person able to Work for whom employment can be found. Require each Assistant Superintendent to keep a register of all colored persons able to work and without employment in his sub-district, and aid such persons in finding places to work. When such employment is found, let the accompanying form of contract be made out in triplicate, one copy to be furnished each of the parties, and one copy to be filed in the office of the Assistant superintendent. 
Look after vagrants, and if, after being admonished, they do not provide themselves with honest labor, turn them over to work under military guard without payment, until they are ready to work for them-selves." 
DISGRACEFUL SCENES AT AN ELECTION IN NORFOLK, VA. The Norfolk (Va.) correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer, after detailing horrible outrages committed by white citizens and returned rebel soldiers of Norfolk upon defenceless negroes on Friday and Friday night last, says of the voting the next day that the scenes at the polls were simply disgraceful—a broad burlesque. Never did we hear or see such voting. Scores of men voted who wore the rebel uniform, brass buttons and all. They took the Alexadria oath, though they were in arms against the government as late as last April. Gentlemen who have lived in Norfolk for two years, and served for two years in the Union army, were compelled to take the Alexandria oath by secessionists at the polls. Every vile epithet in the language was bestowed upon he Union men. The old Intolerant and defiant spirit of slavery was rampant. The negro was the great stalking horse of the amnesty. All Northern residents and Union men are stigmatized as nigger worshippers. It was loudly threatened yesterday that all white men in favor of negro suffrage would be driven out of Norfolk within six months. 
RECONSTRUCTION OF SOUTH CAROLINA. President Johnson has appointed Benjamin F. Perry, of South Carolina, Provisional Governor of that State, whose duty it shall be, at the earliest practicable period, to prescribe such rules as may be necessary and proper for convening a convention composed of delegates to be chosen by that portion of the people who are loyal to the United States, and no others, for the purpose of altering the constitution thereof, and with authority to exercise within the limits of that State all the power necessary and proper to enable such loyal people of South Carolina to restore said State to its institutional relation to the Federal Government, and to present such a Republican form of State government as will entitle the State to the guarantee of, the United States therefore, and its people to the protection of the United States against invasion, insurrection and domestic violence, provided that in any election that may be hereafter held for choosing delegates to any State Convention as aforesaid, no person shall be qualified as an elector, or shall be eligible as a member of said Convention, unless he shall have previously taken and subscribed to the oaths of amnesty and allegiance. 
Governors have now been appointed for all the rebel States except Florida. 
The question whether freedmen will work for wages is answered affirmatively by the St. Louis Dispatch, which cites several cases that have come under its observation, where freedmen have not only labored, but labored harder than they ever did in a state of slavery. Among other cases it gives that of the largest slave owner in Missouri, who formerly held a high position in the United States Government. This gentleman is delighted with the change from slavery to freedom. The Dispatch says: 
"He had fairly tried the experiment, and found that his old servants were worth twice as much under wages as they were under the old slave regime. He gives them a proper share of all the produce they raise, and after furnishing them with dwellings to live in, and teams and tools to work with, his care and responsibilities end; while they are at work early and late pursuing their labor with tireless energy, in order to secure food and clothing for their families, and a modest competence for future years." 
GOV. BRAMLETTE OF KY., ON EMANCIPATION. Louisville. June 29. Gov. Bramlette addressed the citizens this evening in favor of the Constitutional amendment, and the advantages of free over slave labor in Kentucky. He said slavery had been utterly overthrown, and proved the impossibility of its restoration. He urged the people to proceed to establish a system of free labor as dictated by wisdom and their interests; showed by statistics of the population, and the occupation of land by slaveholders and non-slaveholders, that the rich lands of the State were in the hands of a class exceedingly small in comparison with the popular masses; urged the organization of the free white laborers of the State to take care in future of their own interests. He said the necessity existed for the immediate action of Kentucky in disposing of the vexed question of slavery, the progress of events having practically destroyed the institution itself. Governor Bramlette discussed at some length the second section of the amendment, and answered with overwhelming power the objections urged against it, such as that the amendment gives Congress power to confer the elective franchise upon emancipated slaves, and thus make social equality. He said the section gives Congress no more power than under the Constitution now existing, and this second section meant simply that Congress should by appropriation or necessary legislation prohibit slavery and involuntary servitude in the State. 
BEAUREGARD'S HATRED OF MASSACHUSETTS. A correspondent of the Journal says: 
While at Savannah, last winter, I became acquainted with a young lady whose father held a high and very honorable position under our Government before the rebellion. During the war, while in command at Savannah, Beauregard passed many of his leisure hours with that family. After delivering himself of his usual venomous speeches about the Yankees am abolitionists, he concluded thus:” When I reach Massachusetts, my first act shall be to blow Plymouth Rock out of existence; that will be the greatest and happiest moment of my life." 
BEAUREGARD ON THE” BLACK FLAG." The private papers of Jeff. Davis and Gen. Beauregard, recently captured in Florida, were brought into Jackson ville a few days since by one of the drivers of the wagon in whose charge they had been placed. The capture includes all the private dispatches and correspondence of Beauregard, together with a considerable quantity of the personal effects of Davis. Among other things are three splendid uniforms presented to Beauregard by the ladies of Columbia, S. C, Augusta Ga, and Selma, Ala. An important private telegram to the following effect was also discovered: 
CHARLESTON, S. C. Oct. 13, 1862. 
Hon WM. P. MILES, Richmond, Va.: 
Has the bill for the execution of abolition prisoner after January been passed? Do it, and England will be stirred into action. It is high time to proclaim the black flag after that period. Let the execution be with the garrote. G. T. BEAUREGARD. 
THE VIRGINIA LEGISLATURE. Both branches of the Virginia Legislature have adjourned. The following was the parting and somewhat significant speech of the Speaker of the House, Mr. Downey:— 
" Gentlemen: I have no speech to make, but I congratulate you very much for the manner in which you have ended the term of service for which you were elected. At the time of your election, it was said tha the halters were preparing for your necks, and tha Jeff. Davis was’ making the rope.' Since that time we have had two sessions, and nave kept Virginia out of the hands of the abolitionists, who are now pitching at Andy Johnson with a red hot poker, hoping to influence him to adopt their radical views. But, I thank God, we are safe; ant though they may force negro suffrage on other States with provisional governments, they cannot pile it upon us. Gentlemen, I wish you a safe return to your homes." 
In answer to a resolution of inquiry on the part of the Legislature of that State, the Judges of the Supreme Court of Connecticut say that, in their opinion, a free colored person born in the State is a citizen of the State, and of the United States, within the meaning of the Amendment of the Constitution recently passed. 
<C05>
THE TRAITOR BRECKINRIDGE. Late accounts from Havana state that the traitor Breckinridge is there, staying at a second-class boarding-house in that city, the proprietors of which keep him free of charge. Those who knew him intimately in years gone by say he has greatly changed. His former robust and vigorous frame has been considerably reduced, and he is frequently lost in fits of abstraction. Instead of, as formerly, being lively and animated in conversation, he is moody and taciturn, speaking only to his intimate friends. He intends to leave Havana for Spain. 
THE LAZY WHITES IN ALABAMA. The N. Y. Times's Mobile correspondent represents a terrible state of affairs in Alabama. There is absolute social demoralization. Labor is so despised by the whites that they actually prefer starvation or begging to work In any form, and even in their penury and wretchedness they show the most vindictive spirit of dissatisfaction. Military protection is necessary against the destruction of the whole population by anarchy. 
The $1000 dressing case at the Chicago Sanitary Fair, for the prettiest girl in Chicago, was voted to Miss Anna L. Wilson, who received 1073 votes to 1068 for another lady, and 722 for third. The whole number of votes, at a dollar each, was 3471. The committee very sensibly agree not to publish the list of scattering ballots. 
General Gillmore has recently secured much of the private and public correspondence of the rebel General Beanregard. It is quite extensive, and covers nearly the entire duration of the rebellion. 
When Dick Turner, of Libby prison infamy, was arrested, he had in his possession one revolver and two Derringer pistols; his beard had been cut close, and his hair and moustache dyed. His presence in Richmond was detected by a negro washerwoman, to whom his clothes, marked with his name, were sent. 
A New York artist has painted a picture entitled” Ecce Homo Honestus!"—Behold an Honest Man! It is Abraham Lincoln, with Diogenes represented as dropping his famous lantern in the background—the object of his long search having been accomplished. 
The New York Herald calls Ben Wood a Benedict Arnold without his bravery, and a Judas Iscariot, who has not the grace to hang himself. 
A DEMOCRATIC VIEW. The Boston Post remarks on the. suffrage question, that” the same qualification should be required of all men who demand the right of suffrage, no matter whether they be black, white, red or yellow. The Massachusetts requirements are considered wise, but, it is thought, should be liberalized so as to allow all federal soldiers, who served faithfully in the late war, to vote." We can heartily endorse this kind of democracy. 
The New York News, the Southern organ, comes out for negro suffrage in the South, and says it knows of more than fifty leading Southerners who sustain its position. 
Great demand for negro labor exists in Maryland. The farmers there are paying $15 a month to males, and from 10 to $12 to females tor field labor. The supply is still short, and agents have again been sent in different directions to make contracts and induc immigration, notwithstanding their recent expulsion from Richmond. 
Miss Ann E. Dickinson denies the report that she is preparing for the stage. 
The degree of LL. D. has been conferred on Gen. 0. Howard at the recent commencement of Shurtleff College, III. 
Gen. Butler has presented $5000 to Phillips Academy, Andover, to provide a free scholarship, fifty years, for the son of a soldier—white or black— disabled in the war. 
Richard Yeadon, the South Carolinian who offered a reward of $10,000 for Butler's head, is living in abject poverly at Aiken. He has taken the oath of allegiance. 
In Nantucket, the name of a colored man has been placed among the names of white men in making up a list from which to conscribe jurymen. 
CAIRO, June 28. Over fifty gunboats and other vessels, lately comprising a portion of the Mississippi squadron, are to be sold at auction at Mound City, August 17. 
M. Reville, a popular Rationalistic preacher at Rotterdam, is about to publish a biography of Theodore Parker. 
A college for colored men at Washington is projected, Rev. H. H. Garnett being President of the Trustees. It will be called the Lincoln College, and will be a most suitable memorial of the late President. 
The American Colonization Society has sent 340 emigrants to Liberia since the first of April last, making 11, 329 since the organization of the Society. 
Jeff. Davis never filled so large a space in the world as when he was in his wife's crinoline. —Louisville Journal. 
Henry Van Meter of Bangor, (colored.) celebrated his golden wedding recently. He is considerably over one hundred years of age, but he himself does not know his precise number of years. His faculties of sight and hearing are still good. He escaped from slavery many years ago. 
DIED, in Castine, John Jackson, a native of Africa, aged 100 years. He was the son of a chief, and was tattooed. When a boy, he was carried to Brazil in a slaver, and afterwards escaped to this country. 
The New Hampshire Legislature has adopted the amendment of the federal Constitution abolishing slavery, by a vote of 217 to 98. All the votes in the negative were given by democrats, and all the affirmative votes but eight came from Republicans. There are 114 democratic members, some of whom did not vote. Democracy and slavery mean the same thing, and the 98 men who voted against the amendment would readily vote to establish slavery in New Hampshire, and to revive the slave trade with Africa, It is to please such fellows, and their Southern allies, that the people are implored not to support the elevation of Southern colored men to the rank of citizens.—Boston Traveller. 
Lord Brougham entreats Americans to be as merciful as they are mighty. He is much afraid that his old friends, the rebel leaders, will be hanged, and the thought of their possible fate troubles the old boy, who is almost a nonagenarian, and given to crying. —Traveller. 
Fourth of July will be celebrated by the colored people of Columbia S. C. This fact will make the 89th anniversary of American Independence the most remarkable ever known. Five years ago, it would have been considered more reasonable to suppose that there would be a Methodist revival meeting held in Mecca than that there should be a colored celebration of the Fourth of July in the capital of South Carolina; but under the bloody spur of secession, the American world moves fast forward.—Traveller. 
PRESIDENT JOHNSON INVITED TO VISIT BOSTON. A letter has been numerously signed by the authorities, merchants and business men, inviting President Johnson to be present at Harvard University Commencement. Gov. Andrew heads the list of signatures. 
A MAGNIFICENT NEW STEAMER. The new steamer” Newport" has been completed, and placed on the route between Newport and New York. She is a magnificent steamer, built and furnished at an expense of $600,000; is 350 feet in length; his 150 state rooms, 6OO berths, and ample accommodations for 1000 passengers. She is claimed to be the finest steamer afloat. 
LA CROSS, (Wiss.) July 1. A terrible tornado has just passed over the village and vicinity of Veroqua, Union Co., Wisconsin, prostrating fifty dwellings, killing seventeen persons, and wounding one hundred. The suffering caused by the tornado in very great, and a call is made for relief. Mayor Lloyd and Postmaster Sottridge have been appointed: a committee in this city to receive donations. 
The last official act of the Empress as Regent was the presentation of the Order of the Legion of Honor to Rosa Bonheur, of which Order the distinguished artist is made a ”chevalier." This is the first time that any female in the civil ranks of life has received the decoration. The innovation is received by all classes of people with great favor. 
OUR MILITARY STRENGTH. The country is now divided into five grand military divisions. The following are their names and commanders: Military Division of the Atlantic, Maj. Gen. Meade; Military Division of the Mississippi, Maj. Gen. Sherman; Military Division of the Tennessee. Maj. Gen. Thomas; Military Division of the Southwest, Maj. Gen. Sheridan; Military Division of the Pacific, Maj.Gen. Halleck. 
The venerable Wm. Wilkins, one of the most distinguished men of Pennsylvania, died last week, near Pittsburg. As U.S. Judge, as U. S. Senator, as Minister to Russia, and as Secretary of War, he served with great purity and usefulness. 
A Mrs. Dunbar, of Terre Haute, (lnd.) said that she was glad of President Lincoln's death, and were she near the grave would take pleasure in dancing on it. This the loyal women of the neighborhood could not bear, and a dozen or more went to her house, and forced her to take a flag draped in mourning and proceed up town, shouting, at intervals.” Hurrah for the Union!" 
<C06>
THE NATION,
A WEEKLY JOURNAL OF POLITICS, LlTERATURE, SCIENCE AND ART,
Will be published July 6, 1865. Its main objects will be— 
First—The discussion of the topics of the day, and, above all, of legal, economical and constitutional questions, with greater accuracy and moderation than are now to be found in the daily press. 
Second—The maitenance and diffusion of true democratic principles in society and government, and the advocacy and illustration of whatever in legislation or in manners seems likely to promote a more equal distribution of the fruits of progress and civilization.0 Third—The earnest and persistent of the condition of the laboring classes at the South, as a matter of vital interest to the nation at large, with a view to the removal of all artificial distinctions between them and the rest of the population, and the securing to them, as far as education and justice can do it, of an equal chance in the race of life. 
Fourth—The enforcement and illustration of the doctrine that the whole community has the strongest interest, both moral, political and material, in their elevation, and that there can be no real stability far the republic so long as th0ey are left in ignorance and degradation. 
Fifth—The fixing of public attention upon the political importance of popular education, and the dangers which a system like ours runs from the neglect of it in any portion of our territory. 
Sixth—The collection and diffusion of trustworthy information as to the condition and prospects of the Southern States, the openings they offer to capital, the supply and kind of labor which can be obtained in them, and the progress made by the colored population in acquiring the habits and desires of civilized life.
Seventh—sound and impartial criticism of books and works of art.
THE NATION will not be the organ of any party, sect or body. It will, on the contrary, make an earnest effort to bring to the discussion of political and social questions a really critical spirit, and to wage war upon the vices of violence, exaggeration and misrepresentation, by which so much of the political writing of the day is marred.
The criticism of books and works of art will form one of its most prominent features; and pains will be taken to have this task performed in every case by writers possessing special qualifications for it.
It is intended in the interest of investors, as well as of the public generally, to have questions of trade and finance treated every week by a writer whose position and character will give his articles an exceptional value, and render them a safe and trustworthy guide.
A special correspondent, who has been selected for his work with some care, is about to start in a few days for a journey through the South. His letters will appear every week, and he is charged with the duty of simply reporting what he sees and hears, leaving the public as far as possible to draw its own inferences.
The following writers, among others, have been secured, either as regular or occasional contributors:
HENRY W.LONGFELLOW,
J.R.LOWELL,
JOHN G.WHITTIER,
SAMUEL ELIOT, (EX-Pres. Trin. College, Hartford,)
Prof. TORREY, (Harvard,)
Dr.FRANCIS LIEBER,
Prof.CHILD, (Harvard,)
CHARLES E. NORTON,
Judge BOND, (Baltimore,)
EDMUND QUINCY,
Prof. W.D.WHITNEY, (Yale,)
Prof. D.C.GILMAN, (Yale,)
Judge DALY,
Prof. DWIGHT, (Columbia College,)
Judge WAYLAND,
FREDERICK LAW OLMSTED,
Rev. Dr.MCCLINTOCK,
Rev. Dr.THOMPSON,
Rev. PHILLIPS BROOKS,
Rev. Dr. BELLOWS,
C.J.STILLE,
HENRY T.TUCKERMAN,
BAYARD TAYLOR,
C.A.BRISTED,
C.L.BRACE,
RICHARD GRANT WHITE,
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, 
SYDNEY GEORGE FISHER,
THEODORE TILTON, 
GAIL HAMILTON,
R.H.STODDARD, &c. &c.
A more extended list will be published in a few days. Terms, $3 per annum.
JOSEPH H.RICHARDS, Publisher,
No. 130 Nassau st., New York.
June 16.
HIGHLY IMPORTANT 
AND
INTENSELY INTERESTING!
SPIRITUALISM AS IT IS! Facts, Fancies and Follies! A New Explanation. The result of Scientific Investigation.
Send 25 cents to WM.BAILEY POTTER, New York.
June 23. 4w
Dr. Ayer's Cathartic Pills
ARE the most perfect purgative which we are able to produce, or which we think has ever yet been produced by anybody. Their effects have abundantly shown to the community how much they excel the ordinary medicines in use. They are safe and pleasant to take, but powerful to cure. Their penetrating properties stimulate the vital activities of the body, remove the obstructions of its organs, purify the blood, and expel disease. They purge out the foul humors which breed and grow distemper, stimulate sluggish or disordered organs into their natural action, and impart a healthy tone, with strength to the whole system. Not only do they cure the everyday complaints of everybody, but also formidable and dangerous diseases. While they produce powerful effects, they are, at the same time, in diminished doeses, the safest and best physie that can be employed for children. Being sugar-coated, they are pleasant to take; and, being purely vegetable, are free from any risk of harm. Cures have been made which surpass belief, were they not substantiated by men of such exalted position and character as to and physicians have lent their names to carry to the public the reliability of our remedies, while others have sent us the assurance of their conviction that our Preparations contribute immensely to the relief of our afflicted, suffering fellow-men.
The Agent below named is pleased to furnish gratis our American Almanac, containing directions for the use and certificates of their cures, the following complaints:-
Costiveness, Billious Complaints, Rheumation, Dropay, Heartburn, Headache arising from foul stomach, Nausea, Indigestion, Morbid Inaction of the Bowels and pain arising therefrom, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, all diseases which require an evacuant medicine. They also, by purifying the blood and stimulating the system, cure many complaints which it would not be supposed they could reach, such as Deafness, Partial Blindness, Neuralgia and Nervous Irritability, Derangements of the LIver and Kidneys, Gout, and other kindred complaints arising from a low state of the body, or obstruction of its functions.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations which they make no profit on. Deman AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
June 2.2m.
THEODORE PARKER'S
"LIFE THOUGHTS."
HIS MOST POPULAR WORK!
"Lessons from the World of Matter and the World
of Man."
BY THEODORE PARKER.
Selected from Notes of Unpublished Sermons, by RUFUS
LEIGHTON.
Just published—420 pages, tinted paper and illustrated title, with portrait—an ELEGANT OCTAVO VOLUME.
PRICE $2 50.
Copies sent by mail, postpaid, on receipt of price.
CHARLESS W. SLACK.
Publisher, No. 8 Bromfield St., Boston.
May 1.
WANTED.
A SITUATION as travelling nurse to wait upon an invalid lady., Good references can be given. Apply at 57 Joy street, or at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street, Boston, Mass.
June 2.


You will aid them by your advice in making contracts for their services, if such contracts are likely to be injurious to their interests; in all other cases, leave them free to make their own bargains.
You will let them also understand that when their contracts for services are made with the whites, they are under obligations to and must fulfill the same. You will annul all contracts that may have been made with the freedmen that are injurious and unconscionable. Cultivate as far as possible among them a friendly spirit towards the citizens and their former masters, and explain to them the relations that exist between capital and labor, and how each is dependent upon the other.
You will not issue rations to any person able to work for whom employment can be found. Require each Assistant Superintendent to keep a register of all colored persons able to work and without employment in his sub-district, and aid such persons in finding places to work. When such employment is found, let the accompanying form of contract be made out in triplicate, one copy to be furnished each of the parties, and one copy to be filed in the office of the Assistant Superintendent.
Look after vagrants, and if, after being admonished, they do not provide themselves with honest labor, turn them over to work under military guard without payment, until they are ready to work for themselves."
DISGRACEFUL SCENES AT AN ELECTION IN NORFOLK, VA. The Norfolk (Va.) correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer, after detailing horrible outrages committed by white citizens and returned rebel soldiers of Norfolk upon defenceless negroes on Friday and Friday night last, says of the voting the next day that the scenes at the polls were simply disgraceful-a broad burlesque. Never did we hear or see such voting. Scores of men voted who wore the rebel uniform, brass buttons end all. They took the Alexandria oath, though they were in arms against the government as late as last April. Gentlemen who have lived in Norfolk for two years, and served for two years in the Union army, were compelled to take the Alexandria bath by secessionists at the polls. Every vile epithetin the language was bestowed upon the Union men. The old Intolerant and defiant spirit of slavery was rampant. The negro was the great stalking horse of the amnesty. All Northern residents and Union men are stigmatized as nigger worshippers. It was loudly threatened yesterday that all white men in favor of negro suffrage would be driven out of Norfolk within six months.
RECONSTRUCTION OF SOUTH CAROLINA. President Johnson has appointed Benjamin F. Perry, of South Carolina, Provisional Governor of that State, whose duty it shall be, at the earliest practicable period, to prescribe such rales as may be necessary and proper for convening a convention composed of delegates to be chosen by that portion of the people who are loyal to the United States, and no others, for the purpose of altering the constitution thereof, and with authority to exercise within the limits of that State all the power necessary and proper to enable such loyal people of South Carolina to restore said Stale to its constitutional relation to the Federal Government, and to present such a Republican form of State government as will entitle the State to the guarantee of, the United States therefore, and its people to the protection of the United States against invasion, insurrection and domestic violence, provided that in any election that may be hereafter held for choosing delegates to any State Convention as aforesaid, no person shall be qualified as an elector, or shall be eligible as a member of said Convention, unless he shall have previously taken and subscribed to the oaths of amnesty and allegiance.
Governors have now been appointed for all the rebel States except Florida.
The question whether freedmen will work for wages is answered affirmatively by the St. Louis Dispatch, which cites several cases that have come under its observation, where freedmen have not only labored, but labored harder than they ever did in a state of slavery. Among other cases it gives that of the largest slave owner in Missouri, who formerly held a high position in the United States Government. This gentleman is delighted with the change from slavery to freedom. The Dispatch says:
"He had fairly tried the experiment, and found that his old servants were worth twice as much under wages as they were under the old slave regime. He gives them a proper share of all the produce they raise, and after furnishing them with dwellings to live in, and teams and tools to work with, his care and responsibilities end; while they are at work early and late pursuing their labor with tireless energy, in order to secure food and clothing for their families, and a modest competence for future years."
Gov. BRAMLETTE OF KY., ON EMANCIPATION. Louisville, June 29. Gov. Bramlette addressed the citizens this evening in favor of the Constitutional amendment, and the advantages of free over slave labor in Kentucky. He said slavery had been utterly overthrown, and proved the impossibility of its restoration. He urged the people to proceed to establish a system of free labor as dictated by wisdom and their interests; showed by statistics of the population, and the occupation of land by slaveholders and non-slaveholders, that the rich lands of the State were in the hands of a class exceedingly small in comparison with the popular masses; urged the organization of the free white laborers of the State to take care in future of their own interests. He said the necessity existed for the immediate action of Kentucky in disposing of the vexed question of slavery, the progress of events having practically destroyed the institution itself. Governor Bramlette dismissed at some length the second section of the amendment, and answered with overwhelming power life objections urged against it, such as that the amendment gives Congress power to confer the elective franchise upon emancipated slaves, and thus make social equality. He said the section gives Congress no more, power than. under the Constitution now existing, and this second section meant simply that Congress should by appropriation or necessary legislation prohibit slavery and involuntary servitude in the State.
BEAUREGARD'S HATRED OF MASSACHUSETTS. A correspondent of the Journal says:
While at Savannah, last winter, I became acquainted with a young lady whose father held a high and very honorable position under our Government before the rebellion. During the war, while in command at Savannah, Beauregard passed many of his leisure hours with that family. After delivering himself of his usual venomous speeches about the Yankees and abolitionists, he concluded thus:” When I reach Massachusetts, my first act shall be to blow Plymouth Rock out of existence; that will be the greatest and happiest moment of my life;"
BEAUREGARD ON THE”BLACK FLAG." The private papers of Jeff. Davis and Gen. Beauregard, recently captured in Florida, were brought into Jacksonville a few days since by one of the drivers of the wagon in whose charge they had been placed. The capture includes all the private dispatches and correspondence of Beauregard, together with a considerable quantity of the personal effects of Davis. Among other things are three splendid uniforms presented to Beauregard by the ladies of Columbia, S. C., Augusta, Ga., and Selma, Ala. An important private telegram to the following effect was also discovered:
CHARLESTON, S. C. Oct. 13,1862.
If on WM. P. MILES, Richmond, Va.:
Has the bill for the execution of abolition prisoners after January been passed? Do it, and England will be stirred into action. It is high time to proclaim the black flag alter that period. Let the execution be with the garrote.
G. T. BEAUREGARD.
THE VIRGINIA LEGISLATURE. Both branches of the Virginia Legislature have adjourned. The following was the parting and somewhat significant speech of the Speaker of the House, Mr. Downey:-
" Gentlemen: I have no speech to make, but I congratulate you very much for the manner in which you have ended the term of service for which you were, elected. At the time, of your election, it was said that the halters were preparing for your necks, and that Jeff. Davis was making the rope.' Since that time we have had two sessions, and have kept Virginia out of the hands of the abolitionists, who are, now pitching at Andy Johnson with a red-hot poker, hoping to influence him to adopt their radical views. But, I thank God, we are safe; and though they may force negro suffrage on other States with provisional governments, they cannot pile it upon us. Gentlemen, I wish you a safe return to yoor homes."
In answer to a resolution of inquiry on the part of the Legislature of that State, the Judges of the Supreme Court, of Connecticut say that, in their opinion, a free colored person born in the State is a citizen of the State, and of the United States, within the meaning of the Amendment of the Constitution recently passed.
<c05>
THE TRAITOR BRECKINRIDGE. Late accounts from Havana state that the traitor Breckinridge is there, staying at a second-class boarding-house in that city, the proprietors of which keep him free of charge. Those who knew him intimately in years gone by say he has greatly changed. His former robust and vigorous frame has been considerably reduced, and he is frequently lost in fits of abstraction. Instead of, as formerly, being lively and animated in conversation, he is moody and taciturn, speaking only to his intimate friends. He intends to leave Havana for Spain.
THE LAZY WHITES IN ALABAMA. The N. Y. Times's Mobile correspondent represents a terrible state of affairs in Alabama. There is absolute social demoralization. Labor is so despised by the whites that they actually prefer starvation or begging to work in any form, and even" in their penury and wretchedness they show the most vindictive spirit of dissatisfaction. Military protection is necessary against the destruction of the whole population by anarchy.
The $1000 dressing case at the Chicago Sanitary Fair, for the prettiest girl in Chicago, was voted to Miss Anna L. Wilson, who received 1073 votes to 1068 for another lady, and 722 for third. The whole number of votes, at a dollar each, was 3471. The committee very sensibly agree not to publish the list of scattering ballots.
General Gillmore has recently secured much of the private and public correspondence of the rebel General Beanreganl. It is quite extensive, and covers nearly the entire duration of the rebellion.
When Dick Turner, of Libby prison infamy, was arrested, he had in his possession one revolver and two Derringer pistols; his beard had been cut close, and his hair and moustache dyed. His presence in Richmond was detected by a negro washerwoman, to whom his clothes, marked with his name, were sent.
A New York artist has painted a picture en titled” Ecce Homo Honestus!"-Behold an Honest Man! It is Abraham Lincoln, with Diogenes represented as dropping his famous lantern in the back ground-the object of his long search having been accomplished.
The New York Herald calls Ben Wood a”Benedict Arnold without his bravery, and a Judas Iscari ot, who has not the grace to hang himself.
A DEMOCRATIC VIEW. The Boston Post remarks on the suffrage question, that” the same qualification should be required of all men who demand the right of suffrage, no matter whether they be black, white, red or yellow. The Massachusetts requirements are considered wise, but, it is thought, should be liberalized so as to allow all federal soldiers, who served faithfully in the late war, to vote." We can heartily endorse this kind of democracy.
The New York News, the Southern organ, conies out for negro suffrage in the South, and says it knows of more than fifty leading Southerners who sustain its position.
Great demand for negro labor exists in Maryland. The farmers there are paying $15 a month to males, and from 10 to $12 to females for field labor. The supply is still short, and agents have again been sent in different directions to make contracts and induct immigration, notwithstanding their recent expulsion from Richmond.


Miss Ann E. Dickinson denies the report that she is preparing for the stage.
The degree of LL. D. has been conferred on Gen. O. Howard at the recent commencement of Shurtleff College, Ill.
Gen. Butler has presented $5000 to Phillips Academy, Andover, to provide a free scholarship, fifty years, for the son of a soldier-white or black-disabled in the war.
Richard Yeailon, the South Carolinian who offered a reward of $10,000 for Butler's head, is living in abject poverly at Aiken. He has taken the oath of allegiance.
In Nan tucket, the rame of a colored man has been placed among the names of white men in making up a list from which to conscribe jurymen.
CAIRO, June 28. Over fifty gunboats and other vessels, lately comprising a portion of the Mississippi squadron, are to be sold at auction at Mound City, August 17.
M. Reville, a popular Rationalistic preacher at Rotterdam, is about to publish a biography of Theodore Parker.
A college for colored men at Washington is projected, Rev. H. H. Garnett being President of the Trustees. It will be called the Lincoln College, and will be a most suitable memorial of the late President.
The American Colonization Society has sent 340 emigrants to Liberia since the first of April last, making 11, 329 since the organization of the Society.
Jeff. Davis never filled so large a space in the world as when he was in his wife's crinoline. -Louisville Journal.
Henry Van Meter of Bangor, (colored,) cele brated his golden wedding recently. He is considerably over one hundred years of age, but he himself does not know his precise number of years. His faculties of sight and hearing are still good. He escaped from slavery many years ago.
DIED, in Castine, John Jackson, a native of Africa, ged 100 years. He was the son of a chief, and was tattooed. When a boy, he was carried to Brazil in a slaver, and afterwards escaped to this country.
The New Hampshire Legislature has adopted the amendment of the Federal Constitution abolishing slavery, by a vote of 217 to 98. All the votes in the negative were given by democrats, and all the affirmative votes but eight came from Republicans. There are 114 democratic members, some of whom did not vote. Democracy and slavery mean the same thing, and the 98 men who voted against the amendment would readily vote to establish slavery in New Hampshire, and to revive the slave trade with Africa. It is to please such fellows, and their Southern allies, that he people are implored not to support the elevation of southern colored men to the rank of citizens.-Boston Traveller.
Lord Brougham entreats Americans to be as merciful as they are mighty. He is much afraid that his old friends, the rebel leaders, will be hanged, and the thought of their possible fate troubles the old boy who is almost a nonagenarian, and given to crying -Traveller.
Fourth of July will be celebrated by the colored people of Columbia S. C. This fact will make the 89th anniversary of American Independence the most remarkable ever known. Five years ago, it would have been considered more reasonable to sup pose that there would be a Methodist revival meeting held in Mecca than that there should be a colored celebration of the Fourth of July in the capital of South Carolina; but under the bloody spur of secession, the American world moves fast forward.-Traveller.
PRESIDENT JOHNSON INVITED TO VISIT BOSTON A letter has been numerously signed by the authorities, merchants and business men, inviting President Johnson to be present at Harvard University Commencement. Gov. Andrew heads the list of signatures.
A;MAGSIFICESTNEW;STEAMER. The; new steamer”Newport”has been completed, and placed on the route between Newport and New York. She is a magnificent steamer, built and furnished at an expense of $600.000; is 350 feet in length; has 150 state rooms, 600 berths, and ample accommodation for 1000 passengers. She is claimed to be the fines steamer afloat.
LA CROSSE, (Wiss.) July 1.;A terrible tornado has just passed over the village and vicinity of Vero qua, Union Co., Wisconsin, prostrating fifty dwellings killing seventeen persons, and wounding one hundred. The suffering caused by the tornado is very great, and a call is made for relief. Mayor Lloyd and Postmaster Sottridge have been appointed a committee is this city to receive donations.
The last official act of the Empress as Eegen was the presentation of the Order of the Legion of Honor to Rosa Bonheur. of which Order the distinguished artist is made a”chevalier." This is the first time that any female in the civil ranks of life has received the decoration. The innovation is received by all classes of people with great favor.
OUR MILITARY STRENGTH. The country is now divided into five grand military divisions. The following are their names and commanders: Military Division of the Atlantic, Maj. Gen. Meade; Military Division of the Mississippi, Maj. Gen. Sherman Military Division of the Tennessee, Maj. Gen Thomas; Military Division of the Southwest, Maj Gen. Sheridan; Military Division of the Pacific, Maj Gen. Halleck.
The venerable Win. Wilkins, one of the most distinguished men of Pennsylvania, died last week; near Pittsburgh. As U. S. Judge, as U. S. Senator as Minister to Russia, and as Secretary of War, he served with great purity and usefulness.
A Mrs. Dunbar, of Terre Haute, (Ind.) said that, she was glad of President Lincoln's death, and were she near the" grave would take pleasure in dancing on it; This the loyal women of the neighborhood could not bear, and a dozen or more went to her house, and forced her to take a flag draped in mourn ing and proceed up, town, shouting,; at intervals,”Hurrah for the Union!”
<c06>
THE NATION,
A WEEKLY JOURNAL OF POLITICS, LITERATURE. SCIENCE AND ART,
Will be published July 6, 1865.
Its main objects will be-
First-The discussion of the topics of the day, and, above all, of legal, economical and constitutional questions, with greater accuracy and moderation than are now to be found in the daily press.
Second-The maintenance and diffusion of true democratic principles in society and government, and the advocacy and illustration of whatever in legislation or is manners seems likely to promote a more equal distribution of the fruits of progress and civilization.
Third-The earnest and persistent consideration of the condition of the laboring classes at the South, as a matter of vital interest to the nation at large, with a view to the removal of all artificial distinctions between thorn and the rest of the population, and the securing to them, as far as education and justice can do it, of an equal chance in the race of life.
Fourth-The enforcement and illustration of the doctrine that the whole community has the strongest interest, both moral, political and material, in their elevation, and that there can be no real stability for the republic so long as they are left in ignorance and degradation.
Fifth-The fixing of public attention npon the political importance of popular education, and the dangers which a system like ours runs from the neglect of it is any portion of our territory.
Sixth-The collection and diffusion of trustworthy in formation as to the condition and prospects of the Southern States, the openings they offer to capital, the supply and kind of labor which can be obtained in them, and the progress made by the colored population is acquiring the habits and desires of civilized life.
Seventh-Sound and impartial criticism of books and works of art.
THE NATION will not be the organ of any party, sect or body. It will, on the contrary, make an earnest effort to bring to the discussion of political and social questions a really critical spirit, and to wage war npon the vices of violence, exaggeration and misrepresentation, by which, so much of the political writing of the day is marred.
The criticism of books and works of art will form one of its most prominent features and pains will be taken to have this task performed in every case by writers possessing special qualifications for it.
It is intended in the interest of investors, as well as of the public generally, to have questions of trade and finance treated every week by a writer whose position and character will give his articles an exceptional value, and render them a safe and trustworthy guide.
A special correspondent, who has been selected for his work with some care, is about to start in a few days for a journey through the South. His letters will appear every week, and he is charged with the duty of simply reporting what he sees and hears, leaving the public as far as possible to draw its own inferences.
The following writers, among others, have been secured, either as regular or occasional contributors:
HENRY W. LOSGFELLOW,
J. R. LOWELL,
JOHN G. WHITTIER,
SAMUEL ELIOT, (Ex-Pres. Trin. College, Hartford,)
Prof. TORREY, (Harvard,)
Dr. FRANCIS LIEBER,
Prof. CHILD, (Harvard,)
CHARLES E. NORTON,
Judge BOND, (Baltimore,)
EDMUND QUINCY,
Prof. W. D. WHITNEY, (Yale,)
Prof. D. C. GILMAN, (Yale,)
Judge DALY,
Prof. DWIGHT, (Columbia College,)
Judge WAYLAND,
FREDERICK LAW OLMSTED,
Rev. Dr. McCLINTOCK,
Rev. Dr. THOMPSON,
Rev. PHILLIPS BROOKS,
Rev. Dr. BELLOWS,
C. J. STILLS,
HENRY T. TUCKSRMAN,
BAYARD TAYLOR,
C. A. BRISTED,
C. L. BRACE,
RICHARD GRANT WHITE,
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON,
SYDNEY GEORGE FISHER,
THEODORE TILTON,
GAIL HAMILTON,
R. H. STODDARD, &c. &c.
A more extended list will be published in a few days.
Terms, $3 per annum.
JOSEPH H. RICHARDS, Publisher,
No. 130 Nassau St., New York. June 16.
HIGHLY IMPORTANT
AND
INTENSELY INTERESTING!
SPIRITUALISM AS IT IS! Facts, Fancies and Follies! A New Explanation. The result of Scientific Investigation.
Send 25 cents to WM. BAILEY POTTER, New York. June 23. 4w
Dr, Ayer's Cathartic Pills
A RE the most perfect purgative which we are able to produce, or which we think has ever yet been produced by anybody. Their effects have abundantly shown to the community how much they excel the ordinary medicines in use. They are safe and pleasant to take, but powerful to cure. Their penetrating properties stimulate the vital activities of the body, remove the obstructions of its organs, purify the blood, and expel disease. They purge out the foul humors which breed and grow distemper, stimulate sluggish or disordered organs into their natural action, and impart a healthy tone, with strength to the whole system. Not only do they cure the everyday complaints of everybody, but also formidable and dangerous diseases. While they produce powerful effects, they are, at the same time, in diminished doses, the safest and best physic that can be employed for children. Being sugar-coated, they are pleasant to take and, being purely vegetable, are free from any risk of harm. Cures have been mode which surpass belief, were they not substantiated by men of such exalted position and character as to forbid the suspicion of untruth. Many eminent clergymen and physicians have lent their names to carry to the public the reliability of our remedies, while others have sent us the assurance of their conviction that our Preparations contribute immensely to the relief of our afflicted, suffering fellow-men.
The Agent below named is pleased to furnish gratis our American Almanac, containing directions for the use and certificates of their cures, of the following complaints:-
Costiveness, Bilious Complaints, Rheumatism, Dropsy, Heartburn, Headache arising from foul stomach, Nausea, Indigestion, Morbid Inaction of the Bowels and pain arising there from, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, all diseases which require an evacuant medicine. They also, by purifying the blood and stimulating the system, cure many complaints which it would not be supposed they could reach, such as Deafness, Partial Blindness, Neuralgia and Nervous Irritability, Derangements of the Liver and Kidneys, Gout, and other kindred complaints arising from a low state of the body, or obstruction of its functions.
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations which they make no profit on. Demand AYKR'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
Prepared by J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., and sold by all druggists.
June2. 2m.
THE ODORE PARKER'S”LITE THOUGHTS."
HIS MOST; POPULAR;WORK!
" Lessons from the”World of Matter and the World of Man."
BT THEODORE PARKER.
Selected from Notes of Unpublished Sermons, By RUFUS LEIGHTON.
Just published-420 pages, tinted paper and illustrated title, with portrait-an ELEMET OCTAVO VOLUME.
PRICE $2 50.
Copies sent by mail, postpaid, on receipt of price. CHARLES W. SLACK,
Publisher, No. 8 Broomfield St, Boston. May 1.
WANTED,
A SITUATION as travelling nurse to wait upon an invalid lady.. Good references can be given; Apply at 57 Joy street, or at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street, Boston, Moss. June 9.































































<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
ADDRESS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN,
Delivered at the request of the Rhode Island Union League, in the City Hall, Providence, June 1, 1865.
BY WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
MR. PRESIDENT, MEMBERS OF THE UNION LEAGUE, AND CITIZENS OF RHODE ISLAND:
Not seven weeks have elapsed since the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, the beloved and twice-elected President of the United States, was foully consummated in the national capital; yet, during that brief period, the awful intelligence has been conveyed—such are the wonderful means of communication—not only to every portion of our vast domains, but throughout the civilized world, exciting universally such horror and grief, such feelings of bereavement and heartfelt sympathy, such expressions of personal regard and warm appreciation, as have never been elicited by the death or martyrdom of any other human being. In our own country, not one of its multitudinous cities, towns or hamlets, within the pale of loyalty, that has not been draped with the emblems of woe, as though death had entered every household. The stoutest hearts have been made liquid as water—the strongest men have freely mingled their tears with those of women and children—and the nation has momentarily reeled at the blow. From twice two thousand presses; from thrice ten thousand pulpits; from the best brains and the most eloquent lips; from the bench, the bar, the forum, the legislative hall, the exchange, the public platform, this terrible atrocity has evoked whatever of condemnation can be uttered by the human tongue, and whatever of eulogy of the character and career of our murdered Chief Magistrate may properly be said. The expressions of affection, reverence, gratitude and admiration, in view of the humble origin, remarkable traits, and sublime achievements of the deceased, have already been innumerable. Every phase of his private and public life has been luminously exhibited, every characteristic feature closely scanned, every act searchingly tested. Nothing but the merest repetition, therefore, is left for any one who now takes up the theme, however brilliant may be his imagination, or masterly his analytical talent.
In England the demonstrations of an all-pervading grief and horror have been almost as numerous and signal as in our own land. From the parliament to the private club, from the palace to the cottage, from the pulpit and the press, such testimonials of condolence, regard and friendship have come forth as to obliterate all national divisions, and cause the two countries to blend together in one great sorrow, as though they were indeed one people. God grant that they may never meet each other in battle array, nor in any way seek each other's detriment! God grant that they may be so animated by the spirit of justice, good-will and international amity as ever to rejoice in the prosperity and advancement of each other, and be ready to adjust, without bloodshed or mean exaction, whatever difficulties may exist now or arise hereafter! Confusion and infamy attend the plotters at home and the factious abroad, who shall seek to bring them into deadly conflict, no matter on what pretence! For, however unsatisfactory has been the attitude of the British Government towards our own since the rebellion broke out, it has been far more unsatisfactory to the rebels as shown in regard to their bastard Confederacy; and however base, malignant and unscrupulously partisan has been the London Times in hostility to the North and support of the South, it has not at any time represented the views and feelings of the people at large. If, during the long period that intervened before our Government evinced any disposition to grapple with slavery as the embodiment of the rebellion, and while the struggle on our part seemed to be only to restore the Union on the old slaveholding conditions, the English masses were comparatively undemonstrative towards us, we alone are to blame. At no time, however, have they sympathized with the rebels, or spoken an approving or apologetical word in their behalf. On the contrary, they have held public meetings in all parts of the kingdom, since the Proclamation of Emancipation was issued, and, through addresses, speeches and resolutions, denounced the infamous conduct of- the Southern secessionists, and enthusiastically applauded President Lincoln and his administration. Their word of cheer to us is-
"The bluff, bold men of Runnymede
Are with ye still in times like these;
The shades of England's mighty dead
Your cloud of witnesses!
Press on!—the triumph shall be won
Of common rights and equal laws,
The glorious dream of Harrington, 
And Sidney's good old cause."
With such a people we are bound, by ten thousand ties, to keep the peace—and they with us. It is an evil and a bitter thing to say, that there are grievances between us that can be redressed only by an appeal to the sword. That is the language of passion and craft, of falsehood and demagoguism. Be assured, fellow-countrymen, inasmuch as the traitors of the South and their Northern sympathizers have been foiled in their nefarious efforts to permanently disrupt the Union, they will leave nothing undone, in order to glut their revenge, to involve this country in a foreign war, especially with England. Let the friends of freedom, on both sides of the Atlantic, be at least as vigilant and determined that no such machination shall succeed.
In France, and elsewhere, on the Continent, if not to the same extent, at least as deeply appreciative have been the manifestations of heartfelt sorrow and fraternal feeling, in view of the assassination of our lamented President. Every where its terrible meaning has been penetrated, its diabolical object perceived, and the same righteous verdict rendered. The deed was intended to serve and perpetuate oppression in the United States; it shall mightilly help to crush oppression in every land. It was meant to overturn free institutions on our own soil; it shall help to strengthen them at home, and propagate them abroad. It has quickened the march of liberty throughout the world. Of course, this grand result in no way mitigates the guilt of the assassin; it only furnishes a fresh illustration of the wonderful manner in which God causes the wrath of man to praise him—taking the cunning in their own craftiness, and carrying the counsels of the forward headlong.
Death, in itself, is not an evil, but a good; not a mysterious dispensation of Providence, but the operation of a natural law; not to be deplored as a calamity, but thankfully accepted as a blessing. It came to Mr. Lincoln in an unnatural and murderous form; but, happily, his translation was without conscious suffering; at least, from the moment the fatal bullet entered the brain till he ceased to breathe, he made no sign of recognition, and evidently experienced no pain.
In the midst of the convulsion occasioned by his fall, and the overwhelming emotions to which it has given birth, it is scarcely possible for the most careful and discriminating to pronounce his eulogy without a bias, or to assign to him the place he will permanently occupy in history. No man has ever been more unjustly assailed than himself. Now then is a generous disposition to extol him beyond measure. Undoubtedly he subjected himself, at times, to merited criticism and just rebuke, for he was fallible. Equally is it true that he deserves high praise, and is entitled to the lasting gratitude of his countrymen. Nay, more—he has a claim upon the liberal regard of mankind; and it is already promptly acknowledged.
Abraham Lincoln was, perhaps, the most remarkable product of American democracy(but not in a party sense) which has been presented to the world. It is a long stride from the position of a humble rail-splitter to that of President of the United States—from
<c02>
commanding a flat-boat to being the elected head of a mighty republic. Yet he succeeded in raising himself from one to the other by a straight-forward course of conduct; by the vigor and sagacity of his mind; by an unselfish and ever active patriotism; and by a combination of admirable qualities for professional life and civil administration. His simplicity of character no elevation could alter, no popularity inflate. Most men look up to office, thinking it will change their essential littleness. He was of such mental and philosophical stature that lie could look down upon it, in whatever shape presented, as only a convenient instrumentality to promote the common weal. No amount of training could have changed his plainness of speech or address. He was emphatically no respecter of persons, yet neither lacking in courtesy nor rude in manners. In the" White House’ he was as simple in intercourse and easy of access to all comers, high or low, rich or poor, white or black, as at his own residence in Springfield. Of the vast multitudes that sought his presence for counsel or assistance, what one ever left him without increasing confidence, affection or respect? His kindness of disposition was almost an overmastering element. By nature the most genial, humane, tender-hearted, peaceable of men, the primal source of his happiness was in making others happy; and he cheerfully made himself "the servant of all," in the spirit of humility and universal good-will. His love of approbation was strong and active, but it had no tincture of personal vanity, worldly selfishness, or vicious ambition. If his self-esteem was small, his firmness and conscientiousness were sufficiently large to make him strong and resolute in adhering to the right, as revealed to his understanding. To change his position was always to take a step in advance; but his circumspection was so immense that he could not be hurried to any conclusion, especially if the public welfare was involved in it. Hence he was "slow and sure." On a certain occasion he said—"I have been charged with being, tardy, and the like. I am also charges with vacillating; but I do not think that charge can be sustained. I think it cannot be shown that when have once taken a position, I have ever retreated from it," "I told him," said Frederick Douglass, with whom he was conversing, "that he had been some what slow in proclaiming equal protection to our colored soldiers and prisoners; and he replied that the country needed tasking up to that point. He hesitates in regard to it when he felt that the country was not ready for it. He knew that the colored man through out this country was a despised man, a hated man, and that if he had at first come out with such a proclamation, all the hatred which was poured out on the head of the negro race would have been visited on his administration. He said that there was preparatory work needed, and that that preparatory work had now been done. And he added:" Remember this, Mr. Douglass; remember that Milliken's Bend, Port Hudson and Fort Wagner are recent events; and that these were necessary to prepare the way for this proclamation of mine." "I thought," said Mr. Douglass, "it was reasonable; and I came to the conclusion that while Abraham Lincoln will not go down to posterity, as Abraham the Great, or as Abraham the Wise, or as Abraham the Eloquent,—although he is all three wise, great and eloquent,—he will go down to posterity, if the country is saved, as Honest Abraham; and going down thus, his name may be written any where in this wide world of ours side by side with that of Washington, without disparaging the latter."
Mr. Lincoln took the reins of government at a period of national disintegration through red-handed treason; when everywhere "men's hearts were failing them for fear, and for looking after those things that were coming upon the land"; when the flames of civil war had already made lurid the southern sky, and northern co-operative incendiaries were stealthily endeavoring to effect a universal conflagration; when the boldest held their breath, and the wisest confessed their inability, and the most far-seeing were in thick darkness; when every step was along the edge of a precipice, and the soil hot with volcanic fires; when the South was compact in rebellion, and the North so divided in allegiance as to make it extremely doubtful whether any reliable, dominant force could be found to uphold the Government; and when, through perfidy, usurpation and robbery, not a dollar was left in the national treasury, every Northern arsenal had been emptied to supply the South with arms and the munitions of war, the army rendered powerless by its reduction, and a feeble navy scattered to remote parts of the globe. In such appalling circumstances what caution and sagacity, what deliberation as to ways and means, what balancing of chances and possibilities, what unquenchable hope and indomitable courage, what commanding qualities of head and heart were needed to so combine the popular elements and so secure the general approval as to save the republic and place it on a foundation that could not be shaken! Abraham Lincoln was thus fortunately endowed, and therefore, the rebellion is no more, and the Union made imperishable on the basis of universal liberty. Fortunate indeed was it that he was not a man of hot impulse on the one hand, nor a lover of arbitrary power on the other. The crisis demanded neither inflamed blood nor an iron one-man will, but absolute faith in the people, sound judgment, ready tact, abiding cheerfulness, inflexible perseverance, large common sense, strong powers of reasoning, incorruptible integrity, and unalloyed patriotism; and it found these attributes in him whose tragical death the civilized world is now commemorating by all possible expressions of grief and horror.
It is true, Mr. Lincoln was frequently subjected to the severest criticism and the most sweeping condemnation, from different motives, and for very different objects; but, whether the accusations came from one party or another, or whether they were well or ill meant, they were such as measurably to neutralize each other. Now he was accused of being mere driftwood; without insight or decision; passively governed by the events of the hour; timidly following instead of boldly leading public sentiment; a trifler in spirit and a trickster in policy; this hour mere clay in the hands of Blair, the next manipulated and controlled by Seward; "honest" enough, but utterly incompetent to fill a position of such trust; never born to be a commander, and too ignorant of the compass to be safely entrusted with the helm. Anon he was charged with usurping constitutional powers, striking down freedom of speech and of the press, tyrannically suspending the writ of habeas corpus, wilfully disregarding popular feeling and sentiment, and in other ways playing the dictator and deserving impeachment.
One thing is certain: whatever he was at the time of his assassination, he was after it. The murderous deed made him neither the better nor the worse as to his merits or defects; and though the old maxim, "Never speak ill of the dead," may have been charitably observed by those who denounced him while living, but who are now among his most flattering eulogists, it can never justify transforming a despot into a patriot of the purest stamp, or an imbecile into one worthy to be associated with Washington!
"O, for an hour of Andrew Jackson!" was a cry often heard to the disparagement of Mr. Lincoln;" for then short work would be made with the rebellion, as it was with nullification. But the cases are not parallel. Extravagant credit has been given to Andrew Jackson for his summary dealing with the South Carolina factionists. But what had he to fear? They had no supporters at the North, and scarcely any at the South, outside of the limits of that always seditions commonwealth; and within those limits their opponents constituted a formidable minority, able to make themselves both heard and felt. The question related to a tariff; not to slavery. With the whole country to stand by him, it required neither rare courage nor special administrative ability on his part to crash the contemptible nullifying junto; yet, in the final settlement of the question, some concessions were made to them. True, Andrew Jackson had an iron will, lion-like energy, and a military pres-
<c03>
tige; but, if he had been called to grapple with the Slave Power in fierce rebellion and organized into an independent confederacy, and had nothing but an almost equally divided North to rely upon for support, he would have found that he had a very different task to perform, requiring much higher qualities than those of mere pluck and resolution. There is—doubtless there will continue to be—an honest difference of individual opinion, whether President Lincoln, in view of the appalling difficulties of his situation, and, for a time, the almost chaotic state of the nation, could have successfully or prudently gone further or faster in his efforts to put down the rebellion; but it must be conceded that the collective judgment of the country and of Europe is favorably recorded as to his wisdom and statesmanship, and the excellence of his administration,—culminating, in a comparatively brief period, in crushing the most formidable rebellion recorded in the pages of history, giving liberty to millions held in brutal servitude, and placing the American republic, in all that is truly great and glorious, at the head of the nations. 
Nevertheless, no special claim is to be made in behalf of Mr. Lincoln either as a philanthropist or reformer, in a radical sense. He made no such claim for himself, and sought no such distinction. In fairness, he is to be judged and compared within the sphere of politics, on the plane of official station, as President of the United States, restricted by constitutional limitation, and bound by his oath to maintain the sovereignty of the Federal Government, and preserve the unity and peace of the republic. 
Before his election to the Presidency, he lived in a Slate where office-seeking was most likely to be successful by assailing the Anti-Slavery cause, and sanctioning whatever pro-slavery concessions a haughty slave oligarchy at the South might demand. But he was proof against temptation in that direction, and zealously espoused the unpopular side, subjecting himself to much ridicule and reproach, and, for a time at least, rendering his political prospects anything but flattering. Yet he ultimately was elected to the State Legislature and to Congress. Justly believing the Mexican war to have been waged without provocation, and for a most iniquitous purpose,—namely, the seizure of territory for the extension of Southern slavery,—he refused to give it his sanction as a member of the House of Representatives. He steadfastly maintained the right of petition, voting a0gainst laying on the table, without consideration, petitions in favor of the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia and against the slave trade. Mr. Gott, of Pennsylvania, having introduced a resolution directing the committee for the District to report a bill abolishing the slave traffic in the District, Mr. Lincoln moved an amendment, instructing them to introduce a bill for the abolition of slavery within its limits; but providing compensation to the masters, and requiring the bill to be submitted to the people of the District for their acceptance or rejection. He ably supported the Wilmot Proviso, having voted for it, "in one way or another," to use his own language "about forty times." He resisted to the utmost the perfidious repeal of the Missouri compromise, and stood by ill-fated Kansas throughout her bloody struggle with Border Ruffianism and the minions of the Slave Power. In 1856 Mr. Lincoln's name headed the Republican Electoral ticket in Illinois, in support of the nomination of John C. Fremont for the Presidency. Whenever or wherever the South attempted to extend her slaveholding away beyond her own limits and the compromises of the Constitution, he met her with inflexible purpose. Yet neither at that time nor at any subsequent period did he assume to be an abolitionist He never sought to evade, abrogate or amend the Constitution in regard to any of its pro-slavery guaranties, but was for adhering to the instrument according to its uniform interpretation from the time of its adoption; justifying the act to himself on the ground of preserving the Union as a matter of paramount importance, and believing that, by restricting its extension, slavery would gradually perish. Herein he participated in the moral blindness and terrible infatuation which then prevailed throughout the country, but which, through. Divine retribution for our great national iniquity, no longer deceive or mislead. When a candidate for the Senate of the United States, he made the memorable declaration— 
"A house divided against itself cannot stand. I believe this Government cannot endure permanently half slave and half free. I do not expect the Union to be dissolved—I do not expect the house to fall, but I do expect it will cease to be divided."
Yet, on his way from Springfield to Washington in 1861 to be inaugurated as President of the United States, he could soothingly say to the South— 
"We mean to leave you alone, and in no way to interfere with your institutions—to abide by all and every compromise of the Constitution. Fellow-citizens, friends, brethren, may I call you in my new position?"
Again, though six slave States had already organized themselves into an independent confederacy, and every other slave State but Delaware(where slavery had but a nominal existence) was openly taking the initiative steps to follow their treasonable example; and though the" Star of the West," on her errand of mercy to the starving garrison at Fort Sumter, had been ignominiously driven by shot and shell from the harbor of Charleston, and numerous forts, arsenals, custom-houses, post-offices, &c.,&., had been treacherously seized by them; yet, in a speech at Steubenville, Ohio, Mr. Lincoln had the fatuity to declare— 
"I believe the devotion to the Constitution is equally great on both sides of the river. It is only the different understanding of that instrument that causes the difficulty."
Again, at Pittsburg, Pa., he ignored the necessary and palpable relation of slavery to the rebellion by saying— 
"Notwithstanding the troubles across the river,(pointing southwardly across the Monongahela, and smiling.) there is no crisis but an artificial one(!)—If the great American people only keep their temper, on both skies of the lines, the troubles will come to an end, and, just as the clouds have cleared away in due time, so will this great nation continue to prosper as heretofore."
Whereas, it was an explosion as natural as a volcanic shower of stones and lava—the irrepressible conflict between the forces of freedom and oppression— the inevitable falling of the house because it was divided against itself. It was not a question of temper at all, but of principle—of eternal justice, the rights of human nature, and the sovereignty of God. No peace or prosperity could be predicated of such a covenant with death, "but only the "laying up of wrath against the day of wrath," to the ultimate overthrow of the nation. 
At Cleveland Mr. Lincoln, referring to the slave-holding lords of the South, said—"Have they not all their rights now that they ever had? Do they not have their fugitive slaves returned now as ever? "By "rights" be meant complete dominion over their sable victims to deal with them as with cattle and swine; and by his reference to the rendition of fugitive slaves, be indicated no purpose or wish to have it otherwise. Yet, when he reached Philadelphia, addressing the citizens assembled in the old Independence Hall, with singular inconsistency he said— 
"All my political warfare has been in favor of the teachings that came forth from these sacred walls, within which the Declaration of Independence was adopted. May my right hand forget its cunning, and my tongue cleaves to the roof of my mouth, if ever I prove false to those teachings... If this country cannot be saved upon the principle of the Declaration of Independence, it will be truly awful But if it cannot be saved without giving up that principle, I was about to say I would rather be assassinated on this spot than surrender it"
affecting declaration! Yet, six months later, in a letter to Horace Greeley, Mr. Lincoln abandoned this ground by saying— 
"If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the same time destroy slavery, I do not agree with them. If could save the Union without freeing any slave, I would do it; if I could save it by freeing all the slaves, I would do it; and if 
<c04>
I could do it by freeing some and leaving others alone, I would also do that. My paramount object is to save the Union, and not either to save or destroy slavery."
Surely, such declarations are not only paradoxical but utterly irreconcilable. For, in saving the Union with four millions of bondmen still to clank their galling fetters and to pierce the ear of the Lord of Sabaoth with their cries, what would it still be but "a house divided against itself," the overthrow of which would be as sure as the law of gravitation And what would such salvation prove in the end bat otter destruction? 
Three weeks after this letter was written, on the 13th of September, 1862, Mr. Lincoln gave formal audience to a deputation from all the religious denominations of the city of Chicago which had been appointed to wait upon him, and frankly said to them— 
"I admit that slavery is at the root of the rebellion or at least in sine qua non. The ambition of politicians may have instigated them to act, but they work have been impotent without slavery as their instrument. "He also admitted that to the issuing, at that time, of an emancipation proclamation, he raised no objections on legal or constitutional grounds; and, moreover, that such a proclamation would help us in Europe, and somewhat at the North. Yet—strange de fusion and marvelous incredulity—be hesitated to strike at that which confessedly caused the rebellion and constituted its vitality; first, because he feared I would be inoperative," like the Pope's bull against the comet"; next, because it might precipitate the secession of the Border States; next, because it would be difficult to know what to do with the emancipated; and, finally, because he could not see" what possible result of good would follow the issuing of such a proclamation." Nevertheless, only nine days after wards, he issued a proclamation, in which, after giving the rebellious States a hundred days' grace in which to lay down their arms and be pardoned, so that they could still hold their slaves securely as before under the Constitution, he threatened them, if they did not succumb within the time specified, that he would liberate all their slaves—a threat duly executed on the 1st of January, 1863. 
Still confused and without a fixed policy, in his annual message to Congress only one month prior to the time solemnly decreed by him for the abolition of slavery in the eleven Confederate States, he recommended to Congress an amendment of the Constitution, to the effect that every State, loyal or disloyal wherein slavery then existed, which should abolish the same therein before the year l900,(!) should receive due compensation; but, in case any State should reintroduce or tolerate slavery therein, after being compensated, it should refund to the United States the bonds so received, and all interest paid thereon Here was an indefinite lease of life given to that awful system," without which," to borrow the President's language," the rebellion could never have existed, and without which it could not continue" manifestly evincing a most bewildered state of mind on the part of Mr. Lincoln. There was no need of such an amendment—to say nothing of the impact cability of its adoption—for he had openly admitted his constitutional right, under the war power, to give freedom to at least three-fourths of the entire slave population. It is difficult to account for such incoherency of reasoning and antagonism of measures. 
On the 12th of July, in an interview with the members of Congress from the Border States, Mr. Lincoln besought them to" consent to substantiate compensation for that which was sure to be lost any other event," and added— 
"I do not speak of emancipation at once, but of decision at once to emancipate. Room in South America for colonization can be obtained cheaply, and in abundance, and when numbers shall be large enough to be company and encouragement for on another, the freed people will not be so reluctant to go."
 Two things are here noteworthy: first, that Mr. Lincoln did not recognize the right of the oppressed to immediate freedom, and he thus seemingly sanctioned their enslavement for an indefinite period secondly, that when emancipated, he favored their transportation to South America, partly for the absurd reason that there they would find abundance of room or, inferentially, if they remained, very close quarter here! As if in a state of freedom they would not be able to find easy accommodation in this their native land, which is capable of receiving the population o the globe! And as if they would not all be as much needed to cultivate the soil as ever! 
So infested was the mind of Mr. Lincoln with the idea of the desirableness of colonizing the colored population abroad, that it was in consequence of his own urgent solicitations Congress, at its session of 1862, parsed an act placing at his disposal the sum of$600, 000, to be expended at his discretion in removing, will their own consent, free persons of African descent to some country which they might select as adapted to their condition and circumstances. And this unwarrantable appropriation was made at a time when the national war debt was accumulating at the rate of five hundred millions of dollars a year! 
Mr. Lincoln's interview at the White House with a deputation of colored persons, in order to ascertain their views on the subject and to state to them his own, while it was unquestionably well-intended, was equally ludicrous and humiliating. It is impossible to read what be said to the deputation, by way of enticement, without losing all gravity of countenance. It seems like a blistering satire upon the scheme proposed, rather than a serious argument in its support But the single disastrous experiment made by the President, soon afterwards, in colonizing a few hundreds within the Haytien dominion, sufficed to break the spell that bound him, and he abandoned the project entirely. Ascertaining that these emigrants bad been cruelly deceived, and were in a suffering conditions, by no fault of theirs, the President lost no time in sending a vessel to give them succor and bring them back to their native country. Thus proving that be was actuated by humane, however mistaken views and ready to acknowledge his error as soon as he saw it: 
These reminders of the checkered views and efforts of Mr. Lincoln, in dealing with the terrible question of slavery, are not made to detract aught from his great merits, but solely in the spirit of justice; for excessive and unqualified panegyric is neither appreciation nor praise. Be this his charitable extenuation: no public man ever occupied so trying a position, or bad so many conflicting passions, opinions, interests, prejudices and discords, out of which to bring liberty triumphant The work to be done, in order to restore peace and save the republic, was the total abolition of slavery. Bat at the time of Mr. Lincoln's inauguration in 1861, how many, outside of the small band of Abolitionists, saw or were willing to admit that slavery and the rebellion were simply cause and effect, and, therefore, no quarter must be given to the former if the government would see confederate treason overthrown? What encouragement did the President find in the prevailing sentiment of the North—ay, even of his own party—to warrant him in going then, or at any subsequent period, one step faster than he did in the way of emancipation? Not that he was a trimmer, or timidly disposed, or unwilling to assume grave responsibilities or perform unpleasant duties with alacrity; but only that he was hugely endowed with sense to perceive that no decree of his, if either far in advance or hotly in defiance of THE PEOPLE'S WILL, could avail anything; especially in such a feverish state of things, when the very elements were melting with fervent beat He knew that though in the Electoral College be received 180 votes, Breckinridge 72, Bell 39, and Douglas 12, yet at the polls he only received 1,857,610 votes; Douglas 1,865,976; Breckinridge 847,953; and Bell 590,631. Making an aggregate of the political forces arrayed against him of 2,804,660, and leaving him in a popular minority of 946,950, whose party leanings were entirely with the South. Was that to be strongly entrenched? Was that a working power in such a crisis? Was, it not a result to snake the boldest pause, and the most impetuous circumspect? Surely, the verdict of history will 
<c05>
be that no man ever did so large a business on so small a capital in the service of freedom and humanity as Abraham Lincoln. 
See what was done at the session of Congress prior to his inauguration, and terminating on the 4th of March, 1861:— 
"Be it resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, (two-thirds of both Houses concurring.) That the following article be proposed to the Legislatures of the several States as an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which, when ratified by three-fourths of said Legislatures, shall be valid, to all intents and purposes, as a part of the said Constitution, namely: 
ARTICLE 12- No amendment shall be made to the Constitution which will authorize or give to Congress the power to abolish or interfere, within any State, with the domestic institutions thereof, including that of persons held to labor or service by the laws of said State."
This humiliating and iniquitous resolution was adopted in the House of Representatives, then largely Republican, by the strong vote of 133 to 65— more than two-thirds in its favor! It was also adopted in the Senate by a two-thirds vote—24 to 12. 
Less than three weeks before Mr. Lincoln's inauguration, in the Peace Conference of the several States assembled at Washington, it was voted,(9 to 8) Rhode Island in the affirmative—"When any territory north or south of the parallel of thirty-six degrees and thirty minutes, within such boundary as Congress may prescribe, shall contain a population equal to that required for a member of Congress, it shall be admitted into the Union on an equal footing with the original States, with or without involuntary servitude as the Constitution of such State may provide. "The following was also adopted (12 to 7):
"SECTION 7. Congress shall provide by law that the United States shall pay to the owner the full value of his fugitive from labor, in all cases where the marshal or other officer whose duty it was to arrest such fugitive was prevented from doing so by violence or intimidation, from mobs or other riotous assemblages, or when, after arrest, such fugitive was rescued by like violence or intimidation, and the owner thereby deprived of the same; and the acceptance of such payment shall preclude the owner from further claim to such fugitive."
Such was the pro-slavery sentiment and purpose of the country presented to Mr. Lincoln, even by his own political party, when he entered upon his official duties, with the Southern confederacy in full operation, its corner-stone resting upon the doctrine" that the negro is not equal to the white man; and that slavery, subordination to the superior race, is his natural and normal condition." What hope was there that the country could be saved?
 Even then, however, our noblest bard of freedom— JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER—could encouragingly sing:—
"Yet o'er the blackness of the storm 
A bow of promise bends on high, 
And gleams of sunshine, soft and warm, 
Break through our clouded sky.
East, West, and North, the shout is heard, 
Of freemen rising for the right: 
Each valley hath its rallying word— 
Each hill its signal light.
O'er Massachusetts' rocks of grey 
The strengthening light of freedom shines, 
Rhode Island's Narraganset Bay, 
And Vermont's snow-hung pines!
From Hudson's frowning palisades 
To Alleghany's laurelled crest, 
O'er lakes and prairies, streams and glades, 
It shines upon the West."
Nevertheless, it was not until eighteen months after the war was declared—eighteen months of hope deferred, and expectation blasted, and victory indefinitely postponed—blood flowing like water, but in vain—that it was deemed safe or expedient to strike a deadly blow at the root of the rebellion, by abolishing slavery throughout the Confederate States. The Emancipation Proclamation of January 1, 1863, was the turning point of the struggle. From that day the doom of' Rebeldom was sealed—"the stars in their courses fought against Sisera"—the tide of victory was turned against the enemy with constantly augmenting power —and the nation, rising from its abasement, heard with trembling and awe a voice from heaven, saying —"I will sprinkle clean water-upon you, and ye shall be clean: from all your filthiness, and from all your idols, will I cleanse you. And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and ye shall keep my judgments, and do them. And ye shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers; and I will call for the corn, and will increase it, and lay no famine upon you. Then shall ye remember your own evil ways, and your doings that were not good, and shall loathe yourselves in your own sight, for your iniquities, and for your abominations. Not for your own sakes do I this, saith the Lord God, be it known unto you; be ashamed and confounded for your own ways, O house of Israel! In the day that I shall have cleansed you from all your iniquities, I will also cause you to dwell in the cities, and the wastes shall be builded. And the desolate land shall be tilled, whereas it lay desolate in the sight of all that passed by. And they shall say, This land that was desolate is become like the garden of Eden; and the waste, and desolate, and ruined cities are become fenced, and are inhabited. I the Lord have spoken it, and will do it"
"Upon this act," said President Lincoln, "sincerely believed to be an act of justice, warranted by the Constitution upon military necessity, I invoke the considerate judgment of mankind, and the gracious favor of Almighty God." That favor has since been shown in a marvellous manner, and that judgment pronounced in strains of hosannah. For while" the deep damnation of his taking off" has powerfully affected the imagination and shocked the sensibilities of Christendom, it never would have found such expressions of grief and love except that he had died a martyr to the cause of universal freedom. This, this alone it s that has sent an electric thrill through the world, drew millions of weeping mourners around his bier as with imposing solemnities it passed from the national capital through thronging cities and towns to distant Illinois, and will give him immortal historic renown. From the hour he put his signature to that Proclamation, he no longer stumbled in the dark, but began to grow in grace and in knowledge—to be animated by a conviction that he was to be an instrument in the hand of God to bring about great and glorious ends— to feel strong in his purpose to make no compromise with the dark spirit of slavery. His own solemnly repeated pledge is the sublimest inscription that can be chiselled upon his monument or affixed to his statue."-"I shall not attempt to retract or modify the Emancipation Proclamation, nor shall I return to slavery any person who is free by the terms of that Proclamation, or by any of the acts of Congress. If the people should, by whatever mode or means, make it an Executive duty to re-enslave such persons, another, and not I, must be the instrument to perform it" His last official utterance, too, on this subject, in his grandly phenomenal inaugural address on the 4th of March last, is worthy to be written in starry letters upon the sky:—"If we shall suppose that American Slavery is one of those offences which, in the Providence of God, most needs come, but which, having continued through His appointed time. He now wills to remove, and that He gives to both North and South this terrible war as the woe due to those by whom the offence came, shall we discern there is any departure from those divine attributes which the believers in a living God always ascribe to him? Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away. Yet, if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondmen in two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toll shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword—as was said three thousand years ago, so it still must be said, that the judgments of the Lord are, true and righteous altogether."
Yes, dollar for dollar, blood for blood, torture for torture, life for life have been retributively exacted in full!
<c06>
"We hoped for peace: our eyes survey
The blood-red dawn of Freedom's day;
We prayed for love to loose the chain:
‘Tis shore by battle's axe in twain'!
Nor skill nor strength nor zeal of ours 
Has mined and heaved the hostile towers;
Not by our hands is turned the key
That sets the sighing captives free.
A redder sea than Egypt's wave
Is piled and parted for the slave;
A darker cloud moves on in light'
A fiercer fire is guide by night!"
Let us adore the justice of God, even in our humiliation and bereavement, and penitently that we richly deserve whatever chastisements we have received at his hands. Hitherto, with references to our colored population, our lips have spoken lies, and our tongues have muttered perverseness; we have conceived mischief, and brought iniquity our feet have run to evil, and we have made haste to shed innocent blood; we have groped for the wall like the blind, and stumbled at noon-day as in the night; we have spoken oppression and revolt, and there has been no judgment in our goings. Our own ways has a righteous God recompensed upon our heads.
Where, now, is that satanic slave power sought to exalt itself "above all that is called God"! It. sceptre is broken, its throne in the dust its empire annihilated, itself buried in the grave of eternal infamy. Where are the haughty and defiant leaders of the rebellion? Some are under the sod; others are outlaw, and wanderers in foreign climes, shunned as lepers, and carrying the brand of Cain upon their foreheads; while other, are incarcerated as felons, traitors and assassins," gnawing their tongue for pain," and waiting to hear their doom pronounced. The chief of them all-chief in dissimulation and cant, in internal-pride and ambition, in guilt and barbarity, as well as in official station and authority —Jefferson Davis, is occupying a felon's cell within the strong walls of Fortress Monroe, and trembling for his fate. What that fate deserves to be the colossal crimes of which he has been guilty by the laws of God and by the laws of the land leave no room for doubt. It is to be hanged by the neck, on a gallows higher than <illegible> man's, till he is- "dead, dead, dead" For either let him be capitally executed, or else let the nation for ever abolish the gallows. Certainly, there is but one thing likely to save him from ignominious fate; and that is his crinoline, and pitiful disguise as a poor old woman, running for life in military boots! This is the same of the ludicrous—tragedy, comedy and farce cominingled—a thousand step, from the sublime to the ridiculous. It may be difficult to hang the poor wretch who is exciting the decision of the world and extorting the guffaw of the universe! 
Where is the great and formidable rebellion? Its end is come—broken in pieces like a potter's vessel—collapsed like a bubble. Grant, and Sherman and sherridan, and Thomas have swept through the gasconading South with their victorious "mudsills," irresistible as fate, and with the besom of destruction; and Farragut and Porter, and Dupont. and Gillmore have captured all her ports, and reduced all her fortifications by the sea. The star-spangled banner waves victoriously from every flag-staff from Maine to Texas. from the Lakes to California. Grant announces the bloody conflict closed in favor of Liberty and Right; Sherman has taken farewell of his gallant veteran soldiers; and the Government is sending home, by hundreds of thousands, its brave defenders, covered with the smoke and dust of a hundred battle-fields, marked with many a scar and gaping wound, but crowned with the laurels of fame—sending them to homes long darkened by anxiety and sadness, but now more radiant with hope and vocal with joy. Now, therefore, my may the inspiring strain be sung by the shore of the resounding Atlantic, and echoed back in thunder tones beyond the Rocky Mountains— 
"Hail to the land whereon we tread—
Our fondest boast! 
The sepulchre of mighty dead, 
The truest hearts that ever bled. 
Who sleep on glory's brightest bed—
A fearlesa host: 
No SLAVE is HERE—our unchained feet 
Walk freely as the waves that beat 
Our coast"
How strong, now, are our national foundations! Through suffering and triumph, through the sundering of all chains and the liberation of all the oppressed our country enters upon a career of prosperity and glory,—if faithful to all the requirements of justice towards all its inhabitants,—that shall culminate is overturning, by the majesty of its greatness and the splendor of its example, all the despotisms of the globe, and leading all nations up to the temple of liberty and peace. But there must be no compromise the self evident truths of our Declarations of Independence; otherwise there shall again fall upon us the vials of divine retribution. The government must be by all, for all, and over all. There must be no complexional proscription, North or South, East or West but perfect equality before the law, at the ballot—box, and in all that pertains to citizenship. We must be one people, though made up of all nations—"Diverse as the billows, yet one as the sea"—
with universal enlightenment, perfect toleration and our banner flung to the breeze, bearing the glorious motto of 
"LlBERTY, EQUALITY,FRATERNITY—,ONE BROTHERHOOD, AND GOD THE FATHER OF US ALL!"
Though slavery is forever abolished by the first of Heaven, and the voice of the people through the amendment of their Constitution, yet the spirit very remains. greatly shorn of its power for evil, it is true, but still potent for mischief. and ready to persecute and proscribe in every possible manner the former victims of its cruelty. That demon spirit must be cast out, and allowed no position or power Church or Slate. The Government must go to the extreme verge of its constitutional powers to insure to the colored population of the South the common rights and immunities of citizenship no haste either in the reconstruction or the readmission of the late rebellious States. It is a question of the gravest importance, wholly anomalous in our national history, without precedent in the past, and to be selected with extreme circumspection and consummate wisdom, on the basis of universal justice shall have bloody local conflicts, atrocious caste legislation, anarchy in place of law and order, and constant complexional feuds. Peace be to the ashes and honor to the memory of Abraham Lincoln, the martyred President of the United States! He has died that his country might live From the lowest obscurity he has risen to a sublime altitude in the service of Freedom and Humanity. All nations and peoples shall do homage to his virtues and applaud his crowning deeds. No more fitting tribute can be paid to his character than the bestowed by an English poet in the following felicitous and graphic lines:—
"so he grew up, a destined work to do,
And lived to do it: four long-suffering years'
Ill-fate, ill feeling, ill report, lived through,
And then he heard the hisses changed to cheers,
The taunts to tribute, the abuse to praise,
And took both with the unwavering mood:
Till, as he came on light, from darkling days,
And seemed to touch the goal from where he stood,
A felon hand, between the goals and him,
Reached from behind his back, a trigger prest,—
And those perplexed and patient eyes were dim,
Those gaunt, long-laboring limbs were laid to rest!
The words of mercy were upon his lips,
Forgiveness in his heart and on his pen,
When this vile murderer brought swift eclipse
To thoughts of peace on earth, good will to men.
The old word and the New, from sea to sea,
Utter one voice of sympathy and shame!
Sore heart, so stopped when it at last beat free
Sad life, cut short just as its triumph came
A deed accurst! Strokes have been struck before 
By the assassin's hand, whereof men doubt
If more of horror or disgrace they bore;
But thy foul crime, like cain's, stands darkly out.
Vile hand, that brandest murder on a strife,
whate'er its grounds, stoutly and bravely striven;
And with the martyr's crown crownest a life
with much to praise, little to be forgiven."

