THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMIND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 47. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1717.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
There is an amount of malice, dissimulation, mendacity, and other features of heartless scoundrelism, in the following article, sufficient to stock a penitentiary with felons.
THE FREED NEGROES.
What is freedom? is the question which forces itself now on fifty thousand starving, perishing negroes, lying all along the banks of the Mississippi, sinking rapidly into graves, if they be so fortunate indeed as to obtain burial. What is philanthropy? is the question presented to the civilized world, looking at the horrors, past recounting, which mad abolitionism has brought upon these poor wretches.
If one ventures to oppose the schemes of abolitionists, he is roundly abused as a pro-slavery man, an enemy of liberty. But what is liberty? Is it the privilege to starve, as these thousands are starving on the Mississippi? Is it freedom to change the warm cabin and the old home life for exposure, suffering and death on the inhospitable shores of the great river? Shall any Christian man hesitate to condemn as cruel, barbarous, heathenish, the abolition policy which has produced these miseries, agonies and shames? If there be one citizen of this country who is unwilling or afraid to call this abolition work by its true name, a crime against God and civilization, let him hide his head.
If Rev. Mr. Fiske's accounts are correct, and they cannot be doubted, no words can suffice to paint the present sufferings of the negroes who are the victims of the abolitionists. They loudly call for our aid. Their wail of anguish is heard all along the Western rivers. We cannot be too lavish in our bounties. We should, as Christians and men, pour out of our abundance to soften the horrors of that liberty with which abolitionism has cursed them.
On Monday evening last, the Rev. Mr. Fiske made an address at Cooper Institute, before the Freedmen's Association, in behalf of these poor sufferers. His statements are indorsed by all the abolition newspapers. He described scenes in the negro camps which are calculated to move to tears the stoutest men. And he made this remark, which we quote from the Tribune report of his address:-
"The suffering of these people was a national dishonor. If they were not rescued, history would write something like this: 'The American people enticed within their lines tens of thousands of slaves, alluring them thither with promise of liberty, took from among them all able-bodied men to reinforce their armies, huddled the rest together in great camps, and left them to perish of nakedness, by the hundred.' How, he asked, would that page of history read?"
How does it read? The page is written already. History does not unwrite itself. The simple story of the dying negro boy, deserted by the army, deserted by his companions, left to perish in the pitiless storm, which Mr. Fiske told with much pathos, is on the page of history. The tears, and moans, and uncounted pains of the fifty thousand perishing negroes that he describes, are now part of history, and cannot be forced back, suppressed, or forgotten. Never in the history of nations was there a greater crime against humanity than the American Government has committed, at the bidding of its abolition politicians, in the treatment of the Southern negro. Holding up to the world the Goddess of Liberty as the guide and teacher, doing all that they did in the name of that goddess, they in fact were guided by hatred to the slaveholder, and freed the slaves because they thought thus to punish the owners. The profession of love for the poor black man was a hypocritical pretence, as we now see proved by the resulting sorrows which they make him suffer. We have protested constantly against the evils of sudden emancipation, and the attempt to entice negroes from their homes with the vain promise of liberty. It was and is abundantly evident to every sensible man, that the abolitionist is the worst enemy of this poor dependent race. If any evidence were wanting, it is now furnished abundantly in the statements of Mr. Fiske and other men who have seen the present condition of the freedman. Nor is it possible for the abolitionists to escape the responsibility for these horrors. They demand that the government shall take care of them. On what principle? Why should government take care of the negro any more than the white poor man? Why shall the government be at the expense of feeding, clothing and warming the negro in Mississippi, any more than the Irishman or American in Maine and Massachusetts? All this must be done by the benevolence of the rich people of the country. But what is before us in the future? Will gentlemen look forward to the state of things their wild abolition schemes are about to produce in the South? Is this the free land we are to have as the result of abolition plans-a land in which millions of negroes will be suffering, starving, dying; and all in the name of liberty? Will it comfort the negro, when he lies perishing for want of food, to tell him he is free? Will it relieve his agony over his starving wife and the emaciated bodies of his dead children, to hold up before him the picture of a slave with his chains falling off, and tell him that liberty and death are better than slavery and life in comfort and plenty? The hypocrisy of abolitionism has been already well illustrated, and was illustrated at the meeting at Cooper Institute the other evening. The pretence of philanthropy in some men there was disgusting. They were the men responsible for the sufferings of the negroes they pretended to desire to aid. They were the men against whom the accusing breath of every poor, starving freedman in the South goes up to God. Hide it as we may, conceal it as we may, gloss it over with painted eagles and emblems of liberty as we may, the hideous truth is written on the page of history indelibly, that the Abolitionists of America, by starvation, by freezing, by every form of slow murder, destroyed thousands and thousands or poor, dependent negroes, in the years 1861, 1862 and 1863, and did it in the name of liberty, but in reality to gratify their hatred of Southern slave-owners. The record stands; oceans will not wash it out. The question now is, how shall we best repair the wrong which has been done? How shall we alleviate the horrors which the abolitionists have inflicted? How shall we stop the increase of this misery and suffering? 
We do not believe in trusting money to the New York Freedman's Association, so long as we see the men in it who are responsible for the very suffering they pretend now to wish to alleviate. We are afraid they would use the money to increase the number of free negroes, to be candidates for starvation. We don't believe in men who belong to "Emancipation Leagues," pledged to destroy the Union, and to throw all the slaves they possibly can on the cold charities of the world. Mr. Fiske himself is, perhaps, a good medium of disbursing funds for the relief of the negroes. But we would not trust a dollar to the hands of the abolitionists, who have brought the negroes to this fate.-N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
<c02>
THE CONSPIRATORS IN 1851.
The following is a copy of another letter from the. Jefferson Davis correspondence:—
STEURLAND, NEAR EDGEFIELD, June 16, 1851. [Confidential.] My dear Colonel,-The looker on can sometimes see more than the gamester, such being your situation at this time in reference to our affairs in South Carolina. I hope I may appeal to you for counsel and suggestions. Our people are very much in earnest, but there is fear of division and intestine contest. An issue has been made before the people, making it imperative on our convention to put South Carolina on the trial of separate secession. How will such a move affect the party of true men in your State? Will it help you, or will it impair the strength or interfere with the onward movements of the State's rights parties in other States? I believe this State could be induced to make any sacrifice for the common cause of those who contend that the general government is a confederacy, and not a consolidated government. If it is of the latter character, the Southern States are doomed to degraded subordination. They can hold their rights by no other means than sufferance. Should South Carolina move alone, without the assurance from her neighbors of cooperation, she will, I fear, make a vain sacrifice. Give me your opinion confidentially as to the course she should pursue, so as far as she may affect the interest of other Southern States.
Do write freely. Believe me, yours, with the highest respect.
A. P. BUTLER.
Col. Jefferson Davis, Mississippi.
P. S. I wrote to you at Jackson, supposing that a letter will reach from that place, as soon as from any other.

BEECHER ATTACKS THE IRISH IN LIVERPOOL.
Beecher has been delivering a soaping address at Liverpool, for the comfort of the English Abolitionists, who send out privateers to prey upon American commerce. In it he charged upon the Irish the outrages committed upon the colored people. It was, he said, their work "entirely." This proved highly acceptable to his hearers in Philharmonic Hall. This fellow is an ingrain and infamous calumniator. There is no falsehood which he will scruple at uttering, for the purpose of winning over the English to the side of the Abolitionists in this country. How such a fellow can be allowed to retain the position of a preacher even in a Protestant pulpit, is beyond our comprehension; for he is "a liar, and the truth is not in him." He labored long and hard to show that the American whites in the Free States never treated the colored race badly, or allowed them to be so treated by others. Now, every man here knows that, if there is anything which the Yankee more heartily loathes than another, it is the negro, as he is found among us. They are never regarded as moral and social equals, under any circumstances. The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher does not so regard them or treat them. A portion of his audience seemed to see through his attempt to humbug them, and interrupted him by calls of "soap, soap!"-Boston Pilot.

A SOCKDOLOGER FOR BEECHER.
The rector of Liverpool has sent the following letter to the Secretary of the Emancipation Society:
CHILWALL, Oct. 10, 1863.
SIR,-In reply to your letter, requesting me to inform my congregation that Mr. H. W. Beecher "will deliver a lecture in the Philharmonic Hall, on the American war and emancipation," I beg to inform you that I decline to invite my congregation to attend a lecture on that species of "emancipation" which Lord Brougham, in my opinion justly, calls a "hollow present, designed to produce a slave insurrection."
I return you the platform ticket you have sent me, not intending to attend the lecture, being of opinion that persons professing to be the ministers of a merciful God, "the author of peace and lover of concord," might be better employed than in advocating a fratricidal war, accompanied by atrocities which, as Lord Brougham says again, "Christian times have seen nothing to equal, and at which the whole world stands aghast almost to incredulity."
Your obedient servant,
AUGUSTUS CAMPBELL,
Rector of Liverpool.
MR. ROBERT TRIMBLE.

GENERAL BUTLER NOT A DEMOCRAT.
General Butler takes ground that "the rebel States must be regarded as destroyed." He knows that there is no such thing in fact, in theory, in any way, as "rebel States." This is a fiction of his brain, of the brain of those agreeing with him. States cannot rebel, but the people may. The people South have rebelled, but the States have not. A State cannot commit the crime of treason, nor can it be punished for the crime of treason. He and Sumner arc abler than Burke, for Burke did not know how to frame an indictment against a whole people. They have framed one, and found the people guilty of the charge, have pronounced sentence, and intend to use the armies of the North, the Democratic armies of the North, to carry that sentence into execution. They intend to destroy the States South; they intend to force their own laws, conceived in the fertile brain of Music Hall, upon the people of the South. This is not Democracy; it is not the Democracy believed in and taught by the great fathers of history; therefore, Gen. Butler is not a Democrat, in the broad sense of the term.
Neither is he a Democrat in the narrower sense of the issues of the day. The Democrats of to-day believe in law, in the supremacy of the old Constitution, in the value of the old Union; but Gen. Butler does not. The Democrats of to-day believe that indiscriminate confiscation, proclamation emancipation, martial law over loyal States, placing voters under military surveillance, arbitrary arrest without legal accusation, and all the brood of heresies accompanying these, are detrimental to the Republic, dangerous to the people; but Gen. Butler believes they are its only salvation. We deal in generalities, though they are not glittering. But they are specific enough. The people understand them. Then is it not a miserable sham, this pretence that, in any sense of the term, be is a Democrat? Let the people be not deceived. Gen. Butler has been met by the tempter, and he has fallen.-Boston Post.
If there is one crime greater than another for which the abolition party will be called upon to answer at the bar of heaven and on the page of history, it is the crime of inhuman cruelty to negroes.-Milwaukee News
<c03>
Selections.
MASSACHUSETTS LEGISLATURE.
In response to the call of the Governor, the Legislature assembled at the State House at noon on Wednesday, last week. Thirty-two Senators and a very large number of the Representatives were present. In the House, Speaker Bullock made some patriotic remarks, which were received with applause from the members and a large crowd of spectators in attendance. At half past twelve, the two branches met in Convention, and the Governor soon after came in and delivered his message, setting forth the reasons for convening an extra session.
The Governor states that it has been represented to him by recruiting officers, as well as citizens and magistrates, that the bounties now authorized do not offer sufficient inducements to enable the quota of troops called for from Massachusetts to be raised within the two months which scarcely remain, to us. At the request of several municipal governments, and divers patriotic and public-spirited people of the Commonwealth, he has therefore called together the General Court for the single and special purpose of devising means to secure the Massachusetts contingent, and take such action in the premises as may be found expedient.
Gov. Andrew holds that the burdens incident to the service should be shared equitably by all classes and members of the community, and he is prepared to assist in committing the Commonwealth to a policy of the payment of regular wages to the Massachusetts volunteers, in addition to all other pay, allowances,
bounties and advantages hitherto enjoyed. He is not of opinion that any increase of the bounty paid in advance is the measure needful or even desirable for the procurement of real soldiers and honest service, but a compensation to be based upon the service actually rendered in the army, reasonably proportioned to the rewards of peaceful industry at home. This offer he would hold out, not only to recruits for the new contingent, but to all future recruits, emphatically including all those enlisted men belonging to any of the Massachusetts regiments or batteries who may, under the authority of the President, re-enlist for an additional term.
Gov. Andrew concludes his patriotic message as follows:—
GENTLEMEN,-One other subject only claims consideration at the present moment. It is kindred to that which is the special object of the session. It is the just payment,-according to their enlistment and their rights as soldiers,-of the Fifty-fourth and Fifty-fifth regiments of Massachusetts Volunteers. To my own mind, the right of these men, under the existing statutes, to the lawful pay and allowances of volunteers is demonstrably clear. But if it is doubtful, it is agreed, I believe, in all quarters, that it will be the duty and the pleasure of Congress to embrace an early opportunity to prevent, by positive legislation, the continuance of that doubt. Meantime I must embrace the earliest occasion to invoke the Legislature of Massachusetts to render, justice to the men of these regiments, beyond the possibility of a doubt, by the appropriation of the needful means out of our own treasury, until the National Congress or the Executive Department shall correct the error. The employment of colored men as soldiers, usually regarded at the formation of these regiments as a mere experiment, has now become of universal acceptation. To the good conduct in camp, the proficiency in drill, the aptness to learn, the cheerful, the enthusiastic and persistent valor of these colored volunteers of Massachusetts is due, in the largest measure, the existing confidence of the people in the capacity of colored American soldiers, and the favor with which they are welcomed throughout the army. I have the most authoritative testimony that "your (our) infantry regiments have settled the question of the colored man's fitness for infantry service." But I remember with burning shame, that the men of the Fifty-fourth Massachusetts, who held the right of the advance on that terrible night of the 18th of July, in the assault on, Fort Wagner,-led by that gallant young American, whose spotless life, whose chivalrous character, and whose heroic death, there is no marble white enough to commemorate,-that these men, wearing the uniform of the National army, carrying the flag of the Union and the colors of Massachusetts, accepted, sworn and mustered into the volunteer service, as a part of the contingent force of our own Commonwealth; who have made a name for their race as enduring as history, and have fought as none others could have better fought-yes, with burning shame, I daily remember that these men-soldiers as they are-are denied the wages of soldiers, and are put off with the ten dollars per month, clothing included, prescribed for all manner of uninspected, unenlisted persons of African descent, who are employed under an exceptional statute, for whatever service they may be found competent. I think there can be no proposition of law more clear than this, viz: that colored men are competent to be enlisted into the regular army of the United States, into the volunteer army of the United States, into the navy of the United States, and to be employed in any arm of either service. The Military Enlistment law of 1814 required only that the recruit shall be a "free, effective, able-bodied man, between the ages of eighteen and fifty years." (See Act of Dec. 10, 1814.) It did not require a man to be under forty-five, nor a citizen, nor white, in which three respects it differs from the old Military Act. The Naval Act of 1814 is not less clear. The Act of Congress, entitled "An Act more effectually to provide for the national defence, by establishing an uniform militia throughout the United States," required the enrolment of "each and every free able-bodied white male citizen of the respective States." This is the first Militia Act. It was passed May 8, 1792. The act passed on the 30th April, 1790, entitled “An act for regulating the military establishment of the United States," requires "that the noncommissioned officers and privates shall, at the time of their enlistment, respectively, be able-bodied men, not under five feet six inches in height, without shoes; nor under the age of eighteen, nor above the age of forty-six years." The act of March 3d, 1795, preserves the same description, and in the same words. The act of March 16th, 1802, "fixing the military peace establishment of the United States," and the act of March, 1815, with a similar title, seem to require the recruit to be an "effective, able-bodied citizen of the United States, between the ages of eighteen and thirty-five years." None of the acts of Congress, however, exclude men from the army for color or extraction, though some of them appear to do so, for want of citizenship. But the native-born American is a citizen, whatever may be his complexion or descent. The prejudices of slavery which used to deny citizenship to the man of color, have been recently overruled by the opinion of the present Attorney General of the United States, so that, if want of citizenship could have been an ob-
* Colonel Robert G. Shaw.
<c04>
stacle, that obstacle is removed. If there were any necessary analogy (which there is not) between the enrolment of the militia and the acceptance of volunteers, then chapter 20 of the acts of 1862 would remove that obstacle, since the word "white," by that act of Congress, ceases to characterize the militia man. And, in order that no possibility of doubt might ever exist in the mind of even the most hesitant student of the law, it is provided in the 11th section of the 195th chapter, acts of 1862, "that the President of the United States is authorized to employ as many persons of African descent as he may deem necessary and proper for the suppression of the rebellion, and for this purpose he may organize and use them in such manner as he may judge best for the public welfare." This act was unnecessary, because the President, in the laws authorizing him to accept Volunteers, was never restricted to the acceptance of white men nor citizens, nor even, as I have before shown, was he limited to white men in the recruitment of the regular army. So that a man of African descent was as eligible, even before this last enactment, to be a soldier, if he chose to enlist, and the President chose to accept him, as he was to be punished for crime if convicted. The only restriction upon the right of the President to accept black soldiers being, as I have before stated, merely the limitation (now obsolete) to white militia-men, it follows that the argument which would have precluded the President from accepting colored volunteers, even before the 195th chapter of the Acts of 1862, would have prevented punishing a black man for crime: for if the laws did not expressly declare that a man of African descent could be enlisted as a soldier, neither did they declare that he might be hanged for piracy. But, under the 11th section of the 195th chapter of the Acts of 1862, the President is specifically authorized to employ persons of African descent, "and for this purpose he may organize and use them in such manner as he may judge best for the public welfare." Now, colored soldiers enlisted and organized in any manner, which would be legal, had they been white, under the President's orders, or by officers serving under the President, who shall actually render service pursuant to their enlistment, are entitled to the pay which pertains to their rank and grade. Such a soldier disobeying the lawful orders of his superiors would be punished according to the law martial, even to the infliction of the penalty of death, for cowardice before the enemy. Nor would he be permitted to plead his color as excuse for his offence. But what is the compensation fixed by law for members of volunteer organizations? The answer is found in the 6th section of the 9th chapter Acts of 1861, and is expressed in these words: "That the officers, non-commissioned officers and privates, organized as above set forth, shall, in all respects, be placed on the footing, as to pay and allowance, of similar corps of the Regular Army." A certain proviso in this section concerning the clothing allowance, applying to all volunteers, does not affect the argument. And, by the 63rd chapter of the Acts of 1861, the pay of a private is fixed at $13 per month. I am advised that the colored soldiers of South Carolina, under Major General Hunter, were at first paid without diminution of their wages. I learn from Major. General Butler that such also were the orders concerning the colored Louisiana Volunteers, while he remained in the Department of the Gulf. I am informed that, in the Navy, there is and has been no objection to paying its men, irrespective of color, according to the grade of their employment. And, even in the Army, colored men acting in the capacity of stevedores and as employees of the Quartermasters' or of the Ordnance departments, are paid according to the value of their services, and sometimes even at the rate of one dollar by the day. I have stated the legal argument, and also these additional facts, because both the facts as well as the argument encourage the confident belief that this anomalous treatment of the colored volunteers will not and cannot long continue. Meanwhile, I earnestly recommend the General Court, in simple justice to our own soldiers, and for the honor of the Commonwealth, to authorize the payment, reckoning from the date of their muster into the service of the United States, to all the enlisted men of the Fifty-fourth and Fifty-fifth Massachusetts Regiments, of that portion of the lawful monthly pay of United States Volunteers which has been or may be refused them by the Paymasters of the United States.

BRUTAL TREATMENT OF UNION PRISONERS IN RICHMOND
How they are starved to Death.-Officers thrust into Dungeons, and Left to Die.
Rev. George H. Hammer, Chaplain of the Twelfth Pennsylvania cavalry, who was recently released from Libby Prison, furnishes the Philadelphia Inquirer a long account of his captivity, and of the sufferings of our soldiers who fall into the rebel clutch. In reference to their treatment in Libby Prison, he says:-
UNION PRISONERS STARVED TO DEATH.
"Many sank under it, and falling away into living skeletons were passed over to the hospital, in the other end of the building, where they lived or died as circumstances might declare. How often have I seen this! so often that it had long ceased to call forth special attention. Did men fall down exhausted upon the floor, those stronger picked them up, and strove to have them removed to the hospital. Did they die, their bodies were carelessly thrown to one side until convenience suited them to hurry them underground. During this time the heat was intense, and the suffering from this cause alone very great. Add to this the fact that from diet and other causes, the prisoners suffered greatly from dysentery, aggravated by the disagreeable water we were obliged to drink; and I know not, indeed, how we passed the summer, or bore up under the accumulated woes of our situation.
THE AMOUNT OF FOOD ALLOWED TO PRISONERS.
"Do you ask me as to the amount of food received daily by each officer? The question is easily answered, One-fourth pound of very tough raw beef and bones, very little over ten ounces of bread, very heavy and sour, a little rice and infinitesimal quantities of salt and vinegar. This was the amount of rations received, though I will do the authorities the justice to say that it was hardly the amount allowed, the remaining part being appropriated by officials. However small the appetite of the prisoner, if well, he could eat the whole of his day's rations at one meal, and look around for more. At the time of which I speak, the officers were not allowed to purchase or receive any food but that furnished by the authorities as the daily ration. The bread was very unpalatable and unwholesome; the beef oftentimes tainted, and sometimes evidently diseased, as we could see where tumors had been extracted. If in lieu of rice we obtained beans or peas, we received with them no small quantity of animated life, in the form of worms, fat and plump.
<c05>
INHUMAN TREATMENT OF OUR MEN.
"The treatment received by the officers during this trying time was bad, and only bad continually. One seemed to vie with the other in the endeavors to annoy us, and make our situation intolerable. Did one under this debilitating process stretch himself upon the floor during the day upon his blanket, unless he had first obtained the consent of the prison inspector to spread his blanket, and he was never present when wanted, he was rudely aroused, his blanket taken from him and carried down stain to be given to some needy rebel, or placed under the saddle for one of these ruffians to ride upon. If by any means we offended his supreme highness the commandant, our supply of water was cut off for half a day and night, and this during the suffocating weather of summer; or, to vary the punishment and add zest to the regimen, we would be left without wood for three-fourths of a day wherewith to cook our food; but then we saved our rations, and had more the next day.
OFFICERS CONFINED IN DUNGEONS.
"I have seen a captain of cavalry, for the simple offence of missing the spittoon and spitting upon the floor, thrown into a dark damp dungeon for two days and nights, on bread and water, causing a serious inflammation of the lungs. At this time it was required that the officers should perform the most menial services connected with cooking, washing, scrubbing, and the cleanliness of the room. Lieutenant Welch, of the Eighty-seventh Pennsylvania Infantry, lay for six weeks in a dungeon under the building, because, as an orderly sergeant, acting under appointment as a lieutenant, though not yet mustered in, and of course not recognized as such, he had rightly classed himself with the enlisted men. When brought up among the other officers, his clothes, shoes, &c., were covered with green mould. Lieutenant Dutton, of the Sixty-seventh Pennsylvania infantry, has been doomed to a dungeon until the close of the war, and is now suffering therein for a similar offence, with the additional fact that he assumed the name of another. Captain Litchfield (I am not certain of the name), of the Sixty-seventh Pennsylvania, was confined in a dungeon for five or eight days on bread and water, for forming a plan of escape, which was frustrated.

"Colonel Powell, I think, of the Twelfth Virginia Union Cavalry, wounded severely in the back from a window in Wytheville, and left behind, was carried to Richmond and placed in the hospital. A few days after, one of the Richmond papers railed out against him in a most brutal manner, and suggested that he be executed. The same Prison Inspector entered the hospital, and, without the knowledge of the rebel surgeons, ordered him to get up from his bed and follow him. He was placed in one of the dungeons spoken of, and upon asking what were the charges against him was answered, ‘God-you, you will soon find out.' Here, with a ball in his back, he remained five weeks and four days, part of the time without a blanket, rarely receiving any medical care, and sometimes his rations withheld. A guard was stationed constantly at the door of his cell to prevent either escape or communication with others. While confined there, the entry-way was frequently blocked up with dead bodies, remaining there several days, and this during the heat of summer. This entry performed another important part, being the place where men and women were daily brought to receive their lawful allowance of lashes at the hands of the Prison Inspector. A letter was sent to General Winder by the colonel, asking the charges against him, and protesting against his treatment. He denied any knowledge of the matter, and suggested that, perhaps, General Jones was acquainted with the facts. He also denied any knowledge of the matter, and coolly asked to know the charges.
"He was released, I know not how, and placed among us. This officer was the victim of irresponsible authority and fiendish cruelty as wielded by this prison inspector. While confined in the cell, the colonel, who is a Christian, asked in writing twice for a Bible, but no notice was taken of the request. One officer, taken at Gettysburg, was slapped in the face by this inspector, for saying that he thought he had no right to take from him a small fragment of shell which he had in his pocket as a relic. His acts of brutality are numberless.
BRUTAL TREATMENT OF ENLISTED MEN.
"I have so far only given an outline of the treatment and condition of the officers, which in comparison was a favored one. I cannot describe the condition of the enlisted men, as seen by the officers and learned from sources at present nameless. Hunger, bad treatment, and exposure, have done their work too surely for many brave souls who have gone up to testify at the bar of God to the barbarities practised upon them. Many of them also were shot by the guard upon the most frivolous pretences. Belle Isle, our place of confinement, is supplied with tents only sufficient for a part of the men; the rest were compelled, during the cold nights, to pace up and down the island to keep warm, and while the sun was shining during the day, they would sleep. I have seen them marched through the city barefooted, bareheaded, without coats, and with only the remnants of other articles of clothing.
"I have seen them brought from this island in the evening, to ship them in the morning for City Point, so weak from hunger and disease that they were unable to stand upon their feet. Never have I witnessed such misery and want among any class of human beings.
NORTHERN NEGROES WHIPPED.
"There are also there about one hundred free negroes of the North, officers' servants from the army and navy. They are used at the present about the prisons, or upon the fortifications around Richmond. One of the many nights spent in Libby is deeply engraven upon my mind. A free negro of Philadelphia, captured in the navy, nearly white, received three hundred and twenty-five lashes in a room immediately beneath us, his loud cries and pleadings penetrating every part of the building, as blow followed blow. He was then wrapped in a blanket saturated with salt water, and cast into one of the dungeons for a month or more. Such scenes and cries were frequent. Those of our number who entered there as advocates of slavery, or at least sympathizers, are such no more."
ABOLITIONIST.
There are many persons who think to call a man an Abolitionist is sufficient to establish their claim to be considered of superior intellect. It is with them a kind of logic made easy, and compensates for the absence of argument, and removes the necessity and fatigue of proving a proposition. It is a good word, when properly used. A man may be an Abolitionist when be is zealous for the removal of evils of any kind. It is good as applied to drunkenness or profanity-but it has no signification now, when applied to slavery. That great nuisance is already abated; the slaveholders have left far behind them the emancipators of the North.
<c06>
Well, it has fallen, and we are called Abolitionists because we refuse our consent to its resuscitation. We are proud of being called so, under circumstances so creditable to the mind and heart. May we ever deserve the name! We will bear its stigma joyfully through life, and carry it into eternity with honor. We straggle in a holy cause-the cause of religion and of the human race.
We maintain the sanctity of the marriage tie; the fidelity of the husband and wife to each other; we maintain the cause of justice, denying the right of any man to another's labors without his consent or compensation. We maintain the right of the parents to the disposal of their children, and that no man, through the exercise of his powers as a master, shall deprive human beings of instruction in the Christian religion, and of the means to save their souls. Can a man be a Catholic-a believer in the Christian faith-and consider the question otherwise? With the long and shining list of names, from the earliest period of Christianity to the present day, of Popes, Confessors and Doctors, to sustain our position, we cannot be driven from our ground-or rather, we should say, the ground maintained by the Catholic Church in every age of her existence. If the question of American slavery were to be submitted tomorrow to a general council of the Church, the institution would perish-sink deeper than ever a plummet sounded. The voices in its favor would be as few and small as those which hesitated to speak out boldly with Catholic faith, when the doctrine of the Immaculate Conception was discussed.
It is monstrous that a cause so just as human liberty should be assailed as it is at the present day, without a show of reason to defend the aggression. We have never yet seen an argument which could raise a doubt as to the propriety of suppressing and abolishing American slavery-much less of restoring the thing to life. Notwithstanding this, a crowd of thoughtless men, filled to the utmost capacity of the heart with prejudices the most insane, cry out day and night against any one who dares to say a word in favor of its suppression. The very men who would profit most by the removal of slavery-the white working men, whom the slave power has shut out from the cotton and sugar fields of the South-are the loudest and fiercest in their support of slavery! Who has ever seen a white laboring man with a bale of cotton or a hogshead of sugar of his own raising? No one. It is impossible so long as slavery exists. He may dig on a levee, or drive a mule team, or sweep the wharves of a Southern town, but there his ambition must stop. The land belongs or belonged to the aristocracy, and however generous, accomplished, refined and hospitable that aristocracy might have been, the poor white laborer must contemplate from afar the elegance in which he can never participate. There is, then, no reason on earth why he should clamor for the perpetuation of slavery.
We can readily understand the strong sympathy which binds the nobility of England and France to the Confederacy It is natural-the result of the same ideas-the concord of hearts beating to the same emotions-the helping hand of the throne stretched forth to bring back the repentant children of democracy to the pride and pomp of Great Britain. We can understand all this, and can fully appreciate the cordial regard with which England has cherished the South in their disastrous war; but why the poor white man should hold up the skirts of the aristocracy in a cause which helps to crush him to the earth, is one of those mysteries of life which baffles, the wisdom of the philosopher.-Catholic Telegraph.

JOHN BROUGH ON SLAVERY.
The opinions of the Governor elect of Ohio are now of more significance and importance, touching matters involved in the great struggle, than when that gentleman was in a private station. Added consequence will be given these opinions when it is considered that they were avowed by him, when before the people for their suffrages.
Touching the subject of slavery, and the right to use slavery to put down the rebellion, Governor Brough in his speech at Marietta said:-
"The only question that comes up at this time is, should the northern people or northern government employ the institution of slavery as a means of putting down the rebellion? If you call that abolitionizing this war, it is a species of abolitionism which I have not learned heretofore. Does any man put himself upon the ground that it is unconstitutional to use every means, either in the bands of our enemy or our own, to put down this rebellion? If the army marches through the enemy's country, finds a hundred horses or mules it needs, it marches in and takes them, and drives them away. That is all right. The doctrine of slavery is, that the slave man is but a chattel, a mere animal. But I put it upon the broader ground, that every man working upon a plantation of the enemy is equal to two men engaged in shooting down the men in the Union army. Every negro is raising produce to feed the army, and raising taxes to pay them. The negro on the plantation, who hoes his corn, is just as effective a man as if he were in the army, and more so,-for although he fights well in our army, I doubt whether he would in theirs. Do you say we shall not take him, and lead him to fight his own master and his oppressor? Do you want any more of our own race to be slaughtered than we can avoid? Do you want them to cripple us all the more by means of their employment? If you say so, you are opposed to the progress of it at all, and there is very little hope for your redemption.
"I say to you, my friends, you may set your minds perfectly at rest on the subject. I make the prediction here to-day, (and I am not the first man who has made it,) that, in so far as the political character of slavery is concerned, it perished with the sound of the first gun in Charleston harbor. (Loud applause.) It is utterly and totally dead. It cannot be revived, and that for one reason, if for no other, the Northern people can never admit that institution into the country, even upon an adjustment of the present difficulties, which could hereafter and in any moment plunge them into a civil war. You never will settle this contest, whether by arms or diplomacy, but you will remove the cause that produced it. If you do, you are not worthy the institutions of your fathers. (Applause.)
"So you may dismiss all this matter of policy; it is an old story-an old song, sung several times too often."
These are sentiments worthy of the Governor of the State, sensible and statesmanlike. Slavery is doomed, and he who undertakes to avert its doom is destined to an ignominious failure. Gov. Brough never gave utterance to a greater truth than when he said that permanent peace could never be obtained but by the removal of the cause of this bloody rebellion-slavery.-Cleveland Leader.
THE OFFICIAL VOTE OF OHIO. The officially declared vote of Ohio is 247,216 for Brough, and 185,464 for Vallandigham.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that stale of things to far from its being true that the States when slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in, martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
[Correspondence of the Independent.]
MR. BEECHER IN EXETER HALL.
BY AN EYE-WITNESS.
LONDON, October 21, 1863. 
To the Editors of the Independent:
In the five great speeches which Mr. Beecher has made in England and Scotland on the American question, before vast audiences, he has taken care to observe a system of selection, which has brought before the country all the great salient points of the American war. He has not, repeated himself, but met the Confederate sympathizers here upon every field which they had chosen for their own advantage. But the grand climax of all his efforts was that which was made at Exeter Hall last night, before a crowd as great as ever gathered into that immense hall, and which, despite the persistent efforts of the opposition to destroy the meeting and its effect, made a mark upon English opinion which must prove of the utmost importance.
You will get and copy from the London press the extended reports of this meeting. But there were some characteristics of it which they have not reported, and some which perhaps would be observed more particularly by an American. I had the good fortune to receive a complimentary ticket, which gave me a seat near Mr. Beecher on the platform, and with the full crowd under my eye. And as I know that the orator would be too modest to write out the full account of matter so intimately connected with himself, and that the many readers of the Independent will be eager to know all about his last encounter with the rebellion before a crowd of English spectators, I have determined to send you some sketch of the affair.
ORGANIZED OPPOSITION.
Mr. Beecher's strokes in other cities of the kingdom having invariably drawn blood from the hides of the Confederate sympathizers here, it was plain that they had determined to meet with yells and uproar what they could not meet with argument. That an organized opposition was contemplated was not concealed. Daring all yesterday, posters were scattered through the length and breadth of the city, making all kinds of charges of a personal character against him, abounding in fictitious and distorted quotations from discourses and lectures delivered by him in old times. It has been considered of prime importance to the Confederate cause here that Lord “Russell’s assertion at Blairgowrie, that the moral sympathies of the English people were adverse to the southern cause, should be disputed; and it was hoped, through personal assaults upon Mr. Beecher, to injure the effect of the meeting, and then claim it as the verdict of London in favor of the Southern Confederacy.
At an early hour the hall was crowded to overflowing, and there was evidence, too, that they were orderly men and women, who, whether sympathizing with the North or not, had come to hear a fair discussion of the question which concerns all, and were determined to secure fair play. The crowd outside in the Strand and Exeter street was enormous, and consisted chiefly of the opposition. One of the committee came in smilingly, and said, “Our <illegible> admission fee has filtered the crowd. The Southern sympathizer is always a man who looks hard at a shilling before he parts with it, and then don't part with it.” Yet it was known that in two or three sections of the house there were parties who meant mischief.
THE FIRST DISTURBANCE.
The speech was to begin at seven. At that hour Mr. Beecher had not arrived in the committee-room, where, to the number of thirty or forty, his friends on the platform were awaiting him. A messenger came to tell us that Mr. Beecher could not force his way through the crowd, but was bravely trying to do so, and would succeed probably in fifteen minutes. After a brief consultation it was resolved, in view of the growing impatience of the crowd in the hall, that the leading men of the city who were present should go to the platform, and that the chairman of the meeting, Mr. Benjamin Scott, chamberlain of the city, Rev. Newman Hall, and others, should entertain the crowd with addresses until the orator of the evening should arrive. The procession of these gentlemen to the platform was greeted with vehement applause; but when it was discovered that Mr. Beecher was not among them, there were equally vehement expressions of disappointment. When <illegible> gave a promise that Mr. Beecher would soon be present, the meeting became quiet and pleasant,. He (the chairman) then began to address them, and was listened to and applauded until Mr. Beecher walked upon the platform, when the Chamberlain's most glowing sentence was cut short off; nor could the crowd be persuaded to allow him to conclude it. Cries of “Sit down," “time,” “Beecher,” hurtled about his head, and he had to sit down—for a British crowd is remorseless in such cases.
When Beecher arose, there were five minutes of the most tremendous cheering that I have ever witnessed. Wave after wave, as of a tumultuous sea of sound, came thundering up from the gallery at  one end to the organ at the other, in the midst of which stood Mr. Beecher, calm as a rock in the midst of the surges. A hiss was then began, but at his first word it sank back into the diaphragms of those who uttered or meant to utter it. The first glance and the self-possessed manner of the man told plainly that be had something to say in Exeter Hall that night, and that he meant to be heard.
MR. BEECHERS SPEECH. 
Mr. Beecher’s voice was scarcely as sonorous and clear as it usually is, and all recognized that this was natural after the many speeches in immense halls which he had given during the week. “I expect to be hoarse,” he said, “and I am willing to be hoarse if I can in any way assist to bring the mother and daughter heart to heart and hand to hand together.” This sentiment was received with great applause; and Mr. B’s hoarseness was thus impressed to the service of his cause. But he so economized his voice that every word was distinctly heard by the vast assembly. And I assure you that every word was freighted: in the day when men are called to give an account for every idle word spoken, Mr. Beecher will not be confronted by any one uttered last night at Exeter Hall. At one time, when there was an interval of a few moments, arising from the effort of the hisses to triumph over the cheers, Mr. Beecher, with a quiet smile, said, “Friends, I thank you for this interruption; it gives me a chance to rest” The hisses thereupon died away, and had no resurrection during the evening. It was evident, indeed, that the speaker, who knows a thing or two about audiences, felt that the meeting was his, and that no interruption could succeed. But many of his friends had serious apprehensions. One of the editors of The Star, himself a distinguished speaker, and thoroughly acquainted with English audiences, who sat near to me, whispered in my ear, “There are a great many here who do not cheer; there is a strong chance of a row yet; but the meeting is just in such a condition that its result will depend upon the power and equanimity of the speaker.” “Then,” I replied, “you needn’t fear.” If Mr. Beecher had heard our brief whispers, he could not have more distinctly appreciated the remark of the editor. At that moment, although he had been interesting all along, he suddenly stepped one side from the desk upon which his notes lay, and his face gleamed like a sword leaping from a scabbard. No more hisses, no more cheers, now for half an hour; the audience is magnetized, breathless; when the first pause came, a Sir Somebody, sitting behind me, said, “ Why, he looked at first like a heavy man, but he’s got wings;” whilst a reporter near our feet whispered audibly to a brother, “Oh, but he can put things!” Mr. Beecher forgot all things but his subject; his tongue burned with living coals: his arm pointed like a prophet’s rod. The shams of our enemies in England—their talk of peace when they mean every kind of blood -shed except that which is for justice-" the aspect of a lamb with the voice of a dragon,” as St. John saw it–their cant about emancipation being not a principle with Mr. Lincoln, but only an expedient, as if that would make liberty any less a prize to the slave and humanity if they got it–all these collapsed palpably before the masses then gathered, and all the fine points of Roebuck and Lindsay became toads under the touch of his flame–tipped spear.
“This cannot go on,” whispered a clergyman near: “these strokes draw too much blood; the victim is writhing in pain now."
HARD HITS.
Again did Mr. Beecher level his lance; it was at those who were making capital out of what they call “American sympathy with the oppressor of Poland.” Nothing could exceed the drollery with which, almost blushing, he presented the loving and jealous maiden who, when her suitor is not attentive enough, gets up a flirtation with some other man. “America
<c02>
flirts with Russia, but has her eye on England.” Now the presence of war ships from Russia at New York has been the leading card of the Confederates here in their game to win popular sympathy for the South; for our friends among the English people are also the friends of the Poles. It was plain that the opposition in the meeting did not mean to let this matter pass without trying to get some capital. Consequently, when Mr. Beecher said, “But it is said it is very unworthy that America should be flirting with the oppressor of Poland,” there were violent shouts, “Yes, yes,” “certainly it is,” etc. Mr. Beecher waited until the cries had entirely subsided, and a little time had been allowed for friend and for to speculate as to his reply; then leaning a little forward, be put on an indescribably simple expression, and said mildly, “I think so, too. And now you know exactly how we felt when you flirted with Mason at the Lord Mayor’s banquet.” I cannot attempt to describe the effect of these words on the throng. The people arose with a shout that began to be applause, but became a shout of laughter. The hit was so perfect and felicitous that roars of hearty laughter told that that topic was summed up forever. Three loud groans given for the late Lord Mayor—his place is now filled with a much better man—ended that scene, and the drama proceeded.
DENUNCIATION OF SLAVERY.
In the heart of Mr. Beecher’s oration was given a denunciation of slavery more powerful than I have ever heard from his lips. He scored and scourged it until it seemed to stand before us as a hideous monster, bloating with human blood and writhing under his goads. He told, apropos of those who said, “ Why not let the South go?” the story of Fowell Buxton’s seizing the mad dog by the neck, and holding him with a brave grasp, and at the risk of his life, until help could come, rather than allow him to rush through the street, biting man, woman and child. When asked what they would say of the man who, witnessing this, should have cried, “Let him go! let him go!” “Shall we let this monster go through the world poisoning nations, ruining men, women and’ children yet unborn?” cries of No, no, no! surged up from the crowd,
INCIDENTS.
At this moment a colored man who has lately come here from the South, known as “Davis’s Drummer,” on account of his having once belonged to Jeff, and having been a drummer in the Confederate army, stood up on his seat, which was exactly in the centre of the building, waved his hat, and was vehemently applauded. William Crafts, well known here since his victory over Mr. Hunt, at the Edinburgh Congress, on the ethnology of the negro, with his wife, whose story (she having travelled in the disguise of a Southern gentleman, her husband being her servant, from the far South to freedom) has made her a heroine in London, sat near Mr. Beecher on the platform, and they too, with other colored persons in the hall, arose and waved hats and handkerchiefs, the audience cheering until the city outside seemed to be waked up, for we heard a storm of shouting voices on every side of the building outside.
The crowd also caught sight of an old, lady (white) in the gallery, who had a huge umbrella, which, having expanded to its utmost dimensions, she waved to and fro like a mighty balloon, which had a very comical effect indeed. To this was added a fat man, an excellent type of John Bull as pictured in Punch, who had laughed so much at the droll portions of Mr. Beecher’s speech that he could laugh no more, so he could only cross his hands on his stomach, sway to and fro, and give vent to wheezes and grunts, the death-rattles of laughter. These and many other incidents got the audience at one time into a highly tickled state; and some of us remembered a saying of Luther, that there was “nothing that the devil hates so much as a hearty laugh.”
Mr. Beecher, having sustained himself throughout better than I had ever known him to do before—and I am pretty familiar with his grand successes in our own country—having carried the meeting entirely, and evoked the warmest expressions of good-will to America—sat down, leaving the audience hungry, and shouting “Go on, go on!”
PROFESSOR NEWMAN.
As he declined to go on, Professor Newman rose to present the cordial resolution which will of course be read and felt throughout America. This gentleman has been long known as the most persistent and industrious friend we have had over here since the war. He has written many fine pamphlets and made many valuable lectures for us. One pamphlet—” The Good Cause of President Lincoln”—has had a great influence. He is a very intelligent-looking man, of middle age, has the air and face of a scholar, and a certain penetrating tone in his voice that is very exciting. His special aversion is to the Times, which he will not read or touch. In his heart, I dare say, he was a little more delighted with the three mighty and unanimous groans which were given for the Times by the audience than with the oration, though his countenance shone during its delivery. He warned the people that the way to show their disapproval of such papers was not to take or read them; and as this sentiment was met with cheers, and cries of “That’s the way,” I have some hope that the bitter article of the Times this morning is inspired by a few letters from former subscribers, not less than by the vivisections it received from surgeons Beecher and Newman.
REV. NEWMAN HALL.
Next to him arose the Rev. Newman Hall, a great favorite with the London masses, which is greatly to their credit. Mr. Hall is a man somewhat of the build of Wendell Phillips, but with very black hair and whiskers, and a darker complexion. He has a straightforward expression about the eye, a firm and forcible mouth, and a nose of fine shape and prominent enough to have made him a marshal under the first Napoleon, who, it is well-known, selected his officers with reference to their noses. Mr. Hall’s whole physiognomy indicates intensity, and his words have the effect of nails driven in and clenched on the other side. He began with an account of a fugitive slave woman whom he had that day seen, who bore the marks of chains on her wrists yet, and on her side the blow that had crippled her for life. “Is it any question on which side Englishmen stand in a conflict where one wishes to establish over a continent such atrocities as these, and the other contends for the avowed purpose—avowed now, whatever it was formerly—of sweeping them from that continent forever?” If Mr. Carlyle had been present, he would have heard “the everlasting NO” come up from the four thousand throats as if they were one.
GEORGE THOMPSON.
George Thompson (the link that connects the heroes of the old anti-slavery movement in England with their true successors of to-day, who, with William Lloyd Garrison, received the “God-speed” of Wilberforce, then arm-in-arm with him followed that great man to his grave) was loudly called for. and with that magnificent voice of his, which seems to have been created for Exeter Hall, made a speech which seemed almost as if it were some triumphant symphony rolling out from the great organ behind him. He stood like an authentic witness, to whom the people looked, and the occasion uttered through his earnest and joyful tones its claim to be considered what it was, a magnificent success, whether considered as the fit tribute to an eloquent and strong champion of liberty, or a cordial proffer of heart and hand from the true heart of England to her children across the sea, who are pouring out their blood for a principle, worthily symbolized by the banner of the cross upon a field of blood, which Mr. Beecher last night held up to this people as their pledge of homage to every struggle for the right.
A TRAVELLER.
MR. BEECHER IN LIVERPOOL. The farewell breakfast given to Henry Ward Beecher was attended by about two hundred ladies and gentlemen. His speech, though able, was so much in harmony with the views of all his auditors that it was wanting in the interest which belongs to his other English addresses. Among other good things, he said:
“After due consideration, his visit to England had convinced him that the tide was at last turning. England admired and loved success, and they only wanted one or two conclusive Federal victories to turn her sympathies once more round to the North. Such victories would expedite the change in English opinion, just as a sledge drives in a wedge and splits the log. (Cheers and laughter.) To procure for the North genuine English good will, they must give the South a thorough good drubbing. Nothing was in the way of that but the doing of it.(Immense laughter.)"
The European Times of Liverpool speaks of Mr. Beecher as “a gentleman whose oratorical power and natural ability would excite attention in any country where free speech and a love of liberty exist."
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1863.
CELEBRATION OF THE THIRD DECADE
OF THE 
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
At the Annual Meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, held in the city of New York, in May last, it was unanimously
Resolved, That in accordance with usage, and from reasons of obvious fitness, it is proper that the completion of another Decade of the Society's existence should be marked by a special public meeting devoted to a general review and survey of the cause; and that therefore this Society, when it adjourns on this occasion, will adjourn to meet in the city of Philadelphia, on the 3d day of December next, then and there to celebrate, in an appropriate manner, the thirtieth— and we would fain hope the final—anniversary of its formation."
In accordance with this vote, the Executive Committee hereby announce that the THIRD DECADE of the Society will be held in Philadelphia, on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, Dec. 3d and 4th, 1863.
Historically, it will be an occasion of thrilling interest and joyous congratulation, unequalled in the eventful career of the Society since its formation. Unquestionably, it will be largely attended by the friends of universal liberty, representing every section of the country loyal to the Government Who among them will need any stronger appeal than the simple announcement of the fact to induce him to be present, if circumstances should permit? Let them make their arrangements accordingly. “Whosoever will, let him come”—come in the spirit of justice and love—come as remembering those in bonds as bound with them—come as one abhorring “the guilty phantasy, that man can hold property in man“—come to put down the rebellion by helping to exterminate the hideous system from which it has legitimately sprung!
A strong array of able and eloquent speakers will be in attendance.
[Further particulars hereafter.] 
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, Secretaries

THE DECADE COMMEMORATION.
The approaching commemoration of the THIRD DECADE since the formation of the American Anti-Slavery Society cannot fail to attract the attention, and, as far as practicable, to secure the attendance of the members and friends of the Society. It will be duly observed on the 3d and 4th of next month, in Philadelphia; and as, in all human probability, there will be no occasion for its repetition, by reason of the speedy extinction of slavery along with the rebellion and civil war which that hideous system has brought upon the land, the wish to be present and the interest in it will be deepened in every direction. It will be an occasion for devout thanksgiving, for general congratulation, for high enthusiasm. Happily, it will occur at a period when all the soundly loyal sentiment of the country will be in agreement with its great and sublime object; for as it is now admitted by all who are not either open mouthed traitors, or else in sympathy with such, that it is SLAVERY which has brought upon our bleeding country all its divisions, woes, bereavements and horrors; it follows that whatever or whoever is most opposed to slavery, and, consequently, most determined to effect its utter annihilation, it most loyal in spirit and action to the Government. Hence the American Anti-Slavery Society presents the strongest claims upon the good will, the gratitude, the support of all loyal men and women, as well for what it has done since the rebellion broke out, as for its previous heroic and self-sacrificing labors in the cause of bleeding humanity and free institutions. Indeed, had it not been for that Society, with its unshaken trust in God, its indomitable spirit, its tireless perseverance, its agents and periodicals broadly disseminating light, and arousing the nation to a sense of its guilt and danger, what of our liberties would have been left to us? What would have hindered a man-imbruting slave oligarchy from holding unobstructed sway from sea to sea? Even with thirty years' unremitted agitation—”crying aloud and sparing not”—pleading, expostulating, warning, impeaching, enlightening—in every State, from city to city, and in every village and hamlet at the North—it requires whatever of virtue and love of freedom can be found to meet successfully the dreadful issue forced upon the country by the Slave Power. What if there had been none of this? What other party or combination but the Abolitionists has defiantly and uncompromisingly met the Southern lords of the lash at every turn, and filled them with rage and consternation, baffling their devices? If the Abolitionists had not appeared in the order of time, or if they had cravenly yielded to the clamors so fiercely raised against them at the first, where now would have been the liberty of speech or of the press—where the vital strength imparted to the government through an awakened interest in the cause of universal emancipation—where the disposition or power to resist the haughty domination of the confederate rebels? Is it claiming one jot or tittle too much to say, that the salvation of this country will be due, under God and by the power of his truth, mainly to the principles maintained and the measures adopted by the Abolitionists, through the instrumentality of the American Anti-Slavery Society and its kindred associations? It is time that generous and magnanimous justice, to the fullest extent, should be done to them all; and it is to be hoped that, at the approaching Commemorative Meeting in Philadelphia, there will be those present, or by letter, who, though never members of the Society, nor acknowledging themselves to be technically Abolitionists, will deem it alike proper and honorable to recognize and applaud such meritorious services. Not that Abolitionists are given to boasting, or covet praise—they are made of sterner stuff; and in the prosecution of their godlike enterprise, it has been all the same to them, from the beginning till now, “whether men would hear, or whether they would forbear.” But now that their views of slavery have become generally adopted, and civilians and military leaders are demanding the immediate abolition of slavery as essential to national unity and prosperity, what better proof can be shown of the arrival of “the era of good feelings” at the North, than by giving “credit to whom credit, honor to whom honor" is due? As Jefferson magnanimously said in his inaugural message, “We are all Federalists, we are all Republicans“—so let the people of the North bury out of sight all distinctions of party in this trial-hour with rebellious slavery, and unitedly exclaim, “We are all Loyalists, we are all Abolitionists,” and the God of justice shall vouchsafe to us a splendid victory, an enduring peace, and a glorious future!
ARRIVAL OF HENRY WARD BEECHER. The numerous friends and admirers of Mr. Beecher in England, as well as on this side of the Atlantic, will be glad to hear of his safe arrival in the Asia, at this port, on Saturday night last, in excellent health and spirits, though the passage was a very rough one. He passed Sunday at the residence of Mr. M. P. Kennard, in Brookline, and took the evening train for New York, arriving at his home early on Monday morning. As his return at that hour was unexpected, no public demonstration was made. Already a paper has been numerously signed by eminent and patriotic citizens in New York of all political creeds, tendering him a public ovation for his services.
Mr. Beecher has accepted the invitation of the Brooklyn War Fund Committee to deliver an address at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, on Thursday evening next. The proceeds will be devoted to the benefit of our sick and wounded soldiers.
<c04>
ONE MILLION SIGNATURES!
CIRCULATE THE PETITION!
The Loyal Women of the Republic, through their National Association, resolved in May last to attempt to procure a MILLION signatures of loyal women to the following petition:-
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:
The undersigned, Women of the United States above the age of eighteen years, earnestly pray that your honorable body will pass, at the earliest practicable day, an Act emancipating all persons of African descent held to involuntary service or labor in the United States.
Let the loyal women of Massachusetts see to it that they are not outdone by their sisters in any other State in the number of names appended by them to this petition—a petition which goes to the very root of the rebellion and all our national troubles, by asking Congress to terminate what remains of slavery outside of the President’s 1st of January Proclamation in such manner as to that body may seem advisable.
To accomplish the Herculean task contemplated, INDIVIDUAL EFFORT AND CONSECRATION are needed in every city, town, and village. Time is pressing—the object is godlike—the opportunity to give the death-blow to slavery must not be allowed to pass unimproved.

ABSURDLY NAMED.
There is a ranting copperhead in the Massachusetts Senate, whose election Norfolk county has the infamy to bear, named Swan—William D. Swan. “It is a foul bird that dirties its own nest.” Such a bird is this Swan, whose more appropriate cognomen should be Buzzard. At previous sessions of the Legislature, he has been basely ambitious to improve every opportunity fiercely to peck at the friends of the Administration as against slaveholding domination; and at this extra session he shows himself prompt to make an “extra" display of his spleen and pugnacity in a similar manner. “This Legislature,” he said the other day in debate, “is here at this time because Massachusetts wanted 15,000 volunteers. And why we need them is illustrated by past events. The army had unlimited confidence in McClellan, (!) and his removal did much to deter enlistments (!) If the telegraph wires to-day could bring us the news that Stanton and Halleck were removed, and McClellan appointed chief, the highways and byways would swarm with volunteers going down to fight the battles of the country.” He also said, oracularly, “one thing more he would tell gentlemen before he sat down, in reference to McClellan—on the 4th of March, 1865, they would exclaim, ‘The stone which the builders rejected has become the head of the corner.’“ This is not the first time that this sublimely solemn passage of Scripture has been vilely perverted. The rebel Vice President of the Southern Confederacy makes the same boast, and quotes the same passage in its behalf, in opposition to the American Government and free institutions. Both of them are doomed to sore disappointment S stands for Swan, for Stephens, and also for Satan:-
“–Him the Almighty Power
Hurled flaming headlong from th’ ethereal sky,
With hideous ruin and combustion, down
To bottomless perdition; there to dwell
In adamantine chains and penal fire,
Who durst defy th' Omnipotent to arms."

INHUMAN NEGLECT.
The Rev. Mr. Fiske, of Memphis, has lately been making some shocking revelations, at public meetings in Philadelphia and New York, in regard to the destitution and helplessness of large numbers of the released slaves who have come within our army lines along the Mississippi. Here is a sample:-
“As the Union armies advanced, the blacks of the slaveholders were included within the Union lines. At this time there are on the banks of the Mississippi 35,000 blacks within the armies of the North. Are they men and serviceable boys? No. These have been culled out carefully for military purposes, but they are woman and children, and are left to the support of the Government.
Instances were related of the sufferings of the blacks, and of the great destitution to which they are reduced. In the snow storms of last winter, they perished by scores. Men crippled and infirm, women weak, frail and trembling, children tender, fragile and helpless, fell by the very side of the armies and near the stations of the railways, numbed and stiffened with cold, fatigue and hunger. In Memphis, last January, 1200 tragic death scenes were enacted there. The black hole of Calcutta, was outdone in suffering and pain by the little noisome quarters of the crooked, darkened lanes of the city. The blacks were huddled together in groups to keep life in their bodies by animal warmth. No fuel, no fire, no blankets, no beds, no food; what wonder is it that twelve hundred died? The marvel is that so many lived.
This is but the picture of what was seen last winter at Memphis. This winter the same scene is presented all along the Mississippi River on both banks. The little hoards of clothing and money eked from the scanty pittance which they have earned, are stolen from these helpless creatures by brutes clothed in United States uniforms. And in cases too numerous and distressing to narrate, the inhabitants of the miserable huts along the Mississippi are murdered to procure the meagre treasures which they tenaciously defend."
In view of these afflicting disclosures, the New York Journal of Commerce, [see article on our first page,] true to its satanic pro-slavery instinct, makes them the occasion of a malignant assault upon the Abolitionists, holding them responsible for all these sufferings, and benevolently (!) drawing the conclusion that the best thing for the freed colored people would be either to send them back to their rebel masters, or else reduce them to slavery! As if there were no other alternative between starvation and the bondage of the plantation! Out upon such hypocritical villany!

FR0M THE LECTURING FIELD.
In a letter from A. T. Foss, agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, dated Milton, N. H., Nov. 12th, he says:-
“We had a great and good meeting in Barrington; also in Strafford, though it is a very hunkerish place. We were somewhat disturbed by a rowdy element in the back part of the church, but were heard cordially by the great body of the audience.
We had the Town Hall thoroughly filled last evening, at Great Falls. William A. Jackson, (Jeff. Davis’s coachman,) did most of the speaking, as I was very hoarse, and he did it well, too."
The following is a cheering extract of a letter from Aaron M. Powell:-
“Saturday afternoon, we addressed a meeting in the South Easton Friends’ meeting-house. The afternoon proved to be rainy, and the attendance moderate in consequence, but the spirit of the meeting was excellent. I have much pleasure in mentioning, as one of the practical incidents of the meeting, a donation made to the treasury of the American Anti-Slavery Society, in aid of the new work proposed by the Executive Committee, of ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS, by DAVID BAKER, of South Easton. It is a most generous and timely contribution, and will both greatly aid our common cause in its present needs, and in turn richly bless the donor.”
GEORGE THOMPSON COMING! Among the passengers in the Asia, which arrived at this port on Saturday evening, was JOHN P. JEWETT, Esq., who has been abroad for nearly a year past, and during that time has done efficient service in the cause of our common country, and helped to baffle the machinations of the rebel emissaries in England. He brings us a letter from our honored and ever faithful coadjutor, GEOEGE THOMPSON, Esq., in which Mr. Thompson states that be hopes to be in America by the 1st of January, partly on business, and partly to see his American friends at this cheering stage of the Anti-Slavery cause. His presence will be warmly greeted. No one has done as much as himself to keep England on the right side in the struggle of our Government to put down the rebellion.
<c05>
THE FRATERNITY LECTURES.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ., ON THE CRISIS.
The fourth lecture of this course was given this week, not, according to the programme, by Henry Ward Beecher, but by Wendell Phillips, who had kindly consented, at short notice, to take Mr. Beecher’s place.
Previous to the lecture, a letter was read from Hon. Charles Sumner, requesting that his name might be withdrawn from the list, in consequence of the pressure of important business. The Committee hoped that his place next week might be supplied by Mr. Beecher.
Mr. Phillips, on coming forward, received three hearty rounds of applause. The brief time he had had for preparation must be his apology (he said) for recurring to the old subject. It would be asked, Why speak of slavery now, when emancipation is sure? But he thought we might take a useful lesson from the Anti-Corn Law League of England. When Sir Robert Peel, their avowed friend, was made first Lord of the Admiralty, and the London Times said the repeal of the corn laws was a foregone conclusion, they held a meeting, and resolved, “ Whereas, in 1843 this League raised fifty thousand pounds for agitation, and in 1844 a hundred thousand pounds for agitation, now that the first Lord of the Admiralty is pledged to our object, this League resolves to raise two hundred and fifty thousand pounds for agitation, to make the matter sure."
The fact that the Government is partially pledged to the abolition of slavery, instead of favoring silence and quietude on our part, should be our incitement to new vigilance, more searching criticism, more energetic action. We must demand the immediate, total, unconditional abolition of slavery wherever the Stars and Stripes wave. The lessening prospect of foreign interference, and the increase of our successes at home, give us certainty of the final result. Two thirds of the Union are with us, and half of the remaining third is on our side. No one can doubt of our ultimate victory.
There, however, is not where our danger lies. When Mr. Lincoln was asked to provide for the safety of the officers of colored regiments, he said, “Don’t ask me to speak a word until after the Ohio election.” It is not in Southern bullets but in Northern opinion that the real danger of the crisis lies. When Seward in his last public address said—Slavery is no business of mine—he showed the great danger against which we must provide, a spirit of compromise in the hearts of the Northern people. Seward every year assures the world that there is no barrier to the return of the rebel States whenever they please. Members of the Cabinet are now organizing a scheme to restore Florida as a slave State to the Union. In this state of things, it is the duty of the masses to interpose, and save the country by some more thorough and speedy method.
I ask nothing further of Lincoln in the way of policy, only of action. He has taken the first, great step by issuing the Proclamation, and if he believed in January last, as he told me, that it was a great mistake, he has changed his mind since then. The man who had the heart to originate that Proclamation, and to stand by it, ought to remain in power at least six years longer.
Still, Abraham Lincoln was not my first choice. If we could have had Fremont, (applause,) a master and not a servant, a man already intelligent in the point most needful, and not one whose education was to be conducted at an expense of $25,000 a year in the Presidential chair, we should have made better progress. The Secretary of the Treasury had been spoken of in this relation, but his life has not given the assurance of such sound principle as to warrant the people in trusting him at this crisis. The Governor who sacrificed Margaret Garner has no heart. The Secretary who, when fourteen States opposed Seward, flung himself forward in his defence, has no principle. The great trouble with Seward is that he ignores the Revolution that is now shaking the nation. We must demand of the Government civil action as well as military, and action sufficiently energetic for the crisis.
We are no longer to demand action of Lincoln or the Generals merely, but of Congress; and the thing to be demanded is that slavery be henceforth utterly prohibited, and rendered impossible within the limits of our nation.
Various theories are current respecting the relation of the rebel States to the nation, and the manner of their reinstatement in it. I care nothing for these theories. The one certain fact is, Slavery is the thing which has brought all this evil upon us, and it must die. Does Mississippi wish to come back? I will gladly welcome her back if she comes without slavery. We must provide that it shall be impossible for her to come with it.
I would have Congress now initiate measures for an amendment of the Constitution to this effect:-Slavery shall henceforth have no place in any State within this Union. When this is done, let the States come back as soon as they please. The Government should have but one object, the establishment of permanent peace in the Union. To this end, Lincoln has emancipated three millions of slaves. For the more effective accomplishment of ‘the same end, Congress should abolish all slavery.
Individuals have the right of self-defence, when their lives are assailed. Individual nations also have the same right, when their existence is assailed. Our first point is to save the life of the nation. There is no security, either for the present distress or against future contingencies, but in radical, thorough measures. Give us the solid granite of justice on which to found the future of the Union.
We must create a public opinion which will be felt at Washington. Neither the House nor the Senate has anything to propose except a vigorous prosecution of the war. Much more is necessary. Let the Government announce that we are in Revolution, and put every able-bodied black man into the army of the Union. After the negro has had the musket in his hands, you can’t make him a slave again. Put 200,000 black men in arms, and I’ll risk Seward. But still, there is more than this to be done. While the Government arms a few of the able-bodied, it leaves the old and infirm, the women and children, to starve; and this not by hundreds nor by thousands only, but by 5,000 and 10,000. I demand of the Government that they confiscate the land of rebels over the whole South, and give it or sell it in small lots to the slaves, the blacks and the poor whites. This will help the starving ones to provide for themselves, and at the same time will be the best assurance for our future.
We have no plan, no sincerity, no heartiness, in our treatment of the blacks. Lincoln hates slavery, but has no heart to befriend the negro. The negro, North and South, should find the Union ready to welcome him as a soldier, and give him citizenship.
There is no probability of decisive and thorough action from Government before next summer, unless the people demand it. The people should demand it. The great obstacle is the Secretary of State. The people should squelch him, unless they can remove him.
The close of every civil war thus far has been a bargain, a compromise. Ours is to come, and we must be on our guard against it. One thing we can accomplish, if we are faithful—never to let a slaveholder return to the occupancy of one of the vacant Senatorial chairs. Now, before the Presidential contest commences, let Massachusetts consult with the West, and insist that a Constitutional extinction of slavery shall precede any reconstruction.
No leading man or organ of the Republicans lights us one step beyond the Proclamation. Yet the door is still open for the Slave States to return, and poison the future of the Union. We must provide against this danger. We must teach the nation not merely to arm the slave, but to accept the negro.
No matter how rebels arrange themselves otherwise, If they come back to the Union, they must come back Yankees, working with their own hands, paying
<c06>
a proper respect to labor, securing by law the morals and manners of civilization. Every government owes the destitute classes three things: liberty—property—education. The South must guarantee these as freely as we do.
We must support the Government in what it has done, and stimulate it in what remains to do. Seward has been the marplot of every policy, the unbelieving Judas, the rock ahead of the ship of State, the nucleus around which gather the disloyalty, timidity, selfishness, baseness of the nation. Let us complete the civil revolution. Let us put down the faithless Secretary, and hold up the faithful President.
In spite of the unfavorable weather, the Temple was early filled with an immense audience, and the lecturer was frequently interrupted by hearty applause. 
—C. K. W.

PHILOSOPHICAL DEMOCRACY.
Benjamin F. Butler has, through his whole political life, been a member, and, until recently, a trusted and honored member, of the party calling itself Democratic. Some new relations into which be has been thrown for two years past have taught him an important lesson, changing his opinion and his practice in regard to a single point, the expediency of slaveholding in this country. In all else he remains the same. But this change has deprived him of the confidence and support of the party calling itself Democratic. It has become the policy of that party to discountenance and oppose him; and one of its prominent organs, the Boston Post, in an editorial article last week, attempts to show that Gen. Butler has forsaken Democracy, and has ceased to be a Democrat,” in the philosophical and historical sense."
As it is not immediately obvious to plain, common people, how the only change which Gen. Butler has made, namely, from favoring slavery to opposing it, is at variance with Democracy, "in the philosophical and historical sense,” the elucidation of this point required a little careful management from the editor of the Post, and he managed it thus. After naming several defenders of Democratic principles eminent in history, among whom are Jefferson and Franklin, he says-
“They did not believe in a despotism. They did not believe the political fanatics of one section had a right to make and control the domestic institutions of the people of another section. They did not believe that the people or the parties of one section had the right to abolish the domestic institutions of another section."
Considering that slaveholding, as defined by the laws and illustrated by the customs of South Carolina and Louisiana, is the most thorough and absolute form of despotism possible to be exercised—considering that the political fanatics of those States have always endeavored, to the extent of their power, to force the domestic institutions of New England and the North generally into the support of their antagonistic system of slavery—considering that the slaveholding party in Missouri, assisted by its political friends in various Southern States, assailed the domestic institution of Freedom in Kansas with brutal violence, robbery, arson and murder, and, also, in utter disregard of law as well as right, did all they could to resist and prevent all emigration from the free States to Kansas—considering that these things are among the most prominent events of our history for a series of years past, a reader not familiar with the character of the ‘Democratic" press (so called) might reasonably suppose the paragraph above quoted to have been levelled at the propagandists of slavery.
On the contrary, these innuendoes by the Post were levelled at the Abolitionists, and intended to be understood as accurately descriptive of their course. “Despotism,” in the dialect of the Post, means the use of appeals to reason and conscience, and the legislatures and courts of the nation, to prevent the buying and selling, and flogging and chaining, of American men and women. “Political fanatics” means those who really believe the things stated as self-evident truths in the Declaration of Independence, and who wish an accomplishment of those things for which the Preamble to the Constitution declares that instrument to have been formed, namely—“to form a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty.” Assuming “a right to make and control the domestic institutions of the people of another section” means asking redress in court for the violent seizure and imprisonment of our free colored sailors, when they went into Southern ports. And assuming “the right to abolish the domestic institutions of another section" means the attempt by the people of a free State to prevent a stranger who has come to reside among them from being violently seized and carried off as a slave.
Who could have believed it? The thing for which Gen. Butler is accused of having forsaken Democracy, “in the philosophical and historical sense,” is his adoption (under compulsion of evidence) of the belief, and his frank expression of the belief, that slavery is hostile to the welfare of our nation, and to the continuance of our present democratic form of government. This must be the thing intended, since it is the only particular in which he differs from the Post, the complainant.
The thing called Democracy in this nation has been exclusively of the sort represented by the Post, an attempt to combine the forms of popular freedom with the worst realities of despotism. Thank Heaven, a change from this miserable delusion has commenced, and is fast increasing. The best portion of the party popularly called Democratic are beginning to realize that they have never been such “in the philosophical and historical sense,” and that an utter destruction of slavery is the indispensable preliminary of a successful establishment of the sort of Democracy favored by Franklin and Jefferson.
One characteristic of our partisan Democracy (so called) has been specially prominent in the official organs of that party ever since discussion has arisen respecting slavery. This is an impudent mendacity, affirming and repeating “the thing that is not,” with entire disregard of plausibility as well as of reason. But there could hardly be a stronger instance of this impudent mendacity than the attempt of the Post to cite Franklin and Jefferson as in conflict with Gen. Butler's anti-slavery; Franklin, the President of the first Anti-Slavery Society ever formed in this country, and Jefferson, whose writings have furnished to the Abolitionists some of the strongest texts for their appeals against slavery.—C. K. W.

INFORMATION WANTED.
In last week’s Liberator, “Orion,” for some purpose not yet entirely apparent, claims for the Secretary of the Treasury a very high, and an untarnished, anti-slavery character. It is there claimed that Salmon P. Chase has never bowed the knee to Baal; that he has shown a life-long devotion to freedom and to equal rights for all mankind; that he has been faithful to the principles of radical anti-slavery, without variableness or shadow of turning; and that this high character has stood the test of twenty years of political life.
Perhaps these things are so. But, that abolitionists may be better assured in so important a matter, will “Orion” have the kindness to answer these two questions, namely:-
What was Mr. Chase's connection with the mournful fate of Margaret Garner?
What step did Mr. Chase take in relation to the request of a large number of Republican Senators, about ten months ago, that Mr. Lincoln would choose for his Secretary of State some man less tolerant of slavery than William H. Seward?—C.K.W.
JOHN BROWN. Miss LEWIS, a young and promising colored artist of this city, has just completed a very creditable medallion likeness of JOHN BROWN—copies of which may be obtained at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington Street. Price $1,50. Give the artist what she deserves—patronage. Call at her room in the Studio Building, Tremont Street.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL FOSTER.
UNDER LOOKOUT MOUNTAINS, NEAR CHATTANOOGA, Tenn., Nov. 1st, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON,-The 33d has had a fearful baptism of blood, and nobly has it upheld the old renown of the Bay State. Thursday morning, at 1 o'clock, we were aroused from our slumber under Lookout Mountain, by an attack upon our picket lines by Longstreet's corps. The 55th Ohio volunteers were out on picket with three companies of our regiment in a quarter opposite to the place of attack. The rest of the brigade i. e., our regiment, the 73d Ohio, and the 136th New York, were formed at once in battle line by Col. Smith, our brigade commander, and led to the charge. Five regiments of Longstreet's corps held a hill under Lookout Mountain, with strong breastworks, from which they poured a galling fire upon our troops as they advanced over the road under the kill to the rescue of Gen. Geary's division, which lay three miles in our rear with our whole supply train. The rebels had attacked and driven in our pickets, and made a fierce attack in force on Geary's Division. Their object was to cut off that division, destroy or capture it, and take our supply train. It was necessary to take the hill on which the aforementioned five regiments were posted. This severe and dangerous duty was given to our brigade, with about five hundred effective men present. The hill is covered with trees and brush-wood, and very steep. It is about one hundred and twenty rods from the road to the summit. There were two thousand rebels in rifle pits, and by daylight it would have been pronounced an impossibility to carry the enemy’s works. With a cheer and fixed bayonets, the men swept up the hill. Near the summit they were met with a deadly fire, which carried down Col. Underwood, and scores, of our men, the whole length of the line. The whole line fell back, but instantly reformed, and returned to the charge. We had ascertained the position of the rebel works, and the second time, by throwing round a party on the flank, Lieut. Col. Ryder, who commanded the 33d after Col. U. fell, took them in the rear as well as the front. Without firing a gun, our brigade poured into the works, and drove the whole rebel force headlong down the hill. Each man fought in a way worthy of Bunker Hill-of the old Bay State-of a free country. We took the hill, and hold it still, and the enemy so far have not dared to attempt its recapture. The rebels were foiled at every point. The fighting was all over, and our side victorious, in two hours. But we pay dearly for our victory. Col. Underwood is severely wounded in the groin-thigh-bone shattered; and although doing well, his recovery is hardly possible. Three officers of our regiment were killed, and twenty-one of the privates lay dead on the hill-side, all close to the intrenchments. We have fifty-nine wounded, most of them severely, and two missing-making a loss of eighty-six in our regiment out of two hundred and thirty men we took into the battle. The 73d Ohio lost heavily also. The loss of 186th New York was light, owing to the position they occupied on the extreme right. But all behaved like veterans, and proved themselves worthy to live or die for their country, and for a free country. The night before, our band played the Star-Spangled Banner; and the band of the 73d and 55th Ohio also joined them in discoursing sweet music. On the battle-field, I had command of our band. We carried off the wounded, and then buried the dead, and worked with all our might from two in the morning till after dark in this sad service.
I have but one remark to make, and that is, the rout of 2000 of Longstreet's veterans behind such strong works, by 500 of our men, shows that we have learned the art of war, and that the rebels are discouraged.
Our regiment took thirty-nine prisoners. We took care of the rebel wounded, and buried their dead, as well as our own. The whole loss of our side, and the grand result of that night battle, will be made known by the official dispatch. 
Yours, for the whole struggling brotherhood,
DANIEL FOSTER.
P. S. Our adjutant, W.P. Mudge, was shot through the head, and killed instantly, in the second charge. He was brave, generous, and true. The whole regiment loved him, and mourn his death. Col. U. behaved with distinguished gallantry, and we pray that his life may be spared.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
By His Excellency
JOHN A. ANDREW, GOVERNOR.
A PROCLAMATION
For a Day of Public Thanksgiving and Praise.
By the advice and consent of the Council, I do here by appoint THURSDAY, the 26th day of November next, to be observed by the people of Massachusetts as a day of Public Thanksgiving and Praise. And I respectfully but earnestly exhort all the people of this Commonwealth, whom this Proclamation shall reach, wherever they may be, whether on sea or land, with in our quiet borders or abroad on distant fields of war, to consecrate that day, in the sight of Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, by heartfelt works of charity, by devout thanksgiving, and by joyful praise. “O go your way into his gates with thanksgiving, and into this courts with praise; be thankful unto him, and speak good of his Name. For the Lord is gracious, his mercy is everlasting.”
For all the innumerable mercies, for the infinitude of blessings, by which the year has been crowned; for health and prosperous industry, for peaceful homes, for waving fields of grain, for harvests rich with all the food of man, for all the bounties of the sea, the wealth of mines, the skill and thrift of every handicraft; for the great agencies of Nature herself, working as kindly helpers to the hands of men, and for all the fruits of their gigantic toil; for intellectual activity and moral life; for every gift and fruit of reason, of conscience and religion, bless ye the Lord and him only; praise him and magnify him forever.
Let us reverently contemplate the wonderful Providence which has led and guided the hearts and minds of this people, and is shaping and working out the destiny of this nation. Even in time of war, we are rejoicing in the growth of the arts of peace. Subjected to its temptations and demoralizing influence, yet the virtues forbearance, patience and charity are daily illustrating the social life of our people no less conspicuously than their loyal patriotism. Side by side with the march of armies, and the destructive engines of war, move the messengers of Love, with every solace for the body or the mind, to soften the soldier’s lot, or alleviate the travail of mortality. Sometimes slowly, and with hesitating tide, but always surely; sometimes with a receding eddy, but always on an undercurrent of steady and majestic power, has been borne the symbol of our nationality. The moral sight has been quickened, duty has grown clearer to the mind, and faith has grown warmer in the heart, as the revelations of trial and the discipline of a great suffering have done their appointed work.
Blending the temper of forgiveness with an unflinching integrity of purpose; weeping with the bereaved who mourn the beauty of our Israel slain upon our high places; but catching the sublime spirit of those who have sealed their testimony with their blood, may we fail not to implore on this, our annual festival, strength from above to exercise ourselves also in every heroic virtue for the vindication of right and the overthrow of wrong.
Let us trust that peace shall soon return to our borders and a union of hearts and hands revive on the ruins of that injustice and inhumanity which bred our sorrows; when all the inhabitants of the land will unite to sing, "Blessed be the Lord God of Israel; for he hath visited and redeemed his people.”
Given at the Council Chamber in Boston this first day of October, in the year one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and the eighty-eighth of the Independence of the United States of America.
JOHN A. ANDREW.
By His Excellency the Governor, with the advice of the Council.
OLIVER WARNER, Secretary.
God save the Commonwealth of Massachusetts!
Senator Wilson, in a speech delivered in New York, recently, said:-“More than two hundred officers have entered the service bearing commissions secured by my influence; and I always forgot to ask what their political sentiments were. Since this rebellion broke upon the country, 6,725 military commissions have passed through the Military Committee of which I am a member, composed of four Republicans and three Democrats, and that Committee never gave a divided political vote upon a single one of these nominations.” This shows how patriotism is able to soar above all party distinctions.
<c02>
REBEL SCHEMING IN ENGLAND.
The following are specimens of the inflammatory placards by which the Anglo-Rebels of Glasgow and Liverpool endeavored to collect mobs against Mr. Beecher, and to prevent his speaking. The last two were placarded in Liverpool, the first in Glasgow:-
THE WAR CHRISTIANS-
THEIR DOCTRINES.
At the Jubilee Demonstration in New York, in January last,
Rev. JOHN J. RAYMOND,
the appointed Chaplain of the meeting, in his opening prayer, said:
“We thank Thee, O God, that thou hast seen fit to raise up one ABRAHAM, surnamed LINCOLN.
He is a man whom God SHOULD bless, and the People delight to honor.”
UNITED STATES SENATOR LANE,
in his Address to the great Union League Meeting at Washington, said:
“I would like to live long enough to see every white man now in South Carolina in Hell.
Rev. HENRY WARD BEECHER,
in his address at Glasgow, last Monday, said:
“They” alluding to the North, “rose like ONE MAN, and with a voice that reverberated throughout the whole WORLD, cried, ‘Let it,’ alluding to the South, with all its attendant horrors, Go TO HELL.’”
[From the Manchester Guardian's Correspondence.]
“Is this the same Mr. BEECHER who, at a meeting in America during the discussion of the ‘Trent' affair, said that ‘the best blood of England must flow as an atonement for the outrage England had committed on America ‘?”
Glasgow, 10th October, 1863.
TO THE INDEPENDENT AND INDUSTRIOUS CLASSES OF LIVERPOOL:
An individual of the name of HENRY WARD BEECHER, who, when at home, Brooklyn, New York, is called a Baptist Minister, has come over to this country as a Political Emissary from Abraham Lincoln to stir up strife and ill-will among you, and for that purpose will hold a Meeting at the Philharmonic Hall, Hope Street, this evening.: This same Henry Ward Beecher it was who recommended London to be sacked and this Town destroyed; and this GODLY Man, bear in mind, is a preacher of the Gospel, and good will toward all men. As there will be an Amendment proposed at the Meeting, you must attend, and show by your hearts and hands that the Industrial Classes in this town are opposed to the BLOODY WAR which Abraham Lincoln is now waging against his brother in the South, and the dastardly means he is resorting to in employing such tools as Henry Ward Beecher, a Minister of the Gospel.
Friday, 17th October, 1863.
THE REV. H. W. BEECHER AT THE PHILHARMONIC HALL.
THE TRENT AFFAIR.
The Rev. HENRY WARD BEECHER in The New York Independent:
“Should the President quietly yield to the present necessity, (viz: the delivering up of Messrs. Mason and Slidell), as the lesser of two evils, and bide our time with England, there will be a SENSE OF WRONG, of NATIONAL HUMILIATION so profound, and a HORROR OF THE UNFEELING SELFISHNESS OF THE ENGLISH GOVERNMENT in the great emergency of our affairs, such as will inevitably break out by and by in flames, and which will only be extinguished BY A DELUGE OF BLOOD! We are not living the whole of our life to-day. There is a future of the United States in which the nation will right any injustice of the present hour.”
The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, at a meeting held in New York at the time when the Confederate Envoys, Messrs. Slidell and Mason, had been surrendered by President Lincoln to the British Government, from whose vessel (the Royal Mail Steamer Trent) they were taken, said:
“That the best blood of England must flow for the outrage England had perpetrated on America.”
THIS IS THE MAN 
Who proposes to Address the People of Liverpool,
AT THE PHILHARMONIC HALL,
ON FRIDAY EVENING, October 16th.
Let Englishmen see that he gets 
THE WELCOME HE DESERVES.
PRESENTS TO REV. HENRY WARD BEECHES. At the close of the proceedings at the Farewell Breakfast given to Henry Ward Beecher by the Liverpool Emancipation Society, on the 30th ult., an address was presented to him by the Welsh Nonconformists, and the Union and Emancipation Societies of Liverpool and Manchester made him also a present of a handsome album, containing portraits and autographs of two hundred of the principal liberal members of Parliament, politicians, ministers of the gospel, and others in favor of Union and Emancipation.

BARON HUMBOLDT AND THE LATE GEO. SUMNER.
The Boston Transcript publishes the following letter from Baron Alexander Humboldt to the late George Sumner, as illustrating the recondite historical studies of the latter, and the high esteem in which he was held by the former:-
“I am very culpable toward you, Monsieur-culpable toward a traveller whose conversation, animated, varied, spirituelle, has left on me an impression which will not soon be effaced.
The King of Prussia not arriving on the borders of the Rhine before the month of August, I have unexpectedly received orders to rejoin my King on ‘the historic hill of Sans Souci.’ I write these lines in all the horrors of a departure and of prosaic packing.
The critical remarks which you have been so good as to communicate to me on Aliacus, Gerson, Oviedo, and Christopher Columbus are very precious to me; and if, notwithstanding the imprudence of the Cosmos, which I have taken upon my feeble shoulders, I am able before my death to publish the last volume of my History of the Geography of the Fifteenth Century, I shall profit by the notices which I owe to you.
But what I have more at heart is that you should enrich the literature of your noble country by publishing fragments, at least, of your travels. I do not, however, ask this except on the condition that you remain most faithful to the sentiments of Liberty, to which many of your countrymen seem to be growing indifferent, either from the influence of social life in Europe, or under the pretext of exaggerated fears of radicalism. I desire, also, in your work, by the side of a love for the whites, some complaints at the ferocious legislation of the Slave States.
Receive. I pray you, Monsieur, the expression of the high consideration which I entertain for you.
A. HUMBOLDT.”
Paris, May 19th, 1845.
Monsieur GEORGE SUMNER, (of Boston,)
418 Rue St. Honore.

THE COLORED REGIMENTS.
In connection with the recommendation of Gov. Andrew, that the State make good the deficiency in the monthly pay of the two regiments of colored soldiers from this State, the following report is of interest:-
BOSTON Nov. 11,1863.
To His Excellency John A. Andrew, Governor of the Commonwealth  Massachusetts.
The undersigned Committee appointed by your Excellency for the purpose of aiding in recruiting colored regiments, beg leave to represent, that in accordance with your instructions they took active measures during the past year to procure the enlistment of the soldiers of the 54th and 55th Massachusetts regiments.
In doing so, they personally or by their agents made statements to the said soldiers, as an inducement to enlist, that the faith of the General Government stood pledged to your Excellency that the said soldiers should receive the same pay, allowances, protection and treatment generally as other soldiers were entitled to.
They now beg to call your Excellency's attention to one breach of these conditions which has occurred in the refusal of the Paymaster of the army to furnish the said soldiers with the same pay and allowances which other soldiers receive. They pray you to continue your exertions to procure a reparation of this great injustice from the Government; but in view of the suffering of the families of these soldiers, many of whom do not receive State aid; and in view of the inducement which the Commonwealth has given of the promises of the General Government, they pray you to urge the Legislature to appropriate sufficient money to make good to said Massachusetts regiments the promises under which they enlisted. The example of such a breach of faith toward any part of the army has had a most pernicious effect upon enlistments.
(Signed)
J M. FORBES, W. A. WELLMAN,
JAMES STURGIS, L. A. RUSSELL,
GEO. WM. BOND, S. C. THWING,
AMOS A. LAWRENCE, G. HIGGINSON,
WM. ENDICOTT, JR. OAKES AMES,
SAMUEL G. WARD, WM. F. WELD.
Union men in Tennessee promise to raise 10,000 colored troops. Where is the Constitution, and where are its compromises?
<c03>
THE SHAW MONUMENT.
BEAUFORT. (S. C.) Nov. 5.1863.
EDITOR FREE SOUTH:- Sir,-The following contributions to the fund for erecting a monument to the late Col. Robert G. Shaw, 54th Massachusetts Volunteers, have been received by the Treasurer since the last public acknowledgment:-
From 1st Regiment S. C. Vols., (in addition to $518,75 already acknowledged) $64 75
From laborers on the works at Fort Clinch, Fernandina, Florida, 92 00
From the colored people at St. Augustine, Florida, 52 95
From 19 members Co. E, 2d S. C. Vols., 10 60
Previously acknowledged, 1146 05
Total, $1366 35
Plans for the monument,-which is to be built of Massachusetts granite,-have been already ordered to be made.
E. W. HOOPER, Captain, and A. D. C.,
Treasurer of the Fund.
-Beaufort Free South.

A FRIVOLOUS OBJECTION.
The objection that the emancipation measures have been adopted for military reasons is of very little weight. It is a stock topic for declamation on our own superiority to other nations that we liberated our slaves from motives of religion and humanity. Those who know the history of emancipation in the West Indies know better. The truth is, the efforts of the missionaries in educating the negroes, and the general spread of discontent among them, had rendered it impossible to keep up slavery much longer. Wilberforce, and Clarkson, and Buxton, and other good men, nobly urged the claims of humanity and religion, but their words would have been unheeded till this day if “military reasons” had not preponderated. It was because the cost and the danger of maintaining slavery was seen to be greater than the cost of emancipation that the latter was conceded. Very sorry are we to appear cynical, but it is the truth, that although religion and humanity are not disregarded by statesmen, their claims are always the last and the least attended to. If we were to quarrel with a good measure because it springs from a bad motive, we should never get any good at all. President Lincoln was just as much actuated by right motives in publishing his emancipation proclamation as our English statesmen were in giving freedom to the slaves in the West Indies. We believe the balance, if both were fairly weighed, would be greatly in honest Abe's favor.- Stalybridge (Eng.) Reporter, Oct. 24.

A FEARFUL PICTURE.
The following observations made on a recent visit to the hospital at Annapolis, Maryland, where the famished prisoners who arrived from Richmond on the 29th ultimo were brought, most of them to die, are furnished to the New York Times by a party who has been a visitor of the hospitals in and around Baltimore for a year and more, and who has witnessed the most intense suffering among our sick and wounded soldiers, enabling him to estimate the amount both of mental and physical pain which men are capable of enduring. The writer's description is terrible:-
The men landed (at Annapolis,) at 5 A. M., in the chilly dawn, and it seemed a fitting time for so mournful a procession. They numbered 180, brought from Belle Island, near Richmond. Many were unable to walk, and were carried to the hospital. Those that could walk must have presented a sight never to be forgotten; for, before leaving, the rebels not only stripped them of socks, shoes and blankets, but took from them their shirts and pantaloons, except where the rags could scarce hold together. Men came without hats or caps, with thin cotton drawers, and bodies bared to the waist-their nakedness and bleeding feet covered only by what tatters their cruel captors had left them, not from mercy, but because they were too filthy to keep. These men had been on Belle Island, (which seems to be a barren waste,) without any protection against the weather, except what they had themselves constructed. They had lain on the sand, which was to them both bed and covering, exposed, both sick and well, to all extremes of heat and cold, without clothes, without food, (except small portions of the most repulsive kinds,) for weeks and months, many having been taken prisoners at or before the battle of Gettysburg. Many were suffering from what are called sand sores, and the surgeons in vain attempted to produce general circulation of blood, the cuticle in many instances seemingly dried on the bone from exposure, and nearly the color and consistency of parchment. If food was denied them, it would seem as if the veriest barbarian would have given them shelter to die beneath.
On entering the first room, some sick men, sitting in silence near the fire, lifted their hands to show us that with us was entering the unseen, but not unexpected visitor-death. Before us lay a young man just breathing his last, a mere skeleton, whose dying throes seemed to place in stronger relief a frame which must once have belonged to a strong and vigorous life. We turned away in our horror, only to look upon another who would soon follow his martyred Near them stood two male nurses, who, after witnessing horrors of all kinds, both on the battle-field and in the hospitals, stood perfectly subdued and heart-wrung, in witnessing that most fearful of all deaths-death from starvation.
In another room was a poor young boy, equally squalid in appearance, a network of bones, perfectly crazed, and tossing his arms about and talking wildly and indistinctly; he, too, could live but a few hours, and most probably never be sane again. The next patient was a respectable-looking, middle-aged German, with the bedclothes drawn tightly over his head, moaning and writhing in his agony. My friend begged me to listen. I could only distinguish these words:-‘I am so tired! something to eat! what torment!’ and then the ejaculation, ‘Oh, Holy Christ!’ Then we saw others, emaciated to the last degree, several of whom were trying to eat-their kind nurses tempting them with delicacies and such food as they could bear. Some, after taking the longed-for article and putting it to their lips, would turn away with an agonized, loathing expression, as if eager to swallow, but incapable of the effort. Others, after eating with famished haste, would, after a few moments, eject it all, their stomach being too much weakened to bear nourishment, either solid or liquid. Could anything be more fearful than this living death; this famishing with food before their eyes and within their reach! There were other patients who were better, they could digest light food and had some hope of life. It was then the sixth day since they came, and out of 180 men 53 had died of ill-treatment and actual starvation The surgeons said at least two-thirds of the 180 would die, and if any recovered it would be with broken constitutions, utterly incapable of supporting themselves. Many had died on first arriving, unconscious from their suffering that they were among friends and in the land that they had died for. Others were too far gone to say much, but thankful to feel that they might die under the old flag, and be taken home to be buried with their kindred.

HORRIBLE ATROCITY OF SLAVEHOLDERS. Capt. George W. Reed, of the United States steamer Leslie, communicates to the Washington Republican the following particulars of an act of inhuman cruelty perpetrated upon a colored man:-
“The sloop Varina, owned by a colored man named Richard Coates, was on her way to Washington city, with two colored women,' relatives of his, whom he was trying to release from the bondage of slavery. When opposite Chickamuxin creek, he was pursued by a party of men in a boat from Maryland, and captured by the leader and crew. The liead man was George W. Carpenter, a noted secessionist of Maryland, who was only released from the Capitol prison a few days since. This man Richard Coates was formerly a slave of Carpenter, but made his escape to the Union lines. Coates was taken on shore, and the woman men sent to jail as fugitives from slavery. His (Coates) hands and feet were tied by Carpenter, who sent for his rebel friends to witness the murder of his slave who had run away. They whipped him with two-inch fence rails until they gave out. Then they got pieces of three-inch plank, and bored holes in them, and tarred and sanded them, and laid him across a barrel and whipped him until pieces of flesh came through the holes. Finding that not severe enough, they poured turpentine over him, and let him lie for an hour, unable to move. They then got a horse, and tied him to it, and whipped the horse, and dragged him over the rocks, stone fences, water, mud, &c., until life was extinct. His brains were knocked out in all directions, and his body left on the ground, and no one allowed to touch it. These are positive facts, as brought to this boat by those who witnessed the transaction.

THE REIGN OF TERROR IS TEXAS. A correspondent of the Salem Register, writing from Denver City, announces the arrival there of a number of Texas refugees. They represent the condition of Texas as terrible in the extreme. Last fall, in Wise and an adjoining county, sixty-three men were hung for the crime of devotion to their country!

GEN. MEADE'S OFFICIAL REPORT. The official report of the battle of Gettysburg has been published. The result of the campaign may be briefly stated in the defeat of the enemy at Gettysburg, his compulsory evacuation of Pennsylvania and Maryland, and his withdrawal from the upper valley of the Shenandoah; and in the capture of 3 guns, 41 standards and 13,621 prisoners. 24,978 small arms were collected on the battle-field. Our own losses were very severe, amounting, as will be seen by the report, to 2834 killed, 13709 wounded, and 6643 missing-in all, 28,286 Gen. Meade adds his tribute to the heroic bravery of his soldiers.
<c04>
“THE WHIP, HOE, AND SWORD.” Rev. Geo. W. Hepworth of Boston, recently chaplain of a Massachusetts regiment in Louisiana, has a volume in press relating to his army experience. The following is an incident related by him illustrative of the elevating effect of paid labor upon the plantation slaves. He says:
A gentleman below the city hired a new overseer, one who was obnoxious to the hands on account of his reputation. He was in the habit of wielding the whip pretty freely, and of using abusive language to the negro women. On the morning when he arrived to enter upon his duties, a delegation from the field hands waited upon the proprietor, and very respectfully stated their objections. When they had finished, he indulged in some very strong language,-forgetting that times had somewhat changed-and bade them go about their business, for he would hire whomsoever he chose to be overseer.
They remonstrated still further, saying that the hands could not work under such a man, but they would work cheerfully under any one else. He dismissed them with an oath. The matter, however, did not end there. The delegation at once went to their cabins, packed up their little bundles, and started on the road to Fort Jackson. They knew that, once there, they could get employment. They had not gone far, however, before the master came to his senses. He was no longer the owner of mere chattels. Some change had come over slavery; and he was surprised to find that those whom he had so often stigmatized as “things” and counted at so much “per head,” as he did his cows and hogs, were growing very rapidly into the likeness of men, “who know their rights, and, knowing, dare maintain.” He called them all back; told them they should have any overseer they wanted; upon which they unpacked their bundles, and went quietly to the field, as if nothing had happened.

DEATH OF HON. B. C. CLAKK. Hon. Benj. C. Clark died at his residence, Beacon street, this morning, of typhoid fever, at the age of sixty-three years. As a merchant of Boston, Mr. Clark has a highly honorable record. At an early age embarking in the foreign commerce of the city, he was one of the pioneers of the important trade between this port and the Island, of Hayti, and was ever a true and devoted supporter of the government of that country in its efforts to improve the condition of the colored race.
At various times when the predominancy of the slave power in the councils of the government at Washington threatened the integrity of the struggling nationality of the Island, he interposed with his voice and his pen, and with favorable results. As a mark of appreciation of his services, he was appointed Acting Haytien Consul at this port, a position he occupied at the time of his death. He was also a true friend to the sailor, and entered heartily into the various plans adopted to ameliorate his condition.
Originally, a firm supporter of the Whig party, he joined hands with the Republicans in their efforts to check the encroachments of the slave power, and was elected by that party a member of the Senate from this city.
As a merchant, Mr. Clark was ever high-toned and correct in all his transactions; as a patriot, he sent his son to fight the battles of his country, (now holding a Captain's commission in the Mass. 24th,) and expended liberally of his means to carry on the contest and relieve the necessities of her defenders.-Boston Traveller, Nov. 14th.

 DEATH OF HENRY FITZ. The New York Tribune announces the death in that city, of Henry Fitz, the well known telescope maker. He was born in Newburyport in 1808, and produced his first reflecting telescope twenty-eight years ago. He made many improvements in telescopes, and finally succeeded in constructing instruments of sixteen inches aperture. He made two of thirteen inches for the Dudley Observatory at Albany, and many others for observatories and individuals. When seized with his final illness, he was about to go to Europe to select a glass for a twenty-four inch telescope. He leaves a number of large telescopes nearly complete.

THE NEW MISSOURI SENATORS. We rejoice to learn that B. Gratz Brown, Esq., has been elected United States Senator from Missouri, by seven majority in the Legislature. It was feared that the “Clay banks" or conservatives would coalesce with the Democrats in choosing Senators, one of which would stand a chance of being a copperhead. But the loyalty of the conservatives, probably, and the influence of the late election, have secured better results.
Of Mr. Brown’s position there is happily no room for doubt or misunderstanding. From the very beginning he has been thoroughly identified with the emancipation movement in Missouri, standing out as its advocate at a time when to do so required high moral and physical courage. And yet he is quite a young man-probably the younger member of the new Senate, with the exception of Governor Sprague. He is a native of Kentucky, and a graduate of Yale College in the class of 1847. For many years he was the chief editor of the St. Louis Democrat, then as now the sterling organ of the free labor movement in Missouri. As a member of the Legislature he brought to the cause abilities in debate equal to those he had already displayed through the press. A man of original ideas on the great questions of the day, of rare energy and moral boldness and a vigorous speaker, Mr. Brown must inevitably take a high rank in the Senate and before the country.
A telegraphic dispatch announces the election of Con. John R. Henderson (Radical) as colleague of Mr. Brown-Boston Journal.
The Providence post publishes, and, of course, endorses the following fusion of the Albany Argus:-
“The Convention a Unitarians, held in Springfield, Mass., has just revolved, that ‘while, as Christians, we are peace-makes, we cheerfully offer our own lives, and those of our children, for the perilled life of the nation.’ It shows how little accustomed this class of men are to mean what they say, that not one intends to join the army or send his <Illegible> By ‘our lives and those of our children, they <Illegible> exclusively to their neighbors' household.”
Yes; and it shows how little knowledge, sense, charity, or veracity these co-journalists have, when they say, as with miraculous insight, ‘not one intends to join the army or to send his son,” <Illegible> in fact, the clergyman who presided over this <Illegible> has sent two sons to the army as common soldiers, one of them dying in the service; that twenty or more of the other ministers and laymen present  sad made similar contributions and many sacrifices; and that nearly half the speakers on that occasion,  <Illegible> duty to the country was discussed, were returned <Illegible> or soldiers, some of them going back, and all of them ready if needed. Verily, truth is a jewel, as we as consistency.-Providence Journal.
Four of the persons concerned in the attempt, to release the prisoners at Camp Chase, Columbus, Ohio, have been arrested, and are held in $10,000 each for a hearing before a United States Commissioner. George E. Pugh is their counsel. A Cincinnati despatch has the following:- “The plan for effecting the release of the prisoners at Camp Chase was as follows: When the prisoners saw a beacon light at a certain point, they were to be ready to take their leave. The prison-guard was to be shot by outside parties, and axes were to be thrown over the walls to the prisoners. The prisoners once out, with their axes, were to be provided with arms, and then they were to storm the penitentiary, release John. Morgan and other confederate officers, and the whole party were then to start for the Ohio river, and cross near Maysville. Cathcart was to go along with them, and receive a commission in the rebel army as a reward for his services.” Cathcart was arrested at the house of Rev. Sabin Hough. Hough is the secessionist to whom Mr. Vallandigham wrote that the “Union was hopelessly divided.” Wild as the scheme of liberation appears, there seems to be abundant evidence that it was to have been tried a week ago. The plans, however, miscarried at that time. Other arrests are to be made. It is not known how extensive the organization for this infernal business was.
CURACAO, (W.I.) Oct. 2, 1863.
“The salutary results from the emancipation of last July, in these islands, have met the most sanguine expectations; the freedmen work with a will, wherever chance offers; they are quiet and industrious. Only a few of the former owners of these slaves are dissatisfied with the Dutch Edict of Emancipation in their Colonies-and so far as I have been able to learn and have conferred with them, they are the chief, among the Dutch subjects, who see merit in sham sympathy with our slaveholders rebellion in the United States.-Among the recently emancipated, there are not wanting instances to be met with of maiming of eyes, limb or person, the result of cruel treatment from their former masters, such as is the legitimate province of slave masters everywhere, and such the result of accursed, hell-begotten slavery.”
SLAVERY IN KENTUCKY The Nashville Union of the 27th ult. Says:- “A very respectable slaveholder from Kentucky informs us that, within three weeks past, a change seems to have come over the negroes in the southern counties of that State, and large numbers of them are running off. He says that over one hundred and fifty have escaped from one county, and the trouble is increasing. In spite of the enormous prices which the great Kentucky staple, tobacco, is bringing, slaves have depreciated greatly in value. A very large proportion of the slave-owners say that slavery is hopelessly destroyed, and that they are willing to acquiesce in any disposition which may be made of the slaves.”
<c05>
SENTENCE FOR FITTING OUT A SLAVER. The motion in the U. S. Circuit Court for a new trial in the case of Zeno Kelley, of New Bedford, convicted of fitting out the ship, Tahmaroo for the slave trade, having failed, he was brought up for sentence yesterday. The evidence showed that the vessel was fitted out ostensibly for a whaler, but really for the slave trade, and that the fitting out was done by Kelley, under the direction of her owner, Capt. Jacob S. Hathaway. It does not appear that the vessel succeeded in getting any slaves. Kelley was before the Court twice for trial prior to the present term. He was sentenced by Judge Clifford to four year’s imprisonment in Dedham Jail, and to pay a fine of $1000. The maximum term of imprisonment for the offence is seven years, minimum three years; maximum fine $5000, minimum $1000.-Traveller.
NEGRO RECRUITING IN TENNESSEE The Nashville papers publish a circular of Major George S. Stearns, who, by the order of the Secretary of War, designates the following recruiting stations for the enlistment of colored troops:- Nashville, Gallatin, Clarksville, Columbia, Murfreesboro', Wartrace, and Shelbyville, in Tennessee; and Stevenson in Alabama. The slave-owners who offer their slaves for enlistment, and have their claims allowed by the proper board, will receive three hundred dollars for each slave. Those who have been rebels will not have their claims allowed. This is the same course that has been pursued in Maryland.
ENLISTING SLAVES. The steamer John Tracey (called by some of the negroes “Jesus” because they were thus taken to what they thought would be their Paradise) reached the wharf at Snow Hill, on Saturday, having on board Col. Birney, and a negro brass band, and some negro soldiers. She left on Monday morning with about two hundred slave negroes, who flocked on board from all parts of the country, some owners losing every one they had, and but few getting certificates for their sable stampedarians. Indeed, Col. Birney told some of their owners that the certificate, if he gave it, might be worth nothing.-Snow Hill (Md.) Shield.
Major-General Gillmore has ordered that, in honor of some of the brave men who have fallen on Morris Island, during the present campaign, the following names shall be adopted for the works designated below, as follows:-The work at Cumming’s Point will be known as Fort Putnam; that next to it, on Morris Island, as Battery Chatfield; Fort Wagner as Fort Strong; the new work near the south end of Morris Island as Fort Shaw that on Oyster Point as Battery Purviance; and that on the North end of Folly Island u Fort Green.
SLAVERY. GOV. Andy Johnson, in a recent speech at Nashville, alluded to the idea that slavery was necessary to the production of cotton. He said he had picked cotton in the cotton-fields near Raleigh, North Carolina; and he could pick more cotton than any black boy in the field. It is only necessary to cut up Alabama and Mississippi into moderate sized farms, for industrious men to cultivate with their own hands, and there would not only be an increase of the cotton crop, but the production also of all the bread and meat necessary for those States.
Gen. Banks’s expedition has landed on the Rio Grande, and at the last advices had penetrated forty miles up the river to Brownsville, which is nearly opposite Matamoras. At that town a terrific fight was progressing at the last accounts. The Confederates have carried on an immense contraband trade through Brownsville and Matamoras, and hence the tenacity with which they hold on to the place. In 1852 its imports were $5,000,000. Two years afterwards, its population was 5000.
The number of slaves run into Alabama and Georgia, is upwards of three-quarters of a million, a fact that shows how severely our armies have encroached upon secession territory. It increases the chances of starvation in the States thus crowded, and hunger may lead to servile outbreaks. Slaveholders would seem to be massing the slaves in order that they may be strong on the arrival of the day of wrath.
The New Orleans Era says, that “ the rebels under command of Col. Scott made a dash on a negro church opposite Fort Adams, last Sunday, and captured forty-nine men and thirty women. They let the women go, but the men were sent to Texas.”
The Radicals have now a clear majority of eighteen hundred in the city of St. Louis, showing a gain, since the first Monday of April last, of thirty three hundred votes; and this, it must be remembered, without counting the vote of a single soldier in the field; when the soldier vote, not less than two thousand strong, is radical to a man.
The Richmond Examiner reports the case of a slave woman, Emeline, brought before the Mayor’s court charged with stealing a dress. The evidence in support of the charges of theft was exceedingly weak. Emeline's mistress, Mrs. Halsted, was introduced to prove her good character, and she gave it as her belief that “Jeff. Davis would as soon steal as Emeline would,” whereupon His Honor, without further testimony, sent the girl up.
The fire which has raged so fiercely the last two years has worked marvels of morals and political chemistry. It has developed the gold that lay at the heart of the stubborn democracy of Benjamin F. Buttler, and it has brought to the head the copper that lurked under the ductile republicanism of Richard H. Dana, the younger, of Massachusetts.-Anti-Slavery Standard.
As Mr. Beecher has done so good a work in England, why not send Mr. Phillips thither, to complete the business? He is the first of American orators, and he could lay down the Anti-Slavery law vastly to the satisfaction of our English friends.-Boston Traveller.
Brigham Young says that the secession war is a “visitation from heaven upon the people because they killed the prophet of God, Joseph Smith, Jr.” Brigham is mistaken. The visitation is due to the people's neglect to read and to believe the articles that have appeared in the Boston Courier. We have the Courier’s word for this, and surely that journal ought to know all about the matter-Ibid.
BUFFALO, N. Y., NOV. 17. We learn from a gentleman just from Toronto, that Hon. Joshua R. Giddings has been arrested in Montreal, and held to bail in $30,000, charged with kidnapping.
THE MOTHER OF THEODORE WINTHROP. This excellent woman died at Staten Island on Wednesday, the 28th of October, at the residence of her daughter, Mrs. Templeton Johnson. She was a woman worthy to be the mother of such a son. Her whole life was fragrant with good deeds, and her memory will “smell sweet and blossom in the dust.”
CHICAGO FAIR. The Fair closed on the 7th inst., and has been very successful It has been visited by 40.000 people, and the receipts will be about $60,000.
Following this great fair at Chicago will be fairs at Milwaukee, Cleveland, Pittsburg, Cincinnati, Galena, <Illegible> Dubuque-all for the Sanitary Commission, and conducted by ladies of the West.
Anna E. Dickinson spoke very successfully in West in New York before the late election. In Buffalo the Unionists presented her a magnificent set of jewels, <Illegible> of breastpin and ear-rings. 
<Illegible> Sickles made a speech in New York, a few days <Illegible> in favor of enlisting colored men in the army. He <Illegible> there would soon be a hundred thousand of them, <Illegible> these would not be too many. He also defended <Illegible> proclamation of emancipation.
The Mobile <Illegible> of a recent date declared that “the negro is no <Illegible> an object of small talk in the South. The people the South have a place for them, and that is in the army. There should be no <Illegible> in color when <Illegible> is willing to fight for his home and master. This as bad as the abolitionists.
The Cambridge (Md.) <Illegible> says that on the 1st inst., Col, Birney had <Illegible> colored soldiers in the State. Enlistments are <Illegible> place with increasing rapidity. The fact that the colored soldiers count for the quota of Maryland, <Illegible> as if they were white soldiers, removes the <Illegible> of many of the Marylanders to the enlistment of them. 
Maryland has emancipated herself from the slaveholders, and the next step will be to <Illegible> her slaves. Liberty begets liberty.
The Richmond Enquirer reports that fifteen <Illegible> were set to work on the York River railroad, <Illegible> guard of five Confederate soldiers, and twelve of then disappeared the first night.
A handsome flag was presented to the 16th African regiment, at New Orleans, October 23d. It was given by the female members of the African Baptist churches in the city.
The instincts of loyal men are everywhere the same. In the, vote east for Governor by the California volunteers in the late State election. Low (Union) had 4,-027, and Downey (Copperhead) 140.
Governor Sprague has bought the trotting mare “California Damsel” for eleven thousand dollors, as a present, it is said, for his betrothed, Miss Kate Chase.
Accounts from New Orleans report a terrible railroad accident, by which sixteen Illinois soldiers were: killed and about seventy wounded.
THE STATES OF Wisconsin. Thirty years ago, Wisconsin was settled by a sparse population of a few hundreds. It has now more than 800,000 inhabitants.
The estate of William Sturgis, who recently died in Boston, will amount to nearly $2,000,000. Contrary to the usages of wealthy Boston merchants, Mr. Stargis leaves not a farthing for public charities.
<c06>
HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
GO, PLEASANT STREET.
The experiment of a Special Hospital for Lying-In Patients and the Diseases of Women has new been under trial, in Boston, for nearly two years. It has succeeded beyond the most sanguine expectations of those interested the demand for admission having often exceeded the expacity of the building temporarily in use.
It has therefore, been decided to establish the institution upon a permanent basis and, as its benefits are for the community at large, to seek from that community cooperation and material aid, in the firm belief that the usefulness of the institution has now been fully proved, and the necessity for a building more appropriate to its purposes made evident.
The advantages of a separate hospital for the diseases of women are obvious. While these diseases are often of a character requiring the utmost skill in diagnosis and treatment, an essential element in the success of the treatment lies in the absence of all disturbing causes, mental and physical, foremost among which rank the varied enxicties and excitements of a large general Hospital, the necessary publicity attaching to its wards, and the inevitable diversity of cares and interests there obtaining.
It is the aim of this institution,-exclusively for women,-to obviate these and other objections, hitherto made by patients against entering a general Hospital, and thus to do more than a general Hospital possibly can towards lessening the present high rate of female mortality.
The Directors and Trustees therefore appeal to all benevolent persons for their aid in erecting a building especially adapted for the purposes required. Their call is made not upon women alone, who might seem more especially interested in the benefits to be conferred, but upon men, also, who cannot deny the claims upon them of mother, daughter, sister, and wife.
It is not intended or desired to erect a large and costly edifice, or to expend money upon outside show, but merely to provide safe and sufficient shelter for some fifty or one hundred beds, and to insure a purer and more favorable “hospital air” than has usually been obtained.
It is estimated, that a building costing $35,000 will secure these ends. As much more will be necessary to establish thirty-five free beds upon a permanent foundation.
One lady has already paid three thousand dollars; another has paid one thousand; and several smaller sums.
MISS LUCY GODDARD, President.
MRS. EDNAH D. CHENEY, Secretary
FRED. W. G. MAY, Treasurer.
GEO. WM. BOND, Auditor.
Directors,
Mrs. Mary C E. Barnard, Miss Sarah P. Beek,
Mrs. Louisa C. Bond, Miss Mary J. Ellis,
Mrs. Lucretia G. French, Miss Hannah E. Stevenson,
Miss Anna H. Clarke, James Freeman Clarke,
Mrs. Mary A. S. Palmer, Thomas Russell,
Mrs. Caroline M. Severance, Samuel E. Sewall,
Mrs. Penelope R. Walbach, James Tolman,
Mrs. Joanna L. Meriam, John H.Stephenson.
Dr. M. E. ZAKRZEWSKA, Attending Physician.
Dr. HORATIO R. STORER, Attending Surgeon.
Dr.LUCY E. SEWALL, Resident Physician.
Dr. JOHN WARE, Consulting Physician.
Dr. JOHN CABOT, Consulting Surgeon.
New England Hospital for Women and Children, 60 Pleasant Street, Boston, Oct.1, 1863.
TO THE FRIENDS OF THE COLORED REGIMENTS.
The Committee appointed to procure funds for the 54th and 55th regiments appeal to their friends for further aid.
For well-known reasons, these soldiers have received no pay; we are therefore frequently called upon to furnish aid to their families. Our treasury needs to be replenished for this purpose. We also desire that some suitable present may be given to the members of these regiments on Thanksgiving day.
Their courage and conduct entitle them to every mark of esteem; and reminding you of the blood so bravely shed at Fort Wayne, we ask for such aid as shall enable us to provide something for the comfort of these noble men, and for the support of their wives and children.
J. H. STEPHENSON,
Treasurer for the Committee.
12 Arch street, Nov.9, 1863
SPECIAL NOTICE.-Those who want an easy pleasant and profitable business should send for 
“FIFTY METHODS OF MAKING MONEY”;
a book containing over fifty valuable secrets. Sent, postpaid, to any address on the receipt of 25 cents.
Address, F. A. FOSTER, Troy, N. Y.
Nov.13,-3t
ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE-Three complete sets of the (London) ANTI-SLAVERY ADVOCATE are for sale; application to be made to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street, Boston. Price,-three dollars each- The work covers a period of more than ten years, <Illegible> with May, 1863.4t
ANTI-SLAVERY TRACTS The invaluable Tract, by Mrs. Lydia Maria Child, entitled “The Right Way the Safe Way,” <Illegible> had at the Liberator office, wholesale or <Illegible> Price-$6 per hundred; ten cents, single. The name of the writer is a sufficient guaranty of the book, both as to style and argument.
REV. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor Clark’s School Visitor, would make a few additional engagements to lecture the coming winter. His themes are popular and practical. He may be addressed at the Visitor Office, 1308 Chestnut street, Philadelphia. 3t.
WEYMOUTH-PARKER PILLSBURY will lecture in the Universalist church in Weymouth, on Sunday evening next, at 7 o'clock.
GROVELAND. WILLIAM WELLS BROWN will lecture at the Congregational Church, Groveland, on Sunday afternoon next, the 22d, to commence at the usual hour of service. Subject-“The Rebellion and the Black Man.”
MARRIED-In this city, on the 29th ultimo, by Rev. James Freeman Clarke, Mr. OTTO DRESEL to Miss ANNA LORING, daughter of the late Ellis Gray Loring, Esq.
BOOKS FOR THE TIMES.
I. SPEECHES, LECTURES AND LETTERS. By WENDELL PHILLIPS. Library edition, $2.25; Trade edition, $1.50; People's edition. $1.
II. HOSPITAL SKETCHES. By Miss L. M. Alcott. Price 50c.
III. TOUSSAINT LOUVERTURE, a Biography and Autobiography. $1.25.
IV. REDPATH'S LIFE OF CAPT.JOHN BROWN. $1.00.
V. HENRY WARD BEECHER'S GREAT SPEECH IN ENGLAND. Price 15c.
VI. THE BLACK MAN. By William Wells Brown. $1.00.
Circulars containing criticisms of these publications sent to any address, free.
Any of these Books will be sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of price. 
R. F. WALLCUT,
Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington St., Boston.
GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been <Illegible> to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood <illegible> now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co's where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being <Illegible> for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do <Illegible> manner of 
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
In the most <Illegible> careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas  Fixtured <Illegible>and Gas Glasses of all kinds  furnished at <Illegible>. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro <Illegible> Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell's Provision <Illegible> 132, Charles street, Boston. <Illegible> L. PERKINS.
Refers to <Illegible> , Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30-ly
M. H. HARDY,
DRESS-MAKING ROOMS,
No. 10 Oliver Place,
Out of Essex Street, between Oxford and Edinboro' Sts., BOSTON
Sept. 23.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
For the Liberator.
EMANCIPATION, 1863,
I.
The cannon of the Union host are fed with Slavery's chains; To feed them with our arrogance and pride of race remains; The way of Peace, through Parity, Omnipotence ordains; The joys of Southern mothers soothe the Northern mother's pains.
II
Now, on the brow of despots, rains the blood of concubines; The incense of the poor man's cry out cannon smoke refines;
In battle fleet the driver's lash with orphans' flesh combines;
Crushed bondmen's souls, vast Nemesis, sound in the Southern pines.
III.
Thus, through the lattice of the slave darts life the Northern Star;
His past unto his future hope shall be the only bar;
Save when the vulgar pride of caste his fostering shall mar;
The scarring of his furnace flames he shall not carry far.
IV.
Be greeted, brethren of the sun, from out this Northern light;
The accident of color is no canceling of right; In Progress and in Justice are your confidence and might; The liberty of black men is the liberty of white.
V.
Yet pity those whom mothers' milk or vicious creeds may blind;
God rescue those who, Custom's stares, in social lies entwined,
Still war for place of servile brutes for poor of human kind:
O noble, but infatuate, barbaric Southern mind!
VI.
Of good, what man can be, he may: when once this Sin is o'er,
From oat the Future fierce Amaze and demon Shame shall poor,
That even Gain, its basal rock of granite Right, up tore,
To open out deep mining Ease, the crater of hell's core.
VII.
No safety stands for aye in ought except Inferno's close:
Lo! ashes flood the sun and stars in every wind that blows!
Vain, too, for end supernal now, above what all earth owes,
The breath of poisoned nations from the lips of Mercy flows.
VIII.
Open, then, great friendly earth, and close these stench months of hell!
So swallow up their place and trade who Christians scar and sell:
If half a nation's blood can seal the' accursed pit, 'tis well:
Above, around, then let there found great Heaven's store bell! BARAND STAR.

For the Liberator.
GATHERED, NOT SUNDERED.
The mind-lit home is darkened, now;
The silent rooms no more
Echo the manly steps of late.
The boyish bound of yore.
God's Angels in their dread disguise,
Disease, Disaster, came-
In heart-hushed tones of tenderness
The few the many name.
Another home is radiant, now,
With smiles familiar here;
Familiar voices fondly breathe
Names the wide world holds dear;
Forms glory clothes in no disguise,
Seraphic go and come,
Where the blest many for the few
Prepare the soul-lit home.
Boston, November, 1863.

JOHN BROWK'S MARCH.
[The following lines, now for the first time published it this country, are by a young lady of Dublin, Ireland,-the daughter of a well-known and highly esteemed Anti-Slavery coadjutor in that city,-and show the profound sympathy, in the cause of American freedom, which warm some hearts in the Old World.]
I.
John Brown's body lies mould' ring in the grave,
It lies amidst the mountains of the Adirondack lone,
A gray rook looms above it, and the sighing grasses wave
But his soul is marching on.
Glory, glory, hallelujah!
He lives forever, though on earth his race is run
Glory, glory, hallelujah!
His soul is marching on.
II.
They could not chain his spirit, <illegible> lay below the sod
They freed him from a prison here <illegible> in joy high;
Though worms destroy this body, yet I shall behold God,"
Was his soul's exalting cry.
Glory, glory, hallelujah!
He lives for ever, though on earth his race is run
Glory, glory, hallelujah! His soul is marching on.
III.
The torch by him left smoldering shall give light in other hands;
His voice, which now is silent, shall be echoed o'er an o'er;
Till slavery has ceased to be, and freedom in all lands 
Shall reign for evermore.
Glory, glory, hallelujah!
He lives for ever, though on earth his race is run
Glory, glory, hallelujah!
His soul is marching on!
IV.
He failed, yet as a victor we will crown our hero brave;
Beneath Jehovah's banner was his duty nobly done,
And we grieve not that his body lies mould' ring in the grave,
For his soul is marching on.
Glory, glory, hallelujah!
He lives for ever, though on earth his race is run
Glory, glory, hallelujah:
His soul is marching on.

THREE GREAT VICTORIES.
Ten thousand slain in each battle, not a man lost on out side. The slain all buried in the box where they fell. Humanity and freedom triumphant

KPIYAPH
Here rest many thousands of Copperheads' hopes,
All slain by the bullets of ballot-box votes;
Great saving in public expenses for ropes,
Disarming insurgents that cut negro throats,
In peace may they sleep till after election,
Then none will be guilty of their resurrection.
JEFF. DAVIS' CHIEF MOURNER.

COMMENTS.
The succor expected from Seymour &Co.
Has blasted the hopes of our languishing foe;
His friend and supporter across the big water
Withholds his supply since Gettysburg slaughter;
His found and his credit have sunk below sero,
Though in his high station he's equal to <illegible>
His people are fleeing to us for their live.
To rescue from famine their children and wives;
And still to complete the traitor <illegible>
His slaves are fast arming to <illegible> their dear master!
His fate is approaching-<illegible> sees and he feels it-
And few defeat more will most surely seal it;
And freemen was join us in singing salvation.
P. S. The Lord is chastening us but to reclaim,
And thanks of the nation are due to his name:
He's broken the oppressor's curd's power with his rod,-
We claim not the praise, "its all due to our God;
For ages to come, when the slaves are all free, 
The nation will join in a grand jubilee
Syracuse Wesleyan
<c02>
The Liberator.
PLANTATION PICTURES.
BY MRS. EMILY C. PEARSON,
Author of "Cousin Frank's Household"
CHAPTER VII
LELIA-ADVENTURES AAND CONFLICTS.
One dewy morning as Leila was walking on the back piazza, listening to the songs of the birds, she saw Frink passing from the kitchen to the dining room. He stopped in the doorway opening into the court, to speak to Ben, who was carrying some vegetables out of the cellar. Making up a face, expressive of scorn and disgust, he said,-
"Don't you insult de cows, Ben, by giving' em dem are rotten cabbages! Make' em hare de cow-pox like, and spile de milk!"
"Yon shet up!" said Ben; "dese ere make a mos' amiable pot-luck for de people. Des put on de big boiler, and simmer' em wid de pepper and salt, and dey go down mouse amiable-'pend on it day will!"
"Did master Nelson say the people might hare' em?"
"Sartin! Massa say de ole rotten cabbages make de cellar on healthy, an' de people might hare' em for a relish."
"Yes," said Frink, "and den hell say 'fore Miss Lelia,' What you tank de people are to has for dinner, to-day?'-and den he'll say, 'Pork and cabbages;' for 'taint often de poor slave people hare de meat, and massa wants everybody to know it when day do."
"Dat's de fact truth," said Ben, looking about cautiously; and catching a glimpse of Lelia, with a frightened look he hurried away.
Lelia was surprised at the coincidence, when at the breakfast table Mr. Nelson said, addressing her,-
"What do you think my hands are to have for dinner to-day?"
"What are they?" she answered, coloring. "Pork and cabbages! Don't you think I feed my people well?"
The incident depressed her, but she thought too well of Mr. Nelson to admit to herself that all she heard the servants say was true; yet the affair cost her some reflection.
Some weeks had now elapsed since her arrival at Powhatan, and she had become quite domesticated. Under Miss Forsythe's instruction, she had advanced surprisingly in the use of the harp and guitar. The life she was leading was novel, and full of interest Mr. Nelson and the governess vied with each other, striving to assuage her sorrow, forbearing all allusion to her recent bereavement lest they should open afresh the fountain of grief, and filling up each day with walks, rides, company, visiting and music-often of a moonlit evening setting sail on the smooth stream, where, fanned by the grateful breeze, and listening to the rude melodious refrains of the sable oarsmen, the night seemed more joyous than the day. It was to her as if she had suddenly been transported to fairy land, and, save the pensive drooping of her long-fringed eye-lashes, and a gentle sadness that would fall on her in the gayest hour, scarcely a trace of the past affliction could be detected by her friends.
Mr. Nelson's assiduous attention to his ward had not been without a reacting influence. Public life had developed the more masculine qualities, and his oft-repeated declaration that he should never marry had come to be received among his gentleman acquaintances as a truism. Though ever gallant in his bearing towards the fair sex, it was supposed that he had no such weakness as to lead him into love. But the coming of Lelia, and the constant intercourse with her, prompted by pity for her loneliness and a desire to convert her to slavery, had brought into exercise a class of feelings that he did not understand, but which were to him as fascinating as they were getting to be controlling. Mr. Nelson had plunged suddenly, and hopelessly into love, and yet he knew it not. Blinded by the shaft of the archer, he thought himself the most disinterested of mortals, while by day he busied himself in strewing flowers in the path of his lovely protégé, and by night dreamed over the events of the day. Of course, in this condition of things his manner, though affectionate, was deferential; and while Lelia and Miss Forsythe were both charmed with his courtliness and grateful for his presence, and wondered at the exhaustless resources he displayed in providing for their happiness, neither of them suspected the cause.
"Come, Lelia," said Mr. Nelson, on the morning of which we were speaking, "I have planned a ride and I want you to accompany me. Run, and get your "riding-hat. But, stop! let's see-what horse will you ride?"
"Oh! anything," replied she, "only give me a safe saddle and bridle."
"Well, then, as you are so fine a rider, I've a mind to give you Black Hawk to-day. Yon'd look splendidly on his back. He's high-spirited, but gentle where he takes; he'd be as proud as Lucifer to carry you. Yon smile, but he's a good judge of looks, and admires the ladies. Frink, run down to the stable, and tell Monkey to bring up Black Hawk and Red Jacket."
Monkey-who was one of the stable boys-was born a hostler. His father, and grandfather before him, were of that profession, and he rode a horse as easily as he breathed. Small, slim, and wiry, his head thrown back on his shoulders, so that his face seemed half on the top of his head, with large, rolling black eyes, impudent, and gleaming with fun, he seemed to rejoice in existence without let or hindrance. His nimble.adroitness, mimicry and mirth suggested the sobriquet which his master applied to him, though Jehu was his real name. Horse-back riding was passion with him, and this be found means to <illegible> Each morning be had to ride the horses down the creek some forty rods to watered it was hyperactive, tike, however urgent the case, to gallop the round by the mill, making a circuit of some two <illegible> limber'em like," as he said. On this morning, it was a full hour before he appeared with thoraces; Mr.' Nelson, meanwhile, having become sorbet in his newspaper.
Planter, the bead hostler, <illegible> and Wagoner, expostulated with Jehu for "<illegible> was on de horses, when massa wants deem to one-but what did Jehu care for that?
"Oh, you Planter,'<illegible> I knows what de horses want! 'Sects dey <illegible> drinking' de creek dry, an' I has to <illegible>'em to keep de brief sound! Des so!" And to <illegible> further illustration, await he swept up by <illegible>, and turning with a flourish by the <illegible>, brought them panting back to the stable to <illegible> them.
"Runs<illegible> pound of flesh off de horses," exclaimed Plant highly indignant; "keeps beery hoof poor as <illegible> won't have you round any ways <illegible> he comedy down to de stable, an 'he say, Why, <illegible>, what's got into these year horses dat <illegible> poor? Massac Nelson, says I, de hoses gist data agitated, John ride deem so,-takes all de flesh off dear bones. Data are boy' pears like he redeem day an' night. When purer people is abed an' asleep, data are Jesus he cutting' up wad de hoses; and, mass, he spiel beery hoof dose year carryings on!"
"He, he! hi, hi!" laughed Jehu, at this farce. "What massa him say to dat?"
"He say. Git out, yon pup! He say, I'll have yon whipped within an inch of yer life, an' saunt off to the barma plantation!"
"He, he! can't do it," said Jehu. "I git up' fore mornin', and ride off Black Hawk entirely; an' dat would be de las' of Jehu in dese y ere parts "-and jumping on to Black Hawk, and leading Bed Jacket, both horses dashed up to the house at the top of their speed.
No lady had ridden Black Hawk for tome time; and he was not quite ready for Lelia to mount him, until he felt a little acquainted. Jehu had excited him, and
<c03>
the noble creature paved and pranced in grand style.
"So, so! Black Hawk," said Mr. Nelson, patting his glossy neck. "Why, hi! good fellow, you feel your oats this morning! Yon are to be gentle, and carry this lady safely, sir!"
Lelia finally mounted, after coaxing and patting him; but the instant she touched his back, he set off at fall speed, and the more she reined him, the faster be went Jehu, anticipating this, had left the park gate open, and away went Black Hawk and Lelia, Mr. Nelson in consternation vainly urging Red Jacket to overtake them.
"Reckon Miss Lelia git a ride dish slier time," said Jehu, hugely delighted-" Black Hawk take her round de mill!"
Meanwhile Lelia, though startled, managed to keep her seat, while the horse whirled away at break-neck speed. At length, having gained the mill, and making his circuit back, Lelia bethought her of sawing the bit He had a sharp curb on, and the moment it touched his tongue, Black Hawk stopped. Ha was near the watering place, a cool, pebbly brook, mossy banked, and shaded by maples. She was sitting there, watching the flitting shadows in the water, her cheeks in a beautiful glow from the excitement and exercise, when Mr. Nelson came up pale and agitated. "She is safe! safe!" he exclaimed, passionately. "Oh, how relieved I am! I would never hare allowed yon to ride that horse, had I known of his tricks. This comes of Jehu's riding! Are n't yon hurt at all?"
"Not in the least," said she, cheerfully.
"Well, shall we go home and get a gentler horse?"
"Oh, no! I don't think I shall hare any more trouble with Black Hawk; he seems kind, and ha did n't mean to harm me."
"Well, then," said Mr. Nelson, with a look of deep admiration, "if you feel quite at your ease, we'll go on."
The road lay mostly through a woodland country; now they came to a belt of ash, beeches, birches, oaks and elms, and then their way wound through pines that were singing-ever singing mournful requiems; anon a gang of plantation laborers, headed by a foreman or guarded, by the overseer, would be seen, or from the negro quarters would ring out the cries and whoops of the children; while here and there, stretching on a ridge marked by sentinel poplars, could be discerned the dwellings of the planters.
It was still early, the morning invigorating in its freshness; and the riders relieved of anxiety, and exhilarated by the exercise, paced off the pleasant circuit of the plantation in lively discourse.
"I admire Black Hawk," said Lelia.
"Then you've forgiven him his freak?"
"O, yes indeed! the horse ought not to be blamed."
"Black Hawk has certainly a magnanimous rider,"
said Mr. Nelson, gallantly, "one whom be should be proud to carry."
"I am gla'd you think so," lightly said Lelia.
"May I ask why you are glad?"
"O, I scarcely know," she replied, smiling, "I suppose I must plead guilty to a love of approbation."
"Is that all?" said Mr. Nelson, in a tone tremulous with emotion.
Leila started. Her quick glance met the earnest gaze of Mr. Nelson. Had it been any other than he, she would have needed no interpreter to explain the depths of tenderness that beamed on her. As it was, she was perplexed, and knew not what to think; and for a time the two rode in silence, unbroken, save by the cadence of their horses' feet.
The ride was destined to be eventful, for, coming to a stretch of level ground, Lelia, to break the spell, exclaimed, "Now for a race!" and starting up her horse, the spirited animal shot far ahead of his companion. But suddenly, at a bend of the road, she saw a heavy team driving furiously towards them. The road was too narrow for her to pass the wagon, and there was not time to check the powerful courser and return. Quickly reining Black Hawk up a steep bank, by almost incredible exertions be gained the top just in time to escape collision. The bank was some twenty-five feet high, and so narrow at the top as scarcely to afford a footing place. Her position was full of danger, and the horse trembled in every limb.
"Wait an instant," cried Mr. Nelso, as he approached, "and I will lead Black Hawk down."
"On no account, I beg of you! Keep quiet, or he will be unmanageable-I can take care of him." And soothing the frightened beast with caresses, be soon became calm. Then, guiding him slowly about, she coaxed him to attempt the descent <illegible> his foce feet firmly in the loose sand, with his hunches widespread, the intelligent creature <illegible> carefully to the ground; Lelia safely retaining he place in the saddle.
It was a marvellous thing for horses and rider; and Mr. Nelson not daring to lift a <illegible>, stood spell-bound. At its happy issue, he was <illegible> beside himself with joy, caressing the horse, <illegible> him with expressions of gratitude as if he were human deliverer, and pouring forth his <illegible> the ear of the fair heroine. His excitement was intense, and, like all self-collected natures <illegible> the feelings had the sway, they ruled the hour.
"Are you a <illegible> or a goddess, that thus you subdue brute nature <illegible> will, and surmount the most fearful penis? As my life have I been familiar with daring <illegible>, but never have I seen the equal of this. <illegible> come! I shall consent to no more risks to-day. I shall feel relieved at seeing you once again safely at <illegible> 
Do you know," he added, after a pause in which
he <illegible> lost in thought," how much my happiness was <illegible> up in that terrible feat? Oh, had aught <illegible> to you, what would have become of me? <illegible> he continued, growing impassioned in manner and utterance, "let me speak freely, for I cannot do otherwise. You have wakened me to a new life. I had always looked upon love as a weakness, and had boasted that a nature like mine was wholly above it The members of your sex had flitted by me like so many butterflies, leaving no impression; and in bringing you to Powhatan, I sought only to alleviate your sorrows, seeking also to render you more lenient in your judgment of Southern institutions. But little did I dream that, in thus endeavoring to promote your happiness, you were becoming essential to mine; and that, while laboring to convert you to Southern modes of thinking, I was destined to become your helpless captive. Thus It has proved. And now what is home, the home of my ancestors, with its wealth, and power, and noble name-what is it all to me henceforth unless irradiated by your presence? Will you not share it with me, and become the good angel of my destiny?"
Lelia was overwhelmed at the turn of affairs, and could not reply to Mr. Nelson. The revelations he made were, not anticipated, for from the first she had inferred that Miss Forsy the had a claim on his regard. She saw, however, that a crisis in her history was now reached, which would give character to its entire future, and felt constrained to pause ere casting the die that was to decide it She started as from a dream, as Mr. Nelson exclaimed,-
"Will you not answer roe, Lelia? Will you not' favor me with a single word! "
"I am not myself," she answered-" this is so sudden, it needs calmer thought than I can now bestow-I must have time for consideration."
Mr. Nelson wisely forebore urging a decision, and they were both relieved when they reached the home mansion.
That evening, Lelia retired early, but not to rest. The events of the morning had stimulated thought to unnatural vividness, until it seemed as if a life-time was being crowded into a brief hour. The question that had been brought before her, in the ardent words that had been poured into her ear, the brain had taken up with a power and persistency that did not allow of sleep; and into the deep hush of the night she still gazed from her open window, busied in pondering the subject, as in varied aspects it passed in graphic panorama before the mind. The pros and the cons both had the floor, rather tumultuously it most be
<c04>
confessed, being unrestricted by rules parliamentary, but yet each urging his side by effective appeals to the head and the heart. And, indeed, each had a fruitful theme.
The preference of each a man was highly complimentary, and she was flattered by it. He possessed many very agreeable qualities, which had already contributed no little to her happiness, and gratitude claimed its dues on this point. He loved her: what woman is insensible to such a fact? The alliance would he an honorable one: and family considerations will have weight in matters matrimonial,-and why should n't she, an orphan, think of this? Then, what opportunities for the gratification of refined tastes, in the cultivated circles to which she would belong, and the lit entry and art material at command,-not to take into account the ample fortune laid at her feet! These matter-of-fact considerations did not fail to suggest themselves. But, besides these, there were bright, glowing fancies and air-castles, rising before the vision, resplendent in the dazzling hues and magic charms so indescribable and enchanting, so ready to leap into life before the imagination of a young girl of quick sensibilities, when for the first time she listens of the burning words of love. Bewitched by the rose-ate
color that overspread the prospect, the young girl yielded to the sway of thick coming emotions, confiding and blissful. But, anon, the other side came up, chill as an autumn day, dark as an overshadowing cloud; and the joyous light went out in the brilliant eye, and the flushed cheek paled.
Did he really love her, or was it mere impulse? Could she safely commit her happiness to his keeping for life, on the strength of an affection so quickly developed? Did his language-that of one born under a fervid sky-mean less than it seemed to one bred amid the northern snows? And bow much allowance should be made for this? Then, as to the occurrences that elicited his confession, she saw nothing in them so very remarkable that they should elevate her to the honors of a heroine. They were more the result of her New England training, than of Superior qualities inherent in herself. She remembered that one of the first lessons imprinted on her memory, by a revered teacher, was the wisdom of presence of mind in danger; and that it was the recollection of this, coming to her aid at the right juncture, that saved her from those cowardly weaknesses that might have proved fatal. And divested of all delusion when he came to see her just as she was,-a plain every-day mortal,-would not his sudden interest turn to indifference?
As she leaned on the casement, lost in thought, there came faintly from the distance a shriek, piercing and agonized. It was one of those sharp, wild cries, that haunt one ever after. Lelia was sure that it was the voice of a woman, and her heart beating audibly, she peered out, listening with strained ear to catch the sound again. A death-like silence brooded, and, seized by an ill-defined fear, she turned to see if her chamber door was locked; then resumed her place at the window. What a desolation! she thought, looking over the landscape enveloped in darkness. Not a neighbor near, not a light to be seen. What a contrast to the New England from which she had come! Stretching away in dismal darkness was the plantation with its little army of blacks, ignorant and debased, separated from the race to which she belonged by an impassable gulf, and having no interests, sympathies and hopes in common with their master; yet kept down by the mere handful, that slept as if all was secure, in the mansion that in lordly splendor overlooked the scene. What tragedies, she thought, may be the unwritten history of a place like this! What violence and wrong may he essential to such a social condition! And what dangers! for who can say that the brute strength, now yielding bone and sinew to unpaid toil, will always be thus passive, and that the rule of white over black may not one day end in blood and ruin? And that shriek! was it the heart-breaking cry of some poor slave, calling for help where none can be found, as the callous overseer tortures his victim? The very air seemed heavy with the thought-home down with inarticulate sighs, and groans, and curses; and, closing the window, she murmured, "How can I become the wife of a slave-master? What shall I do? Oh that father and mother were alive to <illegible> Going to her trunk, Leila took there from a package of letters. They were from Mr. Robert Nelson to his wife, written while journe <illegible> for his health. On the decease of his wido Lelia came across them; and as last mementos of her departed foster-parents were sacred to her, she had put them carefully by, designing some time to look them over. The lips that in the past had counselled her, alas! were silent; hut it seemed to her as if the dear, familiar hand-writing would prove a balm. Opening the first that came to hand, she found it contained directions in view of his approaching demise, which, it was evident, he regarded as near at hand. She was filled with astonishment as she came to the following passage:-
"I have a presentiment, dear wife, that you will not long survive me. The illness you have bad recently confirms the impression, and I find myself often revolving the question, What shall we do with our dear Lelia? One thing I am very anxious about; and that is, lest by any means she should be persuaded to go South. This might very naturally happen, as our connections are there, and therefore the danger. You know why I am so much concerned on this point-I need not explain, nor would it he prudent. But, should anything happen to you, I charge you, by all our regard for her well-being, to give her timely warning. It would not be best for you to state the reason. It would not be necessary; she has so much confidence in our love, and has ever shown such a sweet regard to our wishes. Nor would it, I think, be wise to speak directly on this subject, until the last extremity-it would give her uneasiness, and do no good. But, should I not live to return, and yon have any reason to expect your summons, charge her for me as well as yourself never to venture South, whatever the inducements may be. I do hope that, as thus far all things have been well as respects our precious and interesting charge, so she may be mercifully shielded unto the end."
"This explains what the message was that mother tried in her last sudden illness to leave for me," said Lelia, deeply moved. "Oh, that I had been at home! I could have understood her, and perhaps this mystery would have been cleared up. Why should they have been thus anxious on this point? I have been happy here, and better off than I could have been there, with so few friends, my parents lived so like hermits. But what did that charge mean? How singular that I should read it tonight! Oh, I know not what to think or do!"-and throwing herself on the bed, she wept herself asleep.

LIGHT INCREASING.
Whatever may have been the theological results of Rev. Charles Beecher's ministry in the church at Georgetown, its intellectual results are highly creditable to him. Both his church and congregation have shown a correct understanding of their rights and duties in those capacities, and an independence of the bonds of tradition and custom which the leaders of Orthodox Congregationalism are constantly striving to bind tighter upon them, such as, I fear, could scarcely be paralleled among the bodies called Orthodox Congregational in New England. This intelligence and independence may fairly be ascribed to the influence of Mr. Beecher; either to his direct instruction in regard to ecclesiastical matters, or to his influence in fostering independence of thought I refer to these two facts, namely:-the vote of the church to retain him as its minister, after the council had recommended his dismissal, and the vote of the congregation to urge him to remain, after the church had thrown its influence on the side of his opponents by acceptance of the resignation which be had magnanimously offered.
The books which define the meaning and scope of Congregationalism (except those written within a few yean by crafty leaders in the Orthodox portion of that today) agree in admitting that the function' of a council is simply auxiliary and advisory; and that each church may not only begin and complete its own business, small or great, without the assistance of a
<c05>
council, but that, having asked the advice of a count, they may still decide the nuttier in question according to their own judgment, whether this agree or disagree with that advice. The books. I say, agree in this: judgment. But the Influence of the leaders of Orthodox Congregationalism has of late tended more and more strongly to favor the view that the decision, of councils should practically be accepted as authoritative, and be agreed to, as a matter of course, by the parties in question. The vote of the Georgetown church to retain its minister, in spite of the opposing device of the council, shows that this body understands its rights as a Congregational church; for Congregationalism is "that system of church government which vests all ecclesiastical power in the assembled brotherhood of each local church, as an independent body." This is Webster's definition, based on the very sufficient authority of Murdock.
But another exercise of traditional custom (of course favored by the clerical leaders of Orthodox Congregationalism) has brought about an under preponderance of each church over the congregation connected with it. The latter body is usually three or four times as large as the former, and contributes in that proportion towards the support of the minister. It should therefore have a similar proportional part in the decision who that minister shall be, and whether the continuance or removal of the present incumbent is desirable. Most congregations have fallen into the habit of consenting to be mere followers or echoes of the church, yielding to the settlement of such minister as the latter may choose, and often submitting to the continuance, year after year, of a minuter who neither instructs nor benefits them in any manner whatever. The too long endured pastorate of an unprofitable minister is usually the fault of the church rather than of the congregation.
The following resolutions are from a series of, eleven adopted by the Georgetown "congregation," on the 29th ult:-
"4. Resolved, That the church, in rejecting the Result of the Council, did perfectly right, and therefore it hath our hearty approval; but through the timidity of professed friends in its recent action on the request of Mr. Beecher for dismissal, we must look upon it as leaving him alone to the deadly thrusts of an open foe.
10. Resolved, That this Society cannot cooperate with the church in granting the dismiss ion of Mr. Beecher, and that we will use our utmost endeavors to induce him still to remain our pastor."
The adoption of these resolutions shows the hearty esteem of the congregation for Mr. Beecher, and also a recognition of its own rights in the retention of an honored, and beloved minister, whether or not the church, the smaller body, be disposed to stand by him.-c. K. W,

"THE RELIGIOUS FOUNDATION OF AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS."
A true American, one who endeavors to live in accordance with those ideas which favorably distinguish this country from the old countries of Europe, is of necessity a liberal Christian, representing in his religion also those great principles which lie at the foundation of our political system.
Religion was the foundation of our early state; and, though it was in the form of doctrine, a sectarian and exclusive form and though the souls of its founders were not open to the highest influences of Christianity, their recognition of religious principles as indispensable to the right ordering of civil government has been of unspeakable service to the nation.
In our day, religion and politics have both entered upon a course of enlargement and improvement. Both are becoming more and more democratic.
Religion, though a private and peculiar thing for each separate soul, is yet the birthright of the whole human family. The Gospel of Christ is the gospel of all mankind, the gospel of democracy. It was no gospel for any chosen people. It was no more to be centred in Jerusalem than on Gerizim.
Rome, Geneva, Westminster, have been made, in modern sects, the substitutes for Jerusalem. This exclusive spirit in religion is the source of much of the evil existing in the civilized world.
The Christianity properly belonging to America rejects all bonds and limits. It is universal. And the present time is auspicious, beyond all precedent, for a diffusion of this faith. The war now waging in our country may properly be called a war for the extension of liberal ideas.
The principles of the South are opposed, not only to the Christian civilization of the age, but to all the ordinary rules of morality.
This is a war of ideas, even more than of passions. We know what we are fighting for, and we are sure of success. Our side is one in which politics and morals coincide.
Our fathers, having made a sound statement of principles in the Declaration of Independence and the Preamble to the Constitution, added this qualifying clanse-Except the black men whom we hold as slaves. This seemed then a small evil. It has brought upon us, however, our present merciful retribution.
This war has shown us that the natron is no abstract idea, but a momentous fact. The nation is composed of individuals; and the moral and political status of these make the moral and political status of the nation.
Holding that morals and religion are indissolubly connected, we must insist that politics be not divorced from morals-the government from the principles of justice and humanity. We must hold more firmly than ever to the principles stated in our Declaration of Independence. We must be a Christian commonwealth.
The war has emancipated the people not from slavery alone, but from many superstitions. The camp, the battle, the hospital, are great destroyers of prejudice.
In anticipating a quickened development of liberal Christianity, I do not mean that the denominations of liberal Christians are to be suddenly enlarged, but that a spirit of true liberality will henceforth increase. As men become free from the bonds of superstition and formalism, truth will be better loved and more ardently pursued. The same change is going on in other countries. The old forms of religious restriction are failing in England, France and Germany.
He who supposes he knows much of the Infinite deceives himself. But we know enough to form a sure foundation of faith, sufficient for our guidance here and our hope hereafter.
Present opportunities call us to higher work, more strenuous exertion.
The great truth which illuminates the dark passages of history is the moral unity of the human race. We know that there is for mankind a steady progress to good. We see nothing of a blind, cruel and relentless fate, but much of a beneficent Providence. Let us hold fast to these two things:-the duty of love, in religion:-the equality of men, in politics. These are an impregnable foundation for government.
The above is but an imperfect abstract of an admirable discourse delivered on Sunday, Nov. 8th, before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society of Boston, by Charles Elliot Norton of Cambridge. Ideas like these, delivered with the earnestness of deep conviction before such a body, augur well for the future character of the North American Review, of which Mr. Norton and James Russell Lowell have become the editors.-C. K. W.
CONTRABANDS. Dr. Caulkins, a surgeon in the army, writes of the contrabands near Washington:
"They are peaceable and contented, with full faith that the Government will deal justly with them, and secure the freedom they covet and deserve. Among all the men, women and children of those camps, for the entire time I was with them, I heard but one quarrel, and not an oath. In their religious worship they are very devout and fervent, seeming to enter with the whole soul into the spirit of their hymns and prayers."
Fresh evidence of the folly and wickedness of the enamels of emancipation.
<c06>
BRIEF WORDS ON PRESENT INTERESTS.
Will the men of the North respond to the' for volunteers! Are they cowardly! Of some terrors I think they may be afraid; such as incompetent officer., cruel surgeon., drugs, idle chaplains severe rule,, killing marches. pestilential hospital crowded transport., and miserable rations, If a men is to yield his life, he would have it of some use to his country. Our articles of war should be use in and adapted to republican sentiments. Army regulations should undergo a like revision. Republican ism sets value on private persons, even. A solder's not a "boy." or a "chattel." He must be faithful but has the right to demand respectful treatment, wholesome food, and such medical attendance or nursing us he believes in. It should be so that neither mother nor wife, nor sister. nor parent, nor child, friend could make any reasonable complaint of the course of the government toward the soldiery. Who is responsible for the proceedings with the 54th regiment before being led to the slaughter at the forts.
Will the next Congress attend to the matter of Ambulance? And shall soldiers carry baggage to save wagons? Has any Sanitary Commission ever supplied a soldier with a loaf of Graham bread? Rations of fine flora and salt meat are dealt out, and at first the soldier is constipated. Next, nature reacts, and chronic dysentery exists. How many ages would be necessary to induce the government to deal out uncoiled meal instead of flour?
Here I am reminded of the conservatism of our honest President. Let us be thankful that it may be reported he favors immediate emancipation in Maryland. The Republicans, by immense labor, have just got the party beaten he helped revive. When Fremont's proclamation came forth in Missouri, such was the state of public feeling and the popularity of the man, that papers like the New York Herald and Boston Pot rather applauded. But President Lincoln, under the delusive border State plea, Bariums &c, tampered, modified, superseded, and Copperheads. without stopping to thank him, took courage. 
When Hunter issued his order to protect colored troops, I predicted that he would soon be "relieved" "and it was so." At length, after many murden and enslavements, the Government creeps on to the same ground, essentially
The President seems sincerely to believe there is some good in a little conservatism. He does not know it is always folly and white-rot. Then he has tab sent him some conservative men, who have neither his shrewdness nor as much principle as himself. By some persuasion," he removes a radical man. while he holds to a conservative one with blood-bought thence, or against intense and weighty pleadings. I hope the name of General Mitchell, a Gloria snow glorified man, does not haunt Washington Could the Commander-in-Chief, the President, be induced to place General Fremont, the only man of whom Jackson and Lee were ever afraid, at the head of the army of the Potomac, should Messed continues to do nothing a while longer?
When Sumter was fired upon, there were men enough ready to enlist. Seventy-five thousand called for. Never were there troops raised to enthusiastic and intelligent as the body of those who have gone into our service, from time to time. Never were men received more formally or coldly when a country was in peril. Washington conservatism, the satiny pride of West Pointiest have done their worst. Order, order, and orders, have been the "order of the day." Freshness, originality, genius, fraternity and humanity have been at a discount. The Southern feeling, that common men are "mudsills," has possessed some of our officers. We have imitated nothing in the Southern army but its official augment and hardness of heart. Bonaparte made Major-Generals out of privates. We have not the discriminations for such work. He condescended to address his men on the eve of battle. He was with his men: our Generals are at "headquarters."
Not a funeral have I attended, out of quite number, of a soldier killed in battle, or whose life need have been lost This one took cold on the deck of a vessel not seaworthy; that one was put to final sleep by opium; another was worn down by huger, unreasonable marches, &c. Men who broiled is the sun, day after day, to take Fort Hudson, were started for home in cattle-cars, (the officers in passenger-cars of course). and the trains, crowded with men, many of whom were sick with dysentery, ran day and night! Where will the country's gratitude?-where the angel ministries and influences of the boasted Sanitary Commission? Men return broken, gloomy, mute. The papers boast of governmental economy. Cursed be the economy that feeds on heroes!
MEN are needed; but truth and righteousness more Let there be no concealment. Men can be had if they can be assured that they may be led and treated as a republican army, fighting for liberty, should be Let every knavish contractor bear the weight of his own iniquity, and not grow rich on shoddy sad by breeding consumption in the army. Patriots, awake the morning has not come, and will not, until we are made worthy. Ye who have influence in civil or military relations, and desire, "above all things our purification, take closer views, and do fighter work. Parents and friends of those in our armies, send also more "niceties" to tempt officers to steal and which make men dyspeptic and drunken at home Send more sour apples, and less pickles; more dried fruit and less wine; papers in the place of jetties. and wheat meal instead of cakes and pies. Your Excellency O President Lincoln, we would have become at never before, in perfect fullness, a just, energetic all seeing, presiding, leading, hastening, progressive spirit! L. HOLMES.
Orange, (Mass.) Nov. 5,1863.
SIGNIFICANT. I cut the following from a village paper, (Southbridge Journal,) and it is so truthful and apposite that I wish to see it where truth looks at home-in the Liberator. How much longer shall we pay some sort of weak deference to slaveholders? O, how dull and really contemptible does conservatism appear when brought to any searching test! L. H.
"Rescans tells the truth in one of his speeches when he says that if the reinforcements sent him after the battle, from Washington, had been sent before it would probably have broken the backbone of the rebellion. But the Government never does such things. It waits to see what the rebels are going to do-follows them in their movements-and rarely wins a victory in consequence."

IMPORTANT IN Championing and Hair Dyeing
"WITHOUT SMUTTING"
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has revved from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study and is user there are none to excel her in producing: a new growth of hair. Her Restorative differs from that of any one else being made from the roots and herbs of the forest
She Champoo. with a bark which does nut grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
she also has another for retrying grey hair to its natural color is nearly all cases. she is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to pasture or three years as they often they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
No. 31, Winter Street, Boston.

BRAID PATTERNS
STAMPED AT NO. 20 WINTER STREET,
AT FICE CENTS PER TARD
Boston, Oct, 23. 1863.