
THE LIBERATOR 
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:— WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor,
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 31 BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 29, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1747. 
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression
That treasonable sheet, the Boston Courier, copies a poetical glorification of General Lee from a Canadian paper. The character of this effusion may be seen by the following verses:—
Now God in heaven be with you,
Noble Chief!
Nor the time of your probation
Waxes brief.
Your foemen thrice outnumber
The army clad in number,
"Light and Lief."
Bugles blowing,
Banners flowing,
We take comfort in the knowing,
Sometimes after great cock-crowing,
Come to grief!
May you turn the tide of battle,
Hurling back the wreck of armies,
Like the sea!
Your force is scant and meagre,
Compared to the beleaguer,
But every heart is eager
To be free.
Bugles blowing,
Banners flowing,
Can make no braver showing
Than the South to battle going
Under thee;
Than the South the North repelling,
While her mighty heart is swelling,
And every pulse is glowing
With the fame of thy bestowing,
Robert Lee!

THE CLEVELAND CONVENTION.
It is impossible to close our eyes to the grave importance which attaches to the proceedings of the convention at Cleveland, which has placed John C. Fremont again in nomination for the Presidency. It cannot be dismissed from sight as a movement of radical men who are without influence; for, in the first place, we know that the men who were there have a vast and powerful influence; (!!) and, in the second place, we remember that from a beginning, compared with which this was a large popular demonstration—from a smaller beginning by far—sprang the Republican party itself, which carried with it enough power to array the majority of the whole North under its banners, and elect Abraham Lincoln. Some of the very men, many of the most active and earnest, are the men who founded the Liberty Party, which, small as was its origin, advanced with gigantic strides, and at length received into its embrace the whole body of those who adopted its principles while calling themselves only Republicans. But it is not necessary to refer to such an illustration, since this new movement springs into existence a great party at the start, (!!) holding, unquestionably, a balance of power that must have immense importance in the coming election.
What are Fremont's chances for election? They are scoffed at by many as not worthy consideration. But there are wiser men who look at the case with somewhat different eyes. If there should be four tickets in the field, if the plots of the wily enemies of the Union should be successful in dividing the Democratic party, then the prospect is by no means a poor one for the original Pathfinder. Thousands or thousands of conservative men, if they felt themselves forced to choice between Fremont and Lincoln, would not hesitate to vote for Fremont. This may seem strange, but we have no doubt of the truth of the statement. The argument we have heard used is brief and pointed. It is this:” We should know what to expect from Fremont—we never know what to expect from Lincoln." Besides this, the platform of the Fremonters is probably much more acceptable to the Democracy than anything that can be concocted at Baltimore. It is sound on the grand question of Constitution and Law. It places those uppermost, and forbids any of the violations of American principle which characterize the free-will party that sustains Mr. Lincoln. It defends the liberty of the person and the press, and it proposes to abolish slavery by a lawful proceeding, according to our system of government. We do not pause to point out the objectionable features of the platform, for no one will suspect us of supporting it: and our present purpose is only to show the elements of success which it contains. Those features will secure the support of great masses of the radical men who have no confidence in the ability or the wavering policy of their present leaders. On the whole, then, the Cleveland ticket is not so hopeless as men may suppose.
A very wily plot was laid by some of the sharp managers of politics in Washington and New York, by which they hoped to block entirely the nomination of Fremont, and either adjourn the convention or nominate Grant, who, it was supposed, would decline. They thought that the unsophisticated Fremont men, not being practiced politicians, could be easily managed by a few keen wire-pullers. But they found the Fremont men in such strength, and so wide awake, that they gave the thing up at once, and restored to the plan of seeming acquiescence in all that was done, while they still purpose to obtain control of the whole movement, and, if possible, sell it out to the Baltimore men.
That the Fremont movement is no small affair is abundantly evident, and the desperate exertions which have already been made to purchase or control it indicate the trepidation it causes among the supporters of Mr. Lincoln. There is no reason to doubt that, if we were going into an election to-morrow, this ticket would poll some hundred thousand votes from the radical party. (!!) And the curious fact is, that the Arguelles outrage and the suppression of New York papers have added greatly to its strength.
It now becomes the conservative men of the country to be united, vigilant, patriotic and firm, avoiding dissension, and acting together for the national good.—N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
The New York News, the most pronouncedly pro-rebel of all the Copperhead papers at the North, in an article the postponement of the Chicago Convention says:
"The nomination of Fremont at Cleveland was in anticipation of the nomination of Lincoln at Baltimore, and the acceptance of that gentlemen was alone contingent upon the success of the Government officials to give the rail and the Union splitter a nomination for a second term. As the Administration has succeeded, Gen. Fremont stands pledged by his letter of acceptance to stand the hazard of the die. His friends are numerous, bold and energetic, and if left to themselves, without interference from outsiders, will carry on a war more offensive to the Administration than defensive of themselves and their candidate. Should they not be left to fight their good fight, until they gather their strength and fairly muster their forces?"
<c02>
Selections.

THE POSITION OF THE “RADICAL DEMOCRACY.”
In the Presidential election of I860, in which it took part, the influence known as the Slave Power legally lost the control of the government of the United States, and immediately attempted to destroy it. Since the beginning of the war and the accession of the new Administration, the blows at Slavery, the source and strength of the rebellion, have naturally been incessant and vigorous. Slavery has been prohibited in the national Territories. It has been abolished in the District of Columbia. A more strenuous treaty with England for the suppression of the Slave Trade has been negotiated. The Fugitive Slave Law has been repealed. Colored men have been allowed to carry the mails, and their right to give testimony in courts of law has been established. Slaves have been enrolled as free soldiers of the United States, receiving equal wages with all others. The President has emancipated by proclamation the slaves in all the rebel section. The Convention of loyal Union men have declared with the utmost enthusiasm for an amendment of the Constitution, making Slavery impossible. The President hails the proposition with all his heart, having long ago declared that the Union could not endure half slave and half free, and having lately expressed the faith of his life that if any thing is wrong, it is Slavery. 
These things have been done under the Administration of Abraham Lincoln. This policy succeeds the universal and unhesitating subserviency to the Slave Power of Fillmore's, Pierce's, and Buchanan's administrations. It has been cordially supported by the country; the last three State elections showing everywhere a regularly increasing majority for the policy of the Administration. It is the anchor of hope for peace and union. Yet at this moment, and in view of these facts, Mr. Fremont gravely says that Mr. Lincoln has betrayed his principles, and Mr. Wendell Phillips speaks of the President's “indecision, heartlessness, and infamous pandering to negrophobia and the Slave Power." He could say nothing worse of Pierce or Buchanan, and words cease to have any meaning when they are so grossly and recklessly perverted. 
That among the supporters of the Cleveland nominations there are men who honestly believe that the Administration is culpably slow in dealing with the cause of the rebellion, cannot be doubted. They will gladly accept Mr. Phillips as their spokesman, for whoever knows him knows what sincerity and purity of purpose are. These gentlemen would doubtless regret to serve the rebels and their cause, and yet, with Mr. Phillips, they declare that they are proud to support the Cleveland action. Will they, then, reflect a moment to see if their course at this juncture, and under the present circumstances, is one which helps the cause which they chiefly honor? Mr. Phillips says that he does not expect the Cleveland movement as such to succeed, but is willing to unite with anybody who will be more radical than Mr. Lincoln. Dr. Brownson and Mr. John Cochrane invite the radical Democrats to join the party which wishes to defeat Mr. Lincoln. To what does all this inevitably tend?
These gentlemen will agree probably that Mr. Vallandigham is almost as base a sycophant of the Slave Power as Mr. Lincoln. They have not forgotten Vallandigham's eager crawling from Washington to Charlestown in Virginia with James M. Mason, now the rebel emissary in London, to see if he could not extort from old John Brown some word, or hint, or shrug which should implicate the Republican leaders in the affair at Harper's Ferry. They know what Vallandigham was and is. They know that he is going to the Chicago Convention, and why he goes there, and whether or not that Convention will spew him out. They know, also— or do they doubt?—that the main inspiration of that “Democratic" assembly is negrophobia? They know, also—or do they doubt?—that “the friends” of the rebellion, who last year resisted the reinforcement of the army, and bung and burned negroes in New York, will be represented in the Convention? They know, also—or do they doubt?—that the great body of men who mean war and liberty as the hope of Union and peace, will not be represented at Chicago? And do they not know— or do they doubt?—that, of necessity, Cleveland is a tender to Chicago—the mere Deerhound to that Alabama? If they doubt, we refer them to the organ of Mr. Fremont, and of Mr. John Cochrane's 
"Radical Democracy" That paper says: “There is so little difference between this party (the Radical Democracy) and the Democratic party that it would be easy to adopt a common ticket." The same paper cries:” Down with Lincoln! Such be our battle-cry! Let there be but two parties; let all be for or against Lincoln." Bearing this in mind, let them hear the Atlanta Register, a rebel journal which heartily agrees with the Fremont organ in malignant hate of the President and General Grant. Speaking of the Copperheads, it says:” If they will use the ballot-box against Mr. Lincoln while we use the cartridge-box, each side will be a helper to the other, and both cooperate in accomplishing the greatest work which this country and the Continent have witnessed." Mr. Phillips and his friends know whether that work is emancipation. One of the chief New York Copperhead papers says that” it is the duty of the country to rally at the next election, and put down Lincoln as well as his confederate, Jeff. Davis." Mr. Phillips and his friends virtually say,” Certainly, the slave-hunter and the slave-hound." Another of the New York Copperhead journals declares that they can certainly poll more votes by uniting upon Fremont” to defeat the Administration." Do Mr. Phillips and his friends think that these papers have become Abolitionists? that they are going to support Mr. Fremont, if at all, upon a platform of negro equality?
 It is in vain that Mr. Phillips repeats a resolution of the Cleveland Convention, calling it the highest tide-mark of American politics. The Cleveland key-note was, "Down with Lincoln!” Chicago had already shouted it in advance. The cry of rebel rage comes hissing up from the South,” Down with Lincoln!" Vallandigham and his friends catch am prolong it—"Down with Lincoln!" Every Copperhead in the land rings with the refrain, “Down with Lincoln!" Pierce, the Seymours, Reed, the Woods, all their organs, their orators, and their resolutions join the chorus which Jefferson Davis hears and cheers," Down with Lincoln! “ Down with Lincoln!" is the battle-cry of every rebel in the field; of every Copperhead and apologist or devotee of slavery in the land, on the stump, and at the ballot-box; and of every enemy of the American idea and system in Europe. It is not love of liberty; it is not equality before the law; it is not national honor, and peace, and Union through justice; it is not humanity and the country which inspire that cry. It is an “infamous pandering to negropbobia;" It is a craven wish for compromise; it is the abject-
<c03>
ness of submission to rebellious slaveholders; it is lasting national disgrace, and universal civil war and anarchy; it is bloody rioting against drafts and the mad massacre of the defenceless and most unfortunate of our population which howls and roars and rages in the cry, “Down with Lincoln!” It is folly for Mr. Phillips and his friends to say that they don't mean that. It is not they who raised the cry, nor who pitch it. The cry was raised, and meant that long before they joined in it. Their voices merely swell the chorus. They push their skiff out upon a stream which sets fierce and resistless toward the plunge, and they cannot say that they mean to go up stream and do not mean to go over. 
In this perilous hour we have all a right to demand common-sense of each other. The radical Democrats talk of a union between Cleveland and Chicago. Yes, a union of the minnow and the whale—by absorption. The minnow may swell the bulk of the whale. Will the whale increase the minnow? Do these gentlemen seriously suppose that the handful of Abolitionists at Cleveland will dictate the terms of any union at Chicago? What is the party that will meet there? It is that party, which, as such, has steadily denied the right of the Government to touch Slavery in any way. It is that party whose Senators and Representatives in Congress, with four exceptions only among the latter, refused to propose an emancipation Constitutional amendment to the country. There is no sign whatever in the speeches, votes, resolutions, and journals of the Chicago party, but of an unswerving allegiance to Slavery. How can any man believe that the Cleveland managers sincerely expect a union at Chicago? And yet, if there be none, how can any man of sense view the Cleveland movement but as a practical diversion in favor of the enemy?
Under the circumstances in which this country is placed, even if the President were the idler, and sluggard, and blunderer, which Mr. Phillips indignantly calls him, and which we as indignantly deny, there are but two results possible in the canvass— his reelection, or his defeat by a Copperhead. In this situation, therefore, while they denounce Mr. Lincoln for pandering to the Slave Power, seeking in that way to deprive him of the votes of radical Union men, Mr. Phillips and his friends are doing the work of James M. Mason and of Robert Toombs.
If, indeed, they believe that Mr. Lincoln is so base a betrayer of liberty that their duty to God and man requires them to connive at the election of a Copperhead, we have no more to say. But they must not deceive themselves by supposing that they are not conniving. If they are willing, with Dr. Brownson, to see Fernando Wood or Vallandigham defeat Mr. Lincoln, we are equally silent. Or if they think that Chicago intends to nominate Fremont or any one else, upon a platform of negro voting, we certainly say nothing; but we as surely deplore the total want of sagacity which such a view evinces. They undoubtedly have the right which Mr. Phillips claims of agitating to make party progress possible. But he and they are certainly responsible, if they agitate so as to make party progress impossible. Do they not know that the actual alternative is the election of Mr. Lincoln and his platform, or that of the candidate and platform at Chicago? If they do— and we cannot understand how they can avoid seeing it—and they still agitate so as to aid and comfort Copperheads and divide Union men, Mr. Phillips and his friends must not hope to excuse themselves by saying that they repudiate expediency, nor be surprised if from the indignant hearts and lips of the great host who seek to maintain the Union and Liberty, his own words come thundering back:” Heaven will not hold such guiltless of the evils unnecessarily brought on this bleeding land."—Harper's Weekly.

FREMONT'S LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE.
We must confess to a bitter disappointment in our estimate of the man, when we read Mr. Fremont's letter accepting the Cleveland nomination. 
We were an original Fremont man in’56. Through the columns of the Telegraph, we labored for him as we never labored for any other man, before or since. We labored for him then, as we shall labor against him now—for the good of our country—for the cause of constitutional liberty—and for the preservation and perpetuation of Republican institutions. These we believe to be before, and paramount to all personal considerations, whether of love or hate.
The letter of Mr. Fremont, conditionally accepting the Cleveland convention, is indicative. The nomination is accepted in the same spirit that it was made—solely on the ground of personal hostility to President Lincoln, and a determination to defeat his election, if again nominated. The real good of the country had little to do with the action of the convention, and even less, it would seem, with the action of the nominee. 
We regret the action of Fremont now, more on his own account than from any fear we have that his nomination will have any effect on the result of the coming election in November next. If our own city and county is any criterion to judge by, his nomination and acceptance will tend to unite and strengthen the real friends of the Union, instead of distracting and weakening them. 
After an exciting canvas in 1856, when the democracy were in their zenith of power, two-thirds of the electors of Kenosha county voted for Fremont; and ever since he has held a high position in the affections of the Republican party; but we do not believe he will receive more, than twenty-five votes in the county, with President Lincoln and the candidate of the Chicago convention in the field, and not one-half of that number will be friends of his who voted for him in 1856.
The reason is plain. Those old friends of his were and are intensely loyal—intensely devoted to the cause of the Union and the Constitution. Hundreds of them are in the armies of the republic, nobly fighting its battles, and many of them have sealed their patriotism with their hearts' blood. They will allow no personal admiration nor personal dislike to stand between them and their country. They believe in Abraham Lincoln—they believe in his entire honesty of purpose—his patriotism and devotion to the country, and to the Constitution he has sworn to protect—they believe he is human, and liable to err in judgment, as other men are—they know that he has had a load of responsibility resting upon his shoulders, ever since he was inaugurated, greater than was ever before laid upon the shoulder of a President of the United States—and they believe he has met those responsibilities with a prudence and judgment that could only be inspired by the fullest faith in the final triumph of the Right—in the latent power and vigor of American principles of Free Government to resist the combined attacks of treason and rebellion—they believe that Abraham Lincoln has done all that any man could do under the circumstances to put down rebellion, and preserve in its purity the American Constitution and the guaranteed rights of the people under it—and, more than” all, they believe that, with years of experience added to his other qualifications, he can do more to
<c04>
close up the war by the suppression of the rebellion and the restoration of the Union, and with it the blessings of Peace, than any other man in this nation. 
Believing this, the friends of the Union—the men who once voted for Fremont—will not now be drawn from their allegiance to the country by even so powerful a name as his.
We have yet to hear from any friend of the Union cause, however hitherto devoted to Fremont, the first word of approval or congratulation of the Cleveland nomination.
The only congratulatory words we have heard have come from the enemies of the administration, the opposers of the war and sympathizers with the rebellion. These are the men who will vote for Fremont, if he gets any votes. He has mistaken the American character when he hopes to make his personal popularity an offset to devotion to a sacred principle. We have not yet become such a nation of hero-worshippers as such an estimate would indicate. —Kenosha Telegraph.

CAN SUCH THINGS BE?
It is pleasant to find the affection with which the Copperhead journals regard the recent Convention at Cleveland. It may seem strange to hear the praises of such men as Wendell Phillips and Parker Pillsbury chanted by sympathizers with secession; but this world of wonders should cause no surprise. The Copperheads have fallen in love with Cleveland. One journal tells us that the ticket” has a strong hold upon the sympathies of the most ardent, courageous, and vigorous portion of the Republican party. It carries no dead weight." Mark this latter phrase. No two men have been more bitterly denounced by the Copperheads than John C. Fremont and John Cochrane. The former has been ridiculed as a failure in Missouri, the latter as a failure in Virginia. Fremont has been an imbecile, a “coward," a” corrupt man," a “pretender," and a an “adventurer." Cochrane has been a “turncoat," a “sympathizer in disguise," a “fanatic," and an “incapable." They have been denounced without stint or reserve. This was when they were the agents of the Administration; when they commanded troops of American soldiery. They are now in other positions. For reasons of their own, General Fremont and General Cochrane saw fit to come home. The first did not like General Pope, and resigned his command. The second has not published the reasons that made it proper for him to leave his brigade, and, returning to New York, accept the suffrages of the Republican party for a very important office. They are now in the position of antagonism to the Administration. They have called together a Convention of citizens, from which” all friends of Abraham Lincoln” were repeatedly warned, and raised what we will not call “the standard of revolt," but a standard whose most earnest followers are the enemies of the country. The Copperheads find Fremont and Cochrane to be eminently proper men. We who have sustained them all along, who have defended them from many a slander and sneer, and who have insisted that their loyalty and devotion should be rewarded, find our poor praises tame and insipid when compared with those of the Copperhead newspapers. Fremont, the vilified Fremont, is” a popular idol," and” has been conspicuous above all others for strict fidelity to principle." To what “principle"? Do the Copperheads regard Abolitionism a “principle"? Yesterday it was fanaticism, but now that it comes from Cleveland, and proposes to bring disaffection and dissension in its train, the Copperheads welcome it as an ally, and waft incense in the praise of men whose death by hanging was seriously urged not many weeks ago as a measure of public safety. Altogether, we hardly know whether to be pained or amused. The whole affair is one of the spectacles that we see once in an age, to show how much insincerity and selfishness we have in our poor human nature.-Philadelphia Press.

POSITION AND INFLUENCE OF THE ORIGINAL ABOLITIONISTS.
The apostle Paul, in one of his letters to the church at Corinth, bases his appeal to them upon the dignity and responsibility of their position as Christians” Know ye not," says he,” that the saints shall judge the earth?" This, undoubtedly, refers to no especial and particular judgment of the world over which the saints are to preside; but to the universal truth, that every good man is, by virtue of his superior moral qualities, divinely ordained as judge and censor over all who occupy a lower stand-point than himself. A truly good man's character and example are the standard by which moral qualities are measured, and a constant rebuke to those who fall below it; and when the inevitable consequences of wrong-doing confront a community, it is to the righteous men, who have so long been disregarded or despised, that the people instinctively turn for counsel, and for a remedy against the threatened danger.
We do not know as this truth could be more forcibly illustrated than in the present position and influence of the original Abolitionists over our national politics. These men, during a contest of upwards of thirty years, have not ceased to proclaim, at all seasons, the great national crime and wickedness of slavery, and the danger to both people and nation if it were not at once destroyed. Of course, neither they nor their doctrines have ever been popular. A people growing rich and prosperous under a career of wrong-doing are not apt to take kindly any rebuke of profitable sins, or prophetic warning of their inevitable results in national suffering and disaster. The bold anti-slavery reformers have been regarded by the slavery-debauched politicians and people as the men who troubled Israel with foolish fears of impossible dangers. Scarcely any one would listen to their warning; yet they spared not to declare the whole counsel of Divine justice against the cruel oppressions of which the people and nation have been guilty. 
But, at last, the punishment of national sins, so long proclaimed in unwilling ears, and so long delayed, has burst upon the people with a horror such as not even the boldest of those prophets had dared to expect. God's terrible justice is vindicated in the avenging of all the tears and blood of the millions of His children, who have for years been groaning under a cruel and oppressive bondage. He has, at last, answered in terrible retribution the cries of millions of women and children whom slavery has torn asunder, which have been rising up before Him for centuries, calling for vengeance. Then the people (as God's sign of mercy to them, showing that the nation was not utterly given over to destruction) turned and asked how these calamities were to be averted; and the clear, solemn answer came in the words of inspiration:
"Undo the heavy burdens; let the oppressed go free; break every yoke.
 Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thy health shall spring forth speedily; and thy
<c05>
righteousness shall go before thee. Then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall answer. Thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here I am. 
If thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking vanity; then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness be as the noon day. 
And the Lord shall guide thee continually, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat thy bones; and thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not.
"While the people were astounded and amazed by the magnitude of the great rebellion to destroy the government, and the politicians knew nothing of its character or consequences, the original abolitionists alone seemed to have an adequate comprehension of its causes and results. The high moral stand-point from which they looked gave them a better and truer survey of the impending contest than other men. They enjoyed what we may term a moral clear sightedness, better for the discussion and decision of moral conflicts than any merely intellectual quickness of apprehension. Other men, high in position, and universally considered foremost among our statesmen, seemed to regard the contest as a mere movement of uneasy and disappointed politicians, which the people would speedily suppress. They knew better than that, and saw that the contest was to be a long and desperate one, between the elements of injustice and wrong on the one hand, and the love of freedom and justice on the other. Their hard and seemingly hopeless experience, during thirty years, in striving to impress upon the public conscience those great principles of simple justice by which alone the nation could be saved, had shown them that there was to be no easy victory over wrong; and that if the nation was to be saved at all, it would be only after a long, desperate and exhaustive struggle, and at last only” so as by fire."
It is one of the most encouraging signs of the times, that the people in this great contest are instinctively turning to those whom they have so long regarded as fanatics and troublesome agitators, but whose words of warning have been confirmed by the events of the past three years. The honors paid to William Lloyd Garrison, George Thompson, Gerrit Smith, and others of the original abolitionists, are not merely tributes to able men, but an appropriate recognition of the rightful supremacy of morally great men in a time when, more than any other, important moral questions are to be decided. These men, by their long devotion to the cause of justice and freedom, have fairly earned the position of leaders of public sentiment, as they now unquestionably are. The people look to them for counsel and instruction as to the means of saving the nation; and it is scarcely too much to say, that in so far as the policy which they advocate is adopted, the country is to be extricated from the evils and dangers which threaten it in the reconstruction of the Union. 
It is hardly too much to say, that the hearty and earnest endorsement of President Lincoln's nomination by Wm. Lloyd Garrison, of the Boston Liberator, the Anti-Slavery Standard, the Tribune, the Evening Post, and the New York Independent, have done more to establish Mr. Lincoln in public confidence as a genuine friend of freedom, and whose election is most desirable, than the zealous support of all the political managers in the country. These journals may not and do not approve all the acts of Mr. Lincoln's administration; but when such men as William Lloyd Garrison, Gerrit Smith, Oliver Johnson, Beecher, Tilton, and Horace Greeley, give their support to Mr. Lincoln, the people can safely feel assured that they need fear no great danger at his hands to the cause of freedom to which the labors of their lives have been devoted.—Rochester (N. Y.) Express.

WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
It has been too much the tendency of reformers to assume an attitude of hostility to the world, and by the growth of morbid conditions of mind to run into absurd positions when the world in its advance catches up with them. Like the early emigrants to the West, who pushed still further westward when civilized life reached them, they have pushed out to the outskirts of popular opinion, and thought they must advance still farther when the tread of the people is heard nearing their heretofore solitary resting-place. They have grown into the conviction that to be right they must differ from everybody else, and while at the outset they differed from necessity in the pursuit of a great idea, they now pursue some new idea for the sake of differing. They are not content to sit down with all the world under the vines and fig trees of their own planting, but they must search out sterile soils where their vines and fig trees can never prosper, and where the world will never acknowledge them as pioneers of a great advance. In a word, they have taken up reform as a profession, instead of a course of action dictated by conscience in special emergencies; and thus, after the first reform is accomplished, into the work of which they had entered earnestly and honestly, they become angular and oftentimes disagreeable members of society, infected with the idea that became they once were obliged to differ in the pursuit of right, they must now always be right when they differ.
A striking exception to the rule we have laid down as to apt to apply to reformers, is the gentleman whose name we have placed at the head of this article. The great anti-slavery reformer of the age, he has, during storm and sunshine, kept the great object of his life distinctly in view, contending against adverse currents of public opinion when there seemed little chance, except to the clear eye of his Christian faith, of ever making any advance; but always taking advantage of any lull in the storm, or eddy in the stream, to work his way to the goal, until at last a smooth sea and favoring sky now promise him a speedy view of what bas been to him so long only a promised land. No portion of the career of Mr. Garrison, earnest, straightforward and majestic as it has been, is so impressive to our mind as the natural and graceful recognition by him of the popular acceptation of the doctrine he has so long advocated, and his manifestation of entire unselfishness in awarding all credit to those who, in what must seem to him a late hour, are carrying forward the great anti-slavery cause. He makes no boasts of his life-long advocacy of what is now a popular idea: he indulges in no sneers at the tardy convictions of those whose hearts are at last in the work, and hesitates not to act even a subordinate part with those who have until now opposed his labors. He is content if he can see the great work go on. Yes, even more than this. In his anxiety lest the old prejudice against him may deter some from working by his side, he is willing to stand back for the good of the cause, and, without a feeling of , jealousy, thank God that at last he is to see the perfect fruition of his hopes. His present position is the natural and legitimate position of a thoroughly devoted man, who, through all the persecutions and strifes of his life, has preserved his spirit free from every morbid tendency, his head clear and strong, and his faith steadfast—Plymouth Memorial.
<c06>
IN BAD COMPANY.
The Principia, a radical abolition paper in New York, edited by those veteran reformers, William Goodell and Dr. Cheever, supports Fremont for the Presidency, but does not hoist the name of John Cochrane for the Vice Presidency. Mr. Goodell was one of the callers of the Cleveland Convention, and personally participated in its deliberations. But, it seems, he cannot adopt the hopeful issue which his Convention conceived and brought forth. No wonder his stomach, toned to the most rigid abolition diet, repels John Cochrane. The said Cochrane is one of the worst and windiest of political demagogues. He is dreadfully demoralized." He supported Buchanan down to the last hour of his inglorious Administration, voted for the traitor Breckinridge, and, just before the war broke out, declared, that if it should be attempted to coerce Virginia, he would go down and fight with her against her oppressors! A splendid candidate he, to be set up by radical abolitionists so conscientious in their hatred of slavery that they cannot support Abraham Lincoln or Andrew Johnson, because they are unworthy of trust on the slavery question! At the late Fremont Ratification meeting in Cooper Institute, this man Cochrane described Fremont and McClellan as “twin cherries on one stem." If this be so, much as we have admired Fremont, we must decline his cherries. If the good and the noxious are inseparable in his market, we must look elsewhere for our fruit. It is easier to forego a luxury than to swallow a drug. The fact is, the honest abolitionists, who have nursed this Fremont movement, are being fearfully sold by it. Many of them, conscientiously believing Mr. Lincoln to be slow in recognizing the great demand of the crisis, and regarding Mr. Fremont with romantic admiration, early urged his nomination, as they had a right to do. But the Copper-heads and malcontents, spying something of good to their own cause by a division in the ranks of Union men, have wholly usurped the movement, and taken bodily possession thereof. We did ourselves admire Fremont, and were never so foolish as to maintain that Mr. Lincoln never blundered or made mistakes. But this cheat is too transparent, and we decline to be sold-—Girard (Pa.) Union.

FOURTH OF JULY AT THE HOUSE THAT JEFF. BUILT. 
SOLDIERS' HOME, VICKSBURG, July 5,1864. 
Celebrations of the glorious Fourth, made doubly glorious by the memories of Vicksburg and Gettysburg, were doubtless as thick as musketoes on the Mississippi yesterday, and as like one to another as they, for the most part. But the celebration of our natal day in the family mansion of the Arch-Traitor who now stands at the head of the Southern Confederacy, by agents of Freedmen's Relief Associations, officers of colored regiments, and teachers of contrabands, was quite a different affair, and deserves its place in the record of the times. 
The entertainment was planned and executed under the auspices of Col. Thomas, Acting Superintendent of Freedmen in this Department, in the absence of Col. Eaton. The party, over one hundred in number, left the wharf at Vicksburg at 7 A.M. on the steamer Diligent, a Government transport that is diligent in conveying rations and other stores to the soldiers and Freedmen between Vicksburg and Natchez. 
Perhaps I should say, en passant, that this was the form of our bidding to this extraordinary and never again (for there can never again be a first time) to be repeated entertainment.

PICNIC EXECUTION TO THE JEFF. DAVIS PLATIATION,
JULY 4, 1864.
You are respectfully invited to spend the 4th of July at the “Jeff Davis," Davis's Bend, Miss.
It being leap year, the ladies have the privilege of inviting their own escort. 
The steamer Diligent will leave the landing at the foot of Crawford street at 5 A. M. on the morning of the 4th. 
By order of the Committee of Arrangements.
There was quite a full proportion of ladies. This department at this time has a number of agents, teachers, and hospital nurses. We were a company of comparative strangers, coming from almost every Northern free State, meeting here for one great purpose. Though engaged in different branches, all were parts of one great whole. 
The trip down, twenty-five miles, gave a chance for recognition and introduction. To have come from the same States was introduction enough— and if even the State lines met, we were not strangers. Three hours' journey brought as to what used to be Joe Davis's landing. The negroes say that Jeff. owed his farm and his negroes, four hundred in number, to his brother who was very rich, and gave him a plantation, and erected the unpretending edifice that now has become so notorious. 
As we landed, the colored people gathered in hundreds in their holiday attire to great us. “It was a sight to see so many white ladies coming coming," as one said.
Carts, wagons, and ambulances were in attendance, to transport us two miles back to the famous spot. We passed through corn and cane fields of wide extent, some looking well, others as ill as need be, and little of either betokening a thrifty crop, prophetic of great gains to the speculators, unless present prices should continue to advance. These plantations stretched out for miles on nearly a level, very luxuriant, and bearing evidence of intelligent cultivation. 
The slaves' quarters are larger and more commodious than usual, and the surroundings of Joe Davis's family mansion (the house now a pile of ruins) are beautiful.
A winding road brought us to the mansion of the chief of Confederates, a one-story frame, expansive and commanding, skirted, as all such are in the South, with deep porches or piazzas, with immense windows opening to the floors, and looking altogether commodious, comfortable, and inviting. Over the main entrance, in front, wreathed m evergreens, were the words, “This is the house that Jeff. built; "over the door opposite, at the rear and within,” Exit traitor."
Many were the jokes, anecdotes, and questionings, as we entered within that great hall, and trod the floors those feet have often pressed that are now trampling, as it were, upon the hearts of our brave and gallant dead.
But my story must be short and simple. The romance of the post is enough, and needs no embellishment. Under the oaks that front the house, we assembled for the reading of the Declaration of Independence, oration and song. A rain compelled us to go into the house, where at the usual hour a dinner was served up, and the servants of the former master, rejoicing in emancipation , strove to excel each other in waiting on the Yankees who “comed to help us;? and then sentiments were proposed-Lincoln, Grant, Sherman, the Army and the Navy, the day, the Republic, were cheered, “till roof and rafters all resounded."

"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all 
the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, as far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, But only the PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY,HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slave holding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war power of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the session of States, burdened with slaver, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I any it in a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it to be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q ADAMS.

 


 


 

 
 

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
On the right and the left, at the back and the front, grouped picturesquely in all manner of costumes, from gay flounces to disgusting rags, (for these are free people,) were the freedmen which have been gathered to these plantations to labor for themselves, and to learn from actual experience the truths of the Declaration of Independence. They seemed to enjoy the scene hugely, yet I fancied they would have been prouder of their Northern friends if they had been more elegant and” ‘spensive,” As one old woman expressed it “I knows a Northern lady quick’s I sees her; she don’t look so ‘spensive like as de others.”
But my story is told: we ate, we drank, we made speeches and cheered sentiments, we talked the rankest abolitionism under the portals of the traitor, and there were those who sung “We’ll Hang Jeff. Davis on a Sour Apple Tree.” But to us the prayer of old Isaac had in it more of the ring of the true Christian: —
“Oh! Massa Jesus, mighty God, save Massa Jeff. ’fore it am everlastingly too late! Oh, Lord, take him by de nap of de neck, and shake him over de fiery furnace till he squeal like a pig in de bars! But don’t let him drop; oh, Massa Jesus, don’t let him drop, but fetch him to repentance, and save him soul in de eberlasting kingdom’ fore dem Yankees make him dry bones in a box.”
There, there is the whole spirit of the Gospel.
Are we not in these days,-even amid wars and rumors of wars,-living Christianity hitherto only theorized upon? We enter our enemy’s house only to do good. We give ourselves to the work of lifting up the poor and oppressed that the cast down. We find the poor white trash, sick and hungry, and we feed him; naked, and we clothe him; sick and in prison, and we minister unto him; and while we strike for liberty, and right stalwart blows with the right hand, dealing death at every turn, with the left we lift up humanity, and every hour vindicate ourselves before God and the nations as being worthy to govern ourselves, as being worthy of the glory that shall enshrine our memory in the hereafter: we, the people. The great, true, common heart, ever good and brave, is doing this, and Abraham the honest is our strong arm to execute our will.
It was a stirring thought as we bade good night to the house that Jeff. built, that there was scarce one of all that multitude of white men and women that was not there to represent the feeling and charities of thousands of people who have commissioned them to do this holy work. At 5 P. M., amid the still dripping rain, we took our leave for Vicksburg, where all arrived in safety; no drinking, no profanity, no misdemeanors, no accidents marring the happiness of the closing hours of a day of rare festivity, mirth and enjoyment.
FRANCES D. GAGE. 
Another writer gives the following sketch of this truly novel celebration:-

THE GROUNDS. 
On the grounds in front of the residence, the gunboat crew suspended a string of signal colors, on each side of the “starry banner,” presenting an effect amid the dense foliage of the live-oaks and the grey moss, “altogether beauteous to look upon,” while on the tables under the trees were spread things not only pleasant to the sight, but good for food. And when we saw these pleasing objects, the work of their hands, and the merry, happy faces of the guests and their “escorts,” and reflected that these sable sons, by a guard of whom we were surrounded, were no longer slaves; that they had, with thousands of their brethren, been brought out from the House of Bondage by the “God of Abraham;” that the very house now occupied by missionaries and teachers had, but a year ago, been in the service of despotism, built, in fact, as a temple of slavery by the great chief who preferred to rule in a miserable petty despotism to serve in a great and magnanimous Republic, we could not but think that Heaven looked approvingly upon the scene; that “God saw everything that he had made, and behold it was very good.”

THE EXERCISES. 
Rev. Dr. Warren conducted the exercises as President of the occasion, and he did it with that ease, freedom, and regard for the rights and interests of all, which usually characterize his public and social conduct. He opened the proceedings under a grove of trees in front of the house, with an appropriate prayer, and then called upon those appointed to take part.
Mr. Roundtree read the “Declaration of Independence” in a clear, emphatic and impressive manner. It was listened to with becoming reverence for the great truths it contains, by both the white and colored races. It is quite improbable that these “self-evident” truths were ever expressed before publicly in this locality, and within hearing of every one within the “House that Jeff. built.”
Rev. Mr. Livermore, of Wis., delivered an appropriate oration.
The meeting then adjourned for dinner.
A gentle shower at this time rendered the air cool and pleasant, but made it necessary to remove the dining tables to the house. 

THE DINNER.
A sumptuous dinner was served on the veranda, at the back of the mansion. There was an abundance of all that could be desired.
Sentiments were presented and responded to in an impromptu but appropriate manner by the various speakers.
The following song, composed for the occasion, was read by Mr. McConnell:
THE HOUSE THAT JEFF. BUILT.
AIR-“Auld Lang Syne.”
How oft within these airy halls
The traitor of the day
Has heard Ambition’s trumpet-calls,
Or dreamed of war’s array!
Or of an Empire dreamed, whose base
Millions of blacks should be:
Aha! before this day’s sweet face
Where can his visions be?
Those Empire dreams shall be fulfilled,
But not as rebels thought-
Like water at the cistern spilled,
Their boasts shall come to nought.
From gulf to lake, from sea to sea,
Behold our country grand!
The very home of Liberty-
And guarded by her hand.
We revel in his halls to-day;
Next year where will he be?
A dread account he has to pay;
May we be there to see!
And now for country, truth and right-
Our heritage all free,
We’ll live and die, we’ll sing and fight:
The Union! three times three.
The party, after selecting a few simple trophies, such as fig branches for walking canes, large pond lillies, flowers, wreaths and bouquets, returned to the landing, and reembarked for Vicksburg.

CLOSING EXERCISES.
On the boat the following business was transacted:
Vote of thanks to Col. Thomas and staff for getting up the celebration; to the Orator of the Day, Parson Livermore; to the President, Rev. Dr. Warren, who made a brief response; and also to Capt. Wightman and the officers of the Diligent.
Cheers were given for Abraham Lincoln, and groans for Jeff. Davis.
The song, “The House that Jeff. Built.” was again sung, and Capt. Gilpin, C. S., appointed a committee to furnish a copy of the same to Jeff. Davis.

LETTER FROM DR. BROOKE.
To the Editor of the National Anti-Slavery Standard:
As my letter of June 21st neither expressed nor implied a suspicion that the Secretaries of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, or either of them, suppressed the missing resolutions, I have been content to wait till they were heard from before replying to your strictures upon it. I took for granted the document had been accidentally mislaid. But as nearly a month had elapsed without further allusion to the matter, and as I believed then and still continue to think that at an earlier day in our history, neither the Editor of the Liberator nor of the Standard would have been satisfied to allow such an omission to pass without the recovery of the resolutions, or an explanation of why it was impossible to fill the hiatus, it was upon them I supposed partisan feeling had wrought an unhappy change. The expression which I used, “suppressed for partisan purposes,” was therefore inaccurate, and may have led you into a misapprehension.
<c02>
If it be a fault to believe no man infallible-to be perpetually jealous of any action which seems to threaten the subordination of the holy cause of liberty for all men to the interests of any political party-to desire to be willing to “rebuke” any man, however exalted his position or fair his preceding record, who indicates a tendency to do this-I fear I may need forgiveness. It has been with great pain that I have thought I perceived such indications in the course pursued by our only two remaining distinctively anti-slavery papers.
In your second paragraph of comments, you assume that “Dr. Brooke sees no danger of partisanship-at least none calling for his rebuke-in nonvoting Abolitionists taking part in organizing a new political party.” etc. In this you mistake, as I have both seen the danger and felt called upon to express my disapprobation. But suppose I had not-has it become necessary in condemning a specific wrong that one must rebuke all wrong? Again, if the explicit expression of the office-seekers’ Convention at Cleveland, that they aim to “secure to all men absolute equality before the law,” means nothing more than “a bait for anti-slavery votes,” why should the less comprehensive resolutions of the office-holders’ Convention at Baltimore be accepted as meaning all they promise, and more? My confidence in the one is no greater than in the other; in my opinion, the majority of the actors in either of them would violate any or all of the resolutions respectively adopted, if thereby they were assured of achieving party success. Why should not an impartial Abolitionist measure each of them with the same rule?
Yours, A. BROOKE.
Marlboro, O., July 12. 
REMARKS BY THE EDITOR.
1. Dr. Brooke, it will be seen, confesses above that when he expressed his suspicion that Mr. Pillsbury’s resolutions were “suppressed for partisan purposes,” he had in his mind, not the Secretaries of the New England Convention, but the Editors of the Liberator and the Standard. Why these Editors, neither of whom ever had the missing resolutions in his hand, and one of whom was not only not in the Convention for a single moment, but three hundred miles away, should be held accountable for their non-appearance, or be expected to display a zeal for their recovery which neither their author nor the Secretaries were required or expected to exhibit, Dr. Brooke does not explain. His imputation, so far as it was directed at us, may pass without reply; its special unreasonableness (to use no harsher term,) as directed at Mr. Garrison, must be apparent to all, when it is remembered that before the publication of the proceedings he left home to attend the Yearly Meeting at Longwood, and afterwards went to Baltimore and Washington, returning only at the end of two weeks of absorbing labor and excitement. If, during his absence, the missing resolutions were once remembered, he doubtless thought the duty of endeavoring to recover them, or of explaining the failure to do so, would be well discharged by the Secretaries. Certainly no conclusion could have been more natural or reasonable. But Dr. Brooke confesses that he deliberately pointed the finger of suspicion at Mr. Garrison, not only as lacking in zeal requisite for their recovery, but even as having “suppressed them for partisan purposes”! We submit that if any one in the anti-slavery ranks has undergone “an unhappy change,” it is the man whose “partisan purposes” so far overcome his better judgment as to lead him to entertain and express such suspicion.
2. Certainly Abolitionists should impartially measure all political parties “by the same rule,” testing their professions by their acts. This is precisely what we have endeavored to do. If the Baltimore Convention, first casting its anti-slavery utterances into phrases evidently designed to be as little offensive as possible to the Copperhead Democracy, had then proceeded to construct the rest of its platform of the very doctrines and asseverations which have for two years been constantly on the lips of the enemies of emancipation, and by the reiteration of which they have sought to throw the government into the hand of the hand of the sympathizers with the rebels; if, in addition to all this, the Republican leaders were known to be intriguing to procure the nomination of their candidates at Chicago, and for this purpose were openly declaring that McClellan and Lincoln are “twin cherries on one stem” and if the Copperhead press were everywhere jubilant in view of these proceedings, deeming the day of their triumph at hand, we should certainly conclude that the leading supporters of the Administration were playing a very dishonest game, and that their anti-slavery professions were wholly untrustworthy. We know not why this conduct on the part of the responsible leaders of the Cleveland movement should be regarded by any Abolitionist with less disgust or disapprobation.

GENERAL BANKS’S LABOR SYSTEM.
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune:—
SIR:-Having given my letter in explanation of Gen. Banks’s “Labor System” a place in your paper (for which I express my thanks), I will only ask further space to verify my statements, which your editorial of July 21 calls in question. You say of me:-
1. “He alleges that the rate of wages fixed by Gen. Banks gives the laborer $200 a year, besides house rent, &c., an error so astounding as to destroy the value of Mr. Elliott’s testimony on all other points.”
This is pretty sweeping, but let us see whether you are right or whether I am. Here are the figures made by myself and others on the spot, according to Gen. Banks’s “Labor System” called “Serfdom”:
Cash wages, first-class hands, $8 per month, $96
Rations-five pounds of pork per week, 10c. 26
Half a bushel meal per week, 50c. 26
Sundries, say per year, 10
Clothes, per year, 36Medicines and medical attendance, 10
Schools, per year, 10 
Total, $214
Add to this:
House rent, say $36 to 25
Allowance for support of small children below 12 years of age, Per year, 50
And for pork at $40, instead of $20 per bbl., as above, 26
Total, $315
I stated, Mr. Editor, that the wages of first-class hands would be some $200. It will, in my opinion, be nearer $300 than $200. Am I not right?
2. You say: The laborer was not “entirely free to choose his employer.” In reply to this, I beg leave to say that in the districts where I was, I know the laborer was entirely free to do so, and did so. Now I respectfully ask if you know to the contrary.
3. You say: “The appeal to the Provost Marshals amounts to nothing.” This is an assertion, and in some cases it may be and probably is true; for not “all the men are brave, and all the women virtuous,” even in Louisiana. But I wish to say this, that the two Provost-Marshals I knew were fair men, and had the interests of the negro at heart as much as the white.
Now one word more as to wages. Col. Paige, who is working a large plantation near New Orleans, told me that he selected and hired his hands in open market, and wherever he found them, at $10 per month, and that having had large experience with workmen, he never had better laborers. Gen. Bank’s price was $8, so that it seems not to have been “shamefully inadequate,” as you assert.
My main purpose, however, was to do justice to Gen. Banks (who, just now, is condemned unfairly as well as fairly) against your imputation that he was working in the interest of the planters, and not in that of the Freedmen.
His establishment of schools for them is a pretty conclusive answer to this.
In addition, I have just seen Mr. Commissioner McKaye, who agrees with me that Gen. Bank’s motives cannot fairly be called in question.
I am, very respectfully.
CHARLES W. ELLIOTT.
The statement of Mr. Elliott puts a wholly different face upon the matter of the payment of the freed laborers in Louisiana. It has been frequently represented- to the disparagement of Gen. Banks, and, through him, of President Lincoln-that eight dollars per month constituted their full wages; whereas, according to Mr. Elliott’s showing, first class hands receive an amount equivalent to twenty-five dollars a month, or $300 per year. For them, as a class, this surely in that climate is a fair compensation; though in some cases, doubtless, more might be earned by personal skill and enterprise, if left wholly untrammeled.
<c03>
The Liberator
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JULY 29, 1864.
OUR POSITION.
In another column,-with that cheerfulness and readiness which we have ever evinced towards those differing from us,-we print a sharp and severe letter from a subscriber of thirty years’ standing, who requests its publication in the Liberator, and also the immediate discontinuance of his paper for the reasons therein set forth. Of course, it is his right, as also that of every other subscriber, to stop his paper at any time, either with or without explanation of his motive for so doing; and it is not for us to complain, or to urge a reconsideration of his decision. Our estimable General Agent will testify, from an experience of eighteen years, that never has it been a matter of interest or inquiry to us to know whose name is or is not upon our subscription list. Scarcely any one knows less, by inspection, about that list than we do; for we have not for a very long period once given it an examination. This, it is true, is not an indication of business thrift, and in all probability cannot be paralleled; but it at least demonstrates that at no time have we shaped our course with reference to the circulation of our paper. We commenced the Liberator without a subscriber; we have never personally asked any one to take it; we have never, in all the anti-slavery speeches and addresses we have delivered, or the multitudinous anti-slavery gatherings attended, urged its support, or solicited any one to do so in our stead; and if, at last, every subscriber shall withdraw, the consciousness that we have ever faithfully tried to remember those in bonds as bound with them will make us as cheerful and elastic in spirit as though the Liberator had the largest circulation of any journal in the land. We espoused the anti-slavery cause not to be supported by it, not to find employment, but to lay upon its altar all of intellect, heart and soul-all of self-sacrifice and moral power-all of heroic purpose, zealous devotion, and a good example-that we could bring to it. Nor are we conscious of any internal change or external state of things to make us feel or act in any other spirit, or from any other motives, in the present than in the past.
This declaration is reluctantly wrung from us, because it is evident that there is a disposition, among a certain class, to discontinue their subscriptions in an embittered spirit and in a summary manner; indicating either a purpose to hold a rod in terrorism over us, or a desire to see the Liberator speedily suppressed. Even without their withdrawal,-we will state for their satisfaction,-this latter alternative is not an improbable event. Our circulation-always a limited one, because the Liberator was subjected to universal opprobrium from the start as the original transgressor-has had no increase since the rebellion broke out; while its expenses have been heavily augmented. For example-before the war, we paid from $3 50 to $3 75 per ream for the white paper upon which the Liberator was printed; now we are obliged to pay between nine and ten dollars per ream, with an upward tendency. This alone is a crushing difference; and it is experienced by every other journal, causing many a suspension, and making the continued existence of many more extremely problematical. But not to retain or secure a single patron, or to avoid the necessity of discontinuing the Liberator, shall we alter our course one hair’s breadth.
The reasons given for stopping his paper by our long-adhering but now alienated Haverhill subscriber cannot properly be allowed to pass without animadversion; for they are accusations of a sweeping character, implying utter recreancy of principle and extreme baseness of conduct on our part! Coming from an avowed enemy, we should not bestow upon them a passing comment; but being preferred by one who has stood by us so many years, and who assumes to be “faithful among the faithless found,” it is due to him and to ourself to look them directly in the face.
He says:-
“I little thought that you would ever abandon the cause of the slave to his enemy; although it seems that you have, by electioneering for the reelection of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency.”
Again:-
“Those of us here, as far as I have learned, who are called Garrisonian abolitionists, feel most deeply to lament your fall.”
Again:-
“Alas! in your zeal for ‘honest’ (?) old Abe, you have appeared to forget, or wish to conceal, his constant abuse of the blacks.”
Again:-
“Be astonished, O heavens! And lament, O earth! at the radical difference between the speeches of Wm. Lloyd Garrison in 1832 and 1864!”
Again:-
“I regret to state that the present course of the Liberator is such as to convince me that, although it was formerly a beacon light, . . . it is now, to the extent of its circulation and influence, doing injury to the rights of all men, both black and white.” (!!)
Finally:-
“You attempted in the New England Convention, by your garbled quotations from Wendell Phillips’s speeches, to make it appear that he had contradicted himself.”
No severer charges could be brought against us. If they are dispassionately held by our Haverhill accuser, then we have fallen low indeed in his estimation, and henceforth must be to him even as a heathen and a publican. So let it be. But their virulence and extravagance compel us to the conviction that he knows not what spirit he is of; and that he mistakes a morbid partisan spirit for General Fremont, and a jaundiced view of Mr. Lincoln’s course, as proofs of unswerving fidelity to the anti-slavery cause on his part! We plead “not guilty” to his indictment. We pronounce it false, abusive, calumnious, in every particular. This is not the first time the heel has been lifted against us, on the pretence that we have abandoned or sacrificed the claims of the oppressed to indulge in some hobby. It is the old familiar spirit of “new organization” in a new guise, as arrogant in assumption, false in crimination, and bitter in feeling as ever. Its missiles will fall as harmless now as they did in other days. Those who are animated by it will find it to operate like poison in the blood: it will derange their whole moral constitution. It has always led in one direction-downward; and to one result-straining at gnats, and swallowing camels.
We take up first the last charge of the category contained in the letter of our Haverhill complainant, namely, that at the late New England Convention, we made “garbled quotations from Wendell Phillips’s speeches, to make it appear that the contradicted himself”. This implies positive dishonesty: it is a false charge. We assert that our quotations were fairly made in every instance: they can neither be denied nor explained away. Let the effort be made in our columns by whosoever will! And they can be greatly multiplied-and will be, if necessity be laid upon us. Yet this involves no breach of friendship, no personal rivalry, no conflict of principle, no difference as to the result sought. It relates solely to logical consistency, coherency of statement, and personal judgment as to the relations of Mr. Lincoln’s administration to the cause equally dear to us both; and has no reference to any anti-slavery principle, measure or object, as such. What motive could we have to dissent from Mr. Phillips? To what man living are we more indebted than to him? Of whom have we so often spoken in terms of admiration and eulogy? Who has done more to record and circulate his eloquent utterances than ourself? Witness the Liberator in multitudinous columns for the last quarter of a century! With whom have we been more closely united by the sacred ties of friendship, as well as by the claims of a noble and divine cause? Has it come to this, that we cannot earnestly differ in opinion 
<c04>
about public men and measures, without loss of personal regard and social intercourse? As the condition of working and walking together, must he endorse all our views, or we all his? Is this the individuality of abolitionists of the old school? No man will more readily resent the thought than Wendell Phillips. That unlimited freedom of speech-personal to any extent, and without fear or favor-which he claims for himself, and in which he indulges, he will not deny to us o: to others. If we separate from each other, it will be for some imagined or discovered sacrifice of principle for an unworthy purpose. The question, whether the loyal sentiment of the country can be more strongly brought out and secured by Lincoln or Fremont at the approaching Presidential election, and thus the government kept out of the hands of its deadly foes-and that is THE WHOLE QUESTION-affords ground for an honest difference of opinion, and is not a question of moral duty or of anti-slavery rectitude.
To the charges, that we have “abandoned the cause of the slave to his enemy,” that we have “fallen,” that we have “recanted our whole public labors,” that the Liberator “is now doing injury to the rights of all men, both black and white,” &c., &c., we can only protest that our Haverhill censor is laboring under an extraordinary hallucination! We compassionate his condition, and sincerely hope that he may yet be found “clothed, and sitting in his right mind.” Our principles are the same, our object the same, our measures the same, our demands for the enslaved and free people of color the same, as they were when our Haverhill friend professes to have been converted to radicalism by us, thirty years ago. For these we have nothing to substitute, nothing to recall. Standing now, as we stood then, outside of all ecclesiastical organizations and all political parties, and above the reach of religious authority and party discipline, we are pursuing the same straightforward course as of old, turning neither to the right hand nor to the left, bestowing censure where we deem it to be deserved, giving honor and credit to whom they are due, gladly hailing every word and act tending to the abolition of slavery, careful not to break the bruised reed nor to quench the smoking flax, and rendering righteous judgment in regard to men and things as the times demand.
Our dissatisfied friend asks:-
“Did ever a reformer take the ground that we ought not to judge men by our standard, but by theirs? If that is your present principle of action, it is a recantation of your whole public labors. Wm. Lloyd Garrison, of 1832, did not act upon that theory. He then proclaimed the eternal truth of God, as he understood it, whether men would hear or forbear.”
This is to see a hobgoblin where nothing exists but impalpable air. It is a false issue, and “like the baseless fabric of a vision.” Mr. M. D. Conway, in a recent letter from England published in The Commonwealth, undertakes-all caparisoned for the fight-to run a Quixotic tilt at us, under the same delusion. Now, this is what we have affirmed:-“As to the President, he must be judged by the circumstances and necessities of his position, according to the Constitution, and under the limitations of that instrument.” To judge him otherwise, as President, would be unjust. On the war plane, Gen. Grant is to be judged by his possibilities, not by the rules of non-resistance. Before the rebellion, Congress had no right to decree the abolition of slavery in any slave State; but it could at any time legally abolish slavery in the District of Columbia. Measuring it by its constitutional powers, and not by the highest ethical standard, Abolitionists, petitioned that body to decree the extinction of slavery in the District, but they did not ask it to abolish slavery universally until it could do so constitutionally, “under the war power, and as a military necessity.” President Lincoln is entitled to the same fair treatment. While he remains in his present situation, he cannot violate his trust without being guilty of perjury, nor be called upon to act the part of a reformer or an Abolitionist. That is all we mean by judging men by their standard or position, and not by ours.
The pith of the charges brought against us is, that we have abandoned the cause of the salve “by electioneering for the re-election of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency.” This “electioneering” consists solely in our expressing the conviction, first, that Mr. Lincoln has an incomparably stronger hold upon the loyal sentiment of the country, as a Presidential candidate, than Gen. Fremont or any other man; secondly, that, inasmuch as any division of that sentiment can only tend to give success to pro-slavery, treasonable, copperhead democracy, and, consequently, success to a rebellion which has for its great object the eternization of slavery, it is neither wise nor justifiable to press the claims of any rival candidate at this time, but all personal preferences should be magnanimously swallowed up in the absolute necessity of presenting an unbroken front to the common enemy; and, thirdly, that, aside from all other considerations, the democratic principle, that the people have a right to choose their own rulers, remains to be vindicated in the re-election of Abraham Lincoln and the suppression of the rebellion-so that he shall be dully recognized by the South, as well as by the South, as well as by the North, as the rightful President of the United States, and the unity of the republic be preserved inviolate, on the basis of universal freedom.
In what manner is the Anti-Slavery cause compromised by the avowal of these convictions and the recognition of these facts?
Our seceding subscriber denounces the President for his “constant abuse of the blacks,” (!!) and holds him up to opprobrium as thoroughly pro-slavery in spirit and design! Passing strange is it, then, that the slavery-loving South is in frantic rebellion against him and his administration, and that the entire copperhead element of the North is boisterous for his defeat! And doubly strange is it that Gen. Fremont, who, it is claimed, is a “radical abolitionist” to the fullest extent, should be complimented and supported in opposition to Mr. Lincoln by all the copperhead journals in the land! Who is the dupe, whose instinct is at fault, in this case? “Any change from Lincoln,” says the Richmond Examiner, “will be better for us” for us the rebels! “Are you there, old Two penny?” Then you shall not be gratified in your wishes! In view of the death-dealing blows given to slavery by Mr. Lincoln and under his administration, no marvel that he is detested and feared by all the Southern traitors and their Northern sympathizers; nor that the friends of freedom in the old world rejoice in the re-nomination of Mr. Lincoln-their feelings being expressed in the following Resolution, recently adopted by the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester, England:-
“That they rejoice exceedingly in the great and significant fact of the unanimous and enthusiastic renomination by the National Union Convention, of Abraham Lincoln for the Presidency of the United States, and his acceptance of the said nomination with its noble platform of advanced anti-slavery principles, including the amendment of the Constitution, so as utterly and forever to exclude and exterminate the system of human bondage from every foot of territory beneath the Federal Flag.”

WEST INDIA EMANCIPATION.
The THIRTIETH ANNIVERSARY of that great historic event in the progress of Liberty, Justice and Humanity, the emancipation of 800,000 slaves in the British West India Colonies, will be celebrated by the citizens of Abington at ISLAND GROVE, on MONDAY NEXT, August 1st. In addition to other attractions, GEORGE THOMPSON, Esq., of England, (to whose eloquent appeals and powerful efforts this sublime achievement was largely owing,) has consented to deliver an oration on the occasion. Others may be expected to participate in the proceedings. Services to commence at half-past 10 o’clock, A. M.
It is hoped and believed that a great assembly will be brought together. Come one, come all, from every direction!
There will be no excursion trains. The regular morning train from Boston leaves the Old Colony depot at 8:45 A. M.; returning, leaves the Grove at 4:30 P. M. price of tickets, 65 cents each way.
<c05>
MR. THOMPSON AT THE WESLEYAN UNIVERSITY.
Receives the Degree of LL. D.
Mr. THOMPSON arrived in Middletown, (Conn.) from Northampton, (Mass.) somewhat late in the evening of Monday, the 18th, and on the following morning received numerous visits from gentlemen connected with the University, as well as from persons from various distant parts of the country, attracted to the town by the Commencement. The President of the University, Rev. Joseph Cummings, D. D., was amongst the first to pay his respects. In the evening, Mr. Thompson delivered the Phi Beta Kappa Address. The subject was-The Progress of the Anti-Slavery Cause in Great Britain and America. The speech, which was extempore, occupied an hour and a half in the delivery, and referred to the labors of British Abolitionists, from Granville Sharp to Joseph Sturge; and to the great struggle in this country, from the imprisonment of Mr. Garrison, in Baltimore, to the present time. The Methodist Episcopal Church, which was the place of meeting, was crowded. On Wednesday morning, Mr. Thompson attended the annual meeting of the Alumni, and after having been formally introduced by Dr. Curry, and welcomed by the President, made a brief speech. His reception was extremely cordial. He was present, also, at an entertainment in the evening, given by the Alumni to their friends, and the visitors generally, and addressed the assembly.
On Thursday morning, Mr. Thompson, accompanied by a friend, and wholly ignorant of the honor intended him, entered the church where the Commencement Exercises were proceeding; but not until they were near their conclusion. What then occurred will be found described in the letter addressed to the New York Tribune, which we have copied below.
Mr. Thompson was present at the usual annual dinner; and, also, at the evening levee held by the President of the University, and on Friday morning took his departure for Plymouth, (Conn.,) on a private visit to some English friends resident in that locality. On his return to Northampton, on Monday, Mr. Thompson received the following official letter, accompanied by his Diploma:-
WESLEYAN UNIVERSITY, MIDDLETOWN,
(Conn.,) July 25, 1864.)
Hon. GEORGE THOMPSON, LL.D.
MY DEAR SIR-I have the honor to inform you that, at the recent Commencement of the Wesleyan University, the Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on you. By this act the authorities of the University have signified their profound respect for your personal character, and for your distinguished services in the cause of humanity and liberty; and in advancing the interests of enlightened education and pure religion.
I am, dear sir, with much respect,
Yours, JOSEPH CUMMINGS,
President of the Wesleyan University.
In the language of another, “never was worthy deed more worthily done.” It will be hailed with special satisfaction by the friends of freedom and America across the Atlantic.
Mr. Thompson will deliver an address in Florence, (Mass..) on Friday evening, the 29th instant, and on Monday, August 1st, will attend the celebration of West India Emancipation at Abington, (to be held under the auspices of citizens of that town,) and by request will deliver an oration suitable to the occasion. No doubt this announcement will serve largely to increase the attendance.
GEORGE THOMPSON, L.L.D.
MIDDLETOWN, CT:, July 21, 1864.
One of the most beautiful and appropriate college scenes of the season transpired on Thursday last, at the Commencement exercises of the Wesleyan University, at Middletown, Ct.
During the exercises of the graduating class, a tall and dignified gentleman, of benign and venerable, yet commanding aspect was conducted upon the stand by Dr. Curry of The Christian Advocate and Journal, New York. The stranger was seated in a prominent position in the front, and fairly in view of the audience, that packed every seat and standing place. His fine form, tall, and straight as a mountain pine, was crowned with the snow that never melts off till in heaven, and his face showed lines of care and conflict, softened, however, by the light of benevolence that mellowed his lofty brow and firm blue eye.
All eyes were turned upon him with inquiring interest, and soon, among the initiated, the whisper circulated that the stranger was George Thompson, the eloquent English Emancipationist.
The escort of Dr. Curry would have been suggestive of Anti-Slavery tastes, at least, and the moisture that troubled his eyes at an eloquent allusion to the name of William Wilberforce, by one of the young gentlemen, tended to strengthen the surmise.
When the orations were over, and the Baccalaureate degrees conferred, everybody was uneasy and expectant, and there was a suspicion-more than that with some-that something was about to happen to the distinguished-looking stranger. Next in order came the Master’s degree, in cursa, ad eundem, and honoris causa, in which some men of rising worth were justly recognized. Then followed the degree of Doctor of Divinity, conferred upon the Rev. Isaac W. Wiley, editor of The Ladies’ Repository, Cincinnati, Ohio, and the Rev. Robert Allyn, President of McKendree College, Illinois, we believe. Last came the degree of Doctor of Laws. On reaching this the tall and gowned form of President Cummings turned once more to the Trustees and patrons of the University-curatores honorandi atque reverendi, patronesque munifici—as, with Oxford cap lifted, he repeated the usual formula, until the place for the name and description was reached, when, turning full upon the all-unconscious and listening stranger, he pronounced in full tones that this degree was conferred upon:-
“Georgium Thompson, scientia et literis bene meritum, humanitatis et hominis amicum, apostolon libertatis eloquentem, cantenorum, ruptorem, oppressorum lœtitiam!” (George Thompson, distinguished in science and letters, the friend of humanity and of man, the eloquent apostle of liberty, the sunderer of chains, and the joy of the oppressed!)
As the name of the great Abolitionist and friend of America was reached, an irrepressible tempest of applause burst from the delighted audience, and the sentence was finished amid thunders that shook the very walls, as the fine form of the venerable man-perfectly thunderstruck, as he afterward assured us-bowed upon the ivory top of his cane, and buried his face in his hands; and it was evident that the unexpected honor had touched his heart and moistened his kindling eyes. Never was worthy deed more worthily done. It was meet that he who had so nobly battled for the deliverance of the oppressed, both in his own land and in this, should wear the honors of the church of his fathers (and at the beginning of his career, his own); the church through whose mission the way for emancipation was prepared and the work begun in the West Indies; the church first to obey the call of God in this war by putting away the abomination from her midst; and the University, also long slighted by the timid and pro-slavery party in its own denomination for the uncompromising attitude it has always occupied on this question.
This bestowment of the LL.D., the only one made, received, and will receive, the heartiest approbation, not of one denomination only, but of the whole country, and Mr. Thompson will carry home with him the profoundest respect and love of this nation, and the testimony that this age is beginning to learn that the best Doctors of the Law are those who teach and enforce God’s great golden law of equal rights to all mankind. G. L. T.
A BRIDGE FROM SLAVERY TO FREEDOM is the title of an able speech (printed in pamphlet form) delivered by Hon. Charles Sumner, in the United States Senate, on the bill to establish a Bureau of Freedmen, June 13th, 14th and 15th, 1864.
<c06>
THE LATE MR. WASHINGTON WILKS.
EMANCIPATION SOCIETY–OFFICES, 65 FLEET
ST., LONDON, E.C., 5th July, 1864.
MY DEAR SIR:— You will doubtless have heard of the sudden and lamented death of Mr. WASHINGTON WILKS, the eloquent and uncompromising advocate of every just cause. You have heard of his labors in behalf of America. He loved your country is thought it had been his own—he served the Federal cause with a devotion which has never been surpassed. You, perhaps, can form some estimate of his public labors, but only a person in my position can really judge of their priceless value. No soldier, brought face to face with the enemy on Virginia’s soil, could have fought with more heroism or in a greater spirit of self-sacrifice against the emissaries of the Southern slaveocracy. The greatest desire of his life was to visit the United States, and to become personally acquainted with a people whom he regarded as his kimmen and fellow-citizens, in a noble and peculiar sense. But that high privilege has been denied him; and the grave now contains all that remains on earth of the gifted orator and journalist. The name of America was the last word that passed his lips. On the fatal night, he had just commenced to review the public conduct of the members for Marylebone, one of whom he censured for his advocacy of the laws of primogeniture, while the other he rebuked for his hostility to “the great American Republic.” He had scarcely uttered these words, when he fell back, and in a few moments had ceased to breathe. He is now beyond the influence of human praise of blame; but some portion of the debt of gratitude which Americans, as well as Englishmen, owed to him may be paid to his necessitous family. The following document, published in this day’s Morning Star, speaks for itself:—
“THE LATE MR. WASHINGTON WILKS.
THE TESTIMONIAL FUND.
Committee.
R. Cobden, Esq., M.P.
P.A. Taylor, Esq., M.P.
Samuel Lucas, Esq.
William Hargreaves, Esq., Treasurer.
A.W. Paulton, Esq.
Edward Miall, Esq., Editor of the Noncomformist.
William Evans, Esq., Chairman of the Emancipation Society.
Joseph Cowan, Esq., Jun., Newcastle-on-Tyne.
T.H. Barker, Esq., Secretary of the United Kingdom Alliance.
Rev. Henry Richard.
Hain Friswell, Esq.
William Shaen, Wsq., M.A.
Passmore Edwards, Esq.
Herbert S. Skeets, Wsq.
R.B. Reed, Esq., Newcastle-on-Tyne.
F.W. Chesson, Esq., Hon. Secretary.
Those who are familiar with the brief but active career of the late Mr. Wilks know that he was unceasing in his advocacy of Liberal principles, and that he placed his rare and noble power of speech at the disposal of the public movements in which he was interested, with a total disregard of his own health or pecuniary interests. For example, last year-a year somewhat eventful in the history of our relations with America—he delivered scores of public addresses at the meetings of the Emancipation Society, without remuneration. Mr. Wilks having unhappily died without being able to make an adequate provision for his widow and children, and their claims upon the generous feelings of Reformers being so unquestionable, the above Committee has been formed in the hope that a considerable fund may be raised for their benefit. Subscriptions may be forwarded to William Hargreaves, Esq., Treasurer, Boughton Hall, Ripley, Surrey, or to the Hon. Secretary, 65 Fleet Street. The first list of subscriptions will be published in a few days.”
The Committee of the Emancipation Society, at their last meeting, unanimously adopted the following resolutions:—
“That this Committee, in expressing their deep regret at the untimely death of their able and eloquent colleague, Mr. WASHINGTON WILKS, at the same time desire to record their deep sense of the inestimable services which, without fee or reward, he rendered to the cause they represent.
That, considering the disinterested nature of Mr. WILKS’S advocacy of the American cause, the Committee hope that their friends in both countries will do the utmost to ensure the success of the fund which is being raised for the benefit of his family.”
So far as America is concerned, I confidently place this appeal in your hands. It has, however, occurred to me that, in addition to the ordinary means of raising subscriptions, Mr. Wendell Phillips, the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, and Mr. George Thompson might each be invited to deliver a lecture on behalf of the fund. This would be a graceful tribute to the memory of the departed, and at the same time render substantial aid to the Testimonial.
I regret that I am unable to write to Mr. Oliver Johnson or to Mr. Thompson by this mail, but I feel sure that this one letter will suffice.
Very truly yours, F.W. CHESSON.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON, ESQ., President of the American Anti-Slavery Society.
America in special, and the cause of freedom universally, have indeed lost a faithful friend and an eloquent champion. We trust the contemplated effort to raise a testimonial in behalf of his family will be successfully carried out, and the suggestion of Mr. Chesson as to the mode of raising funds in this country acted upon.
THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, for August, is received form A. Williams & Co. Contents:—American Civilization—Second Paper—by Lieut, Egbert Phelps, U.S.A.; Aphorisms, by Rev. A.S. Colton; The English Press, by Nicholas Rowe, London; Our Martyrs, by Kate Putnaml Æone, Chapters X. and XI.; The First Christian Emperor, by Rev. Dr. Phillip Schaffl Causes of the Minnesota Massacre, by January Searle; Buried Alive. A Dirge, by Martha Walter Cook; Negro Troops, by H. Everett Russell; Colors and their Meaning, by Mrs. M.E.G. Gage; Battle of the Wilderness, by E.A. Warriner; Trady Truths, by H.K. Kalussowski; An Army—Its Organization and Movements—Third Paper—by Lt. Col. C.W. Tolles, A.Q.; Literary Notices.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for August, is received and presents the following as its table of contents:—
1. Charles Reade. 2. How Rome is Governed. 3. Concord. 4. What will become of Them? No. I. 5. Headquarters of Beer-Drinking. 6. Friar Jerome’s Beautiful Book. 7. Literary Life in Paris. No. II. 8. The Little Country-Girl. 9. Sweet-Brier. 10. House and Home Papers. No. XIII. 11. The Heart of the War. 12. Our Recent Foreign Relations. 13. Reviews and Literary Notices. 14. Recent Americans Publications.
Single subscriptions, $3,00 per year in advance; single numbers, 30 cents.
Ticknor & Fields, Publishers, 135 Washington Street, Boston.
MEETING OF NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS, On Monday, last week, in accordance with a call signed by some of the leading publishers, the representatives of the Boston weekly press met at Mercantile Hall, to consider the question of increasing the subscription price of their papers. Mr. O.M. Brewer, of the Cultivator, acted as Chairman. Mr. Brewer opened the meeting with some remarks, giving estimates of the comparative expenses of 1860 and 1864, showing that while all expenses, and especially those incurred in the publication of weekly newspapers, had advanced form twenty to two hundred and fifty percent., the prices of these papers generally remained at the old and now ruinous peace rates. On an informal motion of Mr. Usher, that “it is expedient to raise the prices of weekly papers,” the Rev. R.A. Ballou made a forcible speech in its favor, and was followed in the same vein by Messrs. J.R. Elliot, Secretary, and Guild, of the Bulletin, and others, representing the religious, literary, agricultural, commercial and political presses. In conclusion, the meeting unanimously.
Resolved, That the subscribers agree to advance the rates of subscription to our respective journals, from 20 to 50 per cent., by August 15, 1864.
Resolved, That the subscribers will advance their rates of advertising from 20 to 50 per cent.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A VALUABLE PUBLICATION.
“THE MASTERSHIP AND ITS FRUITS: The Emancipated Slave face to face with his Old Master. A Supplemental Report to Hon. Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of war. By James McKaye, Special Commissioner. New York: 1864.”-8 va., pp. 38. Published by The Loyal Publication Society.
The Report of Col. McKaye, bearing the above title, was made in regard to the valley of the lower Mississippi; or in other words, to that department in which General Banks is commissioned by the President to arrange at his pleasure the relation between the freedmen and their former “owners.”
In the commencement of this valuable Report, its author refers to the eminently favorable circumstances of the locality for an exploration of the existing relation between white capitalist and black laborers; the two parties remaining here, face to face, under the Federal authority, while in some other parts of the country the whites flee before our armies, leaving the blacks in possession of the estates which they had cultivated as slaves. The facts related in this pamphlet show a reason for this submission on the part of a set of men whom Gen. Butler found as determined in their rebellion as any of the secessionists.
The Report commences by mentioning some circumstance which specially modify the slave system in this part of the country.
The origin and character of the first settlers of Louisiana (chiefly French, Spanish and Portuguese,) had an important bearing upon this matter. In the earlier days of the settlement, the social inequality between the black and white races was less strongly marked; and there existed no such utter repudiation of the manhood of the negro race as formed the basis of the slave system in South Carolina and Georgia. Hence, though the labors of the Louisiana slaves were often greater, and their punishments as cruel, their condition was in some respect better. Still, it was very bad. The overseer was expected to produce a certain crop with a given number of hands; he was generally more cruel than the master; and masters of the sort called "kind-hearted" sometimes selected cruel overseers. The women were worked as hard as the men, and were sent again into the field ordinarily in a month, sometimes in a week, after confinement. Chastity was a thing unknown, either to the black women or the white men. The overseers had the run of all the field women, the masters chosen their concubines from the house servants, and the masters' sons usually preferred their mulatto half-sisters. Terrible punishments awaited the female slave who refused, and the jealous wife punished as cruelly those whom she suspected to be favorites of the husband. Punishments for all offences were severe. The whips were various, knotted hempen cord, dried bull's hide, coach-trace, paddle, handsaw. Some parishes had hired whippers. The flagellations were terrible, the subsequent brine-dressing excruciating. Yet of this nature, says Col. McKaye were the incentive to life-long human toil, furnished by a system that Bishop Hopkins and Prof. T.B.F. Morse declare to be of Divine ordination.
Another fact that influenced the character of the slave system in Louisiana was, that that region contained, from an early period, a proportionately large free colored population, who were not only as free, but as well educated and intelligent as others. Many of them, being children of the white settlers, had always enjoyed a certain social equality, and many had acquired considerable property. And the French Republic (found upon "Liberty, Equality, Fraternity,") caused to be inserted in the treaty of cession of this Territory the following solemn stipulation, namely:-
ART.3d "The inhabitants of the cede territory shall be incorporated into the Union of the United States, and admitted as soon as possible, according to the principles of the Federal Constitution, to the enjoyment of all the rights, advantages, and immunities of citizens of the United States; and in the meantime they shall be maintained and protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty, property, and the religion which they profess."
This article entitled the free colored people of Louisiana then, and entitles them now, to citizenship, with all its "rights, advantages and immunities," as well as to freedom. And the Government of the United States is bound now, as it was then, to secure and established their enjoyment of these rights.
The Report proceeds to give testimony respecting the character, disposition and conduct of the freedmen now resident in Louisiana. It first gives a letter (which may be seen on the first page of this paper) from Gen. Banks, now in command of the Department of the Gulf, giving them strong commendation. It next quotes the testimony of George H. Hanks, Colonel of the 15th Regiment, Corps d' Afrique, member of the Board of Enrolment, and Superintendent of negro labor in the Department of the Gulf, under date of Feb. 6th, 1864, in substance as follows:
Col. Hanks first went to Louisiana as a Lieutenant in the 12th Connecticut Regiment, under Gen. Butler, and was appointed Superintendent of contrabands under Gen. J. W. Sherman. He had at one time 6500 of this class under his control. He had not the slightest difficulty with them, finding them docile, patient and willing to work, though with a general dislike to return to their old masters; a dislike for which we shall presently sea reason. They willingly accepted the condition of labor for their maintenance, and the musket for their freedom. They thoroughly appreciate the benefits of education, and show the greatest anxiety to have their children instructed. In each of the camps of the colored regiments at Port Hudson, the best built cabin was a school-house. The regiments, having obtained the authorization of Gen. Andrews for the establishment of regimental schools, had proceeded with their own hands to erect school-houses, and at their own cost to procure teachers. And, according to the testimony of their officers, all their leisure time was assiduously devoted to their studies. Col. McKaye most appropriately asks here, "Ought not the Government to encourage this most praise worthy desire of the colored regiments, by providing for each at least one permanent teacher?" He says further, that the strong desire for education here manifested among the emancipated colored people, contrasted with the almost universal indifference, even contempt, with which the poor Southern whites regard that matter, is well calculated to stagger the white man's boast of the great superiority of his race. And he thinks that, in view of these developments, in addition to those brought to light by the rebellion, it may well be questioned whether the most pernicious and fatal work of the masters has not been wrought against their own race, confirmed in barbarism by the influence of slavery.
Col. McKaye finds that, since the Proclamation of Freedom, the colored men have more self-respect and the women more chastity. As to colored men in the army, he finds a general official attestation of their soldierly bearing and true valor under the severest trials, and he thinks their sobriety, orderliness, and willing submission to discipline no less conspicuous. Even the single instance of apparent insubordination which occurred recently at Fort Jackson was provoked by such outrageous conduct on the part of the Lieut. Col., and other white officers, that Gen. Dwight, who was sent there by Gen. Banks to investigate the matter, declared that the colored soldiers were blameless. Yet, the guilty officers were merely dismissed from the service.
Having thus demonstrated the good disposition and conduct of the colored people, Col. McKaye proceeds to give testimony as to the character and conduct of the ex-slaveholders. The evidence of Col. Hanks upon this point, and the language of certain of the old masters, (which may be seen on the first page of this paper, following the letter of Gen. Banks above referred to,) show a weighty reason for the acquiescence of slaveholders and secessionists, as most of them were, in the restored authority of the Federal Government. They hope, and expect, through the help of such relations of the Government to the colored people as Gen. Banks has now established in Louis-
<c02>
iana, to keep them under control as a subordinate class, and to be able to command their labor on terms not much greater than the cost of a slave's maintenance; at least, for far less than the fair wages of a free laborer. The evidence of Col. Hanks and of Brig. Gen. James S. Wadsworth upon this point is important, and very decided. They agree that the strongest efforts will be made, (and by the very people who are now boasted of as having resumed their loyalty,) to establish serfdom in the place of slavery. In fact, the serfdom is already established by Gen. Banks, and favored by the President who keeps him in authority over the colored population. The efforts, therefore, of the ex-slaveholders need go no further than maintenance and perpetuation of the system now in force in Louisiana.
Gen. Banks has ordered that, until other tribunals are established, all questions between employers and employed shall be decided by the provost marshals of the parishes. Of course, the majority of such questions fall directly under the control and government of the assistant provost marshals, to each of whom is assigned a certain district of the planting region. These assistant provost-marshals (Col. McKaye tells us) are usually young subalterns, army officers, captains or lieutenants. They are received into the houses of the planters, and treated with a certain consideration. It is hardly to be expected that they should resist the influences that are brought to bear upon them, or that often, without being fully conscious of it, they should not become the employer's instrument of great injustice towards his colored laborers.
Another witness, whose competence and uprightness are certified by Col. McKaye, says-"I am free to declare that the provost-marshals have not done justice to the laborers on the plantations. They do not see that Gen. Banks's orders are carried out. On many plantations whipping is still permitted."
Crediting Gen. Banks's system with these meritorious features-the prohibition of whipping, and provision for the education of colored children and for the establishment of free labor savings-institutions-Col. McKaye points out the "great defects" of that system as follows: 
"In the first place, it leaves the classification of the laborers to be determined between the employers and the assistant provost marshals, which is practically leaving it to the employers themselves. Then, secondly, without reference to the capacities or wishes of the employed, or to the competition of the labor market, it determines beforehand the wages of their labor. In the third place, it implies that the clothing and subsistence of the laborer and his family should be left to the employers' sense of what is needful for them. In this Department also the laborer, having once selected his employer, is compelled to remain with him for a year."
Of the system thus summed up, Col. McKaye most justly adds:
"If the only object to be accomplished was simply to compel the negro to labor in a condition of perpetual subordination and subjection, this arrangement would be appropriate enough. But if the object be to make the colored man a self supporting and self defending member of the community, then he must be placed in a position where he can determine the value of his own labor, and be left to take the responsibilities of his own existence and well-being, as well as that of his family."
He adds, also, that the present arrangement, if allowed to become the basis of a permanent system, “would differ very little in its practical working from slavery itself."
But, in the judgment of Col. McKaye, as well as of all those whom he has inquired of respecting this matter, the most serious error in connection with the present arrangements is one which lies at the door, not of General Banks but of the Administration at Washington, namely-The assignment of the abandoned or forfeited plantations to one department of the Government, and the protection and support of the emancipated people to another. It is the deliberate judgment of the Commission that no system can avail to effect the great objects contemplated, that does not assign to one and the same authority the care and disposal of the abandoned plantations, and the care and protection of the emancipated laborers who are to cultivate them.
The conclusion drawn by the Commission from these explorations is, that the country's safety and welfare demand a thorough abolition, not only of the old slavery, but of the serfdom now existing in Louisiana as a substitute for it. In the language of the Report, these considerations demand “not only the release of the slave population from their bonds, and the degradation thereby imposed upon them, but the deliverance of the master population also, wholly and forever, from their mastership, and from the fatal delusions and depravations that are inherent in it. This is the primary necessity of any rational attempt to establish free labor and a better social order in the Slave States; the very first step towards any wise or well-founded reconstruction."
For the accomplishment of these objects, three principal measures are recommended by the Commission, as follows:-
First, to secure beyond all possible doubt the right of the colored man to personal freedom, by placing that right, in the new order of things, on the same broad basis as that of the white man. This is most surely to be effected by an amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The second is the establishment by Congress, (by a law antecedent to, and as a condition precedent to reconstruction,) of the civil rights of the emancipated population; providing for the future enjoyment by persons of color of the fundamental right of citizenship in a free government, the right to the elective franchise; based upon the acquisition on their part of such qualifications only as are deemed essential in their white fellow-citizens. 
This movement is considered indispensably necessary to provide against State action adverse to the rights of the colored people (after reconstruction) in those States which have been accustomed to treat negroes as slaves. And, for the sake alike of the negroes, of the poor whites, and of surer avoidance of a repetition of our present evils, it is further recommended that the National Government enter on a policy looking to the ultimate division of the great plantations into moderate sized farms, to be held and cultivated by the labor of their owners. The prevailing opinion that cotton and sugar cultivation can be profitable only upon large estates is considered by the Commission to have no foundation in fact, and to be, in truth, only a part of the system of slavery.
The third and last measure recommended is the establishment of some uniform system of supervision and guardianship for the emancipated population in the interim of their transition from slavery to freedom. This measure is regarded as indispensable, not only to the welfare of the blacks, but to the general interests of the Government and country. 
It is to be hoped that this excellent Report may have a wide circulation, and may be so seconded by demands of the people in the same direction, that the Government may be compelled to take action on the subject. The pamphlet may be had at the room of the Loyal Publication Society, No. 8 Studio Building, Tremont street, Boston.-C. K. W. 
A CORRECTION. In a letter published in a recent number of the New Nation, our friend, Parker Pillsbury, describes "C. K. W." as the Associate or Assistant Editor of the Liberator. This is a mistake. It is true, our correspondent, "C. K. W." is a frequent and copious contributor to our columns; and we have often been indebted to him for the kindest services rendered during our absence from the city. But he writes on his own responsibility, as only one among many other correspondents, whose views or opinions are their own. It is seldom we deem it necessary to append an approval or a disclaimer of what they write. Our readers are competent to decide for themselves.
HON. SALMON P. CHASE A complimentary dinner was given to the Ex-Secretary of the Treasury, by influential citizens of Boston, on Saturday afternoon, at the Parker House.
<c03>
ANOTHER DISCONTINUANCE.
To the Editor of the Liberator: 
Since you first raised the Abolition standard, many men of talent, who professed to receive the doctrine that the immediate abolition of slavery was the duty of the master and the right of the slave, and who ran well for a season, in time of temptation fell away, and some of them became bitter opposers of the anti-slavery cause. But I little thought that you would ever abandon the cause of the slave to his enemy; although it seems that you have, by electioneering for the reelection of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency,-a man who evidently designed to put down the rebellion and preserve slavery unhurt, if it were possible to do so.
By wilfully refusing to use the negroes, who had always been ready to help subjugate the rebels, he brought the nation to the verge of ruin, and caused the death of tens of thousands of our soldiers on the battle-field, which might have been saved; and if any officer had foresight enough to attempt to "control events" by using all the powers which God had put into our hands to subdue the rebels, including our use of their slaves, such officer was immediately removed, as in the case of Fremont, Butler, and others. Lincoln, like his prototype, Pharaoh of old, proclaimed emancipation, and ordered the colored man enlisted to save the white man; and you make boast of this as progress, but do not make mention of the fact of his promising him the same wages as the white soldier, and then cheating him out of his pay, or of his having the black sergeant shot (instead of paying him according to agreement) for claiming that, by reason of such non-payment, the contract was void.
As Pharaoh pursued the Israelites to reenslave them after he had proclaimed their emancipation, so Lincoln sent out his amnesty proclamation to prevent the blacks from enjoying their political rights.
His whole course toward the colored man shows how deeply he is imbued with Kentucky pro-slaveryism, and proves that he fully believes that "negroes have no rights which white men are bound to respect."
The colored soldiers have fought most valiantly for our cause; and when any of them have been taken prisoners by the rebels, they have been inhumanly murdered. And who has yet seen anything of Lincoln's tardily-promised retaliatory measures, that he should have the confidence of the lovers of impartial liberty, as "the leader of the anti-slavery host," in preference to Fremont?
You astonished many of your friends here by your course at the two anti-slavery Conventions-the National, at New York, and the New England, at Boston-in electioneering for Lincoln.
Those of us here, as far as I have learned, who are called Garrisonian Ablitionists, feel most deeply to lament your fall. 
I well remember the evening, in the year of 1831 or '2, I think, when I first heard you lecture in the first parish meeting-house in this place, how God's truth flowed from your lips, and fell with power on the ears, and in many instances reached the hearts of your hearers. I have had reason to bless God who raised up such a leader. Your lecture, that evening, was the means of convincing me of our guilt as a nation, and our individual responsibility.
I soon after became a subscriber to the Liberator, and have taken it, about thirty years, to the present time,-little thinking, as I said before, that you would ever desert the cause of the slave. But, alas! In your zeal for "Honest (?) old Abe," you have appeared to forget, or wish to conceal, his constant abuse of the blacks.
You attempted in the New England Convention, by your garbled quotations from Wendell Phillip's speeches, to make it appear that he had contradicted himself. But, be astonished, O heavens! and lament, O earth! at the radical difference between the speeches of Wm. Lloyd Garrison in 1832 and 1864! If Wendell Phillips had seen fit to use the same weapons against you that you did against him, he could have made you appear far less consistent than Phillips quoted against Phillips. But he did not need any such weapons.
Did ever a reformer take the ground that we ought not to judge men by our standard, but by theirs? If that is your present principle of action, it is a recantation of your whole public labors. William Lloyd Garrison, of 1832, did not act upon that theory. He then proclaimed the eternal truth of God, as he understood it, whether men would hear or forbear.
I regret to say that the present course of the Liberator is such as to convince me that, although it was formerly a beacon-light warning us to "flee from the wrath to come," by repenting of and forsaking our national as well as individual sins, it is now, to the extent of its circulation and influence, doing injury to the rights of all men, both black and white; and I accordingly herewith enclose the amount due for my subscription for the Liberator to this date, with a request that it be hereafter discontinued.
BENJAMIN EMERSON, 2d. 
Haverhill, (Mass.) July 22, 1864. 

ANOTHER WORKINGMAN'S OPINION. 
To Mr. Richard T. Buck:-
SIR:-I have just read your letter to the Editor of the Liberator, as published in that paper of the 8th of July. It has given me some uneasiness, because your action and tone are so decided that, if you are wrong, you may be very wrong, and may cause harm where you intend good.
When a ten years' reader of the Liberator, who has "always been well-pleased with its tone and radical teachings"-who "has looked upon the Liberator as the foremost paper in the advocacy of Liberty and Justice"-and who has carefully saved every number of that paper, since he commenced subscribing for it, intending to have it preserved as a treasure more precious than almost any other book-suddenly discontinues his support, "and cannot make any further additions to his file," because it has lost its value to him; and when he as suddenly repudiates its venerable Editor with a loathing that would be common place in a Vallandigham or a Fernando Wood; I, as one from among the toiling millions of England, "can see that something in somebody is wrong."
Because of your allusions to English opinions, I presume you to be an Englishman of the radical Chartist school. You say it felt natural for you to pass from the Chartist papers of England to the paper over which Mr. Garrison presided. I am an Englishman, and memory goes not back to the time when I was not a radical and a Chartist. I have hurrahed for Burdett in Westminster-have subscribed to Cobbett's Twopenny Tract, to Leigh Hunt's Examiner, to Wooller’s Black Dwarf, to the Carlisle Republican-have always advocated universal suffrage, annual parliaments, vote by ballot, &c., &c. So it was equally natural for me, as with you, to pass from the Chartist papers of England "to the paper over which Mr. Garrison presided"; and I am yet compelled in conscience, and consistency to a long life, to continue my admiration and support of the Liberator. In looking about for a broader or more safe basis, I fail to find rest for the sole of my foot.
You have performed so perfect a summerset in so short a time towards Mr. Garrison, that the severity of your language is not surprising. Unfledged opinions require stout mail. A more extended acquaintance with the character of Mr. Garrison will teach you that he never blushes for what he knows is right.
Your insinuation, that Mr. Garrison's reputation has suffered in England because he seems to prefer George Thompson to General Peyronnet Thompson, is trivial; and I only mention it because it looks virulent.
Your difficulty in reconciling the first thirty years of Mr. Garrison's public life with the last few months seems easily understood by me. From my own experience, I know that myself and friends, who have been Republicans during the war and prior, remain unchanged, and are pursuing a consistent, uniform line of conduct in sustaining the Administration under
<c04>
Mr. Lincoln. On the question of slavery, there is no variableness or shadow of turning. Aware of it or not, the change is in yourself. Your arguments and language are purely of the Copperhead school, and must be agreeable to Jeff. Davis, Fernando Wood, &Co.
Your statement, that Mr. Lincoln is at the head of he most corrupt Administration of modern times, is not all truth. He succeeded one that was immeasurably more corrupt. He has not been in office long enough to enable him to cleanse the Augean stable.
Your assertion is puerile, that Lincoln annulled the proclamations of Fremont and Hunter to gratify his vanity. It is in Mr. Lincoln's favor that the corrected parties have made no charges and given no explanation.
I write not for Lincoln nor for Garrison. I perceive a close similarity in my experience with yours, and a wide divergence in our conclusions. That both may be right for our adopted country has been my 
INCENTIVE. 

LETTER FROM A YOUNG SOLDIER.
NEAR CITY POINT, (Va.) July 9, 1864.
DEAR FATHER: 
I have just been reading in the Liberator of May 27 the speeches of Messrs. Phillips and Garrison, delivered at the Cooper Institute; and yesterday read in that of June 3 the proceedings of the Anti-Slavery Convention in Boston, held the last week in May. Mr. Phillips thinks that events and circumstances ought to have made the nation a unit in their demands for the total and utter overthrow of slavery, and that the negro should be guarantied liberty and equality, and absolute and unqualified rights of citizenship. Diversity of interests creates difference of opinion; hose diversities are as apparent to-day as a quarter of a century ago; consequently, difference of opinion is just as marked and strong. Now I believe the North, as a whole, are for the abolition of slavery. If some men once had confidence in its value and efficacy as an institution, the developments of the institution springing from the events of the past three years have destroyed that confidence. Slavery, in the opinion of all intelligent men, is among the things that were-never again to become a fact in the history of the nation. Mr. Lincoln, when he issued his emancipation proclamation, said so, and the people gladly welcomed and heartily supported this grand progressive movement. By and by, when they were ready, the Government went a step farther, and, by placing arms in the hands of the negro, providing him with compensation, and securing him protection equal to that given the white soldier, a second time struck slavery a death-blow. Jeff. Davis has been saying so in every act, in every speech, in every public measure, adopted by the Confederate government since its organization. Gen. Lee, in the desperate efforts he is making to check the steady progress of Grant towards the completion of his object, says so. Grant himself says so, in whatever he says or does.
In the general favor with which the nomination of Lincoln is received by all the loyal States, I see a firm and settled conviction in the minds of the people, that much has been done by the present incumbent in behalf of freedom and humanity; a conviction that the Chief Executive of the nation is an honest, noble, patriotic man, and that his sympathies are on the side of humanity; a conviction that he is a man of principle and integrity. And I see a determination to support him cheerfully and zealously for the next Presidential term.
Mr. Phillips gives him credit for what he has done, in his earnestness to condemn him for what he has not done. Mr. P. thinks the people should be prepared for the adoption of the most extreme measures; even should have been when the first gun was fired at Fort Sumter. True, they were exceedingly indignant at the insult to our flag, and immediately rose up in arms to avenge it. I do not think they cared much about slavery any way, and at first fought to suppress the rebellion without regard to the welfare of the slave. They wished to maintain our national honor, not to destroy our national sin. I believe a spirit of disaffection would have arisen among our soldiers, fatal to the cause, if a division of colored soldiers had then had then incorporated into any corps forming a part of the U. S. army. Three years of fighting-three years of experience in battling with a power sustained by slavery-have prepared the way for a very decided change of ideas, followed by a very marked difference of opinion respecting the merits and deserts of the Southern institution, both on the part of soldiers and civilians. Conservatives have become anti-slavery men, anti-slavery men have become abolitionists; and Mr. Phillips knows that he can now, with perfect impunity, express opinions and advance sentiments which, if uttered three years ago, might have cost him his life. I say that we have made great progress within even one year, and that President Lincoln has perhaps done all for the country and the cause, all for the black man and his cause, that circumstances allowed. Mr. Phillips believes in education, and is on this account alone one of our best citizens. Would he undertake to educate a class of infants without reference to the elementary principles? Would he make his text book, at first, Virgil or the Primmer? Would he teach them to read before teaching them to spell-to cipher before to count? As with a school, so with a community or a nation. Seven years ago, we were not prepared to elect a Republican to the Presidency. Three years ago, we were not prepared for an emancipation proclamation. One year ago, we would ourselves have rebelled if negro soldiers had been placed by our side as comrades and equals. Yet these things have successively come to pass, and are now fixed facts.
It is best at all times to regulate our conduct by the rule of expediency, whenever it can be done without a sacrifice of principle. A man in the position of Mr. Lincoln is especially called upon to do this; and considering the diversity of public sentiment, and the unusually embarrassing situation in which he is placed, I think he has done it in a noble and praise worthy manner. J. D. 
The following resolutions have been forwarded to the President of the United States. They are admirably expressed, and deserve to find a place in the columns of every loyal journal in the land. 
RESOLUTIONS, 
Unanimously adopted by the Executive of the Union and Emancipation Society of Manchester, (England,) July 4, 1864:-
Moved by Mr. Thomas H. Barker, seconded by Mr. J. C. Edwards, and resolved:-
1. That the Executive of the Union and Emancipation Society, in meeting specially convened on this 4th day of July, 1864, desire to record their profound gratitude to Almighty God for the vast progress and signal success attending the great struggle for freedom and nationality by the loyal citizens of the Federal Republic of America.
2. That they heartily rejoice in the just Nemesis that has recently overtaken the piratical rebel steamer Alabama, built for gain by an English shipbuilder in an English port, in evasion of statute law, in defiance of all the claims of political neutrality, international good faith, and commercial honor; that they also record their devout thankfulness that, through the persistent and successful interposition of the British Government, the rebel steam rams have been prevented from entering upon their intended career in aid of the slaveholders' confederacy.
3. That this Executive are not unmindful of the horrors of warfare, even when conducted under those military rules and limitations adoped by civilized belligerents; but that they have been intensely shocked by the ruthless and barbarous massacres of the Confederate at Fort Pillow and elsewhere, when the chances of war gave them unchecked power over their captives; and especially do they execrate the systematic and cold-blooded cruelty towards the Federal prisoners at Richmond. 
<c05>
4. That they have received with profound satisfaction the glad tidings that the base and cruel Fugitive Slave Law has been repealed by Congress, believing that this just though somewhat tardy act marks another step in the progress of legislation on the subject of slavery; and that it but anticipates and assures the speedy passage of that crowning act of justice by which slavery shall be made forever impossible under the Federal Constitution.
5. That they rejoice exceedingly in the great and significant fact of the unanimous and enthusiastic renomination, by the National Union Convention, of Abraham Lincoln for the Presidency of the United States, and his acceptance of the said nomination with its noble platform and advanced anti-slavery principles, including the amendment of the Constitution, so as utterly and forever to exclude and exterminate the system of human bondage from every foot of territory beneath the Federal flag.
6. That they earnestly believe that the great bulk of the people of the United Kingdom, so far as their knowledge of the facts of the case enable them to form an intelligent opinion in respect to the merits of the struggle now going on in the United States, fully and deeply sympathize with the loyal citizens and soldiers in their patriotic efforts to suppress the most wicked and reckless rebellion of which history has any record.
7. That this Executive pray for the speedy establishment of the great American republic on the firm and lasting foundation of justice and freedom, union and peace.
(Signed,)
J. H. ESTCOURT, Chairman.

DEATH OF JOHN HOPPER, ESQ.
We learn with regret of the sudden death of John Hopper, Esq., at his residence in Milton, Ulster County, on Monday morning at 11 o'clock, in the 50th year of his age.
The death of Mr. Hopper was very sudden and unexpected. Re had been building a house at Milton for his future residence, and was busily employed on Saturday and Monday morning, in transporting furniture to it from the landing on the Hudson river. He complained of oppression of the head; and finally laid down upon the bed, dying a few moments afterwards.
Mr. Hopper was born in Philadelphia, in the year 1815. He was the son of Isaac T. Hopper, the philanthropist, and shared the toils and dangers of his father in the anti-slavery cause, and particularly in securing the freedom of fugitive slaves. He stood by him in the first mob that broke up an abolition meeting at Chatham Street Chapel in this city; and after the death of "Friend Hopper," it was always the delight of the son to aid those philanthropic efforts in which his father had been engaged.
In 1836 young John Hopper, who had just been admitted to the bar, visited Charleston, South Carolina, on business. While walking in the street, he was recognized by a man named Nash, a member of the New York police, who gave information that he was an abolitionist. A ferocious mob assembled at his hotel, determined to murder him, and it was found necessary to lodge him in prison for safety. Till night the bloodthirsty wretches surrounded the place, clamoring for his life. The Mayor of New York, Cornelius W. Lawrence, upon hearing of the peril in which Mr. Hopper had been plunged by the infamous conduct of a policeman, summoned Nash before him, and revoked his commission.
For twenty years past, Mr. Hopper has been the agent of the New England Life Insurance Company for this city, and discharged the trust with ability and rigid integrity. Though of Quaker parentage, he did not subscribe to the doctrine of non-resistance, but was a vigorous advocate of the present war for the Union. He was liberal in his religious convictions, and took a leading part in the organization of the Third Unitarian Society of this city.
Mr. Hopper was long known as an earnest and zealous man in every humane enterprise which called his attention. His hatred of oppression, his sympathy with misfortune, and his scorn for meanness, were intense; and his power of language to express his sentiments was beyond description. Words with him seemed like tangible things, to be handled and felt as well as understood. His instincts were manly, just, and of the loftiest character; he had no occasion to wait for conviction. He inherited all that cordiality and humor which characterized his father-N. Y. Evening Post. 

FUNERAL OF THE LATE JOHN HOPPER, ESQ. 
The funeral of the late John Hopper, Esq., of this city, and whose decease has already been noticed in our columns, took place yesterday afternoon. The friends of the deceased met at his house, and proceeded to the Third Unitarian Church, Fortieth street, where service was performed and an address delivered by the Rev. O. B. Frothingham. The church was well filled by persons who had known the deceased, and were met to show their respect for his character and sympathy, with his relatives who mourned his loss. Precisely at 2 o'clock the Rev. O. B. Frothingham entered the pulpit, and, after a hymn had been sung, proceeded to address the mourners and congregation.
Mr. Frothingham prefaced his remarks by reciting several passages of Scripture suitable to the occasion, and then said that though he had never been called on to attend a sadder service than the present, yet never had he come to one with more serene faith, unclouded hope, and entire satisfaction than the present. Only one week since had he seen him, and never did he seem stronger, more cheerful, more vital, affectionate, and full of interest for all that was going on in the social and humane world, and yet he had gone. Overwork, overmuch care, anxiety, and exposure had brought on this sudden attack; yet his death was not premature, for nothing is premature in Providence. He always wished to go as he had gone, and for some years past had been ready. Yet it was hard to believe that he would meet with a sudden death, a man so vital, so intense, so full of energy, so restless, so impatient, doing everything that was required of him, and a thousand fold more. Did you go to him for advice, he undertook to do your work. Did you ask him to do you a small favor, he would confer a great obligation without thinking of it. He was always ready to do your work, my work, or any other that was to be done; he would scarcely allow you to take your work out of his bands, so anxious was he to do you a service. Still no man had a greater respect for the individuality of his friends, or more indignantly resented the least intrusion upon it. He had no end of honor for the man who was sincere and independent in his actions, and no end of scorn and antipathy for everything that interfered with the free action of the individual; he demanded that the mind should be free in every faculty. He hated all exclusiveness and narrowness, prejudice and monopolies. He abhorred slavery with all the power of his nature, and was true to the cause of Freedom to the end of his life, and threw into it all the ardor of his impetuous nature, and all the vigor of his intellect and depth of convictions, holding it to be the cause of every man, woman, and child in the whole land. He believed this conflict was the battle of them all, and he only knew how freely he opened his purse, and through what invisible currents his bounty flowed to the soldier in the hospital or the camp. He had no toleration for the men who allowed their individuality to be bought or put up in the market, and above all he hated the Pharisee; and when (said the speaker) I have heard him pour out his most scathing wrath on such men, I have sat dumb, and wished I had loved enough to give me the privilege of being so grandly angry as he was. He had a profound respect and love for human nature-simple, unadorned human nature-not of this class or that class of men and women, but of all men and all women, and something deeper than man or woman, of humanity. Wherever he saw it he revered it, and no color of the skin, or cost, or circumstances, ever concealed it from his eye, and he saw it where only one man in ten thousand ever sees it, he saw it in his rags; in the poor man and in the black man; in the outcast, the oppressed, the wicked; and never will any who saw it forget how he took that little crooked boy away from Randall's Island, how he took him into his house, how he honored him and respected him and sheltered him, and would allow no one inside or outside his house to look upon that child as other than God's child; how he gave him everything that he could have and everything that he could enjoy, and lavished upon him the, wealth of his heart. And when here this afternoon we shall lay oar brother in the grave with that little boy, he will enter into the kingdom with that little boy in his bosom. But it was not the unfortunate only; he loved the vicious only more than even he loved the unfortunate. He saw the woman in the Magdalen, and the man in the thief, who had had everything and all the accidents of his own nature against him. He would take the boy out of the gutter, and send him to school, and put him in an office and help him forward, and never say one word to him afterward about it. He believed that, if we could but love God's children with a thousandth part of the love that God feels, this world would be an Eden. Freely he cast his bread upon the waters, and though, of course, a great deal of it was bestowed upon the unworthy, he never would concede that it was lost. He believed what was given from a true spirit and a true heart did its work, but he had a subtle power of seeing into men and their motives, which saved him from any vital error or misbestowment of his gifts. Of course he had his prejudices-all strong men have; of course he had his antipathies-all strong men of great convictions have; of course he had his enemies-all good
<c06>
men have; and I think many of these last were made by the stern and unqualified, way in which he fought for the truth, even unto death. And now he has gone, and we shall see him no more; but he still lives immortal in the memories of those whom he has befriended, in the memory of all who have loved him; and let us not think that God dies when our friend dies, or that the hand of Providence is closed because our friend' s hand droops; and let us stand by the remains of our brother, and if he was brave, let us be brave, if he helped us, let us help our brother.
Mr. Frothingham then offered up prayer, and after another hymn, the benediction was pronounced, and the funeral cortege, amid the tears of all present, left the church for Greenwood Cemetery, where the body was interred.-New York Tribune of Friday.
In the sudden and lamented death of JOHN HOPPER, Esq., we have lost a valuable, warmly attached and most hospitable friend, who, for his noble qualities and great-heartedness, love of freedom and sympathy with suffering humanity, well deserves the beautiful tribute paid to his memory by Mr. Frothingham, and whatever more can be said of modest, manly worth and a vital, generous, unselfish spirit. The estimable son of a grand and philanthropic father, he has left a large void to be filled.-[Ed. Lib. 

DEATH OF GEN. McPHERSON.
WASHINGTON, July 24. The Government has received despatches from Gen. Sherman, announcing that on Friday the rebels, under Gen. Hood, massed a heavy force against his left wing, consisting of McPherson's division, composed of Logan's and Blair's corps, and made a desperate attack, gaining a temporary advantage. The enemy, after terrific fighting, in which a number of charges were made by both sides, were repulsed with much slaughter, and driven into their fortifications. 
Major General McPherson, during the battle, became separated from his staff, and was killed by sharpshooters firing from an ambuscade.
The loss of General McPherson is deeply deplored by the Government, and will fill the hearts of all loyalists with sadness and gloom.
After Gen. McPherson's death. Gen. Logan assumed command of his grand division. 
When Gen. Halleck assumed the command of Western Department, he at once sent for Captain McPherson, and appointed him aid-de-camp, with the rank of lieutenant-colonel. Gen. Halleck, during the siege of Corinth, appointed him on his staff as Chief Engineer, afterwards as Inspector General, from which position he was promoted to Brigadier General of Volunteers, and placed in charge of the military railroads of Tennessee, was afterwards promoted to a Major Generalcy, and assigned to the command of Bolivar Tenn.
Having been placed in command of the 17th Army Corps, he was engaged in the battles at Port Gibson, Champion Hill and Raymond. At Vicksburg he was the chief adviser of Gen. Grant, and the rebels declare that our successes in that quarter were mainly owing to him. Certain it is that all expeditions in which he has taken a part have succeeded. For some time previous to his lamented death, he had command of two corps in Gen. Sherman's army.
Gen. Hooker, commanding the 20th Corps, in advancing his lines on Wednesday, met the enemy in an open and most desperate battle, lasting several hours, the result of which was that the rebels were thoroughly whipped, and driven from the field. After the battle, Gen. Hooker reported to Gen. Sherman as follows:-"I have buried 400 dead rebels, and 4,000 wounded lay in my front."-Boston Journal.
SYRACUSE, N. Y., July 24. The Granger Block, located in the centre of this city, was burned this afternoon. The offices of the Journal and Standard were destroyed, also Luce's job printing office. The Journal loses $18,000, insured for $12,000; and the Standard $9,000, insured for $4,500.
The building owned by Sedgwick and Cowles was insured for nearly $25,000, which will cover their loss.
PHILADELPHIA, July 23. The army wagon factory and lumber yard, covering three acres of land, in Kensington, was burned last night. Loss $300,000. The adjoining factory of Wilson, Childs & Co. was saved. The fire was the work of an incendiary.
NEW YORK, July 20. The fire on Long Island destroyed 4000 acres of woods. No lives were lost. The sufferers are Joseph Angel, Bank of Fort Edward Mr. Young, B. W. Franklin, and Mrs. Fleel.
SCHUYLKILL HAVEN, Pa. July 25. An accident occurred at Phenix colliery on Saturday evening, which resulted in the instant killing of twenty-one men. They were on a slope car coming out of the mines from their day's work, and when near the top the slope chain broke, letting the car run back a distance of sixty feet, on a slope of seventy-five degrees, killing all who were on the car. 
LACKAWAXEN, (Pa.) July 15. A train with about 850 rebel prisoners, on their way to camp at Elmira, collided with a coal train between here and Hohak this afternoon, killing and wounding, it is reported, over 100. A score of loyal persons included. 
PLACE WANTED.-A strong, healthy, colored young man, of about 23,-fomerly a slave in Missouri,-lost a foot by freezing, was taken in charge by one of our Army-Surgeons, kindly cared for, and sent to Boston, where he has now been residing in the Surgeon's family ten months, rendering what domestic service he could,-is desirous of obtaining work in some place which will not require much walking; he would like to learn a shoemaker's trade, but it ready to engage in any occupation, suited to his condition, by which he may earn his living. He is represented as very intelligent, and recommended as entirely honest and reliable. Any person disposed to give employment to this young man is requested to apply as soon as possible to R. F. WALLCUT, at this office. 
E.H. HEYWOOD will speak in East Princeton, Sunday, July 31st, at half-past 10, A.M., and 1, P. M. Subject-"War to restore the Union or abolish Slavery is a sin against God, disastrous to the country, and should immediately be abandoned."
PARKER PILLSBURY will speak in Milford, N. H., on Sunday, the 31st inst., at 5 o'clock, P. M.
Subject: The Mystery of the War, the Times and their Teachings. 

Portrait of Mr. Garrison. 
JOHNSTON'S Crayon Portrait of Mr. Garrison is on exhibition at the store of Williams & Everett, 234 Washington street, and elicits warm approval. It will be lithographed by Mr. Johnston, and published early in September. Price $1.50 per copy.
C. H. BRAINARD.
Subscriptions received by R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street. July 29.
THE HUMAN VOICE indicative of character; Physiology of the Voice-bass, barytone, tenor, contralto, soprane; Male and Female Voices-what causes the difference? How to Cultivate the Voice; Stammering.
CLIMATE AND THE RACES-Northerners and Southerners compared; organic difference; quality, hardness, softness, fineness, coarseness; Carbon-its transformations; Natural Development; Pauper Children; Thieves Photographed; Right Position in Sleep; Vanity, Self-Praise; New Views of Physiognomy; The Face; Signs of Character; Love of the Eyes-in PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL, Aug. No., 20 cts., or $2 a year. Newsmen have it.
FLOWER & WELLS, 389 Broadway, N. Y.
July 29. 2w

The True Temperance Platform.
BY R. T. TRALL, M. D.
THE best and most scientific temperance document ever published.
The errors of Temperance Reformers and the medical profession, and the effects of alcohol on plants, animals and man, are here for the first time plainly pointed out.
Price, per mail-paper, 60 cents; cloth, 85 cents.
MILLER & BROWNING,
15 Leight Street, New York.
July 15. 3m

MR. AND MRS. D. MACK'S
Family Boarding-School for Young Ladies,
AT ORCHARD HILL, BELLMONT, MASS.
THE School will commence the last Monday of September.
Circulars and references when requested
July 8. 3m.
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 4, seven cents. Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 now ready, 22 cents.
Address ANDREW J. GRAHAM,
491 Broadway, New York.
June 24. tDec. 1.
THE LIBERATOR.
JULY 29
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
ANDOVER, (Me.) July 13, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
DEAR SIR-"Carlton," in a letter to the Journal, dated July 7th, writes:
The old prejudice remains. We are not willing to do justly. We are not ready, as a nation, to recognize the negro as a man."
Mr. Garrison, is not this the secret? Is not this why the end will not come? “Prejudice” trigs the wheels of the chariot of victory. Nearly one year ago, a correspondent of the Tribune wrote, “This war must go on till the nation will come to God’s terms, and let His people go.” It is plain. I believe it .God waits. We fight-we win; but never shall we conquer till we are “ready, as a nation, to recognize the negro as a man."
At Bull Run, we thought to the end the war; but the nation was not ready. Through all the long reign of Incapacity that followed, we stood in expectation of the end but the nation was not ready. At Frederickburg, at Gettysburg, victory stood waiting to crown us-but the nation was not ready. No. God waits. When the nation is ready, He will appear for <illegible> deliverance.
I have tried to express this in the verse, and venture to hope that I have not wholly failed. Do not be critical: I have written in great haste. 
FOREST P. JORDAN.
GOD’S TERMS.
That sultry Sabbath when the orb of War
Arose and shot its baleful beams afar,
That dawn of battle, while we charged the foe,
Rebellion quailed,
And hearts of traitors failed,
And we our triumph and deliverance hailed.
But GOD said, “No;
Ye will not let my people go!”-
And brainless panic smote our banners low.
That lurid summer while in deadly swamps
Our patient heroes pitched their fatal camps
Full often, as they charged upon the foe,
Rebellion quailed,
And hearts of traitors failed,
And we our triumph and deliverance hailed.
But God said, “No;
Ye will not let my people go!”-
And Indecision trailed our banners low.
That ghastly day, upon the river shore,
Where fought our brave as brave ne’er fought before,
As up that reeking hill they charged the foe,
Rebellion quailed,
And hearts of traitors failed,
And we our triumph and deliverance hailed.
Then God said , “No;
Ye will not let my people go!”-
And careful Captains* dragged our banners low.
East, West and South, on ocean, river, field,
Unnumbered times our battle  cry has pealed:
Still find we, as our heroes charge the foe,
Rebellion quail,
And hearts of traitors fail,
And still we triumph and deliverance hail.
Still God says, “No;
Ye will not let my people go!”-
And still our triumphs magnify our woe.
GOD waits and says, “O Land, proclaim the right-
All men are men-and I will make the fight;
Refuse, and ye may charge upon the foe,
Rebellion quail,
And hearts of traitors fail-
But never more than triumph shall ye hail.
Deliverance? No!
Until ye let my people go,
My Angel, Peace, shall never end your woe.”
*Particularly Gen. Franklin, who seems on more than one occasion to have exemplified the truth of the Scripture, God maketh the wrath of man to praise him.

For the Liberator.
STAND UP.
BY ALMIRA SEYMOUR.
Stand up! Long enough have we crawled round the duty
That fills to the brim the omnipotent Now;
Stand up in full manhood’s grand, terrible beauty,
The stature of Justice, no threatening can bow.
Stoop the least, and the power for firm action is over;
Lean the least, and the balance you cannot recover;
Stand up-and the hosts of the Infinite hover
With Victory’s laurels to circle your brow.
Would you know how to stand? Towards Petersburg,
Wagner,
Olustee and Donaldson, turn, then, your eyes; 
‘Tis the age of fulfilment: said Humanity's Prophet,
The least things of earth shall instruct, yet, the wise.
With no national rights to impel and inspire them,
With no menaced household or hearthstone to fire them,
Too lowly esteemed for the Land to desire them-
Dare we to the height of their manhood arise?
Stand, Head of the People, in front of your peril,
As brave as the soldier unworthy of hire!
And a nation, reborn, shall, ere long, shout your praises,
While listening nations look on and admire.
Stand up! The Slave Power is your yawning trenches;
The fire of that Battery your firmness quenches;
Your hand from that host the flaming sword wrenches,
If you dare to the stature of JUSTICE aspire.
God waits your decision, to help or desert us;
‘Tis the call from bereaved hearts all over the land;
Indecision, Delay, are the weapons that hurt us,
More fatal than bold rebel leader or brand.
Stand up! broad and bright as the flag floating o’er us!
Stand up! in that name which alone can restore us!
STAND UP! that the Future may never deplore us
As traitors to Truth and the Hour’s great demand!
10 Temple Place, Boston, July, 1864.

THE MESSACRE AT FORT PILLOW has excited much comment in Europe. We copy below a poem from an English journal upon the butchery of the Union soldiers by the rebels.
FORT PILLOW.
A SOUTHERN HYMN OF PRAISE.
Down with him! slay him! for he dared to brave
Our protest ‘gainst the fighting of the slave.
He is a white man, who has led in fight
Negroes-cursed negroes-who are ours by right.
Give him no quarter! stop his Yankee breath!
Pierce him a hundred times! make sure his death!
Pave him with bullets! let ten thousand fly!
Every white officer this day must die!
See! there's another, writhing and near dead,
Asking for water! Give him steel instead!
Drive deep the dagger in his Yankee breast,
Prove best of cut-throats-aye, the very best.
These are but carrion, and we’re birds of prey;
Gloat o’er your victims, make a glorious day;
Stop that young nigger’s cry-knock out his brains-
Cover the fortress with all bloody stains.
Sainted be every one who on this day
Negro, or white man, or a child shall slay!
Glorious the wreath upon his brow shall be,
Bright with the splendor of his chivalry!
But to the hospital: come, let us fly;
Half the work’s done for us, but all must die!
Finish them quickly, and let every bed
Drink and be drunken with the blood that’s shed!
Let blood have carnival, let hate go free!
Men, hating devils, purer saints shall be!
Yankees are devils, and we hate them well!
Cursed be their canting lips, inspired of hell!
Slay them, and spare them not, and you shall prove
Heirs of a nation’s gratitude and love;
And on th' escutcheon of the South shall stand
Fort Pillow’s glories and its Martyr Band.
Bring up the prisoners-form them in line-
Aim at them steadily-shoot them like swine!
Bury them quickly, the grave must be fed!
Bury them living, if all are not dead!
Heed not entreaties, but laugh them to scorn!
Yankees for Southerners’ slaughter were born;
Make death your ally, and befriend the grave;
Court with dostruction, and be hard and brave!

<c02>
Finished-‘tis finished, and we leave the fray,
Blood-stained, but glory-crowned,' with hearts all gay;
Stronger and bolder for the feast of blood,
Filled with the glory of all Southernhood.
Shout all humanity, and with us raise,
Loud and unanimous, a song of praise!
Great is our victory, and our glory’s great,-
Thanks to our chivalry, and Yankee hate!

The Liberator.
CRITICISM. 
The North American Review has received many tributes of praise from competent judges for the change manifested in it since the incumbency of its present editors, namely; a change from a character frigidly literary, dealing mainly with old, cold and neutral subjects, adverse to reform in every department, and holding firmly the traditions of respectable, elderly conservatism, to an active interest in the life of the present time, a preference for those subjects which attract the attention of living men and women, a hospitable attitude towards new ideas, and a recognition of the claims of sound morals and true religion upon a literary publication. It has now received a compliment from one not a competent judge, but who nevertheless pays it the highest and most satisfactory tribute in his power. The Editor of the New York Observer has lost his respect for the candor and courtesy of the North American, and declares it to have become partisan and sectarian," and to have come down from the dignified independence on which it formerly stood."
The particulars brought forth in support of these charges are curious and instructive. The North American gives an opinion, in regard to the character of a certain book, adverse to that of the Princeton Review, and ten other Reviews, and eighteen newspapers. This probably is the sacrifice of independence." It declares the author of that book incompetent for his task. This probably shows the want of candor. Its favorable opinion of another book brings from the Editor of the Observer the declaration- “No orthodox Christian can approve of the book or of its eulogy.” This shows the partisan and sectarian character of the North American. Finally, it says-There is scarcely a journal in America which maintains a correct critical standard, or to which an intelligent man can turn with any assurance of finding in its reviews of new publications either honesty or intelligence of judgment. This, no doubt, shows the want of courtesy.
The appropriate remedy for all this, in the judgment of the Observer, is for the publishers of the Review to prevent its Editors from saying what they think-or, in its own elegant figurative language, “to put a bridle on their pens.” This seems to be the Observer’s method of encouraging a “dignified independence.”
The point in all this which the Observer seems to feel most acutely is the slight cast upon the critical judgment and literary integrity of the Princeton Re view, the theological great gun of its own (Old School Presbyterian) sect. This Review, it seems, had spoken in the highest terms of commendation of the work condemned by the Boston critic. And the Observer asks, with a ludicrous aspect of innocent astonishment, “What is there in the position of the Princeton Review that should cast suspicion upon the character of its verdict? 
This is a fair question, and deserves a plain answer, in spite of the fact that the sort of candor and courtesy and honor which preside over the Observer will not allow its readers to see the answer. It is this: that feature in the position of the Princeton Review which does, and should, cast suspicion upon the candor of its verdict, is its habit of telling lies; of declaring and implying things utterly and enormously false, in defence of its theological position; and of so “bridling the pens” of men disposed to vindicate truth, that no refutation of those falsehoods has ever gained admision to its columns. Is the Observer answered?
For instance:-one of the subjects respecting which the Princeton Review shows an utter disregard of truth (whenever that topic comes under treatment in its columns) is the doctrine of its sect respecting Sabbatical observance. To maintain the tradition of its elders upon that point, and to give to that tradition, as far as possible, the force of law upon the whole community, it unscrupulously implies, and assumes, and declares the enormous falsehood, that the Bible enjoins the observance of Sunday as a Sabbath. And the custom of that Review (and of the class to which it belongs) to keep its columns closed against truths which impugn its theological system is so firmly established, that there is not one chance in a thousand that a true and full statement of the teaching of the Bible respecting the Sabbath could gain admission there. This is one of the reasons, and a sufficient one, for distrusting the Princeton Review. Is the Observer answered?
The Observer has long been eminent for the abundance, the reckless profusion, of its falsehoods. The Princeton Review, however, is no worse than the majority of its theological neighbors. They are all edited by clergymen, and certain false assumptions are necessary to the success of the clerical profession, as it exists in the group of sects here referred to. To gain that periodical popular attendance which gives them subsistence and influence, they must pretend some special divine appointment of themselves as leaders, and of a day and a place where the people must reverently assemble to be led. Hence arises a system of wholesale glorification by ministers, first of their own order, and next of the people who, following, and honoring, and supporting that order, are thence assumed to be God’s peculiar people, stamped with His image, and identified with His cause. They are in the right. All who vary from them are in the wrong.
Jesus said to his early disciples- “Ye are the light of the world.” And he spoke truly. For those men, with whatever limitations and misconceptions, did light the world to the stage of theological progress next beyond Judaism. They were truly progressive and reformatory, casting off the superstitions in which they had been educated, (such, for instance, as Sabbatism,) and welcoming such newly published truth as their time afforded. But our clergy, the most thorough defenders of existing superstition, (such, for instance, as Sabbatism,) and the most assiduous opposers of newly published truth, have yet the effrontery to represent themselves as legitimate successors of the apostles, and to claim for themselves and their churches the chief agency in the world’s progress. Here is a recent specimen of such wholesale boasting, in a sermon preached at Springfield, June 28, 1864, before the General Association of Orthodox Congregational Ministers of Massachusetts.
The subject of this sermon was-“The Church the Light of the World.” And the discourse contained the following assertions, namely:-
“The Church has always been a leader in the cause of freedom.... The contest of the present day has been carried forward, and will be carried through, only by the aid of the Church. And when the strife at arms is over, especially must the Church bear the brunt of the contest that will still remain.”
“The world receives from the Church its highest idea of virtue.”
“The Church is a leader in the world’s progress.”
When we consider that the Church thus impudently boasted of has been the greatest obstacle to the overthrow of slavery-silently acquiescing in the supremacy of that wickedness up to the time of the formation of the American A.S. Society, then turning against the Abolitionists instead of against the slaveholders, all the time building up, by its” negro pew,” that prejudice of caste here which it opposed as a sin among the Hindoos, and cherishing, up to the present moment, two institutions which continued active and efficient allies of the Slave Power as long as it remained a power, (the American Tract Society and the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions,)-we necessarily find the preacher's 

<c03>
claim unfounded and false as far as “freedom” is concerned. When we remember that the highest practical visible manifestation of virtue which the Church demands of a man consists of these things, namely-joining its body and yielding to the guidance of its clerical leaders, punctually observing its Sabbaths and fasts, reverently attending its sermons and prayer-meetings, and nibbling and sipping its bread and wine, and abstaining from certain recreations, certain reformatory movements, and a certain course of free thought and investigation in religion and theology, all of which lie under its ban-we shall find that a far higher and juster idea of virtue has always been extant in “the world.” And when, lastly, we reflect that progress in science, as well as in speculative thought, high morality, true religion, sound theology, and social reform, has often found its chief obstruction from the ruling influences of the Church thus boasted of, it will be manifest that this Church is not “a leader in the world’s progress.
Application! Those who are accustomed to maintain the claims of their party and their creed by statements of such wholesale falsity as those of the sermon above referred to, and those of an article entitled “The Anglo-American Sabbath,” in the October number (1863) of the Princeton Review, need not be surprised to find their critical judgment disregarded by men of intelligence and honesty.—C. K. W.

WHEN SHALL THE END BE?
But few have the prescience to tell us what and when this bloody struggle shall disclose and end. Statesman,(?) politician, church and layman, are by turns full of hope and confidence, if such and such a plan were pursued. Some of these numerous plans we have tried, and still we are in the midst of the hottest of the fight. One is greatly alarmed about the finances, the credit of the government, and its final ability to meet the nation’s liabilities; another urges the increase of our army by draft upon all enrolled citizens, and others are sure that volunteers are the only safe men to fill our depleted ranks; while others would change commanders, and not a few would remedy all our evils by a change of the executive part of our government; and still others would stay the effusion of blood by the withdrawal of our troops, and a settlement of all our difficulties by negotiation; which is another word for compromise. 
David Crockett said, “Be sure you’re right, then go ahead.” Excellent advice, not only for men, but for nations. The converse of this is to go astern. Now, judging from the past experience of three years of war, what deduction can or ought we to draw in regard to the right or wrong of our struggle with rebels in arms against our government? 
It is conceded by all impartial and intelligent judges, that the rebels are in the wrong;-then are we in the right in trying to subdue them? Subdue, that that is the word. If right, why not succeed?
If I were to answer this question according as it presents itself to me, I would take a short cut, and reiterate that “God has made of one blood all the nations of the earth”; consequently, he is our common Father, and we are his children; and so long as we neglect to recognize the brotherhood of man, we fail to subdue the tyrants in arms against us; therefore, I would not only enlist the slave in the Union ranks, but I would extend to him and all, every right I claim for myself, both inherent and political. If he be worthy of shoulder-straps, bars, eagles or stars, aside from his color and former position, then he should have them just as freely as though he were white, and never served under the lash. I would measure him by his brains. 
When we are educated through blood and death on the battle-field, and agonizing hearts at home, so as to extend equal rights and distributive justice to all, then the dullest perception can tell you of the end; consequently, my how of the struggle is, that the black man, with his own right hand, on his own soil, led by the enlightened heads of both whites and blacks, will strike the rebellion dead in its own house, and lift the black man into the high position which white men (now traitors) so long disgraced.
In my short experience as a soldier and acquaintance with the army, I see no hope of complete success until we deal with rebels in arms as we would with any outlaws, brigands and pirates. They certainly have shown themselves, by their treatment of our soldiers, both white and black, destitute of the name of civilized warriors; therefore I would turn upon them all the furies of a war of races, until they lay down their arms and consent to live in good society, where equal rights and school-houses are extended to all, both black and white; and to all of this I verily believe we are tending.
GEORGE W. MADOX, 
Co. “L.,” 1st Reg’t Me. Hy. Artillery.
(A wounded soldier.)
Ellsworth, (Maine,) July 17, 1864.

THE FREEDMEN AND THE EX-SLAVEHOLDERS.
From the supplemental report of Col. McKaye to the Secretary of War, respecting the present relative position of these two classes in Louisiana, we make two extracts. The first, a letter from Gen. Banks, in reply to inquiries addressed to him, written at Alexandria, March 28th, 1864, certifies the industry and good conduct of the freedmen, as follows:-
“I entertain no doubt whatever of the capabilities of the emancipated colored people to meet and discharge the duties incident to the great change in their condition. I have seen them in all situations, within the last year and a half, and it is with much pleasure I say, as I stated to you in person, that they seem to me to have a clearer comprehension of their position, and the duties which rest upon them, than any other class of our people, accepting the necessity of labor which rests upon them as upon others. The conditions they uniformly impose show the good sense with which they approach the change in their condition.
They demand, in the first instance, that to whatever punishment they may be subjected, they shall not be flogged.
2d. That they shall labor only when they are well treated.         
3d. That families shall not be separated.
4th. That their children shall be educated.
With these stipulations I have never found any person of that race who did not readily accept the necessity of continuous and faithful labor at just rates of compensation, which they seem willing to leave to the Government. As far as the experiment goes in this department, they have justified in the fullest degree this conclusion, and, subject to the conditions which they impose, they are willing to render and have rendered faithful labor.
There were in this department, when I assumed command, many thousands of colored persons without employment or home, who were decimated by disease and death of the most frightful character. To these, natives of the plantations in the department, have been added many thousand fugitives from the surrounding States, of every age and condition. There are not, at this time, 500 persons that are not self-supporting, and there has not been, in the last year, any day when we would not have gladly accepted ten or twenty thousand, irrespective of their condition, in addition to those we have of our own. Except that the negro understood the necessities of his position, and was able, in the language of your letter, ‘to meet and discharge the duties incident to the great change in his condition,’ the result would have been physically impossible. 
Wherever in the department they have been well treated, and reasonably compensated, they have invariably rendered faithful service to their employers.
From many persons who manage plantations, I have received the information that there is no difficulty whatever in keeping them at work, if the conditions to which I have above referred are complied with.”
In a subsequent portion of the pamphlet, Col. McKaye cites testimony respecting the attitude and disposition of those who formerly” owned” the negroes, and who still employ them as laborers under Gen. Banks’s system, as follows:-
“We need not then despair of the emancipated negro. Notwithstanding the degradation imposed

<c04>
upon him by the slave system, there is much left in him to build upon. He is at least ready and willing to undertake the performance of his humble and toilsome part in the new order of things. Indeed, if one may take as a proof the results of the life-struggle and history of the old free colored people of Louisiana, before referred to, the conclusion is unavoidable that the black man is not only capable of self-guidance and self-maintenance, but that, under the influence of higher and nobler human motives and incentives, his progress in the arts and attainments of civilized life, is subject only to the same laws that control that of other races of men. 
On the other hand, what is to be said of the white man, his old master, and of his capacity, disposition, and attitude relative to the part which he is called upon to perform in the new industrial and social system?
Col. Hanks, a large portion of whose daily life, for two years past, has been spent in daily intercourse with the planters in the Department of the Gulf, declares that ‘although they begin to see that Slavery is dead, yet the spirit of Slavery still lives among them. Many of them are even more rampant to enslave the negro than ever before. ‘They make great endeavors to recover what they call their own negroes. One planter offered me $5,000 to return his negroes. They have even hired men to steal them from my own camp.’ (The old spirit still prompting to the old crime, which, long ago, was declared felony by the law of nations, if perpetrated in Africa.)’ They yield,’ he continues,’ to the idea of freedom only under compulsion. They submit to the terms dictated by the Government, because obliged so to do. Mr. V. B. Marmillon, one of the richest and most extensive sugar planters in the whole valley of the Mississippi, took the oath of allegiance, but refused to work his plantation unless he could have his own negroes returned to him. He had 1,450 acres of cane under cultivation; his whole family or plantation hands left him and came to New Orleans, reporting themselves to me. Among them could be found every species of mechanic and artisan. I called them up, and informed them that the Government had taken possession of old master’s crop, and that they were needed to take it off, and would be paid for their labor. All consented to return; but next morning when the time came for their departure, not one would go. One of them said: “I will go anywhere else to work, but you may shoot me before I will return to the old plantation.” I afterwards ascertained that Marmillon, whom they called “Old Cotton Beard,” had boasted in the presence of two colored girls, house servants, how he would serve them when he once more had them in his power. These girls had walked more than thirty miles in the night to bring the information to their friends.’ These people were set to work elsewhere. 
‘It is undoubtedly true,’ says Col. Hanks, ‘that this year a change for the better seems to be taking place. In some parishes the letting of plantations to Northern men has a powerful effect. The disposition of the planters, however, towards their old slaves, when they consent to hire them, is by no means friendly. I told a planter recently, that it was the express order of Gen. Banks that the negroes should be educated. He replied that” no one should teach his negroes.”’
Col. Hanks further declares as his deliberate judgment that ‘if civil government be established here, and military rule withdrawn, there is the greatest danger that the negro would become subject to some form of serfdom.’
His testimony on this point is referred to elsewhere.

The statement of Col. Hanks, and the general correctness of his views, were concurred in by many other intelligent persons, familiar with the subject, and my own personal observation fully confirms them. In a stretch of three hundred miles up and down the Mississippi, but one creole planter was found (there may, of course, have been others with whom I did not come in contact,) who heartily and unreservedly adopted the idea of free labor, and honestly carried it out upon his plantation. And although he declared that in itself it was successful much beyond his expectation, ‘yet,’ he said, ‘my life and that of my family are rendered very un happy by the opposition and contumely of my neighbors.’
The simple truth is, that the virus of slavery, the lust of ownership, in the hearts of these old masters, is as virulent and active to-day as it ever was. Many of them admit that the old form of slavery is for the present broken up. They do not hesitate even to express the opinion that the experiment of secession is a failure; but they scoff at the idea of freedom for the negro, and repeat the old argument of his incapacity to take care of himself, or to entertain any higher motive for exertion than that of the whip. They await with impatience the withdrawal of the military authorities, and the reestablishment of the civil power of the State, to be controlled and used as hitherto for the maintenance of what, to them doubtless, appears the paramount object of all civil authority, of the State itself, some form of the slave system. 
With slight modifications, the language recently used by Judge Humphrey in a speech delivered at a Union meeting at Huntsville, Alabama, seems most aptly to express the hopes and purposes of a large proportion of the old masters in the Valley of the Mississippi, who have consented to qualify their loyalty to the Union by taking the oath prescribed by the President’s Proclamation of Amnesty. After advising that Alabama should at once return to the Union by simply rescinding the ordinance of secession, and after expressing the opinion that the old institution of slavery was gone, Judge Humphrey says: ‘I believe, in case of a return to the Union, we would receive political co-operation, so as to secure the management of that labor by those who were slaves. There is really no difference, in my opinion, whether we hold them as absolute slaves, or obtain their labor by some other method. Of course, we prefer the old method. But that question is not now before us.’
It is true that Gen. Banks entertains slightly different views of the disposition and purposes of the planters, predicated, however, on the belief that the Government will adopt some system of ‘sufficient supervision to compel the negro to labor,’ although, as we have seen, he elsewhere declares that good treatment and fair wages have in all cases been found compulsion enough. What the old masters understand by’ a supervision to compel the negroes to labor,’ is not difficult to imagine; certainly, it is not good treatment and fair wages.
In the letter before referred to, Gen. Banks says: ‘I have no doubt that many of the planters within our lines, who are protected by the Government in the enjoyment of their property, honestly accept the new situation, and enter into the idea of free labor with sincerity; but it is coupled with an incredulity as to the success of the experiment, natural to their situation, and to the ideas in which they have been educated. This is fostered more by the intractability and brutality of the overseers-the middle class between the laborer and the employer-than it is by any innate disposition of the planter himself, and their disbelief of any sufficient governmental supervision to compel the negro to labor, to which they think he is disinclined. If such governmental supervision fail in this regard, the experiment itself will fail.’
For a more full expression of the opinions of Gen. Banks on the subject, reference may be had to a copy of his letter herewith submitted.
The opinions herein before expressed as to the spirit and disposition of the old masters, is fully and explicitly sustained by the testimony of Brig.-Gen. James S. Wadsworth, than whom no man has had better opportunities for an intelligent judgment. 
In his examination before the Commission, soon after his return from an official tour through the Valley of the Mississippi, in the early part of the past winter, in speaking of the state of things in Louisiana, Gen. Wadsworth said: 
‘There is one thing that must be taken into account, and that is, that there will exist a very strong disposition among the masters to control these people, and keep them as a subordinate and subjected class. Undoubtedly they intend to do that. I think the tendency to establish a system of serfdom is the great danger to be guarded against. I talked with a planter in the La Fouche district near Tibadouville. He said he was not in favor of secession; he avowed his hope and expectation that slavery would be restored there in some form. I said: “If we went away and left these people now, do you suppose you could reduce them again to slavery?” He laughed to scorn the idea that they could not. “What,” said I, “these men, who have had arms in their hands?” “Yes,” he said, “we should take the arms away from them, of course.”’
Much other testimony of like import might be adduced, but it is believed not necessary to a clear understanding of the present attitude and position of the two principal constituent elements of the disrupted slave society, in the region under consideration." 

<c05>
WASHINGTON WILKS.
News comes to us from England of the death of Washington Wilks. While addressing a public meeting in London, a stroke of apoplexy suddenly closed his oration, and ended his life. Mr. Wilks had become widely known, during the last three years, to all loyal journalists in America, as a well-informed and faithful defender of the Union against secession. Being the ablest writer on the staff of the London Morning Star, nearly every article on the American question was entrusted to his care. He began life in the mechanical department of a newspaper office, and though deprived of the advantages of a first-class education, he raised himself by his talents and industry in fifteen years to be one of the ablest writers and brightest ornaments of the liberal press in England. When death so suddenly ended his labors and usefulness, he was speaking on legislative and social reform. He had nearly finished his speech, in which he arraigned the two members of Parliament for Marylebone as faithless to their pledges to a liberal constituency; and in his peroration this was the sentence which death cut short-“the great American republic”-
The mind that had dwelt with interest and admiration upon our institutions for fifteen years, closed its labors with the utterance of our country’s name; the brain that had toiled for us night and day for three years, sank to rest as it attempted once more to lift the blessings of a republic before the people; the lips which had so often and so eloquently denounced secession began a tribute to the Union that ended in a prophecy-“THE GREAT AMERICAN REPUBLIC.” Such words from such a man, in such an hour, mean that northern institutions being great, they must triumph; being American, they must be free; and being free, they must protect and preserve the republic. 
The pressure upon these columns denies us both the time and the space to do anything like justice to Mr. Wilks, either as a man, a journalist, or an orator. 
His moral constitution was pure. His unselfishness, ever winning eulogy, kept him from the vanity which it often produces upon the young; for he was but thirty-seven years old when he died. Neither ambition nor passion, though he was aspiring and impulsive, could darken the transparency of his honesty or purity. His opponents loved him for his good temper, his co-workers for his prompt and obliging disposition, and those more nearly related to him for his rare delicacy, genuineness and constancy of affection. Ever in earnest; always unpretentious; always at work, but apparently never weary; ready and willing to counsel or take counsel; he seemed, to those who knew him best, now a great leader, and then a simple companion; sometimes a human machine, from his endurance, and at other times a sage; but always a man-a man to be sought, loved and honored. 
Mr. Wilks was a skilful writer. His “History of the Half Century” discloses the traits of a versatile mind, and gives evidence of careful culture, though he was his own tutor. His habit of observation was quick and penetrating, and in daily experience minute; and his prompt and retentive memory made good use of the materials thus gathered. Fine in generalization and just in his discriminations, possessing a sound judgment on political matters, and a warm sympathy with liberal ideas, he shone especially as a journalist. The first leading article on the editorial page of the Star, which was almost always his, was always readable, often brilliant; and sometimes profound. He contributed eight or nine articles each week to different papers and periodicals. A worker as well as a thinker, and combining splendid powers of speech with rare qualities of thought, Mr. Wilks was found often on the platform. For this kind of work, as well as for his many able articles in the Star, this nation is his debtor. For three years he has responded to the calls of the people or to the wishes of the various emancipation societies, to give addresses in every quarter of England, on the American question, and this, too, without remuneration from any source. So constantly did he write on our side, and so effectively, that the Star was said by the English secessionists to be supported by our government; and so gallantly did he defend the cause of the Union by his speeches that many do to this day, or did up to his death, believe him to be an American.’ Such a mistake is the best testimony to his faithfulness and efficiency. An eminent exile from the South has said more than once: “If I could take Mr. Wilks to the South, and men enough to hold the secessionists till he began to speak, I should see my section once more restored to reason.”
Mr. Wilks had great command of language, and a mind that turned easily on itself. He was lively in manner, direct in statement, logical and clear, and possessed of considerable imagination. He spoke always without notes, but never without preparation. His independence of character made him fearless of opposition; and as his earnestness could not be questioned, he always secured respect for his views. Being confident and conciliatory in manner; easy, forcible and chaste in style, strong in resources and altogether eloquent, he generally carried his audience with him.
Such a man and such a laborer naturally found his place among the friends of English reform. The system of entailing estates upon elder sons, to the disadvantage of the younger children, making the rich richer and the poor poorer; the restrictions imposed on the ballot, making money its basis and almost unavoidably its corrupter; the injustice of church rates imposed on dissenters by the church; the purchasing of commissions in the army, compelling merit and courage to yield the ground in the pathway of promotion to money and family influence; the branding of deserters with marks of iron, and the flogging of soldiers by their officers-in short, every wrong that a privileged class inflicts upon its inferiors in power, wealth and station, every abuse imposed by fossil institutions upon the growing intelligence of the humbler classes, and every social disgrace that rears its head through ignorance and poverty, was condemned, attacked, and in some happy instances defeated by Washington Wilks.   
England will miss him, its humbler classes especially will miss his services in the field of reform; and his co-laborers will mourn for one who, excluding all vanity and selfishness from his own labors, was lavish of the praises and honors which he ever conferred upon those who labored with him.
But perhaps the cause of the Union, in England, will feel his loss as much as or more than the cause of reform among his countrymen. He, as well as any, and more than most of our English defenders, understood the grounds on which English secession sympathy stands, and he knew too our strongest ground of defence, as well as our best weapons of assault. He was ever ready to encounter our tory enemies who wish the South to succeed; to meet our aristocratic whig enemies, who do not wish either North or South to succeed, but hope both may fail; to attack our commercial enemies, who are chagrined into opposition because we keep them from getting cotton, or wheedled into friendship for the South in the expectation of free trade with it. Against these and all others, he was a ready and able assailant.
We join with his countrymen and his young but numerous family in mourning his loss; and in paying this tribute of respect to his memory, we hail his name as henceforth belonging to both countries. His memory will be dear to the slave and the victim of tyranny everywhere. His good deeds must help on the progress of the world, and he who is dead, shall yet speak for reform and freedom.-N. Y. Evening Post. 

NEGROPHOBIA IN NASHVILLE.
HONORABLE CONDUCT OF COL. MUSSEY.
NASHVILLE, Tenn., July 6.
To the Editor of the National Anti-Slavery Standard.
Enclosed I send the letter of Col. R. D. Mussey, commanding the organization of U. S. colored troops at this post, in response to a personal invitation requesting his attendance at the celebration of the Fourth, but excluding his command from the procession. The stand taken by Col. Mussey is indeed noble, and shows him eminently fitted for the position he occupies. Though not included in the popular invitations, to march, the colored troops made a fine display on the streets of Nashville on the Fourth, and commanded the earnest respect of the unprejudiced part of the people. Their music was excellent, their whole appearance creditable to themselves and their officers. Col. Mussey, in the course he pursued, has given evidence that he possesses the traits of character so requisite in these times which try men’s souls. The noble man and the true patriot! let his name be cherished as one who would not accept for himself any considerations that did not extend to his command, thus claiming for the colored regiments the same respectful attentions shown to white soldiers, Very truly yours,
MARY F. THOMAS.

<c06>
JULY 29.
We thank Mrs. Thomas for sending us Col. <illegible> letter, which we here put on record as a noble and timely rebuke of the mean and debasing spirit of caste which still so extensively prevails in this country.
HEADQUARTERS COM’D ORGANIZATION
U. S. COLORED TROOPS,
Nashville, July 3, 1864.
Mr. W. S. CHEATHAM, Chairman Com. etc.:
SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge an invitation for “the pleasure of my company at the Celebration of our National Anniversary on the ensuring Fourth of July, at Fort Gillem on Jefferson street extended.”
The invitation was extended June 30th. I answer it at this late moment, because I have been disposed to give you all possible opportunity to <illegible> also the troops with whose organization I have been connected, and who to-day form the largest portion, numerically, of the forces at Nashville. Your Committee has seen fit to omit them from its invitation to parade. With that omitted portion you know I am connected: the title by which you addressed me comes from my connection with them.
As these troops are orderly, present a good appearance, and are, considering their opportunities, well drilled, your conduct in omitting them and inviting me, who am nothing but by virtue of my connection with them, either is studiedly insulting, or betrays a lamentably limited experience of honorable sensibilities.
I cannot, sir, accept any invitation to a military display where other Colonels march their troops while mine are excluded.
The Declaration of Independence, whose formal adoption makes the Fourth of July sacred, affirms as an anxiom that 
ALL MEN ARE CREATED EQUAL.
And until you, sir, and your committee learn this fundamental truth, till you can invite all the defenders of their country to participate in your celebration, be they black or be they white, your “celebrations of our National Anniversary” are mocking farces, insults to the illustrious dead, and <illegible> to Him who “hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth.”
I do not think my presence would be “pleasurable” to you. I know yours would not be to me, so long as you make distinctions between the defenders of their country which are alike discreditable to your humanity, your patriotism and your Christianity; distinctions which show that you do not know the letter nor comprehend the spirit of the document whose ratification you propose to celebrate; or that, knowing and comprehending both letter and spirit, you designedly ignore the one and violate the other. I am, sir, your ob’t servant,
R. D. MUSSEY,
Col. 100th U. S. Col. Infantry, Com'd
Org’z U. S. C. T.
The Nashville Times gives the following account of the celebration of the Fourth, by the colored people of that city. We commend it especially to the attention of those who are continually charging Abolitionists with “amalgamation” and “miscegenation:”
“The colored citizens had a great jollification on the Fourth at their bran-dance and pic-nic, in the suburbs of the city. A remarkably fine looking regiment was on parade, composed of athletic, well-dressed, well-drilled and decidedly military looking soldiers, who no doubt could, on a fair field, take the conceit out of any rebel regiment ever raised in Middle Tennessee in a very short time. The colored laborers in the Commissary Department <illegible> out to the barbacue in a very amusing procession. The once elegant but now somewhat faded colors of the rebel ‘Rock City Guards,’ which cost originally the sum of $900, floated gaily at the head of the procession; this was followed by a few platoons of colored soldiers, and these by the emancipated civilians, who used to hew wood and draw water for traitors. These last bore sundry poles, on top of which were small commissary boxes, inscribed with the soul-stirring mottoes of ‘Soap!’ ‘HARD TACK!’ ‘CANDLES!’ ‘PEPPER!’ ‘MOLASSES!’ and other words sweet and spicy in the mouths of colored patriots. The procession cheered lustily on its way, but was otherwise very orderly and respectable. We noticed among their number many blood relations, such as the sons, nephews, and half brothers of many of the wealthiest and most prominent rebel planters in Middle Tennessee. It was the most striking example of miscegenation we ever witnessed. We mean no sneer at our colored people in this remark. They cannot help and are not responsible for the fact that many thousands of their number have the blood of thousands of the first families of Tennessee flowing in their veins. It is their misfortune, not their fault. All we find fault with is, that their white relatives, instead of treating them kindly and assisting them, try to oppress and degrade them, and pay blackguard newspapers to vilify the statesmen who seek to elevate their condition.
The headquarters of Col. Mussey, commanding organization of colored troops, on Cedar street, were tastefully and beautifully decorated and illuminated on the night of the Fourth. The windows were handsomely checkered with red, white, and blue tissue paper, while a large transparency above bore the names., Fort Pillow, Petersburg, Olustee, and Milliken’s Bend. The exterior of the building was festooned with flags arranged in the form of shields. The decorations were designed by Mr. Wheeler, and reflected great credit on his taste.”

THE CONFEDERATE STATES GOVERNMENT.
In consequence of numerous inquiries, we publish from a recent number of the Index-the organ in this country of the Slaveholders’ Confederacy-a list of the various individuals composing the Government thereof:—
“EXECUTIVE.
Hon. Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi, President.
Hon. A. H. Stephens, of Georgia, Vice President.
AIDES TO PRESIDENT.
Colonel W. M. Browne, of Georgia.
Colonel James Chestnut, of South Carolina.
Colonel W. P. Johnston, of Kentucky.
Colonel Joseph C. Ives, of Mississippi.
Colonel G. W. C. Lee, of Virginia.
Colonel John T. Wood.
PRIVATE SECRETARY TO PRESIDENT.
Burton N. Harrison, of Mississippi.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
Hon. J. P. Benjamin, of La., Secretary of State.
L. Q. Washington, Chief Clerk.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.
Hon. George Davis, of N. C., Attorney-General. 
Wade Keyes, of Ala., Assistant Attorney-General. 
Rufus R. Rhodes, of Miss., Commissioner of Patents.
G. E. Nelson, of Ga., Superintendent of Public Printing. 
R. M. Smith, of Va., Public Printer.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT.
Hon. C. G. Memminger, of S. C. Sec’y of Treasury. 
Robert Tyler, Register.
E. C. Elmore, Treasurer. 
J. M. Strother, of Va., Chief Clerk. 
Lewis Cruger, of S. C., Controller. 
B. Baker, of Florida, First Auditor.
WAR DEPARTMENT.
Hon. James A. Seddon, of Va., Secretary of War. 
Judge J. A. Campbell, of Ala., Assistant Secretary of War. 
R. G. H. Kean, Chief Bureau of War. 
General S. Cooper, Adjutant and Inspector General. 
Lieut. Col. J. Withers, Assistant-Adjutant and Inspector-General. 
Lieut. Col. H. L. Clay, ditto. 
Major E. A. Palfrey, ditto.
Major Charles H. Lee, ditto.
Major S. W. Melton, ditto.
Captain Reilly, ditto.
Brigadier-General A. R. Lawton, of Ga., Quartermaster-General.
Colonel L. B. Northrop, of S. C., Commissary General.
S. P. Moore, M. D., Surgeon-General.
C. H. Smith, M. D., Assistant Surgeon-General.
NAVY DEPARTMENT.
Hon. S. B. Mallory, of Fla., Sec. of the Navy.
E. M. Tidball, Chief Clerk.
Com. John M. Brooke, Chief of Ordnance.
Com. A. B. Fairfax, Inspector of Ordnance.
Com. J. K. Mitchell, in charge of Orders and Detail.
Surgeon W. A. W. Spotswood, Chief Med. and Surgeon.
POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT.
Hon. J. H. Reagan, of Texas, Postmaster-General 
A.St. George Offutt, of Va., Chief of Con. <illegible>. 
John L. Harrell, of Ala., Chief of Finance <illegible>.
The total number of officers examined <illegible> colored regiments amounts to two thousand four hundred and seventy-one, of whom fourteen hundred and eighty-six have been accepted.
