THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON ST., ROOM No 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the Pecuniary concerns of the paper are to directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square in <illegible> three times for 75 cents-one square for $ 1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUNICY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXX. NO. 22. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 1, 1860. WHOLE NUMBER, 1536.
<c01>
The Liberator.
SPPECHES AT THE ANNUAL METTING OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
SPPECH OF REV. J. R. W. SLOANE,
OF THE COVENANTER CHURCH, NEW YORK.
I remember the case of an ambitious student, who took, as the caption of his maiden effort, 'The Pant, the Present, and the Future. 'I feel here to-night, Mr. Chairman, at this late hour, in view of this great question, like that young man, with that large theme before him for a fifteen minutes speech. I presume no one will deny that the question of American Slavery is the most important question that is presented to this age and to this nation-shall I not say, that has been presented to any age and any nation, at least since the great Reformation of the seventeenth century: I remember, when I was in the neighborhood of the White Mountains last summer, that wherever I turned my eye. Mount Washington stood conspicuous above hit fellows, that it was the one great object which always arrested my gaze, and to which my fellow-travellers always directed my attention. So is it with regard to this great question of American Slavery. It is well-nigh ubiquitous; it is almost omnipresent. It meets you everywhere. If you open your morning newspaper, the first word that strikes your eye is' slavery. If you enter the halls of Congress, you need not ask upon what subject that excited speaker is haranguing; for, whether he hails from the pine forests of Maine, or from the' continuous woods, where rolls the Oregon," whether he comes from the prairies of Northern Wisconsin and Minnesots, or from the everglades of Florida or the rice swamps of Georgia and the Carolinas, one subject only claims his attention-that subject, Slavery. In the ecclesiastical convocations, whether it be the Episcopal Convention, the Methodist Conference, the Presbyterian Assembly, or the Congregational Council, nine chances to one that the word which first meets your ear is 'slavery' In fine, I know of but one spot in all this broad and fair land where you are perfectly exempt from the intrusion of this very disagreeable subject (to some). Of course, I mean a fashionable church, in one of our great Eastern cities. (Laughter and applause.)
The period in which we have assembled is a very remarkable one. Society is stirred to its profoundest depths. The country is rocked, and has been for months, as by a moral earthquake. The bands that bind political parties are snapped like the withes on the arms of Samson, and at last that political Judas, which. for thirty years past, has ever been able to betray, the cause of liberty, after purchasing, by the Dred Scott decision and the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, the vast, grand field of all our territory for the introduction of slavery, has fallen headlong, burst in the midst, committed political suicide, at the bare sight of its own atrocities, and all its bowels have gushed out, (Loud applause.) Why is it, my friends, that we witness such a state of things as the present? Have we all been seized with frenzy and madness? Are we, like men bewitched by the glamour and weird fascination of Niagara until they plunge into the abyss, about to plunge into national ruin? No, I answer; a thousand times, no. The reason of all this is that we are face to face with the mightiest question of the age; that we are face to face with a question that cannot be ignored, and will not be put off; a question that must be settled; a question in which the interests of thousands and millions are involved; a question in which the most important issues for our race are involved.
I have here my charges to bring against slavery, like my brother (Rev. Mr. Bradford) who has gone before me; had I not, I should not be here. My first charge against it is, that it murders liberty in the persons of four Millions of men, of the same blood, made in the image of the same God, endowed with the same inalienable right to 'life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,' and bought with the blood of the same Redeemer with ourselves. (Applause.) That, my friends, extends not only to these four millions, but to their children, not for one, two, three or a thousand generations, but to all generations. The tremendous doom and curse of slavery rests upon them like an eternal punishment, that knows neither respite not termination. Not only does it extend to the number in this country, and to their children, but in that broad land which has recently been opened by Livingstone and other explorers, there is the source, in its teeming millions, for an inexhaustible supply, which through the channel of the slave trade, is to be poured in this lower deep of American chattel slavery. In these grand discoveries, in which science sees vast empires added to her already magnificent domain, in those teeming millions, on which Christianity looks with hopeful eyes, as fields, white to the harvest of missionary and beneficent effort. Slavery sees only the elements of her own increase, and the advance of her own power, places her basilisk eye on those teeming millions, and, like the daughters of the horse-leech, cries 'Give giver!'-like another grave, is never satisfied another hell, enlarges herself and opens wide her mouth, that she may receive them and their children to the irreversible doom of oppression and bondage forever! (Applause.) We have here to settle this great question; and not only so, but in this land on this battle-field, the great question of slavery is to be settled forever. I have no doubt that if we can cut off the head of the hydra here, we have ended the conflict for all time, for all the ages that are yet come. As I believe in a more glorious era than has ever yet dawned on the world, and as I believe in a grander order of the ages than has ever yet arisen so I believe that this question of slavery for white and black is to be settled here forever.
I have another charge to bring against it, which is that it is opposed to our modern Christian civilization. ‘Two elements,' says Guizot, 'are comprised in the great fact that we call civilization-it lives one two conditions, it manifests itself in two methods-the progress of the individual and the progress of society: the enlargement of the faculties of man and the amelioration of the social system. 'But is there any one so ignorant as not to know that there is no amelioration of the social system possible to slavery?
<c02>
that kindness to the slave is altogether out of the question? And as to any progress, intellectual or moral, of the individual, let the slave laws, forbidding any one to teach them to read or write, answer for that, I charge upon slavery not merely that it is a relic of barbarism, but that it is an element of barbarism, Wherever it exists, there society must partake of barbarism, more or less. This fact is illustrated in all the history of the past, but more especially is it illustrated in our land and in our day. Do you ask for the proofs? I point you to the recent executions on Virginia soil. I point you to that man who stood on this platform to-day (Rev. Mr. Worth,) freed from a Southern prison-house on condition that he pays to North Carolina three thousand dollars. I wonder what the Old North State is going to do with so much money! If it had been South Carolina, I should think that she had got the money to buy the crutches to walk out of the Union with, that Wendell Phillips has told us of. (Laughter.)
I charge slavery with being the foe to modern civilization, and the proof comes from the halls of Congress during the present winter. There may be exceptions to the rule, but the nature of slavery, its tendency, is to create a set of cowardly, brutal ruffians, who are unfit for the intercourse and society of civilized and refined gentlemen. (Loud cheers.) The billingsgate and drunkenness, the vituperation and bullying, on one side and the other, in the hall of Representatives, are the proofs, the Smiths, the Barks dales and the Pryors are the personal illustrations, of what I say. And yet, we are told, these are 'God's ministers for good'; these are the men, according to our lower-law divines, to whom we owe respect and obedience, 'for conscience sake'! These are the men who are' a terror to evil-doers, and a praise to them that do well'! These are the men who' bear not the sword (nor the bowie-knife) in vain'! (Laughter and cheers.) These are the men who reach out the arm of their tyranny, and take from his fireside and his home one of our esteemed citizens, and may do the same with you and with me, if they choose tonight.
But, again, I charge it with being the foe to the morals of our country and our nation. Will any man flaunt it in my face here that I do not know what I am talking about? I have stood upon the soil cursed by its presence; I have seen something of its yet unwritten atrocities, something of its yet inconceivable wickedness. I have no-language to describe the moral atrocities of which it is always the parent. I have talked with master and slave, and I say that the half has not been told, never can be told, never will be told, of the corrupt state of society all over the South. Take one fact, which has been already alluded to to-night-that there are four millions of human beings who have no law of marriage, who are living in a state of promiscuous concubinage, under the power of irresponsible masters, many of whom are the vilest of the vile that walk the face of the earth. Remember that this degradation has been going on for centuries, and then you can form some idea of what the state of things must be there. I might illustrate by anecdote after anecdote, drawn from my own personal observation, but let one suffice. I said to an old slave, whom I met on one occasion, who was living alone, 'Is it possible that you have lived' to this period of life, and never been married?' I wish you could have seen the smile that spread over his countenance at my exceeding greenness as he replied-'Lor bress you, massa, 1 have had more wives than you could put in this yere room.' And then, the old man went on and told me the story of the fate of his wives, one after another sold and separated from him. A Presbyterian minister (Old School) permitted his own son, fourteen years old, to marry a slave girl that belonged to him, on a Saturday evening, and in less than three months sold her to an Old School leader, who lived fourteen miles distant, and then had the effrontery to send a letter by me, dunning his brother church-member for his money! Of course, I did not know what the contents of the letter were; if I had, I should not have taken it. He said it was little matter of business! This is a feeble illustration of what is passing all the time inside the Churches o the South.
But, then, I make this charge not merely against, the South, but against the whole nation. I do no expect much of nations now, or for ages to come, perhaps, in point of morality. No nation has ever existed, as yet, that has taken this book (the Bible) as the basis of its statute law, and incorporated the principles of Christianity into its constitution of government. No nation 
exists to-day that has the slightest claim to be called Christian. Nations there are in which there are Christian men, but a Christian nation has never existed, and does not exist. But there are, I think, violations of the moral law by our public men such as the world does not witness elsewhere. Tell, me in what Christian or what heathen land will the highest court of justice decide that one class have no rights which another class are bound to respect? Tell me in what Christian or heathen land a man may be a prominent candidate for the highest office in the gift of the public, who openly avows but one sentiment (if we may judge by the frequency of its repetition,) that this government was made for white men, and not for 'niggers'-to use his own elegant phraseology. You know that Wm. H. Seward says no man can ever be President of the United States who spells 'negro' with two g's; and I think that Stephen Arnold Douglas is yet to illustrate the truth of the assertion. (Laughter and cheers.) Why, in the days of the Spanish Inquisition no such atrocious sentiments were uttered. Never, in the Cortez of Spain in the days of the Star Chamber, in the worst reign of the brutal Henry or the bloody Mary, in the Privy Council, in the days of the perjured Charles and the atrocious James, were such sentiments uttered as our halls of legislation have echoed to during the present, and the preceding sessions. Do you ask me for proof? What crime that ever dishonored God or disgraced human nature, to which statesmen have given their consent, ever equalled in atrocity that of the slave trade? And yet, has not that trade found its unblushing advocates in our halls of legislation? We wonder that such villany can exist in the light of day. What is our astonishment to find it has its seat in the Senate chamber and on the very throne of justice itself!
<c03>
But I have another and still more severe charge to ring against it. It is the dishonor it has done to our common Christianity and our holy religion. Not content with disgracing our statute-book, not content with robbing man of every right that man holds dear, it has thrust its foul and hideous presence into be sanctuary of God; it has entwined its slimy folds around the sacred altar, and with its thousand hissing tongues of asps profanes the very garden of he ark of the covenant of our God; and the man who would assail it is branded as an' Infidel. 'I believe in a Bible that is inspired from beginning to end, but it is a Bible all flaming with tongues of fire against an atrocity so iniquitous as this; it is a Bible n which there, is no sanction for this crime, from first o last; a Bible which, if you were to take its principles and make them the fundamental law of the land, would abolish slavery before to-morrow's sun sank in the west. I believe in a personal Savior; but it is a Savior who cast in his lot with the poor, the weak, and the degraded. It is a Savior who is to be seated on a throne of final judgment, and, if men come and say, 'Have we not prophesied in thy name have we not built up great Tract Societies and large churches, and established great missionary efforts? have we not edited Presbyterians and Observers, and in thy name done many wonderful works?' will answer, 'Inasmuch as ye have not done it unto these my brethren, ye have not done it unto me; I never knew you.' I believe, certainly, in the church of the living God; but it is an organization not established for injustice, not to be a great weapon in the hand of Slavery, but to be a great instrumentality of beneficence and of good to our race; and I charge it upon Slavery that, by a hideous metamorphosis, such as never entered into the imagination of a heathen poet, it has transformed the church of the living God into an engine of iniquity' and wrong, and unfurled the black banner of Death on those battlements from which alone should float the glorious banner of the Cross; that it has brought more disgrace on this book, and on our holy religion, than all the infidels of the last four centuries.
Now, my friends, I have no time to enter upon a point which is extremely interesting to me; but here let me say that I was present, not many days ago, in a so-called religious assembly in this city, which declared, by a vote of 91 to 89, that they would not condemn mercenary slaveholding, and I heard, from the lips of a man professing to be a gospel minister, language that might have been appropriate for a slave factory, that might have become the deck of a slave-ship, that might have answered at the head of a coffle of slaves, marched off, to the tune of' Hail, Columbia!' from Virginia to Georgia, but which was a disgrace and an outrage to the common sentiments of a Christian community, much more to a body calling itself an evangelical organization. The substance of his statement was, that he had bought and sold slaves, and would do so again, under the same circumstances! And this man, with his hands dripping with the blood of his fellow-men, undertook to preach the gospel of, our Lord and Savior Jesus-Christ! It was said of a pastor of this city, who volunteered a defence of the system itself, and scorned the man who would say a word for the noble martyr, John Brown, that his pockets were lined with forty thousand dollars, the price of men, women and children, whom he had sold into interminable bondage. Are we to be silent and dumb when these things are so? Are we to bear to have our religion insulted and outraged, and lift no voice against it? I answer, No! a thousand times, No!
Now, it is too often taken for granted, I think, by our friends on this platform, (judging by their wide-t sweeping denunciation,) that this organization of which I have been speaking is the true church. What is the Christian Church? I trace it by the blood of the martyrs in the ages of the past; I mark her place by the lurid flames that have burned her professors. Where was the Church in those early days but in the fastnesses of the Alps, and among the mountains of Scotland? And is there not a large remnant left today who will have nothing to do with this atrocious system, and would banish it from the Church of God? I speak thus far for the Presbyterians, and I say there are more than seven hundred ministers who believe the oppression of this land merits the wrath and curse of God, both in this life and the life to come, and have so recorded it, and will not admit a slave-holder to their communion. (Applause.) And why have not we, the seven hundred, as much right to call ourselves the Presbyterian Church, in the view of that great pro-slavery organization, as they have, and far better right?
I mention these things, my friends, only that justice may be done on all sides. I screen no man or set of men from the just rebukes that belong to them when they attempt to cover up any such iniquity as, this. But I know the wide-spread influence of this I know that when the editors of religious newspapers come to speak of the friends of the slave, they dip their pens in the poison of asps; when they speak of slavery and pro-slavery men, their pens drop honey and they are held as the very chief of God's saints, the salt of the earth, to be loved and admired. Such an out-spoken and free paper as the Independent-and it is in many respects independent, and the best of its class-wriggles and sticks on the term malum in se-slavery is sin itself; joins in the common cry against Dr. Cheever, and stigmatizes the President of this Society as an infidel, lest its subscription list should fall off! And what shall I say of a man like the pastor of Plymouth Church, a mighty son of, Ephraim, who turned back, faint-hearted, on the day of battle, until dragged forward, by a member of his own church, a boy in age, but not in mind-(applause)-until the editorial lash of the Tribune has been laid upon his back, being a mere quietist, and not taking that prominent position which might be expected of him?
Now, shall I not charge it upon such a system sir this that it has dishonored the cause which I most honor? By that Bible which I revere, and in the name of that Savior whose follower I profess to be, and of that salvation in which I profess to trust, I shall protest everywhere, and at all times, against a slander and an opprobrium so foul, brought upon the cause of His holy religion, 
I am sometimes asked, what good does all your
<c04>
talking do? Well, sir, it is my trade to talk, and perhaps I think more of it than others do; but I believe that talking has destroyed every great form of evil that has ever existed. I have to say that I believe in the sword too; and if one day of the oppression of the slaves is worse than a thousand years of that which our fathers threw off by the Revolution, they have the right, had they the power, to throw off the oppression and bondage that are upon them. And so it will be, if the nation does not heed our talk. I prefer reason, remonstrance, moral suasion to the very last, if possible. I would avert a doom like that from my country and my friends at the South, by talking; I would avert a doom like that by bringing moral suasion to bear, in order to hold back the arm of an avenging God, and restrain those bolts of justice which must, sooner or later, descend, unless this nation repents of its iniquity. Abolitionists have talked, and it is very likely they will continue to talk, while they have the New York Herald to send their speeches all over the South. I will appeal to every argument within the whole range and compass of human thought, in order to put an end, at once and forevermore, to this enormous and gigantic system of iniquity.

SPEECH OF WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
I always feel gratified with any manly and honest criticism made upon our Society, whether in regard, to its principles or its measures. If we are not practical, we desire to be so. If there be a better way for us to pursue, we will thank any one to show us where it lies. Our hearty desire is the immediate, unconditional, eternal abolition of slavery, (applause,) and we would leave no stone unturned, no weapon unused, that is lawful, to bring about that desirable event. I think the American Anti-Slavery Society is characterized as much by its practical good sense as by its high moral principle, and, indeed, that its good sense and practical character are seen in its high moral principle.
How shall we abolish slavery in this country? By striking hands with slaveholders? by entering into a compromise with those who 'trade in slaves and the souls of men,’ and by giving them the right hand of Christian fellowship, or the left hand of political affiliation? or shall we come out and be separator It is by a stern logical and moral necessity that we have been driven to demand the dissolution of the Union. It has not been a step rashly taken by us. We are American born, and we grew up, with the blood given to us, with an almost idolatrous veneration for the Union. We have had our days of shouting, 'The Union forever!' and of glorying in the star-spangled banner and the American Constitution. These were days of ignorance. Now we abhor the Constitution, and, in the language of this book, pronounce it 'a covenant with death and an agreement with hell.' (Applause and hisses.) As for the star-spangled banner, it is clotted with human blood. It waves over four millions of the children of God, reduced to the condition of things. We have torn down, that flag, and will not allow it to float any more over our heads. And as for the Union, we say that as it was based upon certain compromises, everywhere understood, everywhere conceded, whereby slavery was rendered secure, and the slaveholders had extraordinary power put into their hands, because they were slaveholders, it is sinful to uphold it; and we therefore exclaim, 'No Union with Slaveholders!' 
As for the Republican party, does it deny one of these slaveholding guaranties, which the nation has recognized from the beginning? No! Does not the Republican party believe that, by the Constitution the slaveholder has a right to make slave-hunting ground of the entire North? yes! Does it not concede that, in proportion to the number of slaves in the Southern States, the slaveholders may have added political power? Yes! Does it not believe that, in case a slave insurrection takes place, and the slave holders are not able to put it down, they have a right to call upon the President of the United States, and he is bound to summon the military and naval power of the country to suppress that insurrection? Yes! And is not the Republican party ready to take oath that it will carry out all these conditions as faithfully as any party that has ever yet appeared in the country? Yes! Then, how can I, claiming to be a friend and representative of the slave, on the day of election, march up to the ballot-box, and give my vote for such a party, and say that I have done a deed for freedom? I see no hope for the peaceful emancipation of the slave in our country, while the North willing to carry out these slaveholding guaranties and compromises-none whatever. I see nothing before us but fire and blood, while the North is resolved to remain in connection with the South.
What is the use of making it a matter of mere words? Nothing can be found in the Constitution. pertaining to slavery, we are told. The word slave or slavery never has been in that instrument; therefore no such alleged compromises were ever made This is verbal criticism. But it is against historical evidence in regard to the actual design of the instrument. I think the man would insult my understanding who should come upon this platform, and undertake to deny that Congress had ever passed a Fugitive Slave bill. But why may he not? When did Congress ever pass such a bill? Examine it, and you will find that there is not a word in it about giving up a fugitive slave, or about slave-hunting. What is it? It is simply and entirely the language of the Constitution of the United States. And yet, the enactment of that Fugitive Slave bill has created such an indignation, such a horror of mind, that the world itself has shuddered in view of it. Ah! we must go to the meaning of things. True, neither the words fugitive slave nor slave-hunter are in the bill; true its language, on the face of it, is unexceptionable but the meaning, the intent, the design of it, mat its diabolism, and gives it its power. And so it is everywhere correctly interpreted and exactly carried out, according to its intent. Suppose I agree with another that, in order to <illegible> my own purpose, I will help him commit some deed of villany. We draw op our papers; but, of course, we are shrewd enough not to put down what we intend to do in plain English. We agree upon certain deceptive words between us, which we mutually understand, and which, white they do not technically describe the
<c05>
thing, will answer our purpose. I agree to it. I take the benefit of the crime, and, having obtained it, I turn round, and defy him to prove that I ever agreed to commit any crime whatever. Would this be honest? Would it not be a fraud?
I take the nation at its word, and that is, that we have a Constitution whereby slavery is protected by certain guaranties. The nation has never had a doubt upon this subject. This criticism about words, words, words, is purely exceptional. The people everywhere reject it, and all parties, from the beginning of the government until now, have understood and conceded the three-fifth slave representation, giving up the fugitive slave, and putting down slave insurrection by the General Government whenever necessary. It is in their hearts to have all these things done; they meant it from the beginning-they mean it now; and taking them at their word, we summon them to repentance, and tell them that they have entered into a horrible compact, by their own showing, which they are bound to repudiate forever. Is not that to be practical?
But, we are told, to dissolve the Union will be to leave the slaves alone. How do I forsake a man when I say to another, who has him by the throat, and whom I have agreed to stand by, and see that he throttles his victims successfully, I can do this no longer, and will not; but I will prevent your doing it, as far as I can'? Give me the omnipotent North; give me the resources of the eighteen free States of our country, on the side of freedom, as a great, independent, free empire, and I will ask nothing more for the abolition of slavery. (Applause.) The hour that witnesses the establishment of such an empire will witness the overthrow of the slave system; for without this North, it is utterly impossible, in the nature of things, for the slave States, degraded and powerless as they are, to hold a single slave in bondage. Our practical work, then, is to cut the connection. Not to separate ourselves from the slaves, but from their masters. Then, our great, magnificent, invincible North will be Canada all the way through, to all fugitive slaves, (applause,) and it would not take twenty-four hours to empty the whole South, and extinguish the slave system. That would be the inevitable result, and the South knows it The maddest of the fire-eaters have never yet dreamed of separating from us-never! It is all delusion and folly to think that there is anything in their threats of leaving us, if we refuse to do their dirty work. Not because they do not hate us-they do; not because they would not like to separate, if they could and live, but they cannot; not because they would not like to roll an Atlantic ocean, and the Pacific ad ded thereto, between us, but because it is not in their power; for God has put them into our hand, and by our doing righteousness, and standing by freed on, we can, without shedding a drop of blood, in a single hour emancipate every slave on the Southern soil. (Applause.) But while this blood-stained Union continues, and the people of the North are ready to bow down in idolatry to it, there is no hope, none whatever, of a peaceful abolition of slavery. The time will soon come when God will say, 'Because ye have not proclaimed liberty every man to his neighbor, behold, I proclaim liberty for you to the sword, saith the Lord'; and we shall have many John Browns raised up to bring slavery to a bloody termination. But I want no bloodshed, if it be possible to avoid it; and it is possible to end this struggle without the shedding of blood. Let the people of the North wash their own hands of blood-guiltiness, and there will be no more bloodshed; no more slavery in the land. Oh, the multitudinous blessings to grow out of the abolition of slavery to the South, with her beautiful climate, and fertile soil, and boundless resources! Under the plastic power of Freedom, she will become the garden of God, and lead the world in all that is great and glorious. I want to see her domains so crowded with blessings, by doing righteousness, that there shall not be room to contain them; and this shall surely come to pass by hearkening to the command, 'Undo the heavy burdens, break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free!' (Applause.)

SPEECH OF MISS MARY GREW.
MY FRIENDS-We do not come here merely to sing Gloria in Excelsis; to look into each other's r faces, and predict good things for the future. There is something else which we have to do, and one most is important matter is to consider that our work is not is yet done. It is very pleasant thus to look back upon the past, and upon the great work which lay before us at the commencement of our enterprise, much of which we look upon, now, as already accomplished; and so congratulate ourselves upon that past. It is right thus to rejoice, if thus we gather strength for e the future; but little use, otherwise, would much rejoicing be. The importance of this consideration was specially impressed upon my mind this morning, as I listened to the gentleman who occupied this platform a short time ago, and who, after rendering full justice in his testimony to the influence of this Anti-Slavery Society, and paying high compliments to those who have labored in connection with it, informed us, as we have often been informed before, that we do not propose any practical remedy for slavery. Now, if we have not proposed a practical remedy, who in this nation has proposed one? What is the practical remedy for error but the continued, uncompromising utterance of the truth? What is in the remedy for any sin but its opposite, righteousness? Our remedy has always been the same, the preaching of truth, applied to this particular sin of slavery, in all its forms and phases; rebuking it in season and out of season, according to the ability which God has given us, and opposing it in word and deed and in daily life. What other remedy can we bring is against sin but exhorting to righteousness?-what other remedy for falsehood but the truth? And, sir, if it had needed any answer to this charge, I think I could have found it in the gentleman's remarks. He speaks of the Republican party, and, in connection with it, of the power of ideas, evidently feeling, as deeply as you or I do, that it cuts deeper than a sword, goes farther than a bullet, and that there is nothing like it in all God's universe; and he
<c06>
says, as the highest praise that he can possibly give to the Republican party, that it has got for one plank in its platform, a great idea. They have caught a glimpse, I think he said, of some great truth, and have made it a plank in their platform, and on that he firmly planted his foot in defence of that party. Why, sir, our whole platform is made of it; and that one plank he acknowledges they borrowed from us. Welcome to it, right heartily, are they; I only wish they had the whole of it. But if their one plank makes their platform a practical remedy for slavery, how much more is our remedy a practical one, and our movement important! (Applause.) I wish, sir, that gentleman, and all other defenders of the Republican party, who, looking upon the American Anti-Slavery Society, honor its aims and intentions, but somehow think it is not practical, would look at some of the other planks in their own platform. How do they propose to abolish slavery? We repudiate the fugitive slave statute, which we would not like to sully our lips by calling law. Does the Republican party repudiate it? Do any of the leaders propose that, if the Republican party comes into power, that infamous statute shall not be enforced? We propose to lift up the black man, free and enslaved, in this country, to a level with the white man, by teaching the doctrine of the equal brotherhood of man and the equal political rights of all men; by repudiating that terrible prejudice against color which has trampled so many of our fellow-countrymen into the dust, depriving them of all means of moral, intellectual and spiritual elevation. How do they propose to remedy it? 
A VOICE. By voting.
Miss GREW. Voting for whom, sir? For the man (the best of them all) who repudiates, in the name of the Republican party, any desire to make the negro equal with the white man? (Applause.) Vote for him, the best man you can put into office, and what will he do when he is there? Will he repudiate the Fugitive Slave statute? Will he lift his finger to give the black man any of his political rights? I suppose that one plank of which we have heard is the non-extension of slavery, which the Republican party boasts of-of which it has a right to boast; we are glad to grant to it all that it may honestly claim. But how is it going to remedy all these other evils? How is it going to abolish American slavery? The great thing, after all, that we are banded to destroy, is slavery. It is not the millions who may hereafter be enslaved in the Territories for whom we are working especially to-day; it is for the millions who are now wearing bonds in our Southland. Is the Republican party going to set them free? If it is, its leaders are continually misrepresenting and belying it. Is it not continually asserting that it is' the white man's party?'-that it will not disturb the institution of slavery where it exists, only it will work mightily to prevent the chains of slavery from being put upon any other victims? That is very good, so far as it goes; but is that a remedy, a practical remedy, superior to ours, for this great evil that curses our land?
People say, sometimes Abolitionists say, as they look about and see how the Republican presses, and even others, have changed their tone, and utter so much anti-slavery truth, some of which they never think of applying, and never mean to apply where it belongs, but which it is cheering for us to hear, 'The Anti-Slavery Society may as well disband-its work is being done by others. The Churches are waking up, and the parties, even the Democratic party, are talking anti-slavery.' This is the temptation which assails every party of reform, always has and always will; the temptation to stop work too soon; to fancy that more has been done than really has been. No matter to what point the Republican party has attained, no matter what heights of moral elevation the Tribune and the Post, and other presses, may have reached, the moment the Anti-Slavery Society relaxes its efforts, folds its hands, and leaves its work to be done by others, that moment the standard of such a party and such presses comes down, just as certainly as the mercury falls when the weather becomes colder. If we do not hold up our standard higher than they are, they will not stay where they are. How came they where they are? Who made the Republican party? Why, the gentleman who appeared here to shake hands fraternally with us, today, said we made it. If we have done all this work, it seems to me that we have a practical remedy for something; at any rate, that we have some practical power for something; and we shall need it all just as much in the future as in the past. I always feel grieved when I hear an Abolitionist say,' We don't need that measure as much as we did, because other people are working with us.' So they are, and so they will, as long as we work, but not one moment longer. Do not the political parties and the churches laugh to-day at the principle of adherence to absolute right; call it impracticable, and fanatical, and all that? It is our business to be such 'fanatics,' and adhere to that principle, which parties and churches will follow only afar off; for just as soon as there are no 'fanatics' the world spiritually will die. Therefore, let as urge you. Abolitionists, not to look back, not to take your hands one moment from the plough to which you have put them, not to imagine for one moment that any other agency can do your individual and collective work. For, if ever this nation needed the utterance of our most uncompromising sentiments against slavery and the Slaves Power, it needs it now, and will for the next four years. It is our business to see that this work is well done.
No one can rejoice more than I to witness the accession to our ranks of any who heartily hate slavery, whether they agree with us on all points or not. Every one who loves the slave and hates slavery belongs on our platform, and the longer such an one stays away from us, the more harm he does himself; and when he does come, we hail him with joy. Those who have come to enroll themselves with us this year, because they love this cause, and are willing to help us in our work, we greet fraternally. Somebody says they come at the eleventh how. Well, they are welcome at the eleventh hour; welcome to reap where we have sown; welcome to join in the jubilee shout, which may be heard in the land very soon. 
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United states constitution is 'a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in others States, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
THE LIBERATOR. JUNE 1.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
I need not say to the members of the American Anti-Slavery Society that we shall not work in vain; that it of little importance by what means we work, (so that they be righteous ones,) if we agree in the great principles on which our Society is founded; no one here needs the assurance that the opposition made to our cause, whether by churches or parties, will avail nothing. It is only a question of longer or shorter time; and as we look back upon the events of only one year, we are enough to cheer the saddest heart, to rouse up the most lagging faith, and to kindle hope for the future. As we look over it, we exclaim, with wonder as well as gratitude, 'What hath God wrought!' and if we ever doubted before, we cannot doubt now. 'Blessed are they who, not having seen, have believed'; but they who cannot exercise such faith as that, can believe now in the success of their enterprise, for they almost see it. They hardly need much faith to believe, with the Church bowing down before it, the Democratic party breaking to pieces at its touch, that even 'the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.' (Loud applause.)
SPEECH OF REV. GEORGE F. NOYES 
I was asked last year, when it was my privilege to address this Society, how I could occupy this platform, and yet, as I stated in the course of my remarks, vote with the Republican party? That question has been lying over against me one year; I propose briefly to answer it, to scene extent, at this time. It involves, you perceive, two propositions. First, Why am I here to-day? Goethe says somewhere, 'The ever-womanly draweth us on'; and so the last speaker, in her remarks, foreshadowed some of the reasons, atleast, that leads me to occupy this platform to-day, and to esteem it one of the highest privileges of my life. If, fellow-citizens, yon have not felt the manacles which clank upon the limbs of the Southern slave upon your limbs also, I have felt them now for several years. If you have not felt that the free spirit of the North was chained and crushed beneath the iron heel of Southern despotism, I have felt it, and writhed under it these many years. When I have seen our representatives in Congress, instead of standing up for the rights of the North and demanding that we, a free people, should be freely heard in expression of our opinions, courtesying to this miserable sorceress of slavery, speaking with bated Breath, and only half their voice, the word of liberty, and Edward Everett creeping on his hands and knees into the Senate chamber, and presenting the petition of three thousand citizens of this country, as if he were kneeling at the feet of some sorceress, and feared she would not listen to himï¿½resigning his place soon after (for I suppose the man had some sense of shame still left,) becsuse be could not beer the feeling of remorse and ignominy that pressed upon himï¿½when I have seen our representatives in the other hall ready also to do the bidding of the South, I, for one, must confess that I have felt the chain of which our friend has spoken, and felt as one with the slave, being bound with him. And it is a matter for congratulation to stand hereï¿½here, where at least we may have the satisfaction of saying that we are free in a practical protest against slavery.(Applause.) I am here, then, because I am a freeman of America, and this seems to be the place where I can best assert my freedom from this Slave Power that is tyrannizing over the country.
In every movement, and espiecially in this anti-slavery movement, three things are necessary before it can have any practical success in the country. We must have a union of three things: the Northern heart must be educated aright; the Northern sentiment and Northern feeling must be strong, and burning, and zealous; the Northern head must be educated aright; we must have right conceptions and right ideas of our duty in this matterï¿½of our duty to the South and our duty to ourselvesï¿½and then we must have strong and willing Northern hands to execute and carry out those conceptions which true sentiments dictate and true ideas suggest. I stand here to-day becsuse this is the manufactory of Northern sentiment upon the slavery question. I do not know, sir, exactly how many years you have presided over this manufactory, but among those recollections which shall be precious to every reader of American history will be the recollection of the time when you, in some obscure garret, only aided by a boy, commenced this movement, which has been manufacturing Northern sentiment ever since. (Loud applause.) It must be gratifying to you, and you must allow us to say so, even to your face, to see how this sentiment has gone on growing year by year, until, sir, I have now to charge you, before this jury of the American people, with having broken up the Charleston Convention! (Laughter and applause.) I charge you with having broken up the great and united Democratic party of this country. (Renewed applause.) I charge you, and the friends who have worked with you, with being responsible for all this irrepressible conflict,' the turmoil of which has filled the common air for the past ten yean; I charge upon you the heroism of men and women exhibited in the campaign in Kansas; I charge you with the heroism which sent John Biown to that fatal day of Harper's Ferry; I charge you with all these enormities which have been heaped up against the anti-slavery party; and I am glad to see that you bear the charge with so smiling a countenance and a heart, as I believe, full of faith in truth and faith in God. (Cheers.) I am rather glad to be here to make these charges, and see how jury of my countrymen will pass upon them. It is a great thing, you know, to have these scapegoats in a country. In old times, when a nation was guilty of some great sin, they selected a goat, and, in some mysterious manner, heaping all the sins of the community upon his back, sent him off howling into the wilderness. These brave speakers of ours have been the scapegoats of this nation for twenty years. The Churches place all their sins upon their backs. Whenever a Southerner finds fault with Northern sentiment, he is pointed to there scapegoats, and told, 'It is all owing to these Northern Abolitionists'; and we try to drive them off howling into the wilderness, but somehow or other they don't go. They stay with us, and make our hearts burn and our nerves thrill with their eloquence upon this great subject, until many of us, under the shadow of their great protection, are able to stand firm upon this platform who, ten years ago, would not have dared to show our heads even in the rear seats of this house. I saw a picture in one of the pictorials recently which represented a huge balloon, the top of which was composed of the head and face of Douglas, and the car, which it was lifting with its gas (and he always has plenty of that, you know,) contained h0is confreresï¿½those who hang by the skirts. It lacked but one thing to make it historically true; and at we had a paper in this country like the English Punch, that picture would have been perfectly carried out It needed the figure of Garrison, in the shape of a demon, (to carry out their conception,) pricking this balloon and letting out the gas of popular sovereignty, and letting our friend Stephen down to the prefer level of his own ignominy. (Laughter and loud applause.) 
I say, than, I am glad for many reasons to be hare. And now a few words as to the other side of the question. We must have, in every great reform, prophets and seers; we must have men to stand upon the Mount of Vision, and predict the good time coming to the people. But. somehow or other, it happens that a prophet is rarely the best man for practical methods. It was the case with the greatest prophet that ever lived, Jesus of Nazareth. His great soul, filled with the sublime ideas inspired in him by God, could not descend to those forms and institutions which were necessary practically to carry out his ideas; and my ideas is, that Jesus of Nazareth never gave to his disciples any such thing as a church form, or made any attempt at a theological creed. I consider that his was too great a soul for any each thing as that; but he stood upon the Mount of Vision, and allowed him-
<c02>
self to be the receptacle of the divine inspiration which he poured out upon the peopleï¿½grand, universal truths, far-reaching as are the needs of humanity, and universal and all-embracing as are its tastes and capacities. Such men, I repeat, as seers and prophets, are not the beat men to form institutions; and, with all my veneration for my friend Mr. Garrison and those who have labored with him, I, for one (this being a free platform,) am free to confess my difference of opinion in some respects. It seems to me that they are excellent physicians, in one point of view; they give us an exact ciagnosis of the disease; they show us the symptoms in the body politic, how the veins are ailed with corruption, and how eruptions are breaking out upon the surface; but it seems to me that they do not give as a practical method of curing this disease, such as the exigencies of the time demand. One of the methods, perhaps the chief method, which it offered is the dissolution of the Union. Now, to that method, I am free to say, I wholly distent. I am not going to give you a long speech, but in a few words let me state my idea upon this point. It seems to me that our fathers who fought the battles of the Revolution, while they left us this amount of good for ourselves and our children, left us also this terrible evil of slavery, which it is our duty to root out and exterminate. It seems to me that while we accept the good which they have left us, it is our duty, as strong men and understanding the age in which we live, to meet this evil boldly and squarely, and look it fairly in the face, on every field or forum where it may be presented. It does not seem to me exactly bold and courageous to cut off the slave from us, and erect a wall between the North and the South, ignoring the slave, and casting him off. On the contrary, it seems to me that it is my duty, as an American citizen, should any crisis demand the use of my right arm, upon any field, should any crisis demand my voice in any assembly where that voice is needed, or demand my vote in that quiet way in which our system of ballot utters the voice of the peopleï¿½it is my duty, I say, to look this evil, under any such circumstances, fairly in the face, and insist upon it that the South shall deal fairly by the North and by the slave. (Loud applause.)
My friends, it seems to me that our fathers left us an undivided farm. Around this farm there is one immense stone wall, but no walls dividing it up into separate farms. I don't propose to let the South take all the meadow land away from us. I think it is my duty to keep this farm undivided to the end. We need all these varieties of Foil and climate. I claim it for liberty, and don't propose to yield one inch to slavery. I claim it for those principles which our forefathers fought to maintain and left to us as a precious and sacred heritage, and it seems to me like surrendering a part of their gift to allow a single acre to be devoted to slavery, and thus turned aside from the great uses for which they intended it.
Now, I do not pretend that the Republican party is at all perfect, or doing so much as I could wish in that direction. I do not pretend to be very anxious to elect a Republican President. I am very sure that we could not have a Republican President who could do more for anti-slavery than James Buchanan has done for three years past. The thing is absolutely impossible. I feel grave doubts whether the country is able to bear a Republican President. I am afraid that there would be such an effort to stand perfectly straight, as between the North and the South, that there would to a falling backwards into the aims of the South. I much prefer to a Republican President of that stamp, an open and avowed slave of slavery, like the present President. 'Whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad.' And I should much prefer one crazy and mad in his devotion to personal ambition, and his yielding to the Slave Power. You see what work he has made of it. The anti-slavery principle has grown stronger year by year, and every effort that he has made to aid the South has resulted in a manner contrary to their desire and to their wishes. I say, therefore, that I do not think the Republican party is able to bear the election of their candidste for the Presidency yet; and though I shall vote for the Republican candidate, I shall have a great deal of philosophy, no matter how the returns come in.
I am a practical man; I want to do something. I admit that the gentlemen who occupy this platform are the fountain and spring of anti-slavery effort; but I, for one, would like to be one of the little pipes that help to bring those waters so that they shall fertilize the land, and practically aid the growth of the country. I want to do something, and I think I can do something, in a small way, by continuing my connection with the Republican party.
Then, there is another idea I have about the Republican party. You see how it has been with the Slave Power. Year after year it has increased its demands. Propositions made at one Democratic Convention have been excelled in atrocity by propositions made at another, until at last a demand was made at the Charleston Convention, which even Northern Democratic doughfaces could not endure. Thus they have endeavored to carry out the false idea, which they have taken to their bosoms, that they have a divine right to their properly in man. Now, my friends, it is just the same with a true idea. Taken into the hearts of the people, what is to be the result of it? You have heard of the fiery cross of Scotland, going from clan to clan, and calling the different clans to the tents of their chief. It is the same way with the true idea. When a grand and true idea takes possession of a nation, that nation must follow its bidding, try they never to hardly to resist it. The Republican party is innoculated with the disease, as some call it, of anti-slavery. The Republican party has, to some extent, taken to its bosom this true idea, that there can be no such thing as property in man; and all history makes it manifestï¿½I could point you to illustrations filling the whole page of historyï¿½that there is but one course which the Republican party can take. Its newspapers may seek to smooth over matters, its leaders may seek to temporize, they may set up a great brazen idol at Chicago, and call upon the people to fall down and worship it, but this idea is in the hearts of the people, and the Republican party must do its bidding.
I will predict here the course of the Republican party. I say it will be compelled to follow the idea of the people. I predict that as the Democratic party has been compelled to put plank after plank into its platform, each excelling the other in ignominy, so the Republican party, which has taken, not a false, but a true idea, will be compelled to put plank after plank into its platform, each better and more fully representing the anti-slavery idea. The repeal of the Fugitive Slave law will certainly be, in my opinion, a plank in the platform of the Republican party. The utter abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia will be another. Oh, that is one of the hardest things for an American to bearï¿½to go where our country's representatives meet, and where the representatives of foreign powers go to have intercourse with our government, and see the flag of Slavery floating from the capital; to go into society at Washington, and find it all tainted with this corruption; so that to utter a tingle sentiment is to exile one's self from social hospitality. I say, then, that another plank will be put into the Republican platformï¿½the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, or else the removal of the national capital to freer and purer soil. (Loud applause.)
I think, also, that we have got to go a step farther. Inexorably logical is the progress of a true idea. It must follow, of necessity, in the path marked out by God. Men may temporise, men may talk about expediency, but a true idea is inexorably logical in its course, and, when once started, ' will have free course, run and be glorified.' I want to read to you two resolutions passed by the eceding portion of the Democratic Convention at Charleston, when the split took place which was caused by our friends here:ï¿½
<c03>
Resolved, That the platform adopted by the Democratic party at Cincinnati be affirmed, with the following explanatory resolutions:ï¿½ 
First, that the government of a Territory organized by an act of Congress is provisional and temporary, and during its existence all citizens of the United States have an equal right to settle with their property in the Territory, without their rights, either of person or property, being destroyed or injured by Congressional or Territorial legislation. 
Second, That it is the duty of the Federal Government, in all its departments, to protect the rights of persons and property in the Territories, and wherever else its constitutional authority extends.
Well, that reads very innocently, does it not? But these are the very resolutions which the other portion of the Democratic party could not accept. Yet, it is all very innocent, is it not? Do we not all feel that the citizens of a State have a right to be protected in their personal property in the national territories? And what can the Republican party say to thisï¿½what answer can they make to this resolution? The only logical answer that is left to themï¿½and that answer they will be compelled to make, as this issue resches its culminationï¿½is that there can be no such thing as property in man. (Loud applause.) Why, all may agree to these resolutions. They are good American resolutions; I could sign them myself, but I should wish it to be distinctly understood that I did not mean to endorse the idea, by the use of that little word 'property,' that there can be such a thing as property in man. The Republican leaders may attempt to smooth over this thing; the Tribune may talk Douglas one day, and Bates the next; they may take a barren word, and try to make the American people prostrate themselves before this idol of ' Expediency,' but, as I said before, the progress of one of God's ideas is inexorably logical, and they cannot help this ' irrepressible conflict' that has been declared; they must take this ground, that man cannot rightfully hold property in man, or else they have no ground to stand upon. They will be in the condition of the Convention that meets to-day in Baltimore, which proposes to resolve, I suppose, that all discussion of the question of slavery is wrong, and must be immediately abolished; a Convention which does not intend to have any platformï¿½and why? Because they have got nothing to stand on, (laughter,) and hence they have no planks with which to build a platform. A Convention composed of superannuated fossils, in which one may refresh his memory of the politics of the middle ages, but in which nothing is to be found of the sparkle and life of the American of to-day. They remind me of an anecdote of one of the Presidents of Harvard College, in the early days, when the students were not so numerous as they are now, and the President knew the families and the genealogy of all the boys in the college. One of the boys came to him one day with a rueful face, and asked to be allowed to go home.'Why,' said he, 'what for?' 'I want to go home to bury my grandmother.' 'o,' said the President, 'your maternal or paternal grandmotherr' 'It is my grandmother on my mother's side.' 'Ah, yes,' said the President; 'Mrs. Smith. Well, you may go home; it's time she was buried; she died four years ego!' (Great merriment.) I feel the same way about our friends, the fossils. They are going to bury the Whig party, and it is high time, for it died more than four years ago; (laughter;) and I am afraid the Constitutional party will be what they call a 'disappointment,' and be rather still-born.
I think, then, that we have everything to encourage us at this time. I believe that the necessity of the case will drive the Republican party to stand about where you stand now. I believe that the laws of emigration and population are with us. Every census-taker who carries the returns to Washington from our growing and clastic Northern States is an anti-slavery worker in disguise, even though he have a commission from James Buchanan in his pocket. I have sometimes felt almost afraid that the South would into fere and prevent the taking of the census this year, so damaging will be its results to them, because it will show that the North, glowing with free labor, is elastic and growing, while the South is tottering to decay. The North attracts population from foreign countries, the South seeks only to attract population from Africa, and it is to be hoped that the day is near at hand when that means of emigration will be put a stop to.
I know the discouragement of those who put expediency out of sight, but it is a great thing to stand for truth and an idea; and though some of the humble workers of this cause may go to their graves without knowing that they have done anything to I help it, yet there will be a joy and peace given to them which shall make their lives happy, and make their passage into the other world more peaceful and serene. For one, I would willingly wander the forty years in the desert, if from some Pisgah I might look into the promised land, and feel that the time was coming when my children should enjoy an America absolutely free; when no more the groans of the slaves; should reach their ears; when no more our fellow-creatures should be compelled to box themselves up as living freight, and be transported on our railroads towards the North star; when no more should Northern citizens fear to go to the South, lest they should be impriso ed and subjected to indignityï¿½a time in which this Democratic idea of which we think so much shall be really carried out, and America be be given up to Religion, to Liberty, and to Law. (Lopd applause.)
This speech preceded those of Miss Grew and Mr. Garrison, to which they were in reply.]
SPEECH OF J. ELIZABETH JONES.
More than a quarter of a century since, the Society upon whose platform I now stand was organized for the specific and sole purpose of waging a war of extermination against chattel slavery. The position it then assumed it maintains now. The doctrine it proclaimed in 1833, it enforces in 1860. They are the same, because human rights are the same, human duties are the same. 
Its founders were not superficial thinkers. They looked into the philosophy of life, into the nature of man, and the purposes of his Creator. The cause they knew not, they searched out. Having ascertained the character of slavery, the path of duty was plain. The unchangeable principles upon which their enterprise was based attest alike the wisdom of the founders, and the ultimate triumph of their cause. Like the Great Teacher who condensed his whole system of ethics into two commandments, so they reduced this subject to the simplest propositions. First, the slave has a right to freedom; second, it is the duty of the master to emancipate him, immediately; third, it is our right and our duty to oppose every institution, every organization, every measure of policy, every expression of opinion that tends to delay the period of the slave's deliverance. We stand here, then, to-day, making direct issue with the Slave Power. We know its strength. We know that the wealth, politics, literature and religion of the country are the four corner-stones on which it rests. And yet we are here to reiterate these simple truths. The truth is mighty, and it will prevail.
We are told that the slaves are well fed and well clothed. That is nothing to our argument. But they are happy! So much the worse for the master. If he has obliterated the line between the man and the brute, I should rather not stand in his place when he goes to judgment, Slavery cannot be covered up with broadcloth and a bandanna. It cannot be made respectable, not even with the cast-off clothing of the master. Gilt buttons and gold chains do not help it. These things subserve two purposes only; they gratify the vanity of the master, and befool Northern divines who go down there for South-side views. 
It is chattelism that we war with. It is bringing, into subserience one man to the will of another,
<c04>
marking him for another's benefit, using him for another's pleasure, and convenience, and interest, against which we enter our protest. The question is not the color of his coat, or the kind, but the color of the statute under which he is enslaved. The question is not what he eats, or how much money shall be spent upon him, but it is this. Shall ha be recognised as a man? We make no issues with the abuses of power, with the incidents of the system, or any of its natural results. We have no contests with whips, and gags, and chains, and thumbscrews, but with that organized and legalized power that team away the crown of manhood, and brands the human being as a brute. Hence, all the representations of Northern apologists, of Union-saving partisans, that the slaves are fat and aleak, contented and happy, fall to the ground. They have no bearing upon the question.
Mr. President, the Americans are full of sympathy for the oppressed of other lands. I am glad that it is so. When Greece shook off the dust of her degradation, and went forth to battle with the Moslem host, the sympathy of our people was there, their aid was there. When Poland struck for freedom, and, single-handed and alone, stood up against the legions, of the North, the prayer of this nation went up as from one man, 'God save the land of Kosciosko!' Aye, the offerings of the friends of Italy is yet fresh upon the altar. When Garibaldi needed arms, arms were sent him, and a thousand generous wishes besides. 
But, ladies and gentlemen, among those whom we seek to deliver, there are no cultivated intellects, no' men of position and influence, no manly Pole or noble Greek, no Mazzini, no Kossuth, but only ignorant, degraded American slaves. We think this fact places us under far greater obligation to labor in their behalf. We are responsible, in a great measure, for their oppression.We have made them what they are, and it is the part of common justice to try to repair the injury we have done. The benevolence of the age, the Christ of the present, teaches us that because the slaves are poor, and ignorant, and degraded, and coarse, and repulsive, we should humble ourselves in the dust, and beg them to forgive the unmeasured wrongs we have heaped upon their <Illegible>.
The question arises, Why do the people of this country sustain slavery? They do not think it right. They do not think it God-ordained. It would imply too much spiritual degradation to suppose that they believe any such thing. Chas. O'Conor may believe it, and Benjamin Brewster, and a few othersï¿½just enough to prove that total depravity it a sound point in our Orthodox creed.
But why do thousands and tens of thousands thus direct their influence, when they know that the system is a curse to the master, a grievous wrong to the slave, as Jefferson said? It is difficult to tell; though we see in one case that the success of party seems to require it. It is needed to get office, or to retain it. The peace and prosperity of Zion are supposed to demand the sacrifice. The cloud that hangs over Southern trade must be swept away, or show a silver lining. Social position requires such concession, perhapsï¿½a compromise of principle whose lubrications will prevent the jar of discord, and thus preserve the harmony of each particular sphere.
There is a large class who are neglectful, thoughtlessï¿½ don't care anything about the slavesï¿½wish they were all in Guinea, or in Central America, perhapsï¿½ for they are tired of this negro question. These are generally people of good impulses, but have no judgment nor reflection. They desire what is right in the main, though the desire is not sufficiently strong to put forth an effort for its accomplishment. They would like to have the kingdom of heaven come to them, but they cannot take the trouble to go to it. Like that low order of animals that are attached to a rock in the water, they receive simply what the current brings within their grasp. They hope that their church don't sustain slavery, but that matter is left to the pastor. It is true, they sometimes quote, 'Thus saith the Lord,' but it matters little to them whether it is the Lord of Sinai, or the celebrated Dr. Lord of Dartmouth College. The latter is just about as good authority as the former with them. 
Quite unlike these is another class, who are making the age bright with incessant activity. The arts and the sciences manufactures and commerce, literature, law and divinity, attest their mental vigor, and the scope of their powers. But talk about the unity of the race! the doctrine is as fabulous, in their eyes, as the mythology of the ancients. Talk about that chain of human brotherhood that circles this world of ours, binding all to each, and each to all, linking the interest of the most degraded with that of the most exalted, and they regard you as one demented. 
It is thus, through culpable indifference, through an avowed approval from fancied self-interest, a servile acquiescence, and a want of understanding of human brotherhood, that slavery curses our nation at the present time, and the despots of the Old World rejoice at the practical failure of Democracy in the New. 
I felt like saying this much in relation to the fundamental principles upon which our movement is based, and the apathy and interested motives that retard its advancement. On the present occasion, I did not propose to make any appeal on behalf of the slaves in the Southern portion of this confederacy. The few words I have to utter in continuation will be addressed to the slaves of the North.
I will not ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt our platform. You may not have faith in it. You may not be prepared for the sacrifices it involves. And yet, I believe, our cardinal doctrines are never proclaimed but they reach that portion of the human heart which God keeps sacred to himself. "If they be not heeded, the consequences are inevitable. 
I will not ask you to come up to that lower plane, and make issue with the incidents of the system. I will not ask you to enter, in any way, into the wrongs of four millions of American bondmen. They have been robbed, but I will ask you to bring to judgment the robber. They have been beaten, and bruised, and 'trampled in the dust; they have been herded together like swine, marriage taken away, domestic ties scoffed at, learning forbidden; all the injustice and oppression that can be inflicted upon a subjected people has been inflicted upon them, but I will not ask you to take vengeance upon the perpetrators of these' crimes. I will not ask you to rescue from the auction-block young and beautiful women, who are to be dragged away where the dark cloud of evil passions spends itself in fearful ruin. I will not ask you to comfort the slave mother whoses heart ia freighted with agony at the sale and the eternal loss of her child. I will not ask you to stay the hand of any Margaret Garner that is raised to take the life of her loved ones to save them from a fate worse than death. I will not ask you to listen to the wail of despair from the rice swamps. I will not ask you even to see the prostrate victims who, with outstretched arms, have so long implored your help. No! no! I will not ask you to be humane. I will not even inquire whether you have any humanity. You may shut your eyes, and stop your ears, and harden your hearts, and totally ignore the slave and all his wrongs, if you please. Keep him wholly out of sight and out of mind till the day of retribution shall come. He can bear the yoke. His father and his father's father bore it before him. He can drink of the cup they drank, and receive such baptism of suffering as overwhelmed them. Let him alone, forget him, if you wish! 
'But, in the name of all the patriarchs and heroes that have gone before you, in the name of Liberty whom you profess to adore, let me warn yon not to be beguiled into forgetfulness of your own rights! Let no deceitful dream, in relation to freedom which was bequesthed by your fathers, blind you to the fact that you are a conquered people, and that there is
<c05>
far more cause for resistance to tyrants now, in your own ease, than there was in the days of the fathers. Don't close your eyes to the manacles on yoar limbs. Don't shut out the fact that slavery firmly controls the press, the pulpit, the judicial bench, as with the iron hand of fate, and, in its reign of terror, sacrifices to public resentment and to private malice the property, life, liberty, all the dearest interests of those who claim to be free.
Let me remind you of all the martyrs to the cause if freedom from Elijah P. Lovejoy down to the last rictim which Virginia sacrificed in her bloody drama. yet me recall to your memory all the friends of humanity who have suffered captivity for practical right-eousness, from the time that Charles T. Torrey died in a Maryland prison even to the recent day when the Rev. Daniel Worth (who seems to be worth a score of common Reverends) escaped from a Carolina jail. Let me speak of the utter humiliation of our people in suffering a series of floggings which have been transferred from the backs of slaves to the backs of their friends, and which have increased in frequency as the power of slavery increased, until they have now become so numerous that one can hardly name them. Call to mind the expulsions of Northern men, since Carolina sent home the official agent of Massachusetts, and which, within the last six months, have come thick and fast, until Kentucky capped the climax of despotism by driving from Berea her own native-born citizens. Think of our boast of a free press, and of laws for the protection of property, and then remember how printing-offices have been assailed, from the time the first printing press was buried in the Ohio river down to the lawless violence in Kansas and Kentucky, and the peril of Cassius M. Clay and his friends in the latter State. 
But I will not detail these outrages. Read the 'New Reign of Terror,' and ponder upon the ignominious treatment our people endureï¿½treatment to which none but a race of slaves would ever submit. Shall I be told that these are simply the acts of individuals, and of individual States, which are drunk with the blood of the bondman, and are clinging with a death-like grasp to the institution? It must be expected that they will commit deeda of madness. Turn, then, to the action of the Federal Government. Those who have read its history need not be told that slavery is its vital and animating principle. Whether the administration has been Federal, Democratic or Whig; whether it has been the friend or the foe of embargo or non-intercourse acts; whether it has advocated or opposed a national bank; whether it has favored or discouraged a protective tariff, or a tariff for revenue; it has ever been true to this system of oppression, and made everything else subsidiary to it. Since the practice of compromise was introduced by the ordinance of '87, our history has been a series of almost uninterrupted concessions on the part of freedom, and of triumphs on the part of slavery. 
The adoption of the Constitution was followed by the Fugitive Slave law of '92, and that has given place to the more odious one of 1850. The purchase of Louisiana led to the more recent purchase of Florida, and the ambitious designs upon Cuba and other territory farther south. The establishment of slavery in the District of Columbia led to the opening of the domestic slave trade there. The power of our government at home has been used to sustain this institution, while the strength of its foreign diplomacy has been directed to its prosperity and its perpetuity. Learned judges have construed law in favor of human bondage, and recognized in the oppressor rights which are denied to the advocates of freedom. But it is needless to specify. It is sufficient to say, the germ of compromise planted in our organic law has brought forth bitter and accursed fruit. I trust that the scene which the present unfolds to our view is the culmination of that wicked and mistaken policy which endesvored to unite and protect in the same government the two opposing principles of human freedom and of chattel slavery.
There can be no mistake in this matter. The abuses of governmental patronage, the organized violations of natural rights, no one will question; or that every effort which the North has made to place freedom in the ascendant has only shown that she is hopelessly bound to the support of despotism. In view of these facts, I unhesitatingly declare that while forbearance has ceased to be a virtue, passive endurance has become the shelter of the coward. 
But we might let many of these things pass as a page of history that it is hardly worth while to exhume, as we live fast, in this fast age, and forget very soon; but there are the present aggressions of the Federal Government trampling under foot the rights of every man who is hostile to slavery. Kansas and her outrages may be forgotten by us, the trace of ruffianism may wholly fade from her beautiful plains, yet we know there are human hearts that have not forgotten, and that never will forget, and, I suppose, it might be wisdom in us to remember thst, under like circumstances, we should suffer like indignities. Bury in oblivion, if you wish and if you can, that base attack upon Senator Sumner, and the shameful neglect with which the Senate treated it, but don't ask him to forget those days of suffering, and that weary pilgrimage in a foreign land; and I think self-interest might cause you to remember that whenever a like opportunity offers, you may suffer in a similar way. Forget, if you will, that the United States marines were despatched for the support of Slavery, in the hour of her extremity at Harper's Ferry; forget, too, that they guarded the Virginia gallows from which John Brown passed to a glorious immortality, but don't ask the stricken ones at North Elba to forget these things; and it would be well to remember, for our own sake, that our conscientious convictions will avail ua naught in a contest with this power that oppresses us. 
Class, if you will, Judge Taney's Dred Scott decision with the things of the past, which are bound by no visible link to the present, there is still no lack of matter to show that neither under State nor Federal government has any lover of freedom any adequate protection for his rights. 
Go down to the city of Washington, enter its jail, and ask Thaddeus Hyatt how this matter stands. Congress, through Senator Mason's Investigating' Committee, attempted to compel him to answer such questions as they chose to propound. He denied their right, and fully demonstrated their want of power. And this contumacious witness thereby became guilty of contempt. With a wonderful economy, the officers of judge, jury, accuser and executioner were combined in one, and, without any chance of appeal, except to the high court of public opinion. Thaddeus Hyatt must stay in jail till the Senate shall conclude he has suffered enough, or until he has purged himself of contempt; and I do not see how any sensible man can ever purge himself of contempt for the present American Congress! Thus does the United Ststes Senate act within the Capital where it has the power. 
It sends its agents abroadï¿½sends up to Concordï¿½ that holy battle-groundï¿½for Frank B. Sanborn. He did not choose to obey their bidding. He was free, and meant to remain so. They seised him; tried to run him off South on an opposition underground railroad. But for the timely aid of a Massachusetts Court, he might now be lying in jail. I hope Concord will vindicate the reputation she once acquired, and stand ready to inaugurate a new revolution for the rights of man, no matter by what power those rights are assailed, and, if need be, to bring out again those time-honored arms that were successfully used by the rebels of 1775.
Why wait any longer? Why delay the settlement of this question? It must come, sooner or later. We have no reasonable ground for hope that our coalition will be bettered. It ia not with us as it was with the Fathers. They had everything to encourage them. Then freedom was strong, and slavery
<c06>
was weak. Freedom has been nursed in the camp, and baptized on the battle on the battle-field, It was vigorous, and grew into stately proportions. Slavery was tettering with feebleness and wasting with want. It was expected soon to die, and the hour of its dissolution appeared to be very near.
Un fortunately, it lived, it grew, it waxed strong. It has became a legislator, a ruler and twenty millions of professed freedom now humble themselves before its power. Now Freedom is weak. She trebles with fear. She often hides away. God only knows where. Not in the hearts of men, surely. 
We have very much to discourage us. When men read the doctrine of human equality ny the gleaming light of British sabres, they read it aright. When they wrote out their protests against opperssion in human blood, they meant something. But now men look through the powerful lens of a mistaken selfinterest, and their eyes are full of gold dust, and they can't see; and they talk about liberty in faintest whispers and it don't mean anything.
Did not Lee, and Pinckney, and Randolph and Henry all unite in condemning slavery? whatever their practice may have been, those bitter denunciations show that conscience was yet alive; that they could not rob others of liberty without sore <Illegible>. But the system which was tolerated as an evil then, is now cherished as an institution involving the commission of no wrong. lt has beeb legalized, sanctioned and sanctified, and neither from Southernpress, nor pulpit, nor forum, nor legislative hall is heard scarcely a word of misgiving or of condemnation. Even the Old Dominion, that once boasted of the statesmen she gave to the country, now exults in the number of chattels she raises for the markets. The counsels of her Jefferson, her Monroe and her Henry are forgotten, and in their place come the maudlin ravings of her misnamed Wise.
Every slave State is in a similar condition. The manhood of their statesmen has sickened and died under the long-continued exercise of despotism. The public conscience is dead. The corrupting influences of this system are seen everywhere. It is true, liberal principles have made progress, among a certain clase at the North, and, moral atmosphere has been so cleared up that the crack of John Brown's rifle was heard from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and is still echoing and re-echoing among all the valleys and hill, of this Republic; yet slavery has also become exacting, and many from whom we expected better things have become the embodiment of sicky servility.
We started out as a nation with principle that will bear the test of ages far more virtuous then our own; and now, within the short space of eighty-five years, we are within the eddying circle of a maelstrom that threatens speedy destruction. We were regarded as a people who dared to maintain the doctrine of man's civil, political and religious liberty; and now we are regarded as a people who make slavery an interest paramount to all other interests.
We have brought sorrow and sadness to the hearts of every liberals in the old world. We have disappointed their fondest hopes. The venerable Humboldt. long before he died, despaired utterly of the success of our republican experiment. Lagayette went to the grave with the declaration on his lips that if he had known what use we were going to make of our liberty, he would never have drawn the sword in our behalf. The muzzled press, of Europe regularly retails accounts of our slave-hunting and woman-whipping, and seasons them with sneers at beautiful American liberty, and gives them at specimens of American democracy.
All this humiliation we munt submit to, so long as Freedom is yoked with the foul and loathsome hag of Slavery, and compelled to drag with her the car of State. 
Now, I ask, in all seriousness, have we not suffered enough? Hare we not been used long enough at tools of the Slave Power? Your money has been taken to sustain it, your reputation to make it respectable, your religion to sanctify it! And yet you submit. Can't you be maddened into manhood? Is there no heroism in the present lime? Would any man here dare to sign a Declaration of Independence? Would he sign it at Carroll did? lie wrote out Charles Carroll of Carrollton, so that when the Tories came with their halter, they might know where to find him. I believe that the time has now arrived when we must choose whether slavery shall tread out the last spark that slumbers upon Liberty's altar, or whether American freedom shalll fulfil the promises of its birth.
Are we afraid to meet the question? Shall we, coward-like, shrink from the contest, and bequeath to our children the dark and loathsome curse? Shall we throw upon them the burden of this battle for human rights, embarrassed as they would be by our cowardice and our procrastination?
I leave this question for each of you to settle individually. 
THE LIBERATOR.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
BOSTON, JUNE 1,1860. 
A REPRESENTATIVE MAN FALLEN. 
The announcement, in our last number, of the very serious illness of THEODORE PARKER, has prepared our readers for the further intelligence that he departed this life at Florence, on the 10th of May. He has thus been removed in the maturity of his marvellous faculties and powers, before completing his fiftieth year; having performed an immense amount of brain-work as a scholar, a thinker, philanthropist, and a reformer, yet leaving undone much that his teeming mind and noble heart were constantly projecting. He had a large ambition, but it was to serve his race, and to banish superstition and error from the earth. His ability to acquire knowledge. in every direction, was most extraordinary, yet not greater than his disposition to use that knowledge with unbounded prodigality for the enlightenment and welfare of his fellow-men. Few men have ever possessed such powers of analysis and classification, reasoning from cause to effect, and showing the relation of things on a broad and philosophical basis. His works will be a splendid legacy to posterity. They are more read and better known is Europe than those of any other ethical writer in America, and have already revolutionized the idess and opinions of a vast multitude on both sides of the Atlantic. However open to criticism in some respects, they challenge universal admiration for their scholarly proficiency and moral independence. Mr. Parker dared to be true to his highest convictions, and to utter them boldly, at great cost to his reputation; knowing that he would be branded as a heretic and represented as a pestilent and seditions fellow. It was not in his nature to wish to be singular, or to give offence in any direction; but be could not lay aside his manhood, or suppress his honest opinions. much as he desired to live in peace with all men. His personal friends were very strongly attached to him, for they knew his worth, and saw the daily beauty of his life. His death makes a void so great that it seems difficult to conjecture how it can ever be filled; but Divine Providence is never foiled by the removal of any man, however useful or great. We join, with a great multitute, in proffering our tenderest sympathies to his estimable widow, who was so eminently worthy to be the partner of one so widely renowned, and to be the partner of one so widely renowned, and whom he was so largely indebted for the joys and felicities of domestic life.
We have no room, this week, further to express our feeling in view of this great bereavement.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
A VALUABLE DOCUMENT
ANNUAL REPORT of the American Anti-Slavery society by the Executive Committee, for the Year ending May 1st, 1859. New York: I860.
This Annual Report, the publication of which has been thus long delayed by unavoidable circumstances, merits the particular attention of every friend of the Anti-Slavery cause. 
In this age, throughout the world as well as in our own country, there is such a rapid succession of events of stirring interest and momentous importance, that the latest tends to displace its predecessors from our memories and minds. We all need this abstract, this compendium of the salient points of a year's history, not to lose the remembrance of important steps in the march of freedom. The first enemy, INDIFFERENCE, is overcome and annihilated. Never more will this land enjoy quiet, freedom from intense and increasing agitation while slavery lasts. And this pamphlet of 144 pages gives us a vivid and intensely interesting picture of the manner in which all the departments of our national and social life have felt the pressure and yielded to the force of this question, which is steadily advancing to take its rightful precedence of every other question in this country—shall slavery reign supreme, or be annihilated?
The history of Slavery and Anti-Slavery for the year in question is condensed under the following heads:—
Kansas—Oregon—Cuba-The Southern Republics-New Slave States in Prospect—New Demand of the Slave Power—The Foreign Slave Trade—The Domestic Slave Trade—Kidnapping—Persecution of the Free Colored People—Alleged Negro Incapacity—Manumissions—New Legal Doctrines—Fugitive Slave Cases-Slave Cases—Rescues and their consequences—Southern Lawlessness and Barbarism—Action of States—The Church—The Tract Societies—The American Board—Foreign Intelligence—Obituary—Agents, Publications, &c.
As the events of no preceding year have been more important, so the record of none has been more intensely interesting than this. Every one of the items above mentioned is important. Every copy of this report should be made to do active service towards the overthrow of slavery in its strong-hold—in the STATES—where the Republicans are now re-pledging themselves to protect it.—c. k. w.
HOME AND COLLEGE. A Public Address delivered in the Hall of the Massachusetts House of Representatives March 8, 1860. By F. D. Huntington, Preacher to the University, and Plummer Professor of Christian Morals in Harvard College. Boston: Crosby, Nichols, Lee & Co., 117 Washington, street. 1860
This address contains some pregnant suggestions as to college life, and is well written and handsomely Printed. Its perusal cannot fail to prove serviceable in the direction intended.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY, for June, has the following list of articles:—‘The Future of American Railways,’ by Thomas C. Clarke, C. E.; ‘In a Fog,’ by E. H. House; ‘The Granadan Girl's Song,’ by, Miss Prescott; ‘The Humming Bird;’ ‘Spring Song,’ by Aubrey de Vere, London; ‘Chess,’ by M. D. Conway, Cincinnati; ‘Model Lodging Houses in Boston,’ by Charles E. Norton; ‘A Short Campaign on the Hudson,’ by F. Sheldon; ‘Thine,’ by Florence Percy; ‘The Representative Art,’ by Adam Badeau; ‘Roba di Roma, The Evil Eye, &c.,’ by W. W. Story; ‘Pythagoras,’ by T. B. Aldrich; ‘Clarian's Picture,’ by Edward Spencer; ‘Japan,’ by E. H. House; ‘The Vineyard Saint,’ by Bayard Taylor; ‘The Professor's story’; ‘The Sphinx's Children,’ by Miss Rose Terry; ‘Reviews and literary Notices.’
BOSTON, May 30, 1860.
MR. GARRISON: SIR—‘Honor to whom honor is due’ is a sentiment all approve; but, suppose the reverse should happen? I allude to an incident that occurred at the Methodist Convention now in session at buffalo. One day, an individual entered the Convention, and the entire assembly rose upon their feet, and he was invited to a seat on the platform. Who was this individual so highly honored? A man who give his name to a certain document known as the fugitive Slave Bill, and who, by a very short sentence, could have killed the bill—to wit, MILLARD FILLMORE! As this fact was duly reported in the papers, but excited no comment, I thought I would call your attention to the same. GEO. W. SIMONDS.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT.
Mary Carpenter, of Bristol, England, is informed that I have received the valuable box of clothing which she sent by ship Havelock; a donation for the noble family of John Brown, who laid down his life to free the slaves.
This box is as worthy to be remembered as the ‘alabaster box of very precious ointment,’ that was poured on the head of Him who came to open the prison doors and set the captives free’—and it will be, wheresoever the gospel of humanity may be truly preached. FRANC1S JACKSON.
THE NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY STANDARD. What we think of the official organ of the American Anti-Slavery Society—of its editorial tact and ability, its well-sustained interest, and its fidelity to the cause it advocates—it is needless for us to say. We quote the following justly commendatory notices of it by other journals, on the commencement of another volume of the Standard in a new and beautiful typographical dress:—
The National Anti-Slavery Standard, the organ and exponent of the Anti-Slavery Society, presided over editorially by Oliver Johnson, Esq., one of the real live anti-slavery men of the present age, came to us last week in an entire new dress. The Standard enters upon its 21st year with this number, and its appearance demonstrates its success. We would recommend it to those who wish a living, radical anti-slavery paper. They cannot find a better one on the continent. Those who wish to try it can do so by addressing the ‘Publisher of the National Anti-Slavery Standard, No. 5, Beekman-st., New York.’-Cortland Republican Banner.
The New York Anti-Slavery Standard, one of the best anti-slavery papers in the country, has just entered upon its twenty-first year, and comes to its numerous readers in a new and elegant freedom suit. Glad to see this evidence of its prosperity. May it ‘live hundred years’! and long before that time see the object, for which it has faithfully labored for twenty years, fully attained. No expense has been spared to make this paper efficient in the cause it advocates, as well as an agreeable visitor to the family circle.—Northern Advocate.
It is hardly necessary for us to say, that we regard the standard as the best paper of its particular type in the country. We never consider ourselves posted on any political question till the view from its editorial stand-point is perused. While disagreeing with its conductors politically and theologically, we cordially hope it may flourish till the last chain drops from the limbs of the last slave.-Norristown Free Press.
Mr. Seward has written to a Committee in New York, in reply to an invitation to attend a ratification meeting, in which he expresses his satisfaction with the nominations made at Chicago—his entire approval of the platform adopted there—his belief in the fidelity of Lincoln and Hamlin to its principles, and his ardent hope that no feelings of disappointment on the part of his friends will be permitted for a moment to hinder or embarrass their election, and the triumph of the cause which the represent.
Gerrit Smith has written a letter to William Goodell of New York, the first written since his convalescence, which is published in the principia, giving an account of his insanity, and the causes which induced it. He attributes it to dyspepsia, and over-working the brain, which produced sleeplessness and finally insanity.
<c02>
From the Boston Journal, May 29th.
DEATH OF REV. THEODORE PARKER.
The telegraph brings the tidings of the death of Rev. Theodore Parker—an event not altogether unanticipated, but which nevertheless will be heavy news to many warm personal friends and parishioners. Mr. Parker was one of the remarkable men of the day, and his influence (whether for good or evil we will not undertake to decide, for human judgment is fallible) has probably been greater than that of any preacher in this country, if we may except Wesley and Channing.
Mr. Parker was born in Lexington, Mass., on the 24th of August, 1810. His father was a farmer, and Theodore prepared himself for college as best he could. He worked on the farm, taught school winters, but studied incessantly. One day he swung the scythe from sunrise to sunset upon his father’s meadow, and the next entered Harvard College. While there, he improved his opportunities, made use of every moment, and graduated a finished scholar. This was not enough. He could not content himself with the knowledge possessed by an ordinary college graduate. The literature of Europe and the East was locked away from him, and so he sat down and mastered the French language, till it was as familiar to his tongue as ‘household words.’ He then studied German, and enjoyed the pleasure of reading the great German authors and poets in their own language. The Italian, the Spanish, the Persian, and indeed all stilt more difficult languages, were made his own. until the civilized world, and parts half civilized, were within his reach. After due preparation, Mr. Parker entered the ministry, and was settled as pastor over a Unitarian church in West Roxbury, Massachusetts. He first excited the suspicions of the religious world by the delivery of a sermon in South Boston, upon the occasion of the ordination of the Rev. Mr. Shackford, in the early part of the year 1841. We will make a single quotation from this sermon, which will indicate its character:—
‘It has been assumed at the outset, it would seem, with no sufficient reason, without the smallest pretence on it’s writer's part, that all of its authors were infallibly and miraculously inspired, so that they could commit no error of doctrine or fact. Men have been bid to close their eyes at the obvious difference between Luke and John; the serious disagreement between Paul and Peter; to believe, on the smallest evidence, accounts which shock the moral sense and, revolt the reason, and tend to place Jesus in the same series with Hercules and Apollonius of Tyana.
An idolatrous regard for the imperfect Scripture of God’s word is the apple of Atalanta, which, defeats theologians running for the hand of divine truth. But the current notions respecting the infallible inspiration of the Bible have no foundation in the Bible itself.’
This sermon creates a good deal of excitement among the Unitarian body, especially the conservatives. They were not satisfied that a man holding such views should have the reputation of being a Unitarian clergyman in good standing. At this time, Mr. Parker left the country for Europe, where he remained for three years, making the acquaintance of some of many of its most learned and philanthropic men. Among others, we may mention the name of Thomas Carlisle, who continued his warm friend and admirer. In the autumn of 1844 he returned, and exchanged pulpits with the Rev. Mr. Sargent, of Boston, a Unitarian clergyman. The conservative Unitarians were exceedingly indignant that Mr. Sargent should admit such a heretic into his pulpit, and they commenced a persecution against him which obliged him to resign his charge. The Rev. Mr. Clarke, another Boston clergyman, soon after offered his pulpit to Mr. Parker, which resulted in great excitement and loss of members to the church. 
Soon after, Mr. Parker was virtually excommunicated from the Unitarian body. He had powerful friends everywhere in the region of Boston; he had warm sympathizers in the Unitarian church, but they were not of sufficient numerical strength to be of service. His church in West Roxbury was crowded; his Boston admirers came out every Sunday in large numbers to hear him. At last they were determined that he should be entirely independent, and invited him to preach to them in the Melodeon. He accepted their invitation, and was settled as their pastor, in the old Puritan fashion. There were no rites or ceremonies connected with his society; he did not administer baptism or communion, and there is in fact no church organization.
Mr. Parker continued to preach to large audiences in the Music Hall for several years, and until failing health admonished him that he must bring his labors to a close. He went abroad about a year ago, hoping, but not expecting, a partial recovery.
The published productions of Mr. Parker have been quite numerous, though mostly confined to theological works. In the year 1842 he published a 12 mo. volume, entitled, ‘A Discourse on matters pertaining to Religion;’ in 1843, a translation of ‘De Witte’s Introduction to the Old Testament,’ in two 8 vo. volumes; in 1843. also, a 12 mo. volume of ‘Critical and, Miscellaneous Writings;’ in 1852, ‘Occasional Sermons and Speeches,’ in two 12 mo. volumes; in 1853, ‘Ten Sermons on Religion,’ in one 12 mo. volume; in 1854, ‘Sermons on Theism, Atheism and the Popular Theology,’ in one 12 mo. volume. The first of these has reached a fourth edition, all the others have reached the second, and with the exception of De Witte, all have been translated into German. In 1855, he published ‘Additional Sermons and Speeches,’ in two 12 mo. volumes; in the same year, ‘The Trial of Theodore Parker for the misdemeanor of a Speech in; Fanueil Hall against Kidnapping, with the Defence,’ in one 8 vo. volume. Besides there, he has published in pamphlets, ‘The Moral Dangers incident to Prosperity,’ ‘Consequences of an Immoral Principle,’ Of Immortal Life,’ ‘The Functions of a Teacher of Religion,’ ‘A New Lesson for the Day,’ and ‘The Great Battle between Slavery and Freedom,’ ‘A Sermon on Old Age, a Farewell Letter to his Society; and several other discourses, the titles of which we cannot now recall.
As a social reformer Mr. Parker was not less widely known than for his theological views. He was radical and uncompromising, and even intolerant, in treating of slavery and its evils. He was also the uncompromising enemy of all social vices. However men might differ from him in opinion, they could not but feel that he was sincere and honest, in his theological and social ideas. And the purity of his life commanded the respect of all.
Mr. Parker was a ripe scholar, a vigorous thinker, and a fearless expounder. The great influence which he unquestionably exerted was based upon his intellectual qualities, for a more finished speaker never entered the pulpit. His sermons were essays, which were at once brilliant and profound, and excited admiration even where they failed to lead captive the intellect.

THEODORE PARKER'S LIBRARY BEQUEATHED TO THE CITY OF BOSTON.—The private library of this divine has been bequeathed to the city of Boston to be deposited in our Public Library. The library consists of more than 30,000 volumes, many of which were selected by Mr. Parker in Europe in years past. The above has been known for some time past in private circles, but it is now first made public—Boston Traveller, 29th inst.
The following extract from a letter addressed to Prof. Newman, of London, communicates the painful intelligence of the death of the Rev. Theodore, Parker, the well-known clergyman of Boston:—

FLORENCE, May 11th, I860.—I have sad news to communicate. Our dear suffering friend, Theodore Parker, died yesterday evening. Yet there never was an easier end to a life but lately full of vigor. I saw him about three hours before he died, lying calmly, while life was ebbing away unconsciously to himself. He left written directions for his funeral, limiting to five the persons attending him to the grave, of whom I am one. Many Americans here are expressing their wish to appear as mourners; but it is thought best to abide by his instructions. He desired the eleven first verses of the Sermon on the Mount (the Blessings of Jesus) to be read over his grave; and then a plain gray stone, with his name and age, and nothing further of inscription. Mr. Cunningham, a Boston Unitarian minister, will read the passage. He is a sincere friend and admirer of Parker's. We hope to get a cast taken of Mr. Parker to-day. Mrs. Parker, his poor gentle wife, has hitherto borne up well. Miss. Stevenson, who has so long resided with them, was also with him to the last. She thinks, from the peculiar tenderness of his manner yesterday, that he knew he was dying. He had been dreamy for some days and talked ramblingly of two Theodore Parkers, one here, and one planted in Boston, who would finish his work; perhaps a true thought, only mystically expressed. Among his last well-connected words were these: ‘Of course, you know I am not afraid to die, though I wished to live and finish much work which I longed to do. I had great powers committed to me, and I have but half used them.’
Since writing this, I have seen him lying, O so peacefully! I have never seen death under a form so devoid of terror. The hectic color remains on his cheek, and it is hard to persuade oneself he has passed away. He ceased to breathe without the least struggle.
Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, of Syracuse, N. Y. (who delivered an admirable address before the American Peace Society, on Monday evening last, in Park street Church,) will occupy the vacant pulpit of Theodore Parker, in Music Hall, on Sunday forenoon next.
<c03>
THE REPUBLICAN NOMINATIONS.
The following is the result of the ballotings at Chicago, for President and Vice-President:—

FOR PRESIDENT—First Ballot. 
Seward, 173½
Lincoln, 102
Cameron, 50½
Chase, 49
Bates, 48
Dayton, 14
McLean. 13
Collamer, 10
Wade, 3
Sumner, 1
Read, 1
Fremont, 1
Whole number of votes, 465;
necessary to a choice, 233.

Second Ballot.
Seward, 184½
Lincoln, 181
Chase, 42½
Bates, 35
Dayton, 10
McLean, 8
Cameron, 2
Clay, 2

Third Ballot.
Lincoln, 354
Seward, 110 1/2
Dayton, 1
McLean, 1/2

FOR VICE PRESIDENT.—First Ballot.
Hamlin, 194
Clay, 101½
Hickman, 68
Reeder, 61
Banks, 38½
Davis, 8
Houston, 6
Dayton, 3
Reed, 1

Second Ballot.
Hamlin, 367
Hickman, 13
Clay, 88
ONE THING SETTLED. Our opponents who profess to be so ignorant of the personal character of the Republican candidate for President, may consider one thing as settled—viz., he is a firm and consistent temperance man—in fact, a cold water man, and nothing else—vide the following from the Baltimore Patriot: ‘This morning we met with one of the delegates to the late Chicago Convention, who informed us that he Committee who were appointed to convey to Mr. Lincoln the official notice of his nomination, as their candidate for President, repaired to Springfield Illinois, in the fulfillment of this duty. He stated that Mr. Lincoln resides in a comfortable mansion in the suburbs of the city, and as the Committee proceeded to his residence, they attracted much attention. His neighbors knowing that Mr. Lincoln was a strictly temperance man, at once dispatched their servants with waiters covered with bottles of wine, brandy, whisky, &c., to enable him to offer what they conceived was proper to these distinguished guests. Mr. Lincoln met these servants who had the charge of these refreshments, and requested them to say to his friends and neighbors that he duly appreciated their kindness, but he could not consent to violate a long established rule of conduct, and that he should treat his guests with plentiful draughts of delicious and pure ice water.’—Chicago Tribune.
SLAVERY ABOLISHED IN NEW MEXICO. The bill abolishing slavery in the Territory of New Mexico, passed by the House of Representatives on last Thursday, is an important and excellent piece of legislation at this time. It provides, that all acts, and parts of acts, heretofore passed by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of New Mexico, which in any wise protect, authorize or legalize involuntary servitude, or he enslavement of human beings within said Territory, except as a punishment for crime upon due conviction, be and are hereby disapproved by the Congress of the United States, and declared to be null and of no effect. Also it has a provision relative to contracts between masters and servants, which reads,—
‘No court of this Territory shall have jurisdiction, nor take cognizance of any cause for the correction that masters may give their servants for neglect of their duties as servants, and also various sections of the act to provide for the protection of property in slaves in the Territories. All Courts and Territorial or Federal officers are prohibited from exercising any authority under or by virtue of any of the, said sections of the said territorial acts.’
UNDERGROUND RAILROAD. There is a man sitting in our office, while we write, who came in on the last train. He hails from Maryland, and is a preacher, and belongs to the Northern branch of the church. He had taken care of his master—a helpless invalid—night and day for two years, and had been promised his freedom. But when the old man was dead, his heirs began to talk of selling his body-servant, and our preacher took to his legs. We have advised him to keep clear of Buffalo, for some of the brethren of his own church, from his region, who are delegates to the General Conference, might catch him. Indeed, we felt a little cautious about letting it be known that he was in Rochester—not that we think that our city would disgrace itself by permitting a slave to be taken back in any ordinary case, but the Presbyterian General Assembly is in session here, and there is no telling what might happen in such a case. There are, no doubt, several reverend gentlemen in that assembly who would not hesitate to practise upon the Southern interpretation of Paul’s letter to Philemon.—Frederick Douglass' Paper.
FUGITIVE RETURNED.—The runaway negro, by the steamer Spaulding, hence to Boston, has arrived in town. He was brought here yesterday, by rail, from Norfolk, in charge of Mr. Win. Mentzel, in behalf the steamboat proprietors. He is now lodged in the Workhouse for recognition and identification. The boy calls himself now Sir William Braddock, and still asserts that he is a free boy from Ohio, but that he has no free papers. If he is a slave, he will undoubtedly be recognized soon.
The other alleged fugitive, by the same boat, is a hoax. No such negro was ever here, nor was any such boat here as the Boston Atlas says he was stoker on. Furthermore, there is no river Tiber in South Carolina, where the boat was reported to run to Other falsities might be exposed in the statement, but it will hardly pay. The game is not worth the powder.—Charleston Mercury.
ANOTHER CAPTURE OF A SLAVER WITH NEARLY SIX HUNDRED SLAVES ON BOARD. We yesterday gave a brief account of the capture of another slave off the island of Cuba with 560 slaves on board. She had, at the time she left Congo River, 744. There was but one American on board, supposed to be the Captain. His name is William Preston, of Philadelphia. The following are the particulars of the capture:—The United States steamer Wyandotte, Lt. Commanding Fabius Stanley, arrived at Key West on the night of the 12th inst., from the south side of the island of Cuba, having in custody the bark William of Baltimore, with 560 African negroes on board. The William was direct from Africa, and was about landing her cargo of humanity, when she was pounced upon by the little steamer Wyandotte and her gallant crew. The negroes are all young, but greatly emaciated by their inhuman treatment and close confinement during the voyage from Africa. The bark William exhausts her supply of food to-day, and will probably discharge her cargo at the African depot to-morrow. She has been in communication with the land, and had on board a Spanish custom-house official at the time of capture.
This is a matter that requires immediate attention by the Government. Another slaver, under Spanish colors, is reported to have been captured by Spanish war vessel, in the vicinage of the place where the bark William was seized.—New York Tribune.
THE CAPTURE OF THE SLAVER WILLIAM.—HORRIBLE CONDITION OF THE SLAVES. The slaver was under the command of Captain William Weston, and| had a crew of twenty-three, all told, who are now prisoners on board the Wyandotte. The Cuban custom-house officer had actually boarded the slaver with a view of obtaining the Captain-General’s share of the slave-money, and was on board the vessel at the time. In four hours’ time the whole cargo would have been landed safely in Cuba, but for their timely capture by the Wyandotte. The negroes were in a horrible condition, almost nude, and both sexes huddled together in a disgusting-manner, the hearty and strong ones beating the weak, and constant fighting going on among them. The sight was most revolting, and the smell on the deck of the slaver was horrible. The officer of the Wyandotte who was put in charge of the slaver reports the sight of the negroes and the odor arising from the slave deck, as most oppressive. The slaver was towed into Key West by the Wyandotte, and owing to head winds was detained four days in making that place. Fifteen negroes had already died on the passage—more were expected to die. The negroes seemed to regard the death of their companions with the utmost indifference.—N. Y. Tribune.
A SLAVE GIRL’S FREEDOM PURCHASED BY MEMBERS OF CONGRESS.—A philanthropic scene occurred in the ante-room of the Representative Hall last week, A handsome mulatto slave girl appeared in charge of Dr. Davidson, with a statement that she had been sold to a negro trader, but by raising $500 cash, and securing payment of $700 more by the 1st of August she could purchase her freedom. The amount was promptly raised among the Republican members.
The whole number of petitioners to the general Methodist Conference for a change in the rules on slavery, is 45,857. The number of those who remonstrate against the change, is 3,999.
<c04>
OBITUARY.
DIED—In this city, May 9, Mrs. SUSANNA T. THAYKR, widow of Nathaniel F. Thayer, Esq., aged 78 years and 8 months. To say that she was a pattern of excellence as a wife and mother, and in all the relations and duties of life, is to do but the simplest justice to her memory. Deprived of her husband at middle age, the cares and responsibilities of a large family devolved upon her, which she met with surpassing fidelity and extraordinary ability. She combined with a never-failing vigilance for the welfare of her own household, a broad sympathy and an active benevolence for the poor and needy, the unfortunate and distressed, without regard to complexion or race, and was never weary in doing good. She was firm, yet gentle; self-reliant and independent, yet modest and retiring; strong in her own convictions, yet catholic in her spirit; eminently conscientious and upright, yet charitable and forbearing toward the erring. Her habitual cheerfulness and amiability made her presence a perpetual benediction. Her translation was without suffering, and almost instantaneous; and although reaching an advanced age, her faculties were clear and unclouded to the last. She who so well performed her part here, cannot but have ascended to a higher sphere of beneficent activity, and heard the heavenly welcome, ‘Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.’-Ed. Lib.
In Salem, May 23, Mrs. JULIANNA P., wife of Mr. DANIEL BUXTON, Jr., and daughter of the late Judge Colby of New Hampshire, aged 37 years. She was a person of rare worth, possessing a progressive mind and a broadly humane spirit, and taking a deep interest in the cause of the oppressed, undeterred by social custom or public sentiment. The funeral services were conducted by Parker Pillsbury and Win. Lloyd Garrison, a large company testifying by their attendance their appreciation of her character and respect for her memory.
In Leominster, May 14, Mr. EDWARD WILDER, aged 61.
All the reforms of the day were heartily espoused by him. Especially dear to his heart were the doctrines of Christian non-resistance and the cause of the slave;—to him these were eminently the cause of Christ.
‘No Union with Slaveholders, religiously or politically,’ was his chosen motto.
He died as he lived, with a calm and serene trust in God, and a firm and unshaken faith in the ultimate triumph of Christian principles. F. H. D.
DIED—In Thorndike, Mass., April 17th, after a general decline, terminated by a confinement of six weeks, Rev. SAMUEL HENRY, familiarly known among hosts of friends and acquaintances as ‘Father Henry,’ in the 77th year of his age.
‘Well done thou good and faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of the Lord.’ The beloved old man rests at length from his earthly labors. He has departed in peace. The blessings of thousands follow his precious spirit to the home of the just. He has been welcomed thither by angelic throngs. The plaudit of he ‘King Eternal’ has been pronounced upon him, and the unfading crown of life enwreathes his silver lead. His eulogy is written in the loving and venerative hearts of a wide-spread multitude, who have heard his faithful testimonies in behalf of pure and undefiled religion during the last half century, in be-half of Anti-Slavery humanity, in behalf of total abstinence from intoxicating beverages, in behalf of Peace and Christian non-resistance, in behalf of every noble reform and truly progressive unfoldment of the age. His inimitable ‘Amen’ and electrifying responses to the utterances of truth by others, in hundreds of places, will never be forgotten.
He was outspoken for all that commended itself to his understanding or his conscience. He worshipped not at the shrine of popularity. He could not be petrified in faith or practice. He lived to learn, to proclaim his freshest convictions, to oppose all that he deemed wrong, to advocate all that he deemed right, to reprove sin without compromise, yet to be always kind to the sinner, to be meek, lowly and loving toward all, to bless and curse not. None expected him to flatter them; none feared that he would harm them; all learned to venerate and love him. His own willing hands ministered to the necessities of himself and family all through life, and especially after his fidelity to divine principles rendered him unsuitable to work in a sectarian harness.
He was at first a preacher in the Methodist Episcopal Connexion, afterwards in that of the Reformed Methodists or of the Wesleyans. Whether at his decease he was nominally a member of any organized religious, body we are not certain. But we know that lie was one of the Lord's freemen—a minister and exemplifier of practical Christianity—a lover of God and man. He was our beloved friend and brother. It was his request that we should minister at his funeral, and we enjoyed the precious privilege of doing so. There we met, sympathized with and endeavored to console his venerable widow, likely soon to follow him, also with the larger portion of his children and children's children. They knew his eminent worth at home, and have sanctified his memory with tears of inexpressible affection. Kind friends and neighbors united with us in hallowing his burial. So his emancipated spirit was commended to the Life Everlasting, and his mortal remains were gently laid in an honored grave.—Practical Christian.
This well-deserved obituary notice should have appeared in the Liberator at an earlier date, but got mislaid. Father Henry was ‘one of the excellent of the earth,’ and will long be lovingly remembered by the friends of Non-Resistance and Anti-Slavery in this State.
Florence has lost, this week, by death, one of its oldest and most respected citizens, Abel Ross, who died on Sunday, at the age of 76. He removed to Florence some sixteen years ago from Chaplin, Ct., and on the disbanding of the Community Association he purchased a part of the old Burt farm and the land formerly owned by William Clark, where he has since resided. He was much respected by those who were acquainted with him, for his integrity and devotion to those principles that he held to be of vital importance.—Northampton Free Press.
This venerable man was an early and tried friend of the Anti-Slavery, Temperance and Peace movements. He leaves a blessed memory.
John Spence, a colored minister, died in a chair in a store in Norwich, Ct, He sat down and apparently fell asleep, and some time elapsed before the fact of his death was known. He was 76 years old and left a wife, who lives in New Haven.
Hon. William Campbell Preston died at his residence in Columbia, S. C, on Wednesday, at the age of 66 years and 5 months. He was President of South Carolina College, (at which he graduated,) from 1845 to 1851. In 1846 he received the honorary degree of LL. D. at Harvard College. He has represented South Carolina in both branches of Congress, but has lately retired from public life.
Died, at De Witt, Clinton county, Iowa, on the 14th of May, Hon. (Judge) E. GRAHAM. His death is supposed to have been caused by taking strychnine instead of quinine. He had been ailing for some days previous to taking the fatal dose.
Judge Graham was a native of Butler county, Pa. and moved west in 1850. He was 42 years old this current year, and has held several offices in this county. He stood at the head of his profession at the county bar—was a patriot—a finished gentleman—unboundedly generous—a decided reformer—the known friend of the fugitive slave, and the terror a rum-sellers. He commenced his western career with a Temperance speech, and was engaged in prosecuting liquor-sellers a few days previous to his death. He was a constant reader of the Anti-Slavery Bugle, and was an admirer of true men. In conversation, he recited freely from Wendell Phillips's speeches, spoke in the highest terms of A. T Foss's efforts west as an Anti-Slavery Agent, and took a strong interest in his meetings. He was a John Brown man, and during the past winter did effective service for the slave by holding meetings in the name of the Hero of Harper’s Ferry. His loss to reformers seems almost irreparable, while the large concourse at his funeral, from all parts of the country, showed the general sadness at his death.
‘His life was gentle, and the elements
So mixed in him, that Nature might stand up
And say, to all the world, ‘This was a man!’
C. B. C.
John White Browne, of Boston, whose accidental death by falling from a railroad train was recently announced, was a man of very marked characteristics. An ardent philanthropy, united with the utmost gentleness and kindness, a fearless lover of truth, a manly independence, and a singularly sensitive consciousness especially distinguished him.-When justice and right were to be sustained and defended his purse was always open, and his services free and active. He was a warm friend of the slave and on the subject of Slavery was ever outspoken, bold, and uncompromising. In legal knowledge and attainment he was hardly second to any member of the bar in his native State; and one of the most distinguished members of the profession, now a United States Senator, recently remarked that Mr. Browne would be one of the most eminent advocates of the country, if he could lay aside his conscience.—L.,
<c05>
Among the many restoratives which nature has supplied to relieve the afflictions of humanity, there is no more favorite one for a certain class of diseases than the ‘medicinal gum’ of the Wild Cherry Tree; but however valuable it is, its power to heal, to soothe, to relieve, and to cure, is enhanced ten fold by (scientific and judicious combination with other ingredients, in themselves of equal worth. This happy mingling exists in that
‘Combination and a form indeed’
Of medicine known as 

DR.WISTAR'S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY,
Whose value in curing Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Whooping Cough, Croup, Asthma, Pulmonary Affection, and Incipient Consumption, is inestimable.

Strong Testimony
From BENJAMIN WHEELER, Esq., Depot Master at South Royalton, Mass.
SOUTH ROYALTON, Jan. 4,1860.

Messrs. SETH W. FOWLE & Co., Boston:
Gents.,—Although unsolicited by you, I cannot refrain from adding my testimony to the many already given in favor of your Wistar’s Balsam of Wild Cherry.
In the spring of 1858, I was most severely afflicted with hard, dry cough, with its usual accompaniments of night sweats, completely prostrating my nervous system, and producing such a debilitated state of health, that after trying medical aid to no purpose, I had given up all hopes of ever recovering, as had also my friends. At this stage of matters, I was prevailed upon through the influence of a neighbor to try Wistar’s Balsam, though, with no belief whatever in its truly wonderful curative properties, and before using two bottles, the effect was almost magical. My cough entirely left me, the night sweats deserted me, hope once more elated my depressed spirits, and soon I had attained my wonted strength and vigor.
Thus has this Balsam, as has often been remarked by persons conversant with the above facts in this vicinity, literally snatched me from the yawning grave. You are at liberty to use this for the benefit of the afflicted. Very respectfully yours,
BENJ. WHEELER.
Prepared by S. W. FOWLE & CO., Boston, and for sale by druggists and dealers every where.
May 25th.

PENNSYLVANIA YEARLY MEETING OF PROGRESSIVE FRIENDS.
The eighth Yearly Meeting of Progressive Friends will convene at Longwood, Chester County, Pennsylvania, on First Day, the 3d of the Sixth month, [June,] 1860.
JOSEPH A. DUDDALE,
ELIZABETH JACKSON,
OLIVER JOHNSON,
WILLIAM BARNARD,
ISAAC MENDENHALL,
MARY P. WILSON,
JOHN G. JACKSON,
RUTH DUGDALE,
ALICE JACKSON, J.
THOMAS WORRELL,
MARY A. W. JOHNSON,
MARY F. SMITH,
EUSEBIUS BARNARD,
MARY L. BARNARD,
MIRIAM C. WORRELL.
MARTHA KIMBER,
SARAH MARSH BARNARD,
DINAH MENDENHALL,
WLLLIAK COX,
CORA WILBURN,
ANNIE. STAMBACH, M. D.

REFORMERS CONVENTION.
The Friends of Human Progress will meet in De Witt, Clinton county, Iowa, June 15th. next, and hold over Sunday.
The object of the meeting will be, to form a better acquaintance among the friends of general reform—to inspire each other with greater devotion to the cause of human liberty, and to devise the best method by which all questions appertaining to Religion and Humanity may be freely discussed, and the claims of sound morality practically enforced.
In behalf of the Committee of Arrangements,
C. B. C.

ESSEX COUNTY.
The Annual Meeting of the Essex County Anti-Slavery Society will be held in GEORGETOWN, in the Town Hall, on Sunday, June 3d, commencing at 10 1/2 o’clock, A. M. The members of the Society are particularly requested, and all persons are cordially invited, to attend. PARKER PILLSBURY, CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, and other speakers will be present.
CHARLES LENOX REMOND, President.
MOSES WRIGHT, Secretary.
THE ANNIVERSARY MEETINGS of the friends of the WOMAN’S RIGHTS CAUSE will be held at the Melodeon, on the afternoon and evening of FRIDAY, June 1st. Addresses are expected from Mrs. C. H. Dall, Mrs. Severance, Wendell Phillips, Rev. Samuel J. May, and others. Admission fee 10 cents to defray expenses.
By order of the Committee.
TO THE FRIENDS OF FUGITIVE SLAVES. Places are wanted for two lads from the great Southern prison-house of slavery, one 15 and the other 17 years of age. They have been house servants, but are willing and ready to go on trial to do any kind of work they are able to do. Apply to R. F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington Street, or by letter to FRANCIS JACKSON, Boston.
The office of the MASSACHUSETTS ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, and also that of the LIBERATOR, have been removed from 21 Cornhill to the Washington Building, 221 Washington Street, directly opposite Franklin Street—third story. The change of position is a very desirable one, and the accommodations are more spacious and agreeable.
MARRIED—In this city, May 17, in Bulfinch Place Church, by Rev. Mr. Alger, Mr. JOHN BARRETT, of Concord, to Miss JULIA A. ROBBINS, of Boston.

PROUTY & MEARS’S CELEBRATED HOT-AIR FURNACES.
PARLOR GRATES in great variety, embracing more than sixty different patterns, varying in prices from three to sixty-five dollars.
PARLOR STOVES of superior designs, including the PORTABLE HOT-AIR RADIATING PARLOR GRATE, the most elegant heating apparatus for drawing-rooms and parlors ever invented.
COOKING-STOVES of the latest and most approved patterns, including the ‘Clipper Improved,’ ‘Mount Vernon,’ and ‘Gold Medal.’
DINING-ROOM STOVES, with ovens, including the ‘Beauty,’ of new and chaste design, and in its operation entirely superior to any cast iron ‘Parlor Oven Store’ ever introduced into this market.
—ALSO—
A large assortment of Office and Shop Stoves; Castings for the PROUTY & MEARS’s Stoves and Furnaces, &c. &c
AT WHOLESALE AND RETAIL. ALLEN S. WEEKS.
23, 25 and 27 New Friend Street,
(Between Union and Hanover Streets,)
BOSTON.
June 1—eoptf

WEDDING AND VISITING CARDS, FASHIONABLY ENGRAVED BY E. A. TEULON,
149 1-2 WASHINGTON STREET. BOSTON.
Directly opposite the Old South Church,
—ALSO—
WEDDING BILLETS, ‘At Home,’ &c WEDDING ENVELOPES, in great variety. WEDDING CAKE BOXES, new styles. MOURNING NOTE PAPER and ENVELOPES, ALL AT VERY LOW PRICES
May 18. eop6m.
<c06>
IT IS NOT MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER,
The only preparation that has a
EUROPEAN REPUTATION.
Warranted not to contain deleterious substances.
This pleasant and valuable preparation has been used for many years by hundreds of the most distinguished and wealthy persons, who have previously tried all the nostrums of the day without success, some even injuring their hair and health. This is entirely different from all others.

‘IS THERE ANT VIRTUE IN
Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorative?’
We can answer this question by saying that we have already seen persons who have derived benefit from it.
‘Persons personally known to us have come voluntarily, and told us of good results to either themselves or friends, who have used it before it became known in St. Louis.’ St. Louis Presbyterian,

MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S HAIR RESTORATIVE ha given universal satisfaction, wherever it has been used. It can be used with perfect safety, and its perfect freeness from all soiling, renders it a very desirable article for the toilet.’
Ch’n Witness and Ch. Advocate, Boston, Mass.

‘MRS. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER is worthy of confidence.’
Philadelphia Christian Chronicle.
‘Incomparably the best preparation we have ever used.’ N. Y. Evangelist.
All are compelled to acknowledge MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S as the Hair Restorer.’ N. Y. Independent.
‘MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER has taken its place at the head of all articles of the kind.’ Michigan Christian Herald.
Dispel all doubts as to its efficacy.’ Knoxville Presbyterian Witness.
‘There never has been a prescription or remedy for improving the hair, published in the Advocate, which was so fully endorsed by men of unquestioned standing, as in that of Mrs. S. A. ALLEN's.’
Buffalo Christian Advocate
Another objection to dyes is the unlife-like color and appearance they cause the hair to assume, and the only way to have grey hair assume its NATURAL YOUTHFUL COLOR, is to use that which will be effectual and yet not a dye—Mrs. S. A. ALLEN'S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER will do this.' U. S. Journal.
In these times, when every cosmetic is warranted as the greatest discovery of the present day, it is refreshing to come across that which is what it PRETENDS to be. A really excellent article is Mrs. S A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER. As an assistant to nature, it is of great service; and a man by using it often prevents a serious and unnecessary loss of hair. Its properties are perfectly harmless, it being a chemical compound of ingredients calculated to facilitate the natural growth of hair.’
Saturday Evening Gazette, Boston,
Those of our readers whose hair is turning grey or losing its color, and who are opposed to using a dye, will find in Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER a preparation that will speedily change the hair to its natural color, and at the same time render it soft. It is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair, POSSESING NONE OF THE BURNING QUALITIES OF A DYE.’
Philadelphia Mercury.
There is no Hair preparation, we believe, that has acquired more popularity than Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER. Why is this? Simply because it is a preparation of real merit, and has never failed, in a single instance, to produce the good effects ascribed to it on the part of its proprietor. Its sales are constant and most extensive, and we begin to think that it is denominated most appropriately the ‘Worldss Hair Restorer.’ 
Newark Register.
We have reason to be assured that ‘Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER’ is among the best articles of its kind ever discovered; indeed the wide circulation and immense sales it has achieved, fully demonstrate that its efficiency is generally appreciated.’
Rahway Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER. The most successful remedy of the day. We know of instances where its good effects have bean remarkable.’
Weekly Visitor, Franklin N. Y.
‘From individual cases that have come under our own observation, we are satisfied that ‘Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER performs all that it promises, and that instead (as is the case with other restoratives extensively used and highly recommended) of being a useless waste of time and money, it is just what it is represented to be, and will perform all its proprietor engages it to pet form. We therefore most cordially commend it to the notice and use of those of our readers who need a remedial agent of this character.’
St. Louis Ledger.
Mrs. S. A.ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER—As we were travelling in Massachusetts a short time since, we met a lady whose appearance indicated that she had attained the age of sixty. So we inferred, and but for her beautiful hair, we should have added several years. After some conversation she spoke of her hair, informing us that two years ago, at least one half of it was gray and that she had feared that before then the whole would have turned or fallen off. But our friend read the papers, and acquainted herself with the various remedies for decaying hair, and at length determined to obtain Mrs. Allen’s Restorer. She did so, sad applied it according to directions, and before a year had paused, she assured us that she had as luxurious, even and beautiful head of hair, as when she was but sixteen years old. Her statement was confirmed by other members of the family, while we were informed that in the same neighborhood there were other instances where the same happy and signal effect had been produced by applying Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer.’
Providence Daily Tribune.
‘Among the very few preparations that we deem deserving of mention, we are by no means inclined to omit' Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER.’ It has bean thoroughly tested, and found to be all its inventor claims for it; and to deny its excellence would be to deny the assertions made in its favor by scores and hundreds of the most respectable persons.’ 
Rahway Advocate and Register.
Mrs. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER is the best preparation extant for the various diseases incident to the hair and scalp, and is warranted to restore the hair and whiskers, however grey, to their natural color. It having been before the public for many years, and its efficacy in restoring, invigorating, and beautifying the hair fully established by hosts of persons throughout the country, has led to the manufacture of many worthless imitations, which have been successfully palmed off in numerous instances, upon the public as genuine.’
Brooklyn Morning Journal.
This preparation is superior to any heretofore produced for restoring and beautifying the hair. It possesses none of the burning, cauterizing powers of the old dyes, but gives the hair a healthy, glossy appearance almost instantaneously. The Restorer is easily applied, and will not stain the finest linen. The effect is sure in every instance, if applied according to the directions.’
Mercury, Philadelphia. ‘We are satisfied that the statements made in advertisement of MRS. S. A. ALLEN’S WORLD’S HAIR RESTORER are correct.’ Boston Olive Branch. ‘Its, remarkable success is satisfactory evidence.’
Norfolk Argus. ‘Those unsuccessful with other articles can try this with success.’
Boston Transcript. It is just what it purports to be.’ Cleve. Leader. We might swell this list, but if not convinced, TRY IT. We export these preparations to Europe even, and they are superseding all others there as well as in the United States. It does not soil or stain. Sold by all the principle wholesale and retail merchants in the U. S., Cuba, or Canada.

DEPOT 365 BROOME STREET. N. Y.
when address all letters-and inquiries.
Some dealers try to sell articles instead of this, on which they make more profit. Write to Depot for circular, terms and information. Genuine signed, Mrs. S. A. Allen, written in ink. Beware of counterfeits.
See next issue of this Paper for more information or send to Depot for Circulars. 
FOR SALE EVERY WHERE.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY
For the Liberator
CROWN THE SLAVE
BY REV.J.T.POWERS
Crown the slave, and set him free!
He's the child of liberty;
Who shall dare God's image chain?
Of Christ's blood make human gain?
Crown the slave— for him Christ died!
Brother to the Crucified;
Jesus came to earth to save—
Came to free the toil-scarred slave!
Crown the slave, and burst his bands!
Make him owner of the lands
Of his oppressors, gorged with gain
Wrung from human blood and pain!
Crown the slave with power and might!
Help him vindicate his right
To the boon of liberty:—
Let, O God! the slave go free!
Crown the slave, and give him power
To achieve his manhood's dower;
Let no proud oppressor dare
Still to chain God's image there!
Crown the slave! O God, come down!
To the slave give Christ's renown;
Lethim feel, 0 God! in thee
He's the Friend of Liberty!
Crown the slave in heaven at last,
When his woes are overpast;
Give the crown that Jesus gave,
To the brow of every slave!
Carlisle, Mast, 1860
NO CROSS, NO CROWN.
The following poem, by Sheldon Chadwick, is extracted from his volume of poems just published in England
'Twas eve, and in a lonely room
A student sat in sombre gloom,
Twirling his fingers in his hair,
Like one in reverie or despair.
Before him lay an open book;
Sadness was in his languid look;
And as he traced the pages o'er,
Four golden words his spirit bore—
No Cross, no Crown!
Around, in death-like silence, stood
The forms of many great and good—
Prophets. Martyrs crucified;
Stern Patriots, who for freedom died;
And Poets, who died desolate,
Scanning the wondrous scroll of Fate;
While glory round their foreheads shone,
He read upon their lips of stone,
No Cross, no Crown!
Hard was the toil, through Learning's lore,
For one so young and worldly poor;
His books were precious, though but few,
And deathless fire from heaven he drew.
Heart-wearied oft, and over-wrought,
He traced in throbbing lines his thought,
And 'mid hit toil this seemed to be
The voice alone of destiny—
No Cross, no Crown!
Sometimes his noble spirit turned
Toward Fame's pillar as it burned:
And oft he judged his efforts vain
To cross the burning bars of pain 
He groaned in agonized distress;
Lift's cup was dashed with bitterness;
And then he thought of those of old,
Who carved in brass those words of gold—
No Cross, no Crown!
They fought the battle, bore the cross,
That truth might never suffer loss,
But, like the tempest-cradled flower,
Spring through the storm—the martyr's dower:
Souls that, while beaconing the free,
Sank like a lighthouse in the sea;
But from their graves a spirit came,
Uttering words of winged flame—
No Cross, no Crown!
His soul sometimes would droop her wing,
When envious arrows sped the string;
But, like a trumpet's martial strains.
His country's voice thrilled through his veins,
And, heedless of the critic's ire,
His heart glowed with immortal fire:
And, like a man in earnest, he
On Thought's Patmos toiled wearily—
No Cross, no Crown!
And thus he woke his spirit's strings
To music's rare imaginings;
To Love and Freedom, Truth and Right,
Justice and Mercy, gods of light 
Oh! cheerful fell those golden words
Upon his worn heart’s tender chords;
In death those words his spirit bore,
And chants them still for evermore—
No Cross, no Crown!
This be the motto of the brave,
And this the watchword of the slave;
The Patriot's, with the people's scorn,
The Martyr's, with his garlands-thorn 
Whoever seeks to win a name,
Whoever toils for Freedom's fame,
Whoever human tears would dry.
Let this forever be his cry—
No Cross, no Crown!
SPRING.
The bursting buds look up
To greet the sunlight, while it lingers yet
On the warm hill-side,—and the violet
Opens its azure cup
Meekly, and countless wild flowers wake to fling
Their earliest incense on the gales of spring
Continual songs arise
From universal Nature—birds and streams
Mingle their voices, and the glad earth seems
A second Paradise!
Thrice blessed Spring! thou bearest gifts divine!
Sunshine, and song, and fragrance— all are thine.
Not unto earth alone—
Thou hast a blessing for the human heart,
Balm for its wounds, and healing for its smart,
Telling of Winter flown,
And bringing hope upon thy rainbow wing,
Type of Eternal Love—thrice blessed Spring!
MAY 
BY E. TISDALE
Time moveth on—where Winter lately trod
With shrouded form the cold and lifeless sod,
Fair as a maiden—fairest of the three
Bright messengers that earthward bring
The fresh'ning tributes of ethereal Spring,
Comes genial May, with passion warm and free,
Northward to woo the balmy winds that fling
The flowers of Summer from their sportive wing.
O, May! let net one fleeting hour of thine
Be wafted backward to the Heavenly Land,
Unless it beareth to the record there
Some worthy action of this soul of mine,
As herald of a heart that yearns to stand
Where times and seasons are divinely fair!
JESTERS
Methinks these fellows, with their ready jests,
Are lake to tedious bells, that ring alike
Marriage or death [BEDDOES.
<C02>
THE LIBERATOR 
MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE
MR.EDITOR:
At our recent National Woman's Rights Convention, many were surprised to hear WENDELL PHILLIPS object to the question of Marriage and Divorce, at irrelevant to our platform. He said, 'We had no  right to discuss there any laws or customs but those where inequality existed in the sexes; that the laws on Marriage and Divorce rested equally on man and  woman; that he suffered, as much as she possibly could, the wrongs and abuses of an ill-assorted marriage.'
Now, it must strike every careful thinker, that an immense difference exists in the fact, that man has made the laws, cunningly and selfishly, for his own purpose. From Coke down to Kent, who can cite one clause of the marriage contract where woman, has the advantage?  When man suffers from false  legislation, he has his remedy in his own hands, Shall woman be denied the right of protest against laws in which she has had no voice—laws which outrage the holiest affections of her nature—laws which transcend the limits of human legislation—in a convention called for the express purpose of considering her wrongs?  He, might as well object to a protest against the injustice of hanging a woman, because Capital Punishment bears equally on man and woman.
The contract of marriage is by no means equal. The law permits the girl to marry at twelve years of age, while it requires several years more of experience on the part of the boy. In entering this compact, the man gives up nothing that he before possessed—he is a man still; while the legal existence , of the  woman is suspended during marriage,—and henceforth she is known but in and through the husband. She is nameless, purseless, childless,—though a woman, an heiress, and a mother. Blackstone says, 'The husband and wife are one, and that one is the husband.' Kent says, ' The legal effects of marriage are generally deducible from the principle of the Common Law, by which the husband and wife are regarded as one person, and her legal existence and authority lost or suspended during the continuance of the matrimonial union.' Vol. 2, p. 109.   Kent refers to Coke on Littleton, 112, a. 187. B. Litt.Sec.168, 294.
The wife is regarded by all legal authorities as a 'femme covert,' placed wholly 'sub potestate viri.' Her moral responsibility, even, is merged in the husband. The law takes it for granted that the wife lives in fear of her husband; that his command is her highest law: hence a wife is not punishable for theft committed in presence of her husband. Kent, vol. 2, p. 127.An unmarried woman can make contracts, sue and be sued, enjoy the rights of property, to her inheritance—to her wages—to her person— to her children ; but, in marriage, she is robbed by law of all and every natural and civil right.' The disability of the wife to contract, so as to bind herself, a rises not from want of discretion, but because she has entered into an indissoluble connexion, by which she is placed under the power and protection of her husband.' Kent, vol. 2, p.27. She is possessed of certain rights until she is married; then all are suspended, to revive again the moment the breath goes out of the husband's body. See 'Cowen's Treatise,' vol. 2, p. 709
If the contract be equal, whence come the terms 'marital power'—' MARITAL RIGHTS'—obedience and restraint—dominion and control, &c. &c.?—Many cases are stated, showing the exercise of a most questionable power, over the wife, sustained by the courts. See Bishop on Divorce, p. 489.
The laws on Divorce are quite as unequal as those on marriage ; yea, far more so. The advantages seem to be all on one side, and the penalties on the other. In case of Divorce, if the husband be the guilty party, he still retains the greater part of the property. If the wife be the guilty party, she goes out of the partnership pennyless. Kent, vol. 2, p. 33; Bishop on Divorce, p. 492. In New York and some other States, the wife of the guilty husband can now sue for a divorce in her own name, and the costs come out of the husband's estate; but, in a majority of the States, she is still compelled to sue in the name of another, as she has no means of paying costs, even though she may hare come into the partnership with her thousands.' The allowance to the innocent wife of "ad interim " alimony and money to sustain the suit, is not regarded as strict right in her, but of sound discretion in the court.' Bishop on Divorce, p- 581 
Many jurists, says Kent, vol 2, p. 88, are of opinion that the adultery of the husband ought not to be noticed or made subject to the same animadversions as that of the wife, because it is not evidence of such entire depravity, nor equally injurious in its effects upon the morals, good order and happiness of domestic life.  Montesquieu, Pothier, and Dr. Taylor all insist that the cases of husband and wife ought to be dist inguished, and that the violation of the marriage vow, on the part of the wife, is the most mischievous, and the prosecution ought to be confined to the offence on her part. Esprit des Loix, torn. 3,186; Traite du Contrat de Marriage, No. 516; Elements of Civil Law, p.254.
Say you, ' These are but the opinions of men'? And on what else, I ask, are the hundreds of women depending, who this hour demand in our courts a release from burthensome contracts? Are not these delicate matters left wholly to the discretion of courts? Are not young women from the first families dragged into the public courts—into assemblies of men exclusively—the judges all men, the jurors all men?  No true woman there to shield them by her presence from gross and impertinent questionings, to pity their misfortunes, or to protest against their wrongs.
The administration of justice depends far more on the opinions of eminent jurists than on law alone, for law is powerless when at variance with public sentiment.
Do not the above citations clearly prove inequality? Are not the very letter and spirit of the marriage contract based on the idea of the supremacy of man as the keeper of woman's virtue—her sole protector and support? Out of marriage, woman asks nothing at this hour but the elective franchise. It is only in marriage that she must demand her rights to person, children, property, wages, life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. How can we discuss all the laws and conditions of marriage, without perceiving its essential essence, and aim?  Now, whether the institution of marriage be human or divine, whether regarded as indissoluble by ecclesiastical courts, or dissoluble by civil courts, woman finding herself equally degraded in each and every phase of it, always the victim of this institution, it is her right and duty to sift the relation through and through, until she finds out the true cause of her false position How can we go before the Legislators of our respective States, and demand new laws, or no laws, on divorce, until we hare some idea of what the true relation is ? We decide the whole question of slavery by settling the sacred rights of the individual. We assert that man cannot hold property in man, and reject the whole code of laws that conflicts with the self-evident truth of that assertion Again I ask, is it possible to discuss all the laws of a relation, and not touch the relation it-self? Yours, respectfully, 
E. C.S-
My faith is rooted, and grounded, and established, that the cheapest, the easiest, the moat natural and proper method of introducing reformation into public affairs, is to give woman a coordinate influence there. That will reform politics, and civilize selfish and barbarous statesmanship.
HENRY WARD BEECHER
<C03>
REVIEW OF THE SPEECH OF HON. WM. H. SEWARD, BY REV. BERIAH GREEN 
At the recent annual meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society, in the Cooper Institute, New York, Rev. BERIAH GREEN, of Whitesboro', spoke as follows:—
Of those whom I now venture to address, very many doubtless repeat the name of Wm. H. Seward with confidence and admiration. They describe him as a great man, an acute, metaphysician, a profound and comprehensive philosopher, a model statesman. They are eager to place him, as the presiding genius of the nation, in the highest place of the Republic. Now, I would not willingly offend them; I would not wantonly wound their feelings; I come hither for no such purpose; I speak not as a partisan. I belong to the human family, and I am one of those for whose benefit the late speech of Mr. Seward in the United States Senate was published. I know not how I can treat its principles with greater respect than earnestly to examine them, aim weigh the statements which he makes, the doctrines he inculcates, and the conclusions he commends.
It may not be amiss, in the outset, to advert to the general position which, in this remarkable speech, the Senator assumes. He gives us, in all essential particulars, the construction under which he pledges himself by a solemn oath to obey her organic law, to support the Constitution. He inquires what position, if a fugitive from slavery were to approach his residence at the still hour of midnight, weary, hungry, tempest-tossed, desponding, and were to seek at his hands sympathy, shelter, protection—what position, according to our organic laws, he is bound to assume. This fugitive may be a Frederick Douglass or a William Wells Brown. No matter by what name he may be known, no matter what may be his specific relations or his particular character, be is a fugitive from the land of slaves. May the Senator, as one bound to support the Constitution, regard him with fraternal feelings? May he recognize him as a man? May he welcome him as a brother?—a brother who was nourished at the breast, essentially, of the same mother; in whose veins his own blood freely flows?  He tells us distinctly, he tells us deliberately, he tells us cold-bloodedly, that the Constitution forbids him to assume any such attitude. It requires him, sternly requires him, to regard your Frederick Douglass as a chattel, as a piece of  property, that had absconded from its owner; to seize him with a strong hand, and send; him back ' with alacrity,' without compunction or remorse, to the hell of slavery. This is the general position which the Senator assumes in this respect. But I would not do him wrong. Permit me, then, (for I do not propose to consume any large amount of your time in such quotations,) permit me to read a few lines from his speech, to justify the representation which I hare now made:—
'What should be done if the slave should escape into a labor State? Should that State confess him to be a chattel, and restore him as such, or might it regard him as a person, and harbor and protect him us a man? They compromised again.'
Of course, requiring the Senator and all his fellows to assume the position which has already been described. Of course, he regards himself, according to the statement which he here hazards, as solemnly bound to utter an atrocious and suffocating falsehood, for he knows full well that this is not a chattel; that the presence into which he is brought is a human presence; that the creature which looks suppliantly into his face is a man. He knows that there is an essential and vital difference separating, evermore and everywhere separating, personality from property. Of course, he feels himself bound to utter, if we may credit the statement which he here makes, not merely lip-wise, but deed-wise, an atrocious and suffocating falsehood ; bound to confess that what he knows to be a man is a chattel. And for what purpose is he forced upon a falsehood so enormous, so comprehensive? Why, merely that he may inflict upon his brother the deadliest injury; that he may assail the nature which he has inherited; that he may strike him with a deadly steel to the heart of his personality; that he may inflict upon him the most scathing insults and the most unendurable injuries.
But look again for a single moment. The Senator admits that, repeatedly, in the history of our country, the safeguards of freedom have been surrendered at the demand of slaveholders. This fact he asserts; but he declares, in the self-same breath, that we may urge on our behalf, in so doing, a virtuous excuse. This is the very language he employs. It is not that we love freedom less, but that we love the Union more. And this-he pronounces a virtuous excuse. Now, if it be a virtuous excuse, it is an excuse of virtue; it 'is virtue in exercise, virtue in manifestation; and wherever the safeguards of freedom have thus been sacrificed, they have been sacrificed in honor of the claims of virtue. Of course, under whatever form, however frequently, and in whatever shape, demands may be urged upon us, we are bound, out of a deep reverence for virtue, to yield to their influence. We are bound to sacrifice the safeguards of freedom. We are bound on this altar to lay our consciences, the best impulses of our nature, whatever is dear in the affections, and whatever may be vital in the prospects of our own brothers. And surely, after we have sacrificed our own personality, after we have sacrificed our own manliness, after we have sacrificed whatever may be the source and ground of self-respect, in obedience to the dictates and demands of a virtue thus described, it will be but a small thing when we are required to give up the personality of our existence, when we are required to welcome the fetters to our heels and the manacles to our limbs.
Now, what is the result of this general position which is here assumed? It is, of course, a false position—grossly, undeniably false; and whoever surveys the objects by which he may be surrounded, and the relations which may attract his attention, from a false position, will, from a sort of stern necessity, arrive at false conclusions. All the various objects which may attract his attention will present themselves under distorted forms and under unnatural relations. Suppose, for instance—if I may venture on your patience so far as to make such a supposition—suppose that, according to the demands of the Constitution of the Republic, we should confess that one-third of the nine digits had no significance; that they resolved themselves into nothing; that they had no value, and were to be regarded, as the boys at school express themselves, as so many noughts. Every man knows, of course, that each of the nine digits sustains a natural and necessary relation to all the various figures and calculations and arrangements which may lie anywhere or anyhow within the entire sphere of arithmetic. Now, if one should take the attitude thus described, I pray you, what reliance could be placed upon any process which he might employ, or any argument which he might urge, or any conclusion to which he might arrive in this sphere of thought? Of course, it would necessarily be fatal to success in any such attempt. Assuming a position so radically, so vitally false, he cannot claim our confidence in any attempt whatever which he may make. The particular attitude which any man may be expected to assume, in any department of inquiry, in any sphere of thought to which he may be admitted, will, as a matter of course, be controlled and modified by the general position where he expends his strength and lays out his resources. Now, although the hour be late, and though I do not claim to be a wit or a wag, though I am entirely .unable, if I may be allowed to consume a few moments of your time, to afford you any large amount of amusement, yet perhaps you will pardon me, since I have ventured to take the position I have assumed, if I advert to a very few of the principal attitudes which, under the general position I have already described, the Senator allows himself to assume.
Mr. Seward is not satisfied—he does not say for what reason—with the somewhat technical terms in which one part of this Republic, in which the monuments of slavery are erected, is distinguished, and has all along been distinguished, from the other part of this Republic, where those monuments do not meet and pain the eye. We used to hear about the slave States and about the free States, and it was generally supposed that this language, in its natural application, all our fellow-citizens understood, and were able readily, and we believed fitly, to apply. I do not know who invented, I only know who adopted the new technical terms which are here introduced. Here are eighteen States set over against fifteen other States. The fifteen States in which slaves are held are been described as capital States; the eighteen States in which they are not held are here described as labor States; and between these two divisions of the Republic, according to
<C04>
Mr. Seward, in language which has been, perhaps, a thousand times repeated, there is, on this very  subject, an irrepressible conflict. Of course, Mr. Seward is a metaphysician, Mr. Seward is a philosopher, and, as a matter of course, we should expect that a man who was not satisfied with the technical terms which, for the purpose already specified, had all along been employed, if he introduced to us unusual terms, would select syllables from  language so rich in its resources (and with the various terms by which, through its means, thought is expressed,  Mr. Seward may be thought to be familiar)—we should expect, I say, that he would select those syllables which fitly, which aptly describe the thing signified. Now, then, we ask, is labor in ' irrepressible conflict' with capital? and is capital hostile to labor? I had thought, for one, that labor was the natural source of capital; that they were very nearly akin to each other, if they were not different phases or descriptions of the self same entity. Suppose that this speech, with which I am now attempting for a little to occupy your attention, should fall under the eye of one of our fellows in a foreign land who had formed some little acquaintance with our history, and felt within him- self a strong impulse to understand more clearly and fully whatever might belong to our institutions. He is assured, on authority which he respects, that Wm. H. Seward is a heroic spirit, that he is a great man, that he is a deep thinker, that he is a distinguished statesman, and that, in the view of the friends of freedom, to a very great extent, he is regarded as our natural ruler. Now, when he marked, with open eyes, these technical terms, thus introduced, to what inference, I pray you, would'; he be forced? Would he not, as a matter of course, suppose that in the capital States larger resources were brought into requisition, in promoting the great ends of human activity?  Would he not suppose that here were to be found our Rothschilds, that here large resources had been accumulated, and that the labor States were specially dependent upon the capital States for the means to prosecute those enterprises to which, in the sphere of business and commerce, they might be devoted? Would not that, I pray you, be the natural inference? Would it not fasten itself inevitably upon his mind?
Now, supposing ourselves in his position, it may not be amiss to inquire for a moment what are the characteristic elements which enter into the composition, if I may so speak, of those capital States?, You have, in the first place, as a leading element, .some four millions of human beings, who are pronounced utterly incapable, in the solemn language of the law, of acquiring capital under any form or name. They have no claims which are acknowledged, no claims to the very instrumentalities connected with the human organization through which capital may naturally be sought and accumulated. Then, you have, in addition to this, as another element here to be recognized and brought into the calculation, about an equal number of men and women, who bear the very significant name, all, over the Republic, of ' poor whites.' What may be their condition, I need not pause to describe. One single expression which, we are told, is frequently on the lips of the slaves themselves, will answer, as my time is rapidly passing, for a more; particular description. They are called ' the poor white trash,' and are looked upon by the enslaved, we are told, now with pity and now with contempt.' The remaining element entering into the composition of the capital States may be very easily described—and I confine myself to facts—I intend to confine myself to facts, notorious facts, undeniable facts. I did not construct those facts. They are not the product of my fancy ; they are not the creation of my imagination ; and he must, indeed, be twice and four times a dastard who dares not look the facts in his own country's history, the facts, which belong to its condition, fully, fairly and resolutely in the face.(Applause) The remaining element, then, consists of some three or four hundred thousand persons who have never paid their own, cook or washerwoman, who have found it very difficult, if not impossible, to support their own post-office arrangements, and who are frequently reduced to such extremities that they take their own sons and daughters, and sell them in the open market. That is what some men would call covert cannibalism.
Now, I would ask, with what propriety, for what purpose, are those fifteen States so to be described—so to be described in the Senate of the Republic, on a grave occasion, and by a representative man? It is most manifest that this account of the matter is marked by gross absurdity, and that its entire tendency and influence, on those to whom the Senator addressed himself, must be mischievous and disastrous.
But let us mark another attitude which is here assumed. The Senator, in announcing his views, in inculcating his doctrines on the subject of human equality, manifests a very deep solicitude to impress those by whom he is surrounded with this one conclusion—that he is not in favor of the equality of all men; he is in favor of the equality only of white faces. Those who have given the least heed to the paragraph to which I refer, must be well aware that this feature strongly marks his statement. I would like to inquire what is the natural foundation on which human equality reposes?  We are told by some shallow, stolid, so-called statesmen, that the declaration which we find in the great document to which we so often refer, asserting that all men are created equal, is in conflict with facts. All men, they declare, are not equal. All this is manifest and undeniable. Now, those who formed the Declaration of Independence understood this as well as their calumniators. They knew that, measured by the yard-stick, all men were not incidentally equal. They knew that, as weighed on the scales, all men were not incidentally equal. They knew that men differed incidentally from each other in the intellectual elements by which they were respectively distinguished. They knew very well but some had a vigorous and gigantic will, and that others were comparatively irresolute. All this they knew, and this they never dreamed of denying. But they did affirm, and they were justified in affirming, that all men have inherited the self-same nature; that a common manhood lay at the basis of our existence; that one great human heart beat in all our bosoms; that the blood which flowed in our veins gushed from the same source, and was distinguished by the same qualities; and they affirmed, therefore, the doctrine of human equality—that is, that all men, as having inherited human nature, were qualified to make themselves, to the full extent of their opportunities, intensely, grandly, beautifully human ; that all men, one in common with another, had an equal right, each one in his place, to make the most of his own existence, and to rise to the highest point of excellence and of blessedness to which his capabilities might lift him; that all men equally, one with another, were entitled to the opportunity to secure the highest and best development of those powers which were lodged in the depths of their being. That is what they affirmed, broadly, grandly affirmed.
Now, then, I would like to know if the complexion of any man's face is not an incident, and, so far as he is concerned, it is merely an accident, since he was not consulted in the matter, and had here no agency. If my complexion be at all to be preferred, to any purpose, to the complexion of my next neighbor, very surely that cannot be regarded as to my credit or advantage. It is a mere incident—an incident lying almost within the range of accident. To make a mere accident, in opposition to human nature, to make the mere incident of a white face the basis of the equality on which the great Senator pleads, and to call that equality ' human,' without any reference to that which makes any creature human—well, I should be apt to think if I was speaking of a name that was repeated with less respect and veneration, that it was a little ridiculous, and indicated I know not what state of mind. Very dearly, the doctrine of human equality lies on this broad basis—a basis on which men of all complexions and all opinions, under all the varied circumstances in which our manhood may be found, stand up side by side; in which, therefore, they may well be expected to look upon each other fraternally.
This broad attitude, again, of course grows out of the general position which the Senator has assumed. It is not of course, to be wondered at that he should give up the enslaved, without uttering one word in their behalf, absolutely to the control of those who hold then as property. He bids the slaveholders dispose of their human chattels just as they please; declares that he has no objection to make; and, more than that, that he has no distrust in the matter; no distrust to qualify in any measure the assurance which he urges; and then, having afforded this strong assurance, he gives them distinctly to understand that if they were to take advantage of the assurance he thus affords to insult, to outrage, and to inflict such injuries upon their slaves as shall
<C05>
be unbearable, and cause them to rise in insurrection, that he, with his party (for he speaks here in the name of his party,) would defend them. You will permit me, for it will consume but very little; time, just to read a portion of the paragraph to which I have ventured to advert:—
'But we do not seek to enforce or even to intrude our system upon you. We are justly excluded, wisely and contentedly excluded, from all political power and responsibility [Mark the terms which he here employs!]In your capital States, you are sovereigns on the subject of slavery within your own borders, as we are on the same subject within our borders. It is well and wisely arranged. Use your authority to maintain what system you please; we are not distrustful of the result!  If our authority shall be assailed within or without by any enemy, or for any cause, and we shall have need, we shall expect you to defend us. [Now, mark!]  If you shall be so assailed, in the emergency, no matter what the cause or the pretext, or who the foe, we shall defend your authority as the equivalent of our own.'-
Now, what sort of a system those whoa he was specially addressing had all along, pleased to maintain, Mr. Seward knew full well. He knew fall well what injuries were inflicted, what insults were dealt liberally all around. He knew full well by what agencies and appliances everything human, everything entering into the personality of our poor oppressed fellows, was stricken down and annihilated. He bids them maintain the same system.' Go on and multiply murders, rapes; every form in which our humanity may be assailed can be wounded; go on and multiply these, under whatever form you may prefer; alter your system according to your taste, according to your convenience, according to your caprice; make the burdens which you have placed upon the shoulders of your human chattels heavier, if it be possible, and render their lives more dark, gloomy and perilous than you have rendered their lives hitherto. We have no distrust of you, and we have not a word to utter, no objection to make, no advice to offer. We have no sympathy for those on whom you may fasten your hand. They may weep, they may groan, they may struggle in the agonies of death, it is no concern of ours. We have no responsibility whatever within the States where they are confined.'
It seems to be very remarkable that a man should pledge himself, in behalf of those whom he represents, to uphold his fellows in pursuing a course which they may prefer where he himself has no responsibility whatever! I thought that power and responsibility always travelled hand in band, and that our responsibilities were always to be measured by the powers we wielded. He must be very eager, it seems to me, with his party at his heels, to bring steel and powder into requisition, who urges himself into a sphere to employ these instruments of death where he alleges that he has no responsibility whatever.
One other thing. Mr. Seward could not, it seems, be content, without bringing John Brown anew into judgment. He must gratuitously and cold-bloodedly pronounce anew upon him sentence of death. John Brown had been convicted, he had been strangled, his hallowed remains, by true and devoted men, had been borne far away from the scene where he endured the trial and the suffering which opened the way from the scenes of his labor and exposure; and as those remains, so hallowed and cherished, were borne along through village after village of the North, grave men, reverend men, uncovered their heads, and did homage to the remains of the mighty dead. He was borne away, as it was meet be should be, and his remains were laid among the stern but grand and magnificent rocks that lift themselves up in the presence of Lake Champlain. There it was supposed they would rest securely. Now, it is affirmed in this speech that the death of John Brown —and John Brown, of course, not only represents himself, but his associates—was' necessary and just.' 'Necessary '—for what, I pray you? Necessary, of course, if necessary at all, to maintain that system of outrage and cruelty which had all along been upheld. Necessary for the purpose of subserving ends which humanity naturally shudders to contemplate. But it is said his death was 'just.' This I deny. I deny it in the name of great justice, in the name of the ordinances of nature, in the name of all that is sacred in the sphere of high sovereignty.' Necessary and just' Let me ask for what alleged crimes he was executed?  You may say if you please, for the crime of treason.
What, then, is the character of this crime? What are the elements of which civil government is naturally composed? What are the materials of which it is constructed? It is made up of certain principles, immutable, all-comprehensive, that bind everything that is and lives into one mass—a sublime unity. These principles are all embodied and presented in the grand precept which John Brown wrote upon his heart, to which he adjusted himself in his aims, and methods, and exertions—the principle of disinterested benevolence; the principle of equal, impartial love; the principle embodied and presented in that law which we well describe as 'the Golden Rule.' This rule comprehends order; this rule comprehends justice; this rule comprehends whatever may be described as human rights, as human prerogatives. These are the materials of which government everywhere, from the most retired nursery in the world, upward to the highest heaven, is constructed. These are its essential and vital elements. Wherever these are, there is government. Wherever these are denied, government cannot exist. There is nothing there deserving the name, there is nothing there exerting the influence, there is nothing there deserving the homage which is due to civil government, under any name, or form, or modification ; and the whole universe through, he who is most distinguished for his regard, his unyielding and consistent regard for those principles, who embodies them most fully, symmetrically and beautifully in his character, who responds most earnestly and promptly to them in his heart of hearts, who embodies them in his own history, and who is most distinguished for those attainments, for those achievements, is a God-anointed ruler. Wherever he may be, whatever may be the disposition, in his circle, of what people call the elective franchise, whatever may be the decision of the majority, it is impossible for any power in the world, in the whole compass of thought and exertion, it is impossible for any power to pluck the diadem from his brow, or take the sceptre from his hand. He is God's own king, and shall be honored in due time, and in very honorable circumstances, under that character.(Applause) And, whatever may bear the name of civil government, wherever these sacred principles are deliberately violated, wherever justice is trampled under foot, wherever our common humanity is set at nought, there you have nothing, whatever may be the organization, whatever arrangements, whatever usages, you have at best nothing  but organized anarchy. That it is; and all those who are connected with what may thus be described make themselves, as God lives, outlaws. That every philosopher who thinks—and all philosophers think—on this subject will tell you— that you make yourself an outlaw. When you refuse to avail yourself of the   benefits which law brings within your reach, how can law protect you? How can it confer its natural blessings, the rich blessings with which it is pregnant, upon you, when you refuse, individually or socially, to adjust yourself to its sovereign demands? I say, then, that throughout the whole region of slavery, wherever' humanity is trampled under foot, wherever the demands of awful, yet benignant, justice are ignored or resisted, there is, there can be, no such thing as treason. It cannot, under such circumstances, be committed. From the very nature of the case, an outlaw is one of whom any fellow whom he meets disposes of according to his discretion, according to his convenience. Now, then, John Brown could not, if he had been intent on this thing, have committed treason within the limits of Virginia, for the plain reason that Virginia herself is an outlaw (Loud applause.) That is its appropriate character. It tramples openly, rudely, ruthlessly and deliberately on the elements of law. It ignores or resists whatever may be appropriate to its character or influence. It was John Brown—for we are well informed of his character, and we have received our information from all quarters, from foes at well as friends—it was John Brown who wore the crown, if I may use such a symbol, and bore the sceptre. He was under the catholic influence of the Golden Rule, which is a comprehensive description of all law and of all government. His was a great soul, his a heroic spirit. He was distinguished for his magnanimity, for his intrepidity, for his daring, for his deep-toned, yearning regard for all those who had inherited our common nature. All this is admitted both by friends and foes. How, then, in the name of all consistency—how, in the name of all the great red letters which appear in those horn-books which we
Study whenever we would make ourselves
<C06>
familiar with the elements of the great art and science of government, could the death of John Brown be described as just, I beseech you? 'Just,' when outlaws rushed upon him, when outlaws sought his blood! They were outlaws who strangled him— men who trampled upon everything sacred in legislation—men who ignored or scorned every characteristic by which civil government, under its own appropriate name, is anywhere, above or below distinguished! (Applause) All this is undeniable. These conclusions are forced upon us by any fit regard for the very elements of thought which here demand attention, which are here to be read and applied
I affirm, then, that the execution of John Brown was a gross and bloody murder. It was not he who deserved to be hung on the gallows; it was they who deserved it, for they were traitors and murders, who fastened upon him the hand of violence, and hurried him to what we call a premature grave. Now, then, I pray you, what must we think, however charitable we may be, however disposed to be indulgent by a regard for the temptations to which they were exposed, however much we may be disposed to look with a kind eye, with a loving heart, on the man I have ventured this evening to criticise—what shall we think of him as a statesman—what reliance, I pray you, can we place, in this glorious and stormy time, as Wendell Phillips is so fond of calling it—what we are expected to proceed, amid prospects so dark as we see before us?
Yet we are assured that our prospects are bright! To be sure, it is said, now and then, something may occur which may awaken our fears and excite our apprehensions, and we may tremble for the Republic; but whenever we are able to look with a comprehensive eye, and calmly and soberly to reflect, we see clearly that the foundations of the Republic are laid in the eternal rock; that our prospects are not only cheering, but glorious; that there is no reason to apprehend danger, no ground on which we may expect punishment. Well, then, God must have retired from his throne, justice must have been stabbed to the heart, our humanity—dear as it is to the universal Father—must have been given up as a hopeless possession ! Clearly, then, we cannot place any confidence in the ordinances of nature, in the decrees of high Heaven, in the great lessons of wisdom which are inculcated in the Sacred Volume.
My friends and fellow-citizens, you must dispose of them plain, straightforward statements, so far as you have heeded them at all, each man according to his ability; and in the light of them, if any light they shed around, you must dispose of your responsibility in your relations to the ballot-box (Applause.
CARPETING
'All the Year Round'
JOHN H. PRAY, SONS & CO
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING
285 WASHINGTON STREET,
(NEAR WINTER STREET,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and best styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qualities of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c., Painted Floor Cloths(of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Feltings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
—ALSO—
AMERICAN CARPETING 
ALL WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit
Sept 16 tf
New Edition of a Great Work
HELPER OUTDONE BY JUDGE STROUD,
IN HIS MASTERLY WORK,
'A SKETCH OF THE SLAVE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES.'
EVERY man should own and read this book. Rev. Dr. Wayland says of it, in a letter to the author, 'I wish there was a copy of it in every family in the United States. No work could be more timely, or better serve the purposes of humanity.'
We want 500 Agents to sell this work during the present Presidential campaign. No more effective document can be circulated. Price, $1 Large discount to agents
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO,
PUBLISHERS,
No.20 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON
May 11.2mos
BROOKLYN HEIGHTS
Hygienic Establishment
Nos. 63 and 65, COLUMBIA STREET,
BROOKLYN, L.I
THIS Institution is open Summer and Winter for the reception of patients and boarders. The Doctor brings to his aid eight years' experience in the Hydropathic practice, and he has no hesitation in saying that he has the largest out-door practice of any 'Water Cure' Physician in the country. To boarders, or parties visiting New York, this House offers superior inducements, as the location is very desirable, being only fifteen minutes' walk from the Astor House. Accommodations and table, excellent, and at one half the price charged at the Hotels.

Address GEO. F. ADAMS, M. D.,
April 20.Physicians and sole Proprietor
THAYER & ELDRIDGE,
PUBLISHERS
AND
Wholesale Booksellers,
114 & 116 WASHINGTON ST,
Mch16 tf BOSTON, MASS
Resistance to Slaveholders!
LETTER TO SENATOR WILSON
JUST PUBLISHED: a pamphlet of 36 pages, by HENRY C WRIGHT, entitled, 'NO RIGHTS, NO DUTIES; or, Slaveholders, as such, have no Rights, Slaves, as such, owe no Duties. An Answer to a Letter from Hon. Henry Wilson, touching Resistance to Slaveholders being the Rights and Duty of the Slaves, and of the people and States of the North'
For sale by BELA MARSH, 14 Bromfield street, and at the Anti-Slavery Office,21 Corahill. Price 10 cents
A.H.HOWLAND & CO,
AGENTS FOR THE SALE OF
WHEELER & WILSON'S
Sewing Machines,
—ALSO—
WADE'S PATENT RUNNING ATTACHMENT,
No.9 WALNUT STREET,
(First Door from Main,) opposite Mechanics' Hall,
WORCESTER, MASS.
Every variety of Stitching done to order
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair- Dyeing
MADAM BANNISTER (formerly Madam CAITEAUX) would inform her kind and liberal patrons and the public, that she has removed to 323 Washington st, and 20 West st; where will be found her Restorative, the most celebration in the world, as it prevents hair from turning gray, and produces new in all diseases of the scalp. She stands second to none in Hair-Dyeing and Champooing.
Ladies waited on at their residences, either in or out of town.
Boston, May 1, 1860 
