THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
–AT–
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz: WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, PRINTERS.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 36. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1862. WHOLE NO. 1648.
Selections.
<c01>
A COLORED MAN’S REPLY TO PRESIDENT LINCOLN ON COLONIZATION.
To the President of the United States:
HONORED SIR,-As you are awaiting a reply from the negroes of the country to your recent colonization proposition, you will not, I trust, think it strange that an humble person like myself should venture to address you. Not long since, I was highly gratified by the assurance you, sir, are reported to have given President Geffrard, that you will not tear your shirt even if he does send a negro to Washington. This assurance is also very encouraging to me at the present time, as I am unable to see why a native American negro should be more objectionable to you than one belonging to a foreign country. Should I, however, manifest extraordinary stupidity in my remarks, please, sir, to extend your gracious pardon, and be kind enough to attribute all my perversity to the tightness of my hair, which may render my cranium impervious to your most cogent reasoning.
In the outset, good Mr. President, permit me to congratulate you on your good fortune in having a sum of money placed at your disposal in times like these. In this respect, sir, (especially if it is in specie,) you are highly favored above ordinary mortals. Could you now but, also, enjoy the luxury of spending it, for the benefit of those philanthropic coal speculators you refer to. I can well believe that you might feel yourself raised to the highest pinnacle of human happiness.
The simplicity, good sir, with which you assume that colored Americans should be expatriated, colonized in some foreign country, is decidedly rich—cool and refreshing as the breezes of “Egypt,” or the verdure of your prairie home. The assertions, however, you do make in favor of your assumption, are worthy of a passing notice. If admitted, they would make sad havoc with the doctrines that have been cherished by the good and great of all ages. Different races, indeed! Let me tell you, sir, President though you are, there is but one race of men on the face of the earth:-One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in all. Physical differences no doubt there are; no two persons on earth are exactly alike in this respect; but what of that? In physical conformation, you, Mr. President, may differ somewhat from the negro, and also from the majority of white men; you may even, as you intimate, feel this difference on your part to be very disadvantageous to you; but does it follow that therefore you should be removed to a foreign country? Must you and I and Vice-President Hamlin, and all of us. submit to a microscopic examination of our hair, to determine whether the United States or Central America shall be our future home?
Pardon me, sir, if I say you betray a lamentable ignorance of a large portion of the country over which, doubtless for some wise purpose, you have been called to preside. You forget Massachusetts, Maine, Rhode Island—States that are the brightest exemplars of progress on earth—where all men are equal before the law, black and white living together in peace and harmony.
But were all you say on this point true, must I crush out my cherished hopes and aspirations, abandon my home, and become a pander to the mean and selfish spirit that oppresses me?
Pray tell us, is our right to a home in this country less than your own. Mr. Lincoln? Read history, if you please, and you will learn that more than two centuries ago, Mr. White-man and Mr. Black-man settled in this country together. The negro, sir, was here in the infancy of the nation, he was here during its growth, and we are here to-day. If, through all these years of sorrow and affliction, there is one thing for which we have been noted more than all else, it is our love of country, our partriotism. In peace, the country has been blessed with our humble labor, nor have we ever been found wanting in the times that have tried the souls of men. We were with Warren on Bunker Hill, with Washington at Morristown and Valley Forge, with LaFayette at Yorktown, with Perry, Decatur, and McDonough in their cruisings, and with Jackson at New Orleans, battling side by side with the white man for nationality, national rights, and national glory. And when the history of the present atrocious insurrection is written, the historian will record: “Whoever was false, the blacks were true.” Would you, then, in truckling subserviency to the sympathizers with this bloody rebellion, remove the purest patriotism the country affords? If you would, let me tell you, sir, you cannot do it. Neither fraud nor force can succeed, but by the fatal ruin of the country. Are you an American? So are we Are you a patriot? So are we. Would you spurn all absurd, meddlesome, impudent propositions for your colonization in a foreign country? So do we.
I trust, good Mr. President, you will not rend your garments when I tell you that the question of colonization, so persistently thrust upon us by the heartless traders in the woes of a bleeding people, has long been settled by a unanimous determination to remain, and survive or perish, rise or fall with the country of our birth. In our conventions, conferences, &c., again and again, in the most emphatic language, we have declared our utter detestation of this colonization scheme; whatever form it may assume.
In holy horror, disinterested sir, you may hold up your hands at what you choose to denominate the “selfishness” of the unalterable resolution; but pray tell us, is it any more selfish than your own determination to remain here, instead of emigrating to some petty foreign country; and is it as selfish as the desire to exclude us from a country where there is room enough for ten times the present population; or is it, think you, as selfish as the coal traders, and the swarms of contractors, agents. &c., for whose benefit you are so anxious to spend some of the money our liberal Congress has placed at your disposal? If it is selfishness, please, sir, to remember your own place for the coal speculations, &c., viz: all persons look to their self-interest.
But say, good Mr. President, why we, why anybody should swelter, digging coal, if there be any, in Central America? In that country where the sun blazes with a fervor unknown in these high latitudes, where a broad-brimmed Panama, a cigar and a pair of spurs are considered a comfortable costume for the natives, why should we, why should anybody dig coal? Do tell. Might we not just as well dig ice on the coast of Labrador? But, say you: "Coal land is the best thing I know of to begin an enterprise." Astounding discovery! Worthy to be recorded in golden letters, like the Luna Cycle in the temple of Minerva. “Coal land, sir!” Pardon, Mr. President, if my African risibilities get the better of me, if I do show my ivories whenever I read that sentence! Coal land, sir! If you please, sir, give McClellan some, give Halleck some, and by all means, save a little strip for yourself.
Twenty-five negroes digging coal in Central
<c02>
America! Mighty plan! Equal to about twenty-five negroes splitting rails in Sangamon!
It was my intention to have shown you, sir, the necessity of retaining the labor of the negroes in the South as freemen, but space will not permit. According to theory, white men can’t stand it, can’t live honestly in the South: we can. Henceforth, then, let this be the motto: “The Gulf States, purged of traitors, the home of the loyal, emancipated blacks!” And then, good sir, if you have any nearer friends than we are, let them have that coal-digging job.
Yours, respectfully, A. P. SMITH.
Saddle River, N. J.
The Slaveholders’ Convention of Maryland, held in ’58, to take measures for the expulsion of the free blacks, came to the conclusion expressed in the following resolution, reported by Senator Pierce, Chairman of the Committee:—
Resolved, That this Convention consider any measure for the general removal of the free blacks from the State of Maryland as impolitic, inexpedient, and uncalled for by any public exigency which could justify it.

AN ARTFUL DODGER BUT A POOR CAPTAIN.
That Mr. Lincoln has the good of the American Republic at heart is not doubted, and honesty of purpose is accorded to him, but he has proved himself an artful dodger when attempts have been made to obtain his opinion on the questions of the day. He has stepped down from what would be considered in “court circles,” dignity of position, (but not really to his discredit,) and made a speech to a street crowd, and written a public letter to a private citizen, in defence of his own course. But instead of glowing words of encouragement in the nation's hour of peril, he has given utterance to a few sentences of common-place, lawyer-like pleadings. In his letter to Horace Greeley, he is for saving the Union—-that is the paramount object. We are glad of it; but if be would enlarge his vision, and look beyond his immediate surroundings, he would perceive the real causes that have been at work for the last quarter of a century to destroy that which he endeavors to preserve, and at once strike at the root of all our troubles. If Mr. Lincoln should find himself at sea, as captain of a leaky ship, we suppose the first and only thing that he would do would be to man the pumps, and after pumping a good while, with the water constantly gaining on him, he would sit down very coolly and pump a little more,-fully convinced that the only way to save the ship was to pump! If a landsman should volunteer a little advice, and say, “Abe, there's a hole in the bottom, had you not better stick in a plug?” he would very calmly look the presumptuous individual in the face, and reply, “Look here, my friend, perhaps you would like to run this machine yourself?” He would then call together his crew and passengers, collect his spare lumber, and set them at work building the sides of the ship a little higher. The workmen on the larboard side work faithfully, but those on the starboard are of the opinion that they are for “armed neutrality,” and after collecting all the loose buckets in one pile, they stand still and let the waves dash in upon them, bound to let the two contending forces have their own way. The passengers, perceiving the impending danger, call upon the captain, and request him to “drive in the plug.” “My friends,” says Captain Abraham, “I take the responsibility. Don’t you see that if I should commence to stop that hole in the bottom, my ‘border’ friends yonder with their 50,000 buckets would turn against us, and commence to bail in from the sea? No, no, it will never do for me to offend them, although I am opposed to unsightly holes in the bottoms of ships.”
Then comes along Mr. Commonsense, a philosopher, whose opinions on public questions, like Topsy, were not exactly made by any one, but “grow'd" on their own hook. He looks the ship over, and sees the first cause of the conflict. Mr. Commonsense being an editor of a daily paper indulges his penchant, and writes a scorching letter to Captain Abraham, in behalf of the “twenty million” passengers, which he publishes. He says, “Captain Abraham, the good ship has got a big hole in it, and if you don’t stop it immediately, the venerable craft will go to everlasting nothingness.”
Capt. Abraham, being a constant reader of the daily papers, peruses the aforesaid article, and writes a reply:
PILOT HOUSE, At Sea, Aug 22, 1862.
Hon. COMMONSENSE: DEAR SIR:-I have just read yours of the 19th, addressed to myself through the Lemonsqueezer. If there be any assumptions in it that are not true, I shall not “argue the point.” If it is perceptible that you have stepped into high heel boots, and are putting on airs, I don’t propose to be mad about it-out of respect to an old friend. As to the policy that I am pursuing, I have intended that all should understand it. I would save the old ship. If there are those who would not save the ship, unless they could save the hole, I do not agree with them. If there are those who would not save the ship, unless they could plug up the hole, I do not agree with them. My paramount object is to save the ship. If I could save the ship without stopping the hole, I would do it, and if I could save it by plugging up the hole, I would do it. What I do for the hole and the plug, I believe helps the ship, but if I find that what I am doing frightens the passengers from the Border States, I shall quit altogether. yours,
CAPTAIN ABRAHAM.
This is the philosophy of Abraham Lincoln. How long will it take him to understand that this Union—the good ship of State-is sinking, and that her passengers are struggling for life and eternal freedom, freedom for themselves as well as the slaves of the South? Yet the sworn defender of the people's liberties is calm, and cannot comprehend the approaching danger. He clings to the Border States, with all of their uncleanliness, and permits the free North, that has upheld the government with its strong arms, to go unrewarded and her voice unheeded. The President is right at heart undoubtedly, but does he comprehend the hour and its crisis? Parker Pillsbury remarked, in a late speech, that a friend had recently visited Mr. Lincoln, and he thought the President wanted God to be on his side, but he was sure that he meant to have Kentucky.
The President should understand that the slaves of the South support this rebellion: that while their masters are away from home fighting to destroy the government, they are producing the material to feed them. Declare universal emancipation, and the rebel soldiers would have to be withdrawn from the army to produce their own food.
Mr. Lincoln has occupied the presidential chair for a year and a half, and during that time he has been trying to say “no” and “yes,” but he has only got to “if.” It appears that if the handful of Border State men say that slavery must and shall be preserved, then Mr. Lincoln will endeavor to save it, cost what it may. No, no, Abraham Lincoln; you are on the wrong track. We of the North are not only intent on saving the Union for to-day, but for all time. We see that the only way to save it from future rebellions is to annihilate the cause of rebellion-Northampton Free Press.
<c03>
ANTHONY TROLLOPE ON AMERICA.
The Continental Monthly, for September, contains an able review of Anthony Trollope's recent work on America. Here is an extract from it:-
Mr. Trollope treats of our civil war at great length; in fact, the reverberations of himself on this matter are quite as objectionable as those in the Trent affair. But it is his treatment of this subject that must ever be a source of regret to the earnest thinkers who are gradually becoming the masters of our Government’s policy, who constitute the bone and muscle of the land, the rank and file of the army, and who are changing the original character of the war into that of a holy crusade. It is to be deplored, because Mr. Trollope’s book will no doubt influence English opinion, to a certain extent, and therefore militate against us; and we already know how his mistaken opinions have been seized upon by the proslavery journals in this country as a bonne bouche which they rarely obtain from so respectable a source; the more palatable to them, coming from that nationality which we have always been taught to believe was more abolition in its creed than William Lloyd Garrison himself, and from whose people we have received most of our lectures on the sin of slavery. It is sad that so fine a nature as that of Mr. Trollope should not feel conscience-stricken in believing that ‘to mix up the question of general abolition with this war must be the work of a man too ignorant to understand the real subject of the war, or too false to his country to regard it.’ Yet it is strange that these ‘too ignorant’ or ‘too false’ men are the very ones that Mr. Trollope holds up to admiration, and declares that any nation might be proud to claim their genius. Longfellow and Lowell, Emerson and Motley, to whom we could add almost all the well-known thinkers of the country, men after his own heart in most things, belong to this ‘ignorant’ or ‘false’ sect. Is it their one madness? That is a strange madness which besets our greatest men and women’; a marvelous anomaly surely. Yet there must be something sympathetic in abolitionism to Mr. Trollope, for he prefers Boston, the centre of this ignorance, to all other American cities, and finds his friends for the most part among these false ones, by which we are to conclude that Mr. Trollope is by nature an abolitionist, but that circumstances have been unfavorable to his proper development. And these circumstances we ascribe to a hasty and superficial visit to the British West-India colonies.
It is well known that in his entertaining book on travels in the West Indies and the Spanish Main, Mr. Trollope undertakes to prove that emancipation has both ruined the commercial prosperity of the British islands, and degraded the free blacks to a level with the idle brute. Mr. Trollope is still firm in this opinion, notwithstanding the statistics of the Blue Book, which prove that these colonies never were in so flourishing a condition as at present. We in America have also had the same fact demonstrated by figures, in that very plainly written book called the Ordeal of Free Labor. Mr. Trollope, no doubt, saw some very lazy negroes, wallowing in dirt, and living only for the day, but later developments have proved that his investigations could have been simply those of a dilettante. It is highly probable that the planters who have been shorn of their riches by the edict of Emancipation, should paint the present condition of the blacks in anything but rose-colors, and we, of course, believe that Mr. Trollope believes what he has written. He is none the less mistaken, if we are to pin our faith to the Blue Book, which we are told never lies. And yet, believing that emancipation has made a greater brute than ever of the negro, Mr. Trollope rejoices in the course which has been pursued by the home government. If both white man and black man are worse off than they were before, what good could have been derived from the reform, and by what right ought he to rejoice? Mr. Trollope claims to be an anti-slavery man, but we must confess that, to our way of arguing, the ground he stands upon in this matter is anything but terra firma. Mr. Trollope was probably thinking of those dirty West India negroes when he made the following comments upon a lecture delivered by Wendell Phillips:
‘I have sometimes thought that there is no being so venomous, so bloodthirsty, as a professed philanthropist; and that when the philanthropist’s ardor lies negro ward, it then assumes the deepest dye of venom and bloodthirstiness. There are four millions of slaves in the Southern States, none of whom have any capacity for self-maintenance or self-control. Four millions of slaves with the necessities of children, with the passions of men, and the ignorance of savages! And Mr. Phillips would emancipate these at a blow; would, were it possible for him to do so, set them loose upon the soil to tear their masters, destroy each other, and make such a hell upon earth as has never even yet come from the uncontrolled passions and unsatisfied wants of men.’
Mr. Trollope should have thought twice before he wrote thus of the American negro. Were he a competent authority on this subject, his opinion might be worth something; but as he never travelled in the South, and as his knowledge of the negro is limited to a surface acquaintance with the West Indies, we maintain that Mr. Trollope has not only been unjust, but ungenerous. Four millions of slaves, none of whom have any capacity for self-maintenance or self-control! Whom are we to believe? Mr. Trollope, who has never been on a Southern plantation, or Frederick Law Olmsted? Mr. Pierce who has been superintendent of the contrabands at Fortress Munroe and at Hilton Head, officers attached to Burnside's Division, and last and best, General David Hunter, an officer of the regular army, who went to South Carolina with anti-abolition antecedents? All honor to General Hunter, who, unlike many others, has not shut his eyes upon facts, and like a rational being, has yielded to the logic of events! It is strange that these authorities, all of whom possess the confidence of the Government, should disagree with Mr. Trollope. None self-maintaining? Robert Small is a pure negro. Is he not more than self-maintaining? Has he not done more for the Federal Government than any white man of the Gulf States? Tillman is a negro; the best pilots of the South are negroes: are they not self-maintaining? Kansas has welcomed thousands of fugitive slaves to her hospitable doors, not as paupers, but as laborers, who have taken the place of those white men who have gone to fight the battles which they also should have been allowed to take part in. The women have been gladly accepted as house-servants. Does not this look like self-maintenance? Would negroes be employed in the army, if they were as Mr. Trollope pictures them? He confesses that, without these four millions of slaves, the South would be a wilderness; therefore they do work as slaves to the music of the slave-driver’s whip. How very odd, that the moment men and women (for Mr. Trollope acknowledges them to be such) own themselves, and are paid for the sweat of their brow, they should forget the trades by which they have enriched the South, and become incapable of maintaining themselves-they who have maintained three hundred and fifty thousand
<c04>
<illegible> slave-owners! Given whip-lashes and the incubus of a white family, the slave will work; given freedom and wages, the negro won’t work. Was there ever stated a more palpable fallacy? Is it necessary to declare further that the Hilton Head experiment is a success, although the negroes, wanting in drivers and musical instruments, began their planting very late in the season? Is it necessary to give Mr. Trollope one of many figures, and prove that in the British West India Colonies free labor has exported two hundred and sixty-five millions pounds of sugar annually, whereas slave labor only exported one hundred and eighty-seven millions, three hundred thousand? And this in a climate where, unlike even the Southern States of North America, there is every inducement o indolence.

WM. H. SEWARD ON THE WAR.
Mr. Seward, under date of “Washington, May 28, 1862,” sends an official letter to Mr. Adams, American Minister at the Court of St. James, on the state of the country, concluding as follows:-
The power of a losing faction under any circumstances must continually grow less. But that of the disunionists is abating under the operation of a cause peculiar to themselves, which it is now my duty to bring forward -I mean the practice of African slavery.
I am aware that, in regard to this point, I am opening a subject which was early interdicted in this correspondence. The reason for the interdiction, and the reason for a departure from it, are, however, equally obvious. It was properly left out of view, so long as might be reasonably hoped that, by the practice of magnanimity, this Government might cover that weakness of the insurgents, without encouraging them to persevere in their treasonable conspiracy against the Union. They have protracted the war a year, notwithstanding this forbearance of the Government, and yet they persist in invoking foreign arms to end a domestic strife, while they have forced slavery into such prominence that it cannot be overlooked.
The region where the insurrection still remains flagrant embraces all or parts of several States, with a white population of 4,500,000, and a negro population of 3,500,000, chiefly slaves. It is thus seen to be a war between two parties of the white race, not only in the presence, but in the very midst of the enslaved negro race.
It is notorious-we could not conceal the fact if we would-that the dispute between them arose out of questions in which the negro race have a deep and lasting interest and that their sympathies, wishes and interests naturally, necessarily, inevitably, fall on the side of the Union. Such a civil war between two parties of the white race, in such a place and under such circumstances, could not be expected to continue long, before the negro race would begin to manifest some sensibility and some excitement. We have arrived at that stage already. Everywhere the American General receives his most useful and reliable information from the negro, who hails his coming as a harbinger of freedom. Wherever the national army advances into the insurrectionary region, African bondsmen, escaping from their insurrectionary masters, come out to meet it, and offer their service and labor in whatever capacity they may be desired. So many of these bondsmen have, even without the invitation, and often against the opposition of the Federal military and naval authorities, made their way from bondage among the insurgents to freedom among the loyalists, that the Government finds itself occupied with the consideration of measures to provide them with domiciles at home or abroad. Not less than one hundred such escape every day; and as the army advances, the number increases. If the war should continue indefinitely, every slave will become not only a free man, but an absentee. If the insurgents shall resist their escape, how could they hope to prevent the civil war they have inaugurated from degenerating into a servile war? True, a servile population, especially one so long enslaved as the Africans in the insurrectionary States, require time and trial before they can organize a servile war; but if the war continues indefinitely, a servile war is only a question of time. The problem, then, is, whether the strife shall be left to go on to that point. The Government, animated by a just regard for the general welfare, including that of the insurrectionary States, adopts a policy designed at once to save the Union and rescue society from that fearful catastrophe, while it consults the ultimate peaceful relief of the nation from slavery. It cannot be necessary to prove to any enlightened statesman, that the labor of the African in the insurrectionary region is at present indispensable as a resource of the insurgents for continuing the war, nor is it now necessary to show that this same labor is the basis of the whole industrial system existing in that region. The war is thus seen to be producing already a disorganization of the industrial system of the insurrectionary States, and tending to a subversion of even their social system. Let it next be considered that the European systems of industry are largely based upon the African slave labor of the insurrectionary States, employed in the production of cotton, tobacco and rice, and on the free labor of the other States, employed in producing cereals, out of which combined productions arises the demand for European productions, materials and fabrics. The disorganization of industry, which is already revealing itself in the insurrectionary States, cannot but impair their ability to prosecute the war, and at the same time result indirectly in greater distress in Europe.
On the other hand, this disorganization operates far less injuriously at present to the Federal Government and to the loyal States. Every African laborer who escapes from his service is not only lost to the support of the insurrection, but he brings an accession to the productive labor of the loyal States, and to that extent increases their ability to continue the contest in which they are reluctantly engaged. The failure of foreign importation as heretofore, in return for the importation of Southern staples, stimulates the manufacturing industry of the loyal States. Immigration is accelerated by an activity in these States resulting from extended manufacture and the prosecution of the war. Thus has the phenomenon appeared, disappointing so many prophecies in Europe, that the war impoverishes and exhausts only the insurrection, and not the Union. I shall not contend that these effects would be perpetual. I know there is a reckoning for every, nation that has the misfortune to be involved in a war, and I do not expect for the United States any exemption from that inexorable law; but it is enough for my present purpose that the penalties are neither more severe nor more imminent than the loyal States can endure, while bringing this unhappy contest to its desired conclusion. Let us now suppose that any one or more European States should think it right or expedient to intervene by force to oblige the United States to accept a compromise of their sovereignty. What other effect could it produce than to render inevitable, and even hurry on, that servile war, so
<c05>
completely destructive of all European interests in this country, which this Government so studiously strives to avoid? I know that the danger of any foreign nation attempting such a policy, if it has ever existed, has passed, as I am happy in knowing that no foreign Government has ever threatened such intervention, while several magnanimous Governments have repudiated all unfriendly designs. I have put forward that hypothesis only by way of preface to a question not less significant-namely, what must be the effect of such a policy abroad as will encourage the insurgents with hopes of an intervention which is never to occur? Is not that effect visible in the obstinacy of the insurgents, in their destruction of the cotton and tobacco already cultivated, and liable to be brought into commerce by the return of peace, and in their studied neglect of the planting of the seeds of their staples, and turning so much of the African labor as they are able to save into the production of supplies of provision and forage, to enable them to continue the war?
The effect will be further developed as time goes on, in opening a way for that servile war, which, if it shall be permitted to come, will produce infinite suffering throughout the world, and can only at last result in an entirely new system of trade and commerce between the United States and all foreign nations.
I need not say that these views are not grounded on any proceedings or expressions of the British Government, and are to be submitted to them only, as they will be to other States, from a strong desire on the part of the President that the true condition of the present strife may be everywhere fully understood.
I am, &c., WILLIAM H. SEWARD.

THE WORD “WHITE.”
We have observed of late,-though the complaint comes from but one or two sources where it might, perhaps, naturally be expected,-a disposition to cavil at the Governor of Massachusetts because, in ordering, forthwith, a new enrollment of the able-bodied male citizens of the Commonwealth between the ages of eighteen and forty-five, he does not confine the return to white citizens, agreeably to the existing law of this State. The Boston Courier, in an article upon this subject, acknowledges that Congress recently changed the old United States law in reference to this matter, and speaks of the action as “one of those pieces of small craft, of which we might suppose the majority to be guilty.” The same paper likewise remarks:-
“Our own statute, in respect to the militia, is conformable to the Act of Congress of 1792; and since the legislation of the State was at that period deemed necessary in order that its militia should be organized in correspondence with the statute of the United States, we consider that such legislation is now necessary before colored men can be enrolled in the militia of the State.”
It will not be forgotten, that, during the session of the Legislature of 1860, (as well as the extra one of 1859, we think,) so strong an effort was made to remove the word “white” from the existing statute of this State, that a very decisive majority was found to pass an amendatory bill, securing the removal of the restriction. The act failed to become a law, because Gov. Banks returned it with his veto; the veto having been based solely upon the argument,-which, notwithstanding the restriction really made the Massachusetts colored men a privileged class, was generally acquiesced in,-that the removal of the word would place the State statute in direct opposition to the law of the United States, and would, in fact, be a positive nullification of that act, and a measure, consequently, which this Commonwealth had not the right to pass. We all very well remember the earnestness with which those newspapers especially which arrogated to themselves the special championship of the doctrine (a correct one) that the Nation was supreme over the State, and that the efforts of a State to array itself against the Nation were nothing short of treason, denounced this attempt to remove the word “white,” and landed the act of the Governor, which was very clearly right and proper, considering the existence of the United States law of 1792.
Now, however, the law of the United States is changed. It matters not, one way or the other, for what reason, or by what influences; or whether the change is right or wrong, judicious or injudicious. The law of the land now is, that “all able-bodied male citizens,” with no distinction of color, shall, with the specified restrictions, constitute the militia. The existing provisions of Massachusetts law are, consequently, as much in conflict with the law of the United States to-day, as they would have been two years ago, had the State stricken the word “white” from its law. The boot is now upon the other leg; and it is an old saying, that it is a poor rule that will not work both ways. Now, in “General Order No. 99,” just issued from the War Department of the United States, and sent to the Governors of the various States, each Governor is positively, and with no equivocation, required and directed, in express terms, to “cause an enrollment to be made, forthwith, of all able-bodied male citizens between the ages of eighteen and forty-five.” In compliance with this imperative order, the Governor has directed the assessors to enroll all the persons thus specified, without the distinction of color that has been heretofore preserved; and because the Governor has so directed, the Courier berates him for overriding the law of Massachusetts! and says he ought not to issue such an order till the Legislature has first amended the present law. As the order of the War Department requires the enrollment to commence “forthwith,” the action of the Legislature is of course impossible; and the recommendation, that the Governor adhere to the State law rather than the United States law, is nothing less than a recommendation of nullification. And it is curious to observe how ready some peculiar minds are to recommend nullification when that course promotes the interests of slavery and “anti-niggerism,” and roll up their eyes at it in horror when it seems to conform to an anti-slavery sentiment.
That part of the order of the War Department above cited is not, it should be understood, intended for those States which have no militia laws. It is imperative upon all the States, whether those States have laws or not. Another part of the same order, relating to exemptions, the manner of drafting, and the like, is for the express accommodation and guidance of those States which have no laws upon the subject. It cannot, therefore, be urged that, in the matter of color, State law is allowed supremacy over National law. We wonder that complaint is not made because the Governor announces that the payment of seventy-five dollars will not exempt a drafted man, when the State law clearly provides to that effect.-Salem Mercury.
The enormous sum of one million dollars has been contributed for the volunteers, in Philadelphia, up to the 19th ult.
<c06>
ADDRESS OF MAJOR GENERAL FREMONT
At an immense gathering at the Tremont Temple, in Boston, on Thursday evening, August 28, 1862:-
I feel deeply the honor of having been asked to appear before you. I am gratified that you think I can say anything which will aid in the object of these meetings. But I trust that this object, so far as it relates to the enrollment of the volunteers required, has already been attained. The events of the last few weeks have made so apparent the necessity for immediate reinforcements, that I hope nothing else has been needed to procure a prompt response to the call of the Government, and to that mute but strong appeal of your friends in the field, who to-day constitute our bulwark against the surges of rebellion.
The chances of war do not admit of delays. The enemy is pushing it forward with renewed vigor, and the loss of a few weeks, or even of a few days, may involve disasters shameful to record and impossible to retrieve. In this condition, it will never do to let differences of opinion as to how the war should be carried on interfere with its vigorous prosecution. First fill the ranks, and leave to those who stay at home the obligation of shaping the struggle to its proper ends. But Massachusetts needs no other incitement to her duty than the certainty that she has one to perform. Under this impulse, her people will come forward promptly and nobly, as they always have done. (Cheers.) She will be always true, as in this contest she has been poetically true, to her historic record. The infant that here in the “Cradle of Liberty “ strangled the serpent, is ready in its manhood to destroy the hydra; and when I see, as I have lately had the opportunity to see, what kind of men they are, each one filling a place in society, instructed, intelligent men, heads and supporters of families, contributing by steady labor to the wealth of the State-when I see such men going by thousands and hundreds of thousands to the field, my anxiety is not in regard to the number who go there, but it is that their ready obedience and affecting confidence in the government will be met by a corresponding care for them in the field, and that these concentrated energies will be directed to results worthy of the sacrifices they are making. (Applause.)
Therefore, I indulge myself in the pleasure of feeling that the object of this meeting is not so much to urge the necessity for further troops as to furnish an occasion of encouragement and sympathy to those now leaving for the field-the assemblage of friends on shore to greet the parting ship-and so, with a God-speed to them, I turn with your permission, for a moment, to the duties resting upon those of us who, for the time being, are left at home.
I had just now expressed my anxiety that we should obtain from this war results worthy of the sacrifices we are making. How this shall be done, and in the speediest way, is the question which threatens still more to convulse the country, and is making of the nation one great council of war. And it is right that the people should, in this way, jealously debate their vital interests. Not only is this their inherited right, bought by the first revolution, but it is also their sacred duty to keep themselves well and currently informed concerning the progress of this revolution, and to make known their wishes concerning the manner in which it shall be controlled, so as best to secure domestic peace, and restore it upon imperishable foundations. (Loud cheers.) It is in this way that the vitality of our institutions manifests and maintains itself. (Applause.)
In ordinary wars, a soldier is limited to the silent execution of his military duties. But we are in the midst of a revolution where every citizen is a soldier. Rome had her laws special to civil war. Here the nation is stirred to the heart by a struggle for existence, and not only the life of the country, but the life of Representative Liberty throughout the world, is at stake. It is not safe to believe that we shall be able easily to govern this revolution. And in the midst of such events, it is not only the right but the duty of every man to express his opinions, and, however slight his influence may be, to employ it in laboring for the common cause.
Lord Herbert, when envoy at the court of France, sent, I think, by Elizabeth-at all events, at a time when on the personal relations of ambassadors depended peace or war for their nations-said to the French minister, who had purposely provoked him, that “although ambassador, he was not the less a gentleman.” He reserved the right, when occasion called for it, to act in his broader capacity. So, therefore, a soldier, but not the less a citizen, I will, in the little I have to say to you, speak my opinion freely (cries of “Good,” “good,” and applause); but at the same time, I will endeavor to do so with the reserve belonging to the first character. I will ask your indulgence, if I may speak upon a subject about which you are not all equally united, but the proper treatment of which I think equally important with the proper treatment of our forces in the field; and if I speak of myself in connection, it is because in the suggestions I presume to make to you, I speak upon my individual experience. (Cries of “Good,” and applause.)
Six years ago, when I had the honor to represent your views upon national affairs, I held, in common with yourselves, the opinion that slavery should not be disturbed within its existing limits. When the Confederate States announced their existence, their executive proclaimed slavery to be the corner-stone of the new power. In Missouri, a year ago, as a war measure, I declared the slaves of rebels free, (immense applause, and cries of “Good,” and great cheering,) believing this to be the most incisive, searching and deadly blow that could be aimed at the heart of the rebellion. (Applause and Good, good, Bully for you, and cheers.) I judged it to be the quickest mode to damage and disconcert the enemy, and to gain great advantages with the least cost of life to the good citizens who were acting with me in maintaining the laws. A General in the field, in a distant and rebellious district invested with pro-consular powers, I did this in the exercise of what I believed to be my legitimate authority. (Cheers.) Later as the war went on, I became satisfied that with its successful termination must also terminate slavery in some form. (Good, good, and cheers.)
I considered it then sufficient that some measure should be adopted, by which it should immediately cease as a political power, and begin to cease as a social fact. But as the contest was protracted, the conditional opinions with which we all entered upon it, in my mind gave place to the conviction that every advantage which the laws of war allowed to us should be employed, and that to be effective at a war measure this act should be thorough and immediate. It became apparent that the slower process would be ineffectual. And so the events of the year have brought me to the conviction, that there can be no lasting peace while slavery exists on our continent. (Great applause.) Therefore, all other considerations apart, and regarding it only as a measure for the effectual suppression of the rebellion, I am in favor of the immediate abolition of sla
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”–J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
very, (great cheers,) and in favor of using every practicable means to make that abolition effective, (cheers,) and so deprive the enemy of their great element of strength. (Great applause.)
Wherever our flag waves in jurisdiction, let it wave over free men. (Cheers.) Let it answer all questions, and give all passports. (Loud cheers.)
It is urged against summary measures that the liberation of the slaves would be an act of great injustice to the loyal men of the South. But can such a war as this be carried on without sacrifices from the loyal people in every section of the country? The loyalists of the South would be required to contribute a portion of what is held to be property, and for which they would doubtless be afterward remunerated. Against this the loyal people of the North give not only absolute property, but their own lives, and the lives of those most dear to them. (Cheers.) [At this point, Gov. Andrew came upon the platform, and was received with loud cheers.] To them their loss can never be repaid. How then can such distinctions be entertained? And how can we, in making war upon a country, protect its vital interests?—separate it into parts, and for the sake of protecting the property of a class, forego our greatest advantages? Such a policy would carry within itself the elements of sure defeat, and the real Unionists of the South are ready for the sacrifice. Nor do I share in the belief that there is a large body of Unionists in the South. In my individual experience I have found them few, and in the progress of the war they have been fast decreasing. The danger which has attended the avowal of Union sentiments, the uncertain protection which we have been able to give them, the certain severities of the Confederate Government, the unexpected length to which the rebels have been able to protract the struggle, together with neighborhood friendships and interests, have carried away many who in the beginning maintained their allegiance to the Union. In the whole valley of Virginia, I do not remember to have met a Union man, and certainly not one Union woman. (Laughter.) This element of their strength must not be underrated. It serves to show how thoroughly the feelings of the South are in this contest, and leaves no doubt as to what will be the training of the growing generation. Not only were the people not desirous of returning to the Union, but they did not entertain the idea in any shape—their only conjectures were as to the manner in which the separation would finally be effected. I do not think that our Northern people realize how many years the South has been preparing for this struggle.
The advent of the Natchez in Charleston harbor, with Jackson’s proclamation and her ready batteries, checked it for a time in South Carolina, where there was then a strong body of men with Union sentiments—strong enough to have the consistency of a party, and with its representative organs. Then quite a young man, I was among the Unionists en rolled with a view to service under Mr. Poinsett, then the acknowledged head of the party in that State. Mr. Calhoun died a defeated rebel chief, but he left legions of young men devoted to disseminate his principles—young legions growing up in the faith of the principles, to the establishment of which this generation has been consecrated in the South. We are at war with a people who have been educated to believe they are contending for their liberties; they are carrying on this contest with unity and determination; their armies have acquired the solidity and consistency of regular troops. To reduce such a rebellion will require the utmost exertion of our force, and the immediate use of every advantage which naturally falls to our share in the contest. Their determination to obtain success is unconquerable—to subdue them, their designs must be made impossible, and the unity which gives them strength must be ours also. (Cheers.)
To secure this unity, we must rouse ourselves to extraordinary exertions. Not only must every possible means be used to damage the enemy in the field, but we must guard vigilantly against the enemies in our midst. (Cheers.) While you have been loyally occupied with the defence of the country, and sending your voters to the field, the pro-slavery party has been stealthily and busily employed in organizing to control the elections, and to secure a victory of which they already feel assured. To counteract them, you must labor—you must make it a matter of individual labor in order to give this force of unity to the work before us, and every vote deposited in the ballot-box tells as surely on the contest as a blood-stained musket left on the field. The endurance and steady courage of our soldiers must be supported by a united public opinion at home, and when some brilliant victory flashes across the clouds of war, let a responsive glow light up the undivided hearts of the North. (Loud cheers.)
We might make concessions and give up advantages, if our contest was for this generation only. If we were contending for ourselves only, we might compromise or let it go. Individual prosperity could be easily secured here or elsewhere, where peace and stable governments reign. But it is for the long line of generations yet to come, in whose interests we fight this battle. (Cheers.) We cannot say, “After us the deluge,” but must take the time with all its obligations. Our soldiers go to the field with no short aims. Their hopes are not placed upon the temporary success of a battle, and the impulses which govern them are not those only of personal fame. Remember how small their chance for it is. No such considerations would have carried them from their little home circles, where each absence makes a horrible blank. Impelled alone by a generous patriotism, they fight for their country’s future—not its present or theirs; they have no other reward than the glory and safety of the country. Such men I have seen in the field. I know how cheerfully they bear hardships—how silently they accept wounds and death.
Go to the graves of these honored dead, and tell them the flag they loved floats over their regiment upon some glorious field—will their sleep be disturbed? Tell them their names will be handed down with honor through the succession of generations—will the blood again thrill in their veins, and will their eyes glisten? Give them, then, while they can enjoy it, the satisfaction to know that their efforts have an object. Already you hear the tramp of eager thousands hastening to the prepared battle—your fancy in the restless night brings you back the voices of their farewell. Except in dreams of the night, how many of you will ever hear them again, those household voices? 
Remembering these—remembering the hoarded treasures you have thrown into this gulf for your country’s good—will you hesitate? People of Massachusetts, will you hesitate to strike with vital force the unnatural enemy who has compelled these terrible sacrifices? (Cries of “No!” “No!") Shall this blood be shed in vain? (“No!” “No!”) Baptized in such blood, will you not name free that soil where it was shed? (“Yes!” “Yes!”) Shall a ploughshare guided by the hand of a slave throw up, to whiten in the sun, the bones of patriots who fell in this struggle for their country? (Cries of “No!” “No!”)
Crowd your patriot soldiers to the field, happy in their privilege to be there; make every fight a victory, but let the men who fall on those red fields die in the assured belief that their blood was not merely spilled upon the ground—that it went to cement the corner-stones in this great temple of universal liberty, (great cheering,) and when the rear of the battle with all other mortal sounds is fading in their ears, let them feel that their souls, too, are marching on to join that noble army (cheers) of martyrs which every good cause demands. Justify their sacrifices, and at once, by a great act, place yourselves on one of the grand pinnacles of history. And if on that summit the halo which surrounds you is tinged with a reddened light reflected from many a bloody field, it will not come from your setting sun, but will be the light of a new and glorious morning which will illuminate the world. (Tremendous applause, which was kept up for several minutes.)
Six cheers were proposed and given for “Our Jessie.” Governor Andrew, who had entered during Gen. Fremont’s speech, was loudly called for. Col. Parker stated that he (the Governor) was overcome by the excessive labors of the day, and begged to be excused from speaking at that time.
Hon. Charles A. Phelps was next introduced, and made a spirited and eloquent speech, endorsing what Gen. Fremont had said, and urging an uncompromising warfare with the rebellion and its cause. He was warmly responded to.
Hon. Henry Wilson was then presented. He spoke as follows:—
Ladies and Gentlemen,—You came here to-night to listen to and to gaze upon John C. Fremont. (Applause.) You have listened to-night to his words: they sink into your hearts. Those words will go through the Republic, and will thrill the
<c02>
heart of the nation. When one year ago beyond the Mississippi he proclaimed freedom to the slaves of rebels, the loyal heart of the Republic responded with a great beat. Perhaps excessive prudence and excessive kindness towards men in rebellion afterwards modified that beat. But time has passed on, and that deed of John C. Fremont is substantially recorded in the laws of the Republic,—(cheers)—and what is not in the laws of the Republic, I believe is recorded in the hearts of the people, and they will put it there. The Congress of the United States, after months of struggle, amid obloquy and reproach, put on the statute book of the Republic a law that made every slave of a rebel within the lines of our army a free man. That is the law of the land to-day. It does not depend upon a proclamation of the President, or an order of commanders in the field; and I trust that the men who are for the Union—who are for liberty as well as Union—will rally now, and strike the fetters from the millions of the slaves of rebels. Perhaps the Government does not move so fast as the bounding hearts of the people would like, but the Government must respond when the sentiments of the people are manifested. I believe the President of the United States to be one of the purest patriots and one of the most honest men ever summoned to take part in public affairs. I believe that he loves liberty for all mankind. I believe, however, that he is prudent, careful, cautious—perhaps, in the judgment of some of us, too much so; but you can have him right by being unanimously right yourselves.
A voice in the gallery—“I say, Wilson, hadn’t you better run the machine?” (Cries of “Put him out.” Applause and hisses.)
Mr. Wilson—Acting thus together, we shall overthrow this slaveholding rebellion, maintain the just authority of the Government, and strike down the Slave Power and slavery in America. In view of the events transpiring in the country, the time has gone by wherein any man can believe in human slavery, and believe in its extension, and be loyal to the North American Republic. (Cheers.) I can conceive that a man may believe slavery to be an evil which may be continued along until God in his providence overcomes it; I can conceive such a man to be loyal; but the man who believes slavery is right is a traitor. (Cheers.) Slavery is the only cause of this rebellion: there is no other. To take the hate out of the South, we must strike the fetters from the limbs of every bondman. That which has poisoned the fountains of our existence must perish forever. (A voice—“Amen.”) Let the land where sons of Massachusetts who have fallen in the struggle lie be trodden by free men. We owe it to them, to make the dust that lies on their bosom, dust to be trodden only by the feet of freemen.
Slavery is the only cause of this rebellion. (That’s so.”) There is no other cause, I think, that ever made any ill-will between us. Slavery has poisoned the hearts of our brethren of the South, and they to-day are actuated by a hatred unsurpassed by any people in any age against our government, against the loyal people of this country. Now to take the hate out of their hearts, strike the fetters from the limbs of their bondmen. (Cheers.) Let that system that has poisoned the foundations of our national existence perish forever. (“Amen!” and great cheering.)
The Congress of the United States comprehended its duties in this crisis of the country. Congress believed slavery to be the sole cause of this revolt. They stamped the word freedom in letters of living light on every foot of territory belonging to the United States. They declared that every slave of a rebel that came within the lines was free, and that he might be used for military purposes. I say Congress fully comprehended the duties of the hour, and has written on the statute books these wise, and humane, and beneficent enactments. I have faith that when the loyal people shall speak in firm but kind tones to those who administer the Government, they will smite, down this institution which has plunged the nation into blood and civil war. I have the fullest faith that the President and his Constitutional advisers will act out these enactments of Congress, and that the slaves of all rebels will be forever made free. (Cheers.)
Senator Wilson was followed in a spirited manner by E. C. Bailey, Rev. J. M. Manning, and others.

THE WAR
The past two months have brought forth momentous changes in the state of the country. A few weeks since, the North was confident that a great blow was soon to be struck by the army of the Potomac—that Richmond, the capital and stronghold of the rebel Confederacy, was about to come into the possession of the United States—that the rebellion would in this way be reduced to comparatively insignificant proportions, and the supreme authority of the Federal Government restored in all the revolted States. These anticipations have been fearfully disappointed. The very reverse of all that was so hopefully looked for has taken place. The army of the North has been driven back—the Confederacy is confident and strong—the mind of the North sank, for a time, into a state of unexampled depression—new levies were called for—not less than six hundred thousand men—a large part of them will probably be drafted for out of the able bodied men of the North: all this involving vast expenditure, in which the best blood of the land will be shed in torrents. This is sad enough; but the saddest feature of all we find in the obstinate impenitency of the nation. Neither government nor people appear to feel any compunctions in view of accumulated national guilt. Some Christians do; but of the masses and of the rulers it may be said, as Jeremiah declared regarding Israel in a period of similar calamity, “This people hold fast deceit; they will not return.” They have not even good sense enough to employ all their resources in this tremendous crisis. They will not call upon any but white men to join the ranks of the army: they will not even allow any others to take up arms, when they offer to do so. Their hatred of the colored race—the innocent occasion of this terrible war—appears to be intensified. They will employ them in menial services, but exclude them from the more honorable task of making war with musket and bayonet. It is impossible to exaggerate the testimony which this one fact gives to the utter demoralization of the masses of the North in reference to the principles of humanity and liberty. Colored men fought in the Revolutionary war, and in the war of 1812: they are found in the armies of all nations that have the opportunity and the necessity to ask their help: but the proud, and presumptuous, and stupid North refuses their aid. As to the slaves, there is no policy adopted by the government. Nearly everything is left to the will or caprice of the commanding generals. The noble Hunter, in South Carolina, enrolls and arms them; Pope uses them partially, and, we believe, protects them when they fly to his lines; Buell excludes them from his camp; McClellan says nothing about them, but some find employment within his lines; Butler re-enacts the old slave laws of Louisiana, and orders colored men found in the streets after 9 o’clock, P.M., without a pass from a master, to be flogged; the President, although authorized by Congress to receive and arm colored men, refuses to do anything approaching to it.
When will this besotted nation learn righteousness? When will its obdurate heart be softened? When will it fear God more than it fears Kentucky? When will the nation begin to feel that, unless it makes war, and strikes at the terrible slave system—the cause and life of the rebellion, and turns to God, who is visiting it—that there is no other prospect before it but national disintegration, with its fearful train of evils, or, it may be, speedy national ruin? Surely, God has judicially blinded the people of the land—its “princes are fools”—they “are deceived;” the Lord hath mingled a perverse spirit in the midst of the land.
In the mean time, however, many slaves are gaining their liberty. A better spirit, moreover, is rising on their behalf; or, rather, as to the necessity of looking to emancipation as the final agency to employ for the preservation of the nation: and the evidences are accumulating that, in the final issue, the accursed system of slavery must and will be destroyed. This is well: but all this does not prove the existence of penitence toward God, or even any considerable growth of humane principles; nor does it at all excuse the infatuation of the country in refusing now, “in this its day,” to take hold of the mighty weapon that God has put into its hand against the still more infatuated rebels. Still, we will not believe—until compelled to do so, and we hope that we shall not be—that God has decreed the utter quenching of the light of this nation: we believe that it will be, at last, however late, purified “so as by fire,” and come out of the furnace more pure, and free, and Christian, in the past, and present, and future, a beacon to the world.—The Covenanter.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1862.
THE COURIER TRUTHFULLY DESCRIBED.
In the Boston Transcript of Saturday evening, the Rev. Mr. Manning, of the Old South Church, publishes the following communication:—
MR. EDITOR—The Courier, in its comments on the Fremont meeting of last Thursday night, represents me as saying of certain persons named, that “when we go to heaven, we shall find them” there. As some of the gentlemen named were not present to hear what was said, and since it is well known that I say generally about the opposite of what the Courier reports me as saying, I am anxious lest they should suspect me of having consigned them (prophetically) to the place which is farthest from heaven. I beg leave to assure my friends that I said nothing of this sort, and that I have too much regard for their comfort to wish them where they would necessarily have to endure the presence of the Courier.
My remarks were confined strictly to this world,—carrying out the patriotic suggestions of Mr. Bailey, that party lines will all have fallen, and conservatives and radicals “find” themselves standing side by side, under the old banner of the Republic, in the hour of final victory over the rebellion. When we have reached that glorious consummation, where will the Boston Courier be? We fear that echo will answer for it, and that its epitaph will be—“A rebel, had it not been a coward.” J. M. MANNING.
The epitaph suggested by Mr. Manning is exactly to the point. The “loyalty” of the Courier is evidently through constraint of public opinion. Could the rebels succeed in overthrowing the Government, that paper would instantly throw aside the mask of dissimulation, and justify their course; for its spirit is wholly alien from the free institutions of the North, and as servile and base, slavery ward, as the South can desire. It would be “a rebel,” were it not “a coward.” Mr. Manning has merely expressed the opinion that is universally entertained of it.
The reply of the Courier is characteristic. It sneers at Mr. Manning as “a clergyman who has become a politician, and who takes active part in political gatherings”—as if, supposing the charge were true, it is not as much his right to be and to do thus, in the exercise of his citizenship, as it is the right of the editor of the Courier! It impudently insists that its reporter “furnished the acount of what was said at the Tremont meeting with indisputable fidelity”—whereas, the reporter wantonly burlesqued what Mr. Manning said at the close of his admirable speech, making his language ridiculous, as every one who was present knows. “Mr. Manning,” says the Courier, “informed his hearers that when they went to heaven, they would find John C. Fremont, George B. Cheever, General Hunter, Henry Ward Beecher, Wm. Lloyd Garrison, and Wendell Phillips.” It reiterates the falsehood in the following malicious sentence:—“When such clergy-men make speeches at excited political meetings, (!) it is not singular that they should say very foolish things, or that they should forget it afterwards; but the written word remains.” The written word of the Courier, in this instance, is a gross misrepresentation, nevertheless. Since the war broke out, clergymen have every where participated in the public gatherings held to urge its more vigorous prosecution; and their conduct has been deemed eminently patriotic. Why is Mr. Manning,—whose zeal in this direction has not been surpassed,—to be thus invidiously assailed as “a politician”? For no other reason than that he is for striking directly at slavery as the vulnerable point of the rebellion, and thus making it possible for the Government to achieve a lasting victory. This it is, in the Courier’s eyes, that constitutes his “bigotry, uncharitableness, fanaticism and folly”—that makes him “a notorious abolitionist, who must be ranked, according to the classification of the Post Master General, among ‘the aiders and abettors of the Confederates,’ and who made this too clear by the part he took in the late Disunion meeting”!! The <illegible> Old South Church aiding and abetting the Southern traitors! The tremendous gathering at the Tremont Temple, which was so eloquently addressed by Fremont, Phelps, Wilson, Bailey, Manning and Parker, a “Disunion meeting”! And the accuser the Boston Courier!
“In conclusion,” says this refined and courteous journal, “since this reverend person so glibly and indecently bandies opprobrious epithets, we feel constrained to inquire of him why he does not himself go to the war?” There may be many valid reasons for his not going: and the retort might easily be made, why does not the patriotic(?) editor of the Courier go? No one can be better spared than himself; he is now put to the worst uses; his departure would give general satisfaction to the community; and though he may be exempted, in consequence of exceeding the required age, still, being healthy and vigorous, he should not avail himself of that excuse, nor stand on the order of his going! Besides, without his martial aid and presence, it is quite certain that “the Union as it was” can never be restored!
The Courier, like every other pro-slavery, pseudo-loyal journal of the North, has been a great admirer of Gen. McClellan and his “masterly strategy,” from the beginning, and still appears enamored because he does nothing but delay and retreat. “On Friday morning,” it says, “information reaches the public from Washington, that McClellan has assumed the chief command of the armies in Virginia. This all seems right and reasonable, and the result is, a vast renewal of confidence in military operations”! The assertion we have put in italics, as far as the public at large is concerned, is pure fiction. McClellan’s military reputation is inextricably imbedded in the Chickahominy swamps; and in the circles of the most patriotic and loyal, he is generally pronounced utterly incompetent for his position; while others regard the terrible disasters and appalling mortality which have followed the splendid army he has had under his control as the results of an indisposition to go forward, rather than a want of ability. Here is the latest intelligence of his conduct. The Washington correspondent of the Tribune, under date of Sunday last, makes the following grave charges:—
The order from the War Department, taking from Gen. McClellan the command in Virginia to which by seniority of rank he was entitled, and which rumor has already assigned him, bears date yesterday, and has a history.
Gen. McClellan’s friends admit that he doesn’t understand the value of time, and the events of this week have proved, at least, the truthfulness of this statement. As long ago as Wednesday, he received an order to advance the corps of Gen. Franklin to the support of Gen. Pope. He sent an excuse to the effect that it was impossible to do so for lack of transportation and supplies. On Thursday night the order was repeated, and the time to march fixed at 6 o’clock, Friday morning.
At a late hour that morning, the President believed and stated to visitors that this column had moved. But the discovery was shortly afterwards made that Gen. Franklin was still in Alexandria.
At 2 o’clock on Friday afternoon, the order was for the third time issued, but at 4 Gen. McClellan telegraphed that he had countermanded it, because he judged it unsafe to deprive Alexandria and Washington of the protection of this corps. 
On Friday night they moved, but were stopped by McClellan at Annandale, about seven miles from Alexandria, and within sound of the enemy’s guns, for the alleged reason that it was unsafe to advance. Yesterday they at last moved, but for three days the march was delayed—three days! during which Gen. Pope was fighting against terrible odds.
Another act by Gen. McClellan meets with equally sharp criticisms Gen. Pope sent to him from the battle field a request that he would forward him immediately forage for his horses and food for his men.
Gen. McClellan returned an answer that he would be happy to comply with Gen. Pope’s suggestion, if he would send a cavalry escort. This story seems incredible, but it is much more than a rumor.
Gen. McClellan’s Headquarters is still in the vicinity of Alexandria.
The following is the order referred to above:—
WAR DEPARTMENT, Aug. 30, 1862.
Gen. Burnside commands his own corps, except those that have been temporarily detached and assigned to Gen. Pope.
Gen. McClellan commands that portion of the Army of
<c04>
the Potomac that has not been sent forward to Gen. Pope’s command.
Gen. Pope commands the Army of Virginia, and all the forces temporarily attached to it. 
All the forces are under command of Maj. Gen. Halleck, General-in-Chief.
E. D. TOWNSEND, Assistant Adjutant-General.
We may add that while on the Peninsula for two weeks, Gen. McClellan disobeyed Gen. Halleck’s orders, delaying for that length of time after he received his directions to embark his troops for Aquia Creek and Alexandria, with the object of meeting the attack which has now been made. 
These charges may prove unfounded, but they are in harmony with the whole career of McClellan since he took command of the army. Unfortunately for the Courier’s exultation at the supposed appointment of McClellan to “the chief command of the armies in Virginia,” it says that “on Saturday evening comes another despatch, declaring that Gen. Halleck is Commander-in-Chief.” To this arrangement the Courier stiffly demurs:—“McClellan is the proper officer for this command, from his rank, his merits, his services.” When the Tribune undertakes to criticise President Lincoln, with reference to any of his military appointments, the Courier affects to deem it an act of intolerable impertinence, if not positive disloyalty: is a similar criticism by the Courier any the less arrogant? Will not Judge Thomas ask its editor whether he would not “like to run the machine”?
The Courier is softening its habitual ferocity of expression by a little facetiousness, in speaking of “the radical adversaries of slavery, who have played into the hands of the secessionists so effectually” It is greatly outraged in feeling, however, that “this class of men talk in public, not of the Constitution, which is the country, but of the Declaration of Independence, which, however applicable to the occasion for which it was used, (!) CONTAINS NO VITALITY FOR US WHO LIVE UNDER THE CONSTITUTION”! That Declaration, then, has vanished with those whose names were appended to it, and was used by them only as a convenient cheat for the time being! The “SELF-EVIDENT TRUTHS, that all men are created equal—that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights—that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness” —remained self evident truths until the adoption of the Constitution, when they became mere “sounding generalities,” and henceforth null and void! Such is the audacious assertion of the Courier. It is the toryism which, in the days of the Revolution, subjected those who avowed it to a coat of tar and feathers, social outlawry, and violent expulsion from the colonies. But if the Declaration of Independence has become obsolete, will the Courier explain the anomaly of its being duly rehearsed throughout the country, in public assembly, every Fourth of July?
The Courier dogmatically insists that the sole object of the war is to restore “the Union as it was,” with all its pro-slavery guaranties; and then taunts the Abolitionists for not showing more zeal in its prosecution! This is its idea of moral consistency! For twenty years the Abolitionists, in view of those guaranties, religiously declared “the Union as it was” nothing better than “a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell.” Now if, as a matter of conscience, they were unable to support it by their ballots before the war, how can they consistently do so by their muskets, if the war is for the restoration of that Union, without detriment to the slave system? Will the Courier answer?
THREE PERSONS REDEEMED FROM BONDAGE.—Rev. J. Sella Martin, a colored clergyman of this city, lately visited England, and while there several worthy gentlemen of that country, learning the condition of some members of his family in bondage in the South, determined to raise a sufficient sum of money to enable him to return to the United States, and purchase their freedom. The most prominent of these liberal-hearted men were Hon. A. Kennaird, Hon. and Rev. B. Noel, and Rev. John Curren, the latter a leading clergyman of the Independent Church.
The amount obtained was $2,200, and with this sum, after a lengthy correspondence and unwearied effort, Mr. Martin succeeded in inducing the owner of his sister, and her two children, a son and daughter, living in Georgia, to sell them to a negro trader, who, by agreement, carried them to Kentucky, where Mr. Martin met them, and for $2,000 secured their freedom. The joy of the meeting, where brother and sister were reunited, free forever from the thrall of slavery, can be better imagined than described.
BLACKWOOD’S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, for August, contains the following papers:—1. Chronicles of Carlingford—Part VII. 2. A Skye-Lark. 3. Caxtonia—Part VI.—on the Moral Effect of Writers. 4. Victor Hugo’s Last Romance. 5. The Rights of Woman. 6. Sermons. 7. Across the Channel. 8. Ten Years of Imperialism.
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, for July, presents the following table of contents:—1. The Explorers of Australia. 2. Wellington’s Supplementary Despatches. 3. Sir G. C. Lewis’s Astronomy of the Ancients. 4. Earl Stanhope’s Life of Pitt. 5. Troyon’s Lacustrine Abodes of Man. 6. Weber’s Gleanings from German Archives. 7. Iron—its Uses and Manufacture. 8. Remains of Mrs. Richard Trench. 9. Dollinger on the Temporal Power.
THE LONDON QUARTERLY REVIEW, for July, contains the following articles:—1. Memoirs of Sir Marc Isambard Brunel. 2. Sussex. 3. Lives of the Archbishops of Canterbury. 4. The Volunteers and National Defence. 5. English Poetry from Dryden to Cowper. 6. The International Exhibition. 7. The Hawaiian Islands. 8. The Bicentenary.
For sale by Crosby & Nichols.
A NEW COLLECTION OF MUSIC. Oliver Ditson & Co., 277 Washington street, Boston, have just published “THE VOICE OF PRAISE: A Collection of Music for the Choir, Singing School, Musical Convention, and the Social Circle. By Edward Hamilton.” The author says—“The music of this work, generally, will be found to be new, not merely in name and form, but in idea and style. It is written expressly as sacred music, in a manner suited to religious worship; and its aim and purpose are to improve the taste of both hearer and performer, and to dignify the service of sacred song.” In addition to more than four hundred hymn tunes, there are separate collections of anthems, chants, glees, part-songs, &c.; the whole making a volume of upwards of 400 pages.
Gen. Corcoran, who was so long imprisoned by the rebels, received an ovation in Boston on Friday last, such as is given to the greatest of conquerors. He was met at the Roxbury line at 10 o’clock, A. M. by Mayor Wightman and the other city authorities, where congratulatory speeches were made, and modestly responded to; when a vast procession was formed, (chiefly composed of the numerous Irish associations,) which made an extended march through the city to the Common, where highly patriotic addresses were made by the General and others, which were enthusiastically applauded by the largest assembly we have ever witnessed. A banquet was subsequently given to the General at the Revere House.
A very interesting and touching account of the condition of the contrabands in Washington and its vicinity, by Mrs. Jacobs, the author of “LINDA,” may be found on our last page. We trust its perusal will stimulate philanthropic spirits to do something in their behalf, in addition to what has already been so kindly done by a few others, through the agency of Mrs. Jacobs.
It will be seen that ANDREW T. FOSS is to commence a term of anti-slavery labor in Vermont by a meeting at McIndoes Falls next Sunday, 7th inst. We bespeak, in Mr. Foss’s behalf, the best cooperation of all the friends of the Anti-Slavery cause, in those sections of the State which he may visit.
<c05>
LETTER FROM HENRY C WRIGHT.
John C. and Jessie Fremont <illegible> and Civil War at the North, in aid of the Kidnappers' Rebellion.
GLOUCESTER, Sunday, Aug. 24, 1862.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
MY FRIEND,–I am just in from the Beach called the Loaf, where John C. and Jessie Fremont have had their tents spread for a few weeks. I had considerable conversation with, them, and with two or three members of his staff—Col. Zagonyi, Col. Albert, and Major Haskell—who are with him. I expressed myself very freely as to the cause and the cure of the distress and wide-spread afflictions that now overwhelm the nation. Slavery is the sole cause and Abolition the only cure of the rebellion. To talk of any other cause or cure of the civil war now sweeping off our sons by hundreds of thousands, and our property by hundreds of millions, is to deny self-evident truth, and when done, it is done solely to favor and gain success to the slaveholding traitors against God and man.
I asked what the Administration—Lincoln, Seward and Blair especially—meant by its tenderness for the lives, property, interests and pride of the slaveholding rebels, and its utter contempt or indifference towards the lives, property and interests of the loyal States? Throughout this frightful conflict of bullets and blood, all respect has been paid to the rights of kidnappers and slave-breeders, while the rights of the North have been ignored. How much longer will this be endured?
The slaveholders are in arms solely to destroy the Constitution and Government, which, in their view, are opposed to slavery, and to establish a government whose corner-stone is slavery, and whose sole aim is to strengthen and perpetuate slavery; yet the President, and the military and civil officials under him, and many editors and people in the North, are ever talking of the constitutional rights of rebels. The moment a man or State declares a war of bullets and bayonets against the Government, he forfeits all right under that Government. According to the fundamental principle of the Government, not a rebel in all the South or North has any more rights under the Government which he is seeking to subvert, than the wolf when he invades the fold. Those in arms against the Government, and those who sympathize with the traitors, have no constitutional nor legal right to property, to their slaves, nor their lives. Rebellion, and sympathy with rebellion, instantly releases the Government from all obligations to protect them. The act that took them out of the Union, and placed them in an attitude of armed defiance and resistance to the Government, was an Act of Emancipation to all their slaves, an Act of Abolition of Slavery, and released the Government from all constitutional obligation to respect any of their rights, even that of life. At this moment, the South is fighting the North to defend and perpetuate slavery, and the North is fighting the South to prevent slavery from receiving any harm. One blow at slavery would do more to end the rebellion than a hundred victories on the battle-field. By refusing to free the slaves and confiscate the property of rebels, by refusing to arm the slaves and to call them to fight for liberty, by restraining the North from attacking slavery and freeing slaves, the Administration is doing more to encourage and give success to the rebels than could possibly be done in any other way. The rebels are the real and most efficient traitors to Liberty and Union. The Cabinet should be arraigned for their dereliction, inasmuch as they will not touch, nor allow the loyal people of the North to remove, the cause of the rebellion, by the abolition of slavery.
On these topics I conversed, especially with the brave Zagonyi, once an officer under Bem, in Hungary, who escaped from an Austrian dungeon to find liberty in America, and who is now driven from the Union, and his brave cavalry corps dispersed, solely because he would openly fight for liberty and against slavery, as the readiest and only way to put down the rebellion and save the nation. It was thought and said that the Abolitionists were much nearer the gallows, at the hands of the Administration, than Jeff. Davis or Stonewall Jackson, Judging from the New York Herald and Journal of Commerce, and the Boston Courier, Pilot, Post, and other papers in the interest of the traitors, we should think this was true.
Are you aware of the combined efforts of the above named papers and pro-slavery, pro secesh Democrats at the North to create a civil war among the people of the North, in order to give success to the traitors of the South, and secure the triumph of the Democratic party at the next Presidential election? Why the effort to rouse mobs all over the North against the colored people? Why this malignant and murderous effort to arouse the mob against Abolitionists? NEGRO! ABOLITIONIST! No words can have a more hated significance to all that is traitorous and secesh at the North. From the beginning of this conflict between the North and the South, the New York Herald, and papers of like sympathies, have threatened and done all they could to precipitate a civil war between the pro-slavery and anti-slavery parties of the North, and to foment mobs and murders in Northern towns and cities, solely to prevent the North from sending her sons down South to fight the rebels on their own soil, and to open the way for Jeff. Davis to march his armies upon the North, to capture and burn our towns and cities. I have not a doubt that this is the one single object of the Herald, Journal of Commerce, Courier, and other pro-slavery and Democratic papers and leaders, in their efforts to arouse the murderous spirit of anarchy and mobocracy of the North against the negroes and the Abolitionists. By Abolitionists, they mean Sumner, Wilson, Wade and all who go for confiscating the property and freeing the slaves of rebels, as well as Garrison, Phillips and their co-laborers. We are nearer a civil war among the people of the North, probably, than any of us are willing to admit. This the pro-slavery and secesh Democrats of the North are doing their best to precipitate. It will commence against the free negroes, then against their friends, the Abolitionists. Thirty years ago, we were threatened with bowie-knives, dirks and revolvers for being Abolitionists. The time may be near when the gallows—the fate of John Brown—will be the doom of the Abolitionists.
What is Gen. Fremont’s crime? The head and front of his offending is, that he would not fight to protect the property and slaves of rebels, but he would put down the rebellion and end the war by confiscating the one, and freeing the other. The sooner the people of the North place Fremont at the head of their armies, the sooner will the war cease.
Friday, I attended an out-door mass meeting in Gloucester, called to consider the call for 300,000 more men, and encourage volunteering. It was a great show. Though secessionists, in disguise, were there, not one word was said to comfort and sustain the kidnappers’ rebellion. I doubt if a town in Essex County will have to draft. I believe, if the Administration would proclaim abolition as the first step to end the rebellion, and call on the North to rally under the standard of Death to Slavery! a third 300,000 might be placed at its disposal, by voluntary enlistment, in four weeks. The consciousness that God and Justice were on their side would nerve the hearts and hands of the North to cut short this bloody rebellion in righteousness.
Thine, HENRY C. WRIGHT.
THE CENTRAL AMERICAN COLONIZATION SCHEME ABANDONED. The Washington correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer states that at a Cabinet meeting on Friday, it was determined to abandon the scheme of negro colonization, so far as the Chiriqui tract, in Central America, is concerned. This is partly owing to the remonstrance of the Costa Rican Minister, and partly to the objection entertained by one or two members to the abstraction of so much labor from a region of our own country where it is destined to become valuable. We trust the idea of colonization will now receive its everlasting quietus.
<c06>
THE PRESIDENT’S LETTER.
“And thou, his son, O Belshazzar, hast not humbled thy heart, though thou knewest all this.”
EDITOR LIBERATOR:
DEAR SIR,–I have read the President’s letter to Mr. Greeley with painful interest; and there is nothing in these exciting times, coming from men in authority, that does not command more or less attention, which in ordinary times might pass unheeded. The President’s position is so clearly defined that no one can misunderstand him if he would, nor entertain a doubt that he regards the slavery question as one of mere policy, to be touched or let alone as interest shall dictate or public policy demand. “My paramount object in this struggle is to save the Union, and is not either to save or destroy slavery. If I could save the Union without freeing any slaves, I would do it; and if I could do it by freeing all the slaves, I would do it; and if I could save it by freeing some, and leaving others alone, I would do that.” Was ever a more heartless policy announced? He would hold four millions of human beings in bondage to save the Union, when there is not a particle of reason to suppose the free States would enjoy less liberty or less prosperity if the free and the slave States were separated to-day by a gulf as deep and impassable as that which separates Abraham and Dives. A man might be justified, aye, applauded for sacrificing his life to save the liberties of his country; but can a man commit the crime of crimes to accomplish any object, however desirable, and be found guiltless? If an accomplished and virtuous female were driven to the choice between death and prostitution, who would not applaud her for preferring the former? Whoever read the story of Susanna, though a libertine he might be, without applauding that pious heroine! But with the President, public policy is everything, humanity and justice nothing. No nation ever yet learned wisdom from the history of the past, nor many rulers from the folly and wickedness of their predecessors. The President might find his own position clearly defined in the 5th chapter of Daniel, in the sarcastic reproof at the head of this article, ad ministered by a captive to that proud and haughty monarch, Belshazzar, with a boldness and fearlessness which Mr. Lincoln dare not use toward Jeff. Davis to-day. The edict that went forth from the King of kings, more than three thousand years ago, “Let my people go!” is as applicable to and as binding upon our President to-day, as when first proclaimed in the ears of Egypt’s proud monarch, and as little heeded by the former as the latter. I am not aware that Mr. Lincoln regards the emancipation of the slaves from any higher motives than as a punishment of the rebels, and his programme, as avowed at the commencement of his administration, clearly shows his intention to save the Union with slavery. Could he succeed, it would be the greatest calamity that ever befel this nation—greater even than the present civil war—Once more restored to power by the aid of a Northern Democracy, more corrupt than they are wicked, and
“Ruin, reproach and endless shame,
And that false step for ever blasts our fame.”
The Confiscation Act will never be executed by the President or any of his pro-slavery Generals, to any considerable extent, as far as the slaves are concerned and if Generals Hunter and Phelps should try their hand at it, as much caution will be necessary on their part as there was with a Shylock to get a pound of flesh without drawing blood.
In my next, I will try to show the folly and wickedness of Colonization, so flippantly discussed before there is a slave free. J S
Springfield, Vt., Sept. 1, 1862.
NOTES BY THE WAY.
FRIEND GARRISON:
I have recently enjoyed a pleasant visit to <illegible> Island. The prime object of this week of leisure <illegible> to throw off the harness of labor, and in a “free and easy” sort of way, to make the best of a short reaction Still, I held myself ready as a willing servant—a wandering soldier of the Anti-Slavery cause, to do what service I might, on my “own hook.” And in such an hour as this, who can lay the armor by? If we cease now to “cry aloud, and spare not,” we deserve to be court martialled, and labelled recreant.
I found a pleasant home with Amos Ballou and wife, and our ever-devoted friends, Elizabeth Chase and companion, at Valley Falls. It would be unnecessary here to say a word in reference to the cheer and comfort so freely imparted by these devoted friends, to all who have enjoyed their hospitality and, of course, my desire to perform a little service by the way was most cordially seconded, and made as effectual as possible. Another most favorable and ruin circumstance threw itself in the way; our friend Chase has become the owner of an Episcopal Church. A few years since, a purchase was made of the entire village of Mannsville, a pleasant location about <illegible> miles from Valley Falls. Hence we found an altar in freedom that we knew not of. Here, on the Sabbath. I met an attentive audience, and, as promised, <illegible> an application of Christianity to the needs of the <illegible> Abraham Lincoln’s imbecile talk to the colored delegation on Colonization, and his ambiguous and pro-slavery reply to the able letter of Horace Greeley afforded a striking text for comment. I held two sessions, and received the patient attention of the friends present. At the close of the evening meeting, a desire was expressed to hear more of the gospel of freedom.
I could not refrain from feeling some satisfaction that an altar, consecrated to a conservative and forms service, was now not reluctant to receive the gospel of freedom. Indeed, had I not learned to the country, I should have noted my mission as quite original and striking; but Stephen Foster had preceded me and knowing his faithfulness, of course my congratulation was somewhat abated. I trust this beginning may be followed by other preachers of righteousness. who, as they go, will sow seed that may spring up <illegible> and produce abundance of fruit.
PORTSMOUTH GROVE.
This beautiful and salubrious location, within about eight miles from Newport, R. I., has been selected by Government as a hospital for sick and wounded soldiers. A bevy of carpenters are at work, errecting convenient and substantial ward-houses for the purpose named. Several of these hospitals were already completed, and occupied by the sick, halt and wounded. The sight on every hand was a sad one. The direful picture of war, with its terrible results, cannot be scrutinized without the most painful emotions. 
But is there not a brighter day for this sin-cursed world? May we not hope that out of this terrible baptism will come a kingdom of holiness, peace and love?
In one ward, there were thirty-eight rebels. Orders had been given, prohibiting all persons from entering here. However, we availed ourselves of the opportunity of standing at the entrance, and conversing with several of the Southerners. They were from Georgia North Carolina and Virginia. This was, they said their first and most unexpected visit to New England. They boldly talked, and seemed to mean secession “We are in,” said they, “for old Jeff. Davis. He is our man, and we mean to fight for him and for our institution. When we get back, if we do, we will play the bullets into the Yankees.” This is definite. Here is a purpose. “But what are we fighting for!” said the Union soldiers. Alas! we replied—what! Here there is no purpose, no policy, and so we are afloat, “aiming at nothing, and hitting it.” What if President Lincoln should wake up some morning, and lose all consciousness of the existence of Kentucky, and speak the magic word EMANCIPATION! should we then be nonplussed at every honest inquiry, and blush to call ourselves Americans? Oh, why are these golden hours, this day of salvation, allowed to pass unimproved?
Milford, Aug. 29, 1862. G. W. S.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
D. PLUMB’S DEFENCE
IN THE MATTER OF COMPLAINT AGAINST HIM FOR ALLEGED DISLOYALTY.
D. PUMB'S ANSWER TO THE COMPLAINT OF JESSE P. CASE, FOR ALLEGED DISLOYALTY.
To the Secretary of War, Washington, D.C.:
SIR-Mr. Superintendent Kennedy having in hand a complaint against me, in which I am charged with speaking against enlistments and encouraging an evasion of the draft, I wish to state that there was, substantially, such a conversation had at the time and place specified in the complaint. But it should be understood that the conversation was accidental, as I had just stepped into the store for a moment on business, with no intention of speaking on the subject of the war. But the matter came up, and I spoke a few words, not indicating a course of action, but simply, in a decided manner, to express my feelings in relation to the conduct of the war; my desire being the emancipation of the slaves, and a call by the Government of all loyal men, both black and white, bond and free, to the defence of the Union, and the speedy overthrow of the rebellion, whereby a draft would not be necessary; and so expressed myself, in effect, in the above conversation. But since the draft has been ordered, I have disapproved of and spoken against the attempt to evade it. I have a son who comes home from country on Friday next, by my direction, to take his chance in the draft.
I am an Abolitionist, and believe that the Government owes it, as an act of justice to the slave, as well as to the salvation of the country-whose destruction is sought by the most infernal set of traitors that ever plotted treason since the world began-to speak the word of universal freedom, and thus crown the victory over the Rebellion with the brighter glory of the triumph of Humanity, Justice and Love.
My fault is not that I love my country less than others, but rather from the intensity of that love, I seek its salvation by the speediest and most sure methods. But if my methods are not now adopted, I shall wait submissively, thought not always patiently, until they are, having confidence that this is God’s war for Justice and the Slave.
New York, Aug. 18, 1362 D. PLUMB.
The following was addressed to the New York Times, while I was under arrest:
STATEMENT BY D. PLUMB.
To the Editor of the New York Times:
As you have given publicity to a statement of my arrest for alleged disloyal language toward the Government, will you allow me to state in your columns my side of the question? Having for thirty years labored, in different private and public capacities, to promote the public welfare, and to save my country, especially from the destruction with which it has been threatened by those two terrible evils, Intemperance and Slavery, and not having paused in my efforts to this hour, it seems to me strangely odd to find myself arrested as an enemy to the public weal.
The alleged disloyal words used by me occurred in a casual conversation on the Government policy of conducting the war, in which I used my right of a citizen, having an equal interest in the welfare of my country with even the head of the Government himself, to criticize that policy-a policy which I asserted had been dictated, for the most part, by Border State <Illegible> influences, for the conservation of slavery, under the operation of which our armies had been decimated, hundreds of millions of money consumed, a year wasted in almost fruitless campaigns, and the country brought to the verge of destruction by the crowning disaster to the army before Richmond. And now the President was calling for 300,000 more volunteers, and contemplating a draft of 300,000 in addition, to send forth under substantially the same programme, and to be sacrificed, I fear, in like manner, and I could but utter my stern disapproval of that policy. What I claimed should be done was that the President should throw off the influence of those semi-traitors of the Border States, and shake off his fears of that Northern party, whose every movement carries with it an undercurrent of sympathy and aid for the rebels, and whose organ is Bennett’s Herald-which has not ceased to print treason a single day since South Carolina withdrew from the Union-and that thus, having gathered strength and courage, he, the President, should issue his proclamation of universal freedom, call upon the whole loyal force of the country, without distinction of race or color, to come to the rescue of the imperilled Nationality, and <Illegible> upon the Rebellion and its treason-breeding cause all the elements of destruction sanctioned by justice and the rights of war; that this would give us speedy victory, a free country, and enduring peace. But while the old policy was pursued, let those support it who would, I could not, and there were thousands of conscientious Abolitionists who would gladly throw themselves into the deadly breach, but could not act with the Administration upon a policy that compromised their principles, and made them fight to save, rather than to destroy, the accursed institution of slavery, at once the cause and present strength of the Rebellion. I could but say to such, “Stand by your convictions.” Whatever specific remarks were made about enlistments or the draft were illustrative of this principle, and not the least intended to indicate a course of action in opposition to either.
I do not uphold Government “right or wrong” Let those do that who would have sanctioned the bloody cruelties of Nero, the horrors of the Inquisition, the crimes and tragedies of the Bastile, and all the grim tyrannies of the past and the present time. God’s law is my rule-allegiance to His throne first and last, and a hearty support of all human arrangements in essential harmony therewith. This principle of action I have strengthened by a life long culture, and am not prepared to abandon it now when my country is verging on destruction through disregard of it, and whose only salvation is to take hold of it and exalt it into sovereign control. If the Government persist in treading that principle under its feet, God’s immutable law of retribution will sweep on and work out the problem of ruin for this land, as it has for the doomed and desolated thrones of antiquity.
It is for asserting and maintaining the principle here enunciated that I am under arrest. It remains to be seen whether the Government at Washington means to discriminate or not, in its arrests and punishments, between its friends and its enemies; between men who would crush the Rebellion, though it required the utter destruction of every rebel, but who at the same time hold that, to do this, slavery must be made the point of attack, and men who either desire the success of the rebellion, or to accept a peace upon its own terms. I say, we wait to see whether the Government is about to adopt the rule, so long urged upon its attention by the Herald, to treat an Abolitionist and a Secessionist as the same.
D. PLUMB.
Fifteenth Ward Station House, New York, Aug. 21, 1862.
MR. DAWIZY’S LETTER TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR.
NEW YORK, Aug. 20, 1862.
To the Secretary of War, Washington, D.C.:
DEAR SIR- Being proprietor of the store No. 42 Cortland street, in which the conversation was held by Mr. D. Plumb, and named in the complaint of Mr. J. P. Case, and being present at that conversation, I wish to state, that in view of the general scope of his remarks, and the spirit of patriotism in which he spoke, there was nothing said by him which impartial bearers would have construed as disloyal; and having known Mr. Plumb for many years, I wish to add, that I know of no more upright, loyal, and patriotic man. His accuser, who is in my employ, I know has been influenced by personal animosity in this complaint.
Most respectfully, WM. T. DAWLEY.
LETTER OF HENRY O RIELLY, ESQ., TO THE SECRETARY OF WAR.
NEW YORK, Aug. 21, 1862, 26 Nassau street.
Hon. Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of War.
SIR-As Mr. D. Plumb, of this city, is imprisoned for alleged “disloyalty,” I deem it an act of justice to the public, as well as to him, to state that Mr. Plumb is known to me as one of the most zealous advocates of the most energetic measures for crushing the Rebellion, by using all the means which God and law have placed within our reach; and that I have had peculiar means of knowing the encouraging spirit manifested by Mr. Plumb towards young men who, like my departed son, (Capt. Henry Brooks O’Rielly, of the Excelsior Brigade, who fell at Williamsburg,) early and zealously embarked for the war.
Such is my knowledge of Mr. Plumb’s profound and earnest advocacy of the most effective measures for preserving our nationality, that I scarcely know of a man who could be less justly taxed with disloyal sentiments, or with any desire to “discourage enlistments.”
Earnestly engaged myself in organized efforts for “sustaining the Administration in its defence of the national unity,” I consider it a duty to state what I personally know, from long and intimate acquaintance with Mr. Plumb, than whom, a worthier citizen, in all the relations of life, is not to be found.
Respectfully, HENRY O’RIELLY.
The foregoing is a copy of a letter mailed by me, this day, to the Secretary of War.
HENRY O’RIELLY.
August 21, 1862.
THE DISCHARGE.
To the Editor of the New York Daily Tribune:
I was this morning discharged from arrest, by orders from Washington, on giving assurance as follows:-
1. “To support, protect and defend the Government, as established by the Constitution.” This I can
<c02>
heartily do, as I always have done, believing that the Constitution is armed with power, not only to put down the Rebellion, but also slavery.
2. “Net to discourage enlistments.” Instead of offering such discouragement, I would have the Government adopt such a policy as would stimulate enlistments in the highest degree.
3. “Not to give aid or comfort to the enemy,” So far from giving him aid or comfort, I would hurl a more swift, sweeping, and terrible destruction upon him than has yet been employed by the Government.
Yours, &c., D. PLUMB.
No. 240 Broadway, Friday, Aug. 22, 1862.

ANOTHER WEEK OF SANGUINARY CONFLICTS-GREAT SLAUGHTER ON BOTH SIDES-RETREAT OF THE FEDERAL ARMY-WASHINGTON THREATENED!
The National Intelligencer gives brief accounts of five battles, beginning on Tuesday, and ending on Saturday night. The first battle was near Bristow and Manassas Junction, between General Taylor and General Jackson, and was favorable to the rebels.
The second and third were fought between Generals Hooker and Kearney, on Wednesday and Thursday, without decided results. The battle of Friday was, on the whole, favorable to the Union cause. In this fight, the slaughter on both sides was terrible, our loss being variously estimated at from eight to twelve thousand killed and wounded. The battle of Saturday resulted in the Union army falling back to Centreville, both sides meeting with heavy losses.
General Gibbon’s brigade suffered very severely; all his colonels were killed or severely wounded. A regiment in another brigade lost all its field officers.
 In the battle of Friday, General Jackson lost all his baggage wagons and camp equipage, and a large number of prisoners. Jackson himself narrowly escaped capture.
The correspondence of the Herald says since General Pope left the Rappahannock, fifteen separate battles have been fought.
Fredericksburg was evacuated on the 3lst by General Burnside’s forces, which fell back to Aquia Creek, where they are now protected by the gunboats on the Potomac. The machine shop at Fredericksburg was blown up, all the bridges were burnt, and all the Government property not taken away was destroyed. The same was done at Falmouth.
The war correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer, who left Fairfax station, on the Manassas Railroad, Monday afternoon, writes as follows:-
“There is no battle raging, of any account, to day, Monday. There is continual skirmishing, and a fear is expressed that the enemy are receiving reinforcements and provisions, and are going to come some flank movement upon us, and get between Centreville and Washington, cutting off our supplies.
“All our trains, wagons, &c., are now safe in Washington, or near there. The bridge over Bull Run was rebuilt last night. The five engines and one hundred and eighty-five cars, supplies, ammunition, &c., which McDowell had near Warrenton, were all burned by him on Sunday morning. Three engines and one hundred and forty of the cars belonged to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, and were used to bring Cox’s division around.
“Bank’s corps has reached Centreville, which we still hold, and rations are being thrown forward. Porter’s, McCall’s, Hooker’s, McDowell’s, Kearney’s, Sigel’s and Reno’s troops have suffered terribly. Most of our wounded are still in the hands of the enemy. They sent word to Pope that he might send surgeons, &c., if he would own up that he was whipped. He refused.”
The Tribune’s correspondent states that in consequence of the threatening demonstrations of the rebel Generals Hill and Longstreet, it was deemed necessary on Monday morning to evacuate Centreville, which was accordingly done-our troops retiring towards Fairfax Court House, General Reno’s division leading and McDowell’s following. Before reaching Fairfax, they were attacked by a detachment of Gen. Hill’s division, under Stuart, who were concealed in the woods, near the village, and who poured in a volley upon Steven’s brigade. Generals Reno and Stevens immediately formed into line of battle, and Gen. Stevens’s troops charged through the wood, driving the rebels before them with great slaughter. It was in this charge that Gen. Stevens was killed and his son wounded.
Geu. Kearney’s batteries then opened, causing great havoc. The enemy finally retreated, and the troops passed on without further molestation.
The enemy’s loss was very heavy. General Stevens’s command included the 28th Massachusetts regiment. Our loss is not stated.
The whole movement, on the part of the rebels, indicates beyond a doubt the presence of spies in our midst, for by no other means, could they have been so well informed as to our situation. They took the exact time and opportunity to succeed, and struck almost when and where it would most be felt by our Generals. So well were they informed that they knew of the approach of reinforcements to our men, when the latter were not so informed, and they took care to be ready to receive them. That they knew the strength of the Federal force approaching seems evident from their daring to show fight.
Brig. Gen. Schenck, of Ohio, has arrived at Willard's Hotel from the battle-field, with oue arm shattered, and it has since been amputaied. His wound was from the fragment of a shell. The General’s sword was lost to the enemy.
Persons who have arrived in the immediate vicinity of Manassas to-day report that our loss in killed and wounded is very heavy, and it is generally conceded that eight thousand is too low a figure. But all agree in saying that the enemy’s loss far exceeds ours, owing to the superior arms of our soldiers, and their determined valor and terrible enthusiasm.
Falls Church has been evacuated by our troops.
The railroad bridge over Bull Run has again been destroyed by the rebels. Stonewall Jackson is on his way to Baltimore, via Leesburg, with 40,000 men -He intends crossing near Edward’s Ferry.
It is said that the President and General Halleck were very indignant at the dilatory movements of McClellan in forwarding troops to the assistance of Pope. Gen. Pope declared that if ten thousand men had been sent him on Friday, he could have entirely destroyed the enemy, and if twenty thousand had come up Friday night, he could have won a decisive victory on Saturday.
The number of killed and wounded on both sides is fearful. The enemy is still pressing on towards Baltimore and Washington.
DEATH OF A PROMINENT MAN. Seth Webb, Jr., late U. S. Commercial Agent at Hayti, and formerly a prominent Republican politician in this State, and a member of the Boston bar, died at the residence of his father in Scituate yesterday, of consumption.-Boston Herald, Sept. 3d.
DEATH OF COL. FLETCHER WEBSTER. A dispatch to Gov. Andrew announces the death of Col. Fletcher Webster, of the 12th Massachusetts Regiment. He was mortally wounded at the battle of Bull Run on Friday last, and has since died. He was born at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, during the war of 1812, and was the oldest son of Daniel Webster.
Nearly all the able bodied men of the Eastern counties of Maryland, capable of bearing arms have gone into the rebel army.
Cincinnati is threatened with invasion. Martial law has been declared, business is suspended, railroad trains are stopped, the ferry across the Ohio is suspended at night, and the citizens are commanded to repair to certain designated places to be ready for any duty that may be necessary for defence. Covington and Newport, in Kentucky, are included in the order.
REBEL INVASION OF THE NORTHWEST. The Grenada Appeal says that the Confederate armies “are on the march to the Ohio River. May God speed and favor them.”
WHAT DOES IT MEAN! The Washington correspondent of the Tribune gives currency to the following extraordinary statement relative to the tenderness of the rebels toward McDowell- “During the late attack on Catlett’s station a captain in the Purnell Legion was lying hid in a house by the railroad track, and heard “Gen. Stuart give positive orders to spare McDowell’s staff and baggage train, but sieze Gen. Popes and destroy what was not of public importance. The order was implicitely obeyed, although the wagons of Generals McDowell and King were close at hand they were not disturbed, but everything in Gen. Popes was turned out, his official papers sorted out and carried off, and his letters to his wife and other private individuals, strewn ever the ground or torn into bits.
Their discrimination was so nice that they even spared eight wagons belonging to the Harris Light Cavalry because their battalion was acting as a bodyguard to McDowell.
THE SMELL OF THE BATTLE AT WASHINGTON.-The Washington Star says that not only was the sound of the great battle in the vicinity of Centreville heard in Washington, but the smell of the gunpowder was quite perceptible at times, when the wind freshened from that quarter.
“Malakoff,” the Paris correspondent of the New York Times, says he has been informed that Prince Polignac, who was formerly on Beauregard’s staff, has just again left for Richmond, on a mission from Mr. Slidell to Jeff. Davis, which mission is nothing more nor less than to carry a recommendation from Mr. Slidell to Mr. Davis to adopt some, steps toward the abolition of slavery, so as to secure the recognition of France-a recommendation based on suggestions which some pretend come direct from the Emperor, but which, perhaps, come no further than from M. de Persigny.
<c03>
GEN. BUTLER ON SLAVE INSURRECTIONS.
Gen. Butler recently ordered all persons, white or black, to surrender all private fire-arms-a measure of precaution, doubtless, against a secesh insurrection. The French Consul protested, and in doing so employed the following significant language:-
“For some time past, unmistakable signs have manifested themselves among the servile population of the city and surrounding country, of their intention to break the bonds which bind them to their masters, and many persons apprehend an actual revolt.
“It is these signs, this prospect of finding ourselves completely unarmed, in the presence of a population from which the greatest excesses are feared, that we are above all things justly alarmed; for the result of such a state of things would fall on all alike who were left without the means of self-defence.
“It is not denied that the protection of the United States Government would be extended to them in such an event, but that protection could not be effective at all times and in all places, nor provide against those internal enemies whose unrestrained language and manners are constantly increasing, and who are but partially kept in subjection by the conviction that their masters are armed.”
In his reply to Consul Mejan, General Butler made the following good hits:-
“Of the disquiet which you say there are signs manifesting themselves among the black population, of a desire to break their bonds which bind them to their masters, I have been a not inattentive observer, without wonder, because it would seem natural, when their masters had set them the example of rebellion against constituted authorities, that the negroes, being an imitative race, should do likewise. But surely, the representative of the Emperor, who does not tolerate slavery in France, does not desire his countrymen to be armed for the purpose of preventing the negroes from breaking their bonds.
“Let me assure you that the protection of the United States against violence, either by negroes or white men, whether citizens or foreign, will continue to be as perfect as it has been since our advent here, and by far more manifesting itself at all moments and everywhere, than any improvised citizens’ organization can do.”

U. S. OFFICERS RETURNING SLAVES. The following order has been issued in New Orleans in flat contradiction of a law of Congress and of the orders of the President:-
PROVOST-MARSHAL’S OFFICE, Low BUREAU, New Orleans, La., Aug. 14,1862.
As complaints are constantly made to me by slaves that they are turned off by their masters, and bidden to go to the “Yankees,” notice is hereby given that unless the slave produce a written certificate to that effect, the owner will be sent for to make such certificate or reclaim the slave.
Owners of slaves wishing to save themselves trouble and inconvenience will heed this notice.
S. H. STAFFORD, Deputy Provost Marshal.
THE BLACKS IN GENERAL HUNTER’S DEPARTMENT. General Hunter has issued the following order:-
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE SOUTH, HILTON HEAD, Port Royal, S. C., Aug. 19,1862.
General Order No. 27. 1. The 7th Regiment of New Hampshire Volunteers, Col. Putnam, will be held in readiness to embark for St. Augustine, Florida, of which place it will hereafter form the garrison. Lieut. Col. Sleeper of the 4th Regiment New Hampshire Volunteers, on being relieved by Col. Putnam, will embark with the seven companies of his regiment, now at St. Augustine, for this place.
2 It is with deep regret that the General Commanding the Department has received several reports against officers for returning fugitive slaves, in direct violation of a law of Congress. It will hardly be believed when it is announced that a New England Colonel is to-day, in the second year of the rebellion, in arrest for having been engaged in the manly task of turning over a young woman, whose skin was almost as white as his own, to the cruel lash of her rebel master.
3. Numerous acts of pilfering from the negroes have taken place in the neighborhood of Beaufort, committed by men wearing the uniform of the United States-I cannot and will not disgrace the name by calling them soldiers. To enable Gen. Saxton to have those petty thieves arrested and sent to this port for punishment, the three companies of the 4th Regiment of New Hampshire volunteers, now at Beaufort, will be placed exclusively under his command, for service on the plantations. Major Drew, or the officer commanding these three companies, will be directed by Gen. Brannan to report to Gen. Saxton for orders.
4. All the furniture left by the rebels on the islands, including that left in the city of Beaufort, is hereby placed under the exclusive jurisdiction of Gen. Saxton.
By command of
Major General D. HUNTER.”
GEN. HUNTER’S NEGRO BRIGADE.-Lieut. L. G. Briggs, the Adjutant of the colored regiment at Port Royal, writes to the Tribune as follows:-
The “First Regiment of South Carolina Volunteers” has not been disbanded. Several companies have been detached from the regiment, and sent with their white officers, to Simon’s Island on the coast of Florida; and those remaining in camp at Drayton’s on Hilton Head Island, were last Saturday, 9th, by advice of Gen. Hunter, given permission from the Colonel commanding to return for a short time to their plantation homes and to their families. The majority of the soldiers availed themselves of the privilege, but a few of them preferred to remain in camp. The reason for this is satisfactory to Gen. Hunter. The army in the department is in a state of inactivity, and nothing can be done till the hot and fever season is over, and until the forces there have been multiplied. Under the circumstances, therefore, it was deemed advisable to send them home on a furlough, to be called together when their services were needed. But nothing has been said about disbanding them; and I have positive knowledge that Gen. Hunter does not propose to do any such thing-unless the President should issue a peremptory order to that effect.
Lieut Briggs also denies the charge that the white soldiers insulted and abused the black soldiers. He said they generally got on well together, except in the case of ignorant, prejudiced or brutal men who were profuse with their slurs and sneers.

FROM SOUTH CAROLINA. The following circular, issued by Gen. Saxton, carries with it a spirit which in time, not long hence, is to become the policy of the Government:-
CIRCULAR
HEADQUARTERS, Beaufort, S. C., Aug. 5, 1862. To the Superintendents of Plantations:
GENTLEMEN,-You are required to appear at the office of the General Commanding, at these Headquarters, between the 15th and 31st of the present month, for the purpose of taking the oath, a copy of which is hereby appended.
By order of
Brig. Gen. R. SAXTON, Commanding.
I, - believing that negro slavery is a great wrong to humanity, do solemnly swear that I will faithfully perform, to the best of my ability, my duty as Superintendent of Plantations in this Department, and, as such, will use all the means in my power so to educate and elevate the people under my control as to fit them to enjoy the blessings of freedom. That to the best of my knowledge, I will deal fairly and honestly with them, and respect, and cause all others under my jurisdiction to respect, their rights. That I will not engage in trade with them for my own profit, or appropriate any of their labor to my own personal advantage. So help me God.

GEN. CURTISS’S FORM OF FREE PAPERS. It is said there are about five thousand contraband Arkansas negroes within the Federal lines. The following is the form of free papers issued by Gen. Curtiss to the confiscated negroes:-
HEADQUARTERS OF THE SOUTHWEST, HELENA, Ark., July 21,1862.
Special Order No. 157. Jerry White, a colored man formerly a slave, having by direction of his owne been engaged in rebel service, is hereby <Illegible> as being contraband of war, and not being needed in public service, is permitted to pass the pickets of the command Northward, and is forever emancipated from his master, who permitted him to assist in attempts to break up the Government and laws of our country
By command of Maj. Gen. CURTISS.
JERRY WHITE, (in red ink.)
All the officers and many of the privates in Genera Curtiss’s army are supplied with servants.

GRAND WAR DEMONSTRATION IN BOSTON. The demonstration in Boston, on Wednesday afternoon <Illegible> last week, in aid of recruiting, was a magnificent <Illegible> The procession, composed of various military and civic bodies, and in which the merchants engaged in the various trades and the mechanics were well <illegible> resented, numbered 5,000 persons. The decoration on the route were not extensive, on account of the short notice of the celebration. The procession marched to the Common, where three stands <illegible> speaking had been erected. The crowd were addressed by Gov. Andrew, Hons. Edward Everet Robert C. Winthrop, B. F. Thomas, A. H. <illegible> Charles G. Greene, Mr. Mosely of Ky., McDouga of California, and others. The speaking continue till seven o'clock, and the whole affair, both in numbers and in enthusiasm, was a grand success.
<c04>
A LATE REBEL ORDER.
The following order is officially published in Rebel newspapers:-
HEADQUARTERS, FIRST DISTRICT, DEPARTMENT No. 1, TANGIPAHOA, La., July 12, 1862.
GENERAL ORDERS, NO. 6.-I. The Provost Marshal of the country or parish where any slave may be arrested, together with three resident slave owners, to be by him selected and summoned, shall constitute a special tribunal for the trial of slaves charged with offences against military law, and for minor offences have power to inflict such corporeal punishment as they may think proper.
II. Every slave who shall enter, or attempt to enter the lines of the enemy, without a special permit from District Headquarters, or who shall come from within the enemy’s lines, shall be shot, or receive such corporeal punishment as this tribunal may determine.
III. Where any slave has been condemned to death by the tribunal herein established, the execution of the sentence, except in cases where the vicinity of the enemy may require immediate action, will be suspended until the sentence has been approved by the commanding General of the district, and. an order issued for the execution.
IV. In parishes or counties in which no Provost-Marshal has been appointed, or where, from other circumstances, slaves arrested cannot be brought to trial, they will be taken before the nearest Provost-Marshal, who is authorized and required to take cognizance of the case, and proceed in all respects as though the arrest had been made in his own parish or county.
V. Whenever it is practicable, and the owner consents to it, punishment inflicted upon slaves under the provisions of this order will be inflicted upon the plantation to which they belong or are attached, and in the presence of the other slaves.
VI. Provost-Marshals are authorized to use the jails or prisons of their respective counties, towns, or parishes, for the confinement of slaves. The keepers of these establishments will be allowed the usual fees for their maintenance.
VII. All persons owning slaves, or having them in charge, are required to read this order to them at least once a month.
By command of Brig Gen. RUGGLES.
L. D. SANDIDGE, C. S. A., A. A. A. and Inspector General.
THE NEGROES-HOIST THE BLACK FLAG. In another column, this evening, will be found the order of the Adjutant-General of Rhode Island, calling for a regiment of “colored persons,” who will “constitute a part of the quota” from that State. The “gentleman of color” has at last turned up, “by authority,” to the eternal disgrace of the twenty millions of whites who thus acknowledge-their inability to conquer seven millions. Whenever this regiment appears on the field, let the black flag be raised.- Grenada Appeal, Aug. 14.

GENERAL FREMONT’S RECEPTION IN BOSTON. The Boston Journal says the reception of General Fremont last Thursday night was one of the largest and most enthusiastic that ever took place in the city. Tremont Temple was crowded to its utmost capacity, and there were thousands upon thousands who could not get across its threshold, or in fact hardly get within hearing distance of the Temple. Inside the Temple, while the General was speaking, the excitement was at fever pitch. His speech, of which we give a verbatim report, was most enthusiastically applauded. It gives his views upon the manner of conducting the war, in its relations to slavery, in clear and emphatic terms, It was in every respect one of the grandest ovations ever accorded to any man by the people of Boston. The name of the gallant Pathfinder of the West, the people’s candidate for the Presidency in 1856, is a household word in thousands of New England homes, and the spontaneous and enthusiastic welcome of the masses who gathered to listen to his voice last evening, attest the fact that the hearts of the people beat warmly in sympathy with the gallant Fremont.
The Fremont Demonstration in Boston was the grandest affair of the kind, in numbers and enthusiasm, it has ever been our lot to witness. Fremont’s, Wilson’s and Manning’s speeches were magnificent in tone and sentiment, and Mr. Bailey’s revealed qualities of manliness which did him real honor.-Roxbury Journal.
General Fremont’s reception in Boston was a great personal triumph, and proves how strong a hold he has upon the people. His speech was adapted to the meridian of Boston-square for emancipation, and this was generally the character of the addresses.-Newburyport Herald.
OUTSIDE DEMONSTRATIONS. A crowd of some three thousand people, unable to obtain admission to Tremont Temple, gathered in front of the building, hoping that the arrangements might be changed, and that the speaking would take place from the balcony. In this they were disappointed, and a smart shower coming up caused a large proportion to disperse, yet there were at least a thousand remained, hoping to get a look at the General, and after he had finished his address in the Temple, he gratified these by appearing on the balcony, accompanied by Governor Andrew and suite. The Governor, after the cheering with which Gen. Fremont was received had subsided, introduced him to the assemblage, and asked them to excuse him from making any speech as he was too fatigued to do so. Gen. Fremont then thanked the people for their kind and hearty reception, and expressed his regret that he could not address them at greater length. As the party retired from the balcony, three times three rousing cheers were given for Gen. Fremont.
The Meionaon was at the same time densely crowded with an enthusiastic audience, for recruiting purposes, which was ably addressed by Rev. Dr. Edward Beecher and others.
General Fremont, with the Governor and others, entered the hall at the close of the address of Dr. Beecher, and for several minutes there was a perfect uproar of applause, all rising to do the General honor. As soon as the noise had subsided, the Governor introduced General Fremont in somewhat the same language he used on the balcony, and the General then thanked the assembly, and expressed the hope that he might meet the people of Massachusetts again, as they had always been his friends, and he felt under deep obligations to them. The party then retired amid repeated cheers.
Short addresses were made by several other gentlemen before the meeting adjourned.
DEPARTURE OF GEN. FREMONT. Major General John C. Fremont dined at the Parker House Saturday afternoon of last week, with about twenty gentlemen, including Governor Andrew and other State officials. He left, with his family, for New York, at half-past five.
Mr. Hurlbert, who has returned from the South, having long been a prisoner at Richmond, talks very reasonably of the numbers of the enemy’s soldiers He thinks that they began the attacks on McClellan’s army with not more than 90,000 men. If we suppose they lost 20,000 in the June battles, their army was reduced to 70,000. Add to these 45,000 conscripts since brought to Richmond, and we have a total of 115,000; or 155,000 in Virginia, if we allow 40,000 men for other parts of the State. Yet we are expected to believe the statements of crack-brained theorists, who assert that there are 350,000 rebel soldiers on the soil of the Old Dominion! The readiness that is evinced to believe in the existence of enormous Southern armies is to be attributed to that weakness which makes men think it is no disgrace to be beaten by multitudes, while in fact victories are mostly the work of a few minds, and do not follow from the labors of ill-directed masses.-Traveller.
Gen. Butler, with that disregard for the feelings of rebels that has now become a habit with him, has confiscated the property of John Slidell. What will become of the “rights” of rebels, if General Butler’s conduct should find imitators? Why, the next thing will be, that somebody will be freeing slaves that are owned by rebels, and then where would be the Constitution?-Ibid.
Men continue to leave the Border States, in large numbers, to join the rebel army. They prefer a voluntary entrance into the secession service to a forced entrance into the federal army. The Border States, it will be remembered, are loyal!-Ibid.
The President has accepted the resignation of Gen. Phelps, and thus relieved him from the disagreeable position in which the ungenerous and unsoldierly conduct of Gen. Butler had placed him. Gen. Phelps was an officer of the Regular Army, of great experience and ability. He refused promotion for gallant conduct in the Mexican war. During the present war he has only drawn so much of his pay as suffices for his expenses, and gives the rest to government. The country cannot afford to lose such a patriot, especially when his only offence is loving freedom too well.-Salem Observer.
GEN. PHELPS’S RESIGNATION. A Washington despatch says that the resignation of Brigadier-General Phelps was accepted on the urgent personal appeal of Hon. John Hickman. Its refusal had previously been determined upon.
BANDAGES. An experienced physician connected with the Massachusetts General Hospital requests us to state that bandages should not be made over three inches in width. This is the usual size used by surgeons, though they are often made narrower. The selvage, unless very thick, will prevent the edges from ravelling, and should not be removed.
Baton Rouge has been completely destroyed by our troops. Gen. Breckinridge had demanded its surrender. He had a large army with him.
<C05>
AN EXCITED CITY. Never have we known a day of such intense excitement in this city as was yesterday. The telegraph in the morning papers announcing another day of desperate fighting, with great slaughter, accompanied by the call for large reenforcements of surgeons and nurses, and hospital stores, awakened a feeling of intense excitement and anxiety which it is impossible to describe. The people by hundreds and thousands thronged the streets, hung round the newspaper and express and telegraph offices, anxious to hear the first word of additional news which might be received. Rumors of the most extravagant and fearful nature, even to the taking and sacking of Washington by the enemy, were freely circulated. The despatch received shortly after noon, announcing that Pope had retreated to Centreville in good order, and there held a strong position, with the certainty that Franklin’s division had joined him, and that Sumner was hastening to his relief, relieved some-what the anxiety for the time. Still the public feeling was most intense-and the earnestness for more news cannot be described.
The greatest scene of excitement was in and around Tremont Temple, to which the people were requested to bring their contributions of hospital stores. Most generously did they respond to the invitation. The story of our reporter will give some idea of the scenes which transpired, but which no pen can fully describe. The vast edifice became at once the grand receptacle for stores, and the crowd was so great that the police with difficulty could keep the way clear for those bearing contributions to enter and deposit them. It was a scene of which Boston may well be proud. It shows how strongly the hearts of our people beat in sympathy with and live for the noble men who are periling their lives for our defence, and for the salvation of the nation.-Boston Journal, Monday, Sept. 1st.
THE EXCITEMENT IN ROXBURY. In accordance with a suggestion from those in authority, most of the churches were closed after prayers, and the people set about preparing goods for the Washington hospitals. The excitement in town was great.
At 2 o’clock, the City Hall was thrown open for the reception of packages, and in two hours and a half 300 cases and packages of every description of goods were packed, labelled and sent off, some to the Boston expresses, and some to Brighton to be put in a car there.
At 6 1/2 o’clock, one of Beauregard’s bells, mounted on a wagon, went sounding along the chief streets, giving notification, issued by Mayor Gaston, for a public meeting at Institute Hall. At 8 o’clock, that hall was crowded to excess. Mayor Gaston presided, and speeches were made by Messrs. J. H. Lester, John Kneeland, Henry P. Shedd, and Captain Moran, of the Roxbury Irish Company now being raised. The latter made a most earnest appeal.-Traveller, Sept. 1st.
NEW YORK, Sept. 1. Mayor Wightman, G. Twitchell, and a large party of surgeons, nurses and others arrived from Boston, and left for Washington in the 6 o’clock morning train. Lieut. Waldo Adams also arrived with a squad of police in charge of 11 carloads of hospital stores, which filled an immense number of drays and wagons provided by Col. Howe, extending many blocks in Broadway. This exhibition of Boston’s earnestness and patriotism excited a most unbounded expression of admiration.
At Lynn, on Sunday, instead of having services in the several churches, a general meeting was held upon the Common, which was addressed by most of the clergymen of the town. Some six or seven thousand persons were present. Several recruits were obtained. 
THE REBEL RAID ON MANASSAS. On Tuesday night, last week, the rebels appeared in force under Ewell at Manassas Junction, and destroyed a vast amount of government stores, estimated at $500,000 worth. They captured three trains and numerous prisoners, and destroyed the public buildings and the railroad track. Three Union companies and some artillery were there at the time of the raid, who made some resistance and were then captured, together with a few cannon. A few escaped across Bull Run, six miles this side of Manassas.
On Thursday morning, Col. Scammon with two Ohio regiments advanced beyond Bull Run, and engaged the rebels for three hours, but were finally obliged to retreat across Bull Run Bridge. They were followed up by Ewell’s forces, and after considerable loss, were obliged to continue the retreat along the railroad towards Alexandria. The enemy advanced as far as Fairfax and Burtis’s Station, about half way to Alexandria.
The loss of property by this rebel raid is said to be immense, and the loss of life considerable. At Manassas a locomotive ran into a train filled with Federal soldiers, and killed a large number. This was in the outset 
of the alarm.
The recent raids of rebel cavalry has driven into our lines thousands of negroes, many hundreds having come to this city in a most destitute and pitiable condition. They are of an inferior class of blacks-those that have come here-but none the less deserve sympathy for their deplorable and indefensible condition. One is instantly affected by their seemingly utter destitution; but, upon conversation with them, it is easy to perceive that they do not realize the true state of affairs, or that they have so very hard a lot, after all. They are easily contented; sufficient tatters and rags to cover their backs, and food to satisfy the present cravings of hunger, and there is no further complaint. In going to Washington yesterday, I saw nearly a hundred men, women and children, with their personal effects all in a few old bags, going across the Potomac, evidently feeling that that stream, like Jordan, was the only barrier to their future perfect happiness and contentment. How wretchedly they are mistaken, and yet how impossible it seems, at present, to dispose of them in a way satisfactory to all parties! Undoubtedly they are far better off, however, than to have fallen into the hands of the rebel marauders. It is said that several thousand blacks, who were on the roads northward, were detained and driven away by the rebel cavalry, while they were allowed the freedom of the roads.-Washington corr. N. Y. Tribune.
DEATH OF LIEUT BANKS. Lieut. Hiram B. Banks, of the 16th Mass. regiment, who is reported killed in one of the late battles, was a brother of Major General N. P. Banks, and Major Gardner Banks, of the 16th. He was possessed of a rare mind which despised all the shams and make-believes of the world, and diligently sought for the unvarnished truth. He entered into this war with his whole soul, and after remaining behind for nearly a year to fulfill a filial obligation, he resigned a lucrative situation in the Custom-house to share the perils of the camp and the battle-field.
The few who were admitted to his friendship will long remember the deceased as a true man, and a brother to whom kind offices were a pleasure. Fearless and true to his duty, whatever the sacrifices demanded, his was worthy to be classed with the best of the brave hearts which have been stilled in death since the commencement of the accursed rebellion.-Boston Herald.

CITY POINT DESTROYED BY COM. WILKES. City Point has been entirely demolished by the Federal gunboats. For some time past, the rebels have been firing into the transports passing up and down the James river. Commodore Wilkes sent the rebels word that if it was not discontinued, he should destroy their rendezvous, City Point. On Thursday last, the rebels brought down to City Point 8 cannon and 200 riflemen, and opened fire upon the Federal flotilla, which at the time was abreast of the place, whereupon our gunboats opened fire upon them, and destroyed every building in the place, and dispersed the rebel force.

REV. MR. HIGGINSON’S COMPANY FULL AND ORGANIZED. The company of nine months’ men organized at Worcester by Rev. T. W. Higginson (the well known abolitionist of the Garrison stamp) was officered on Saturday, Mr. Higginson being chosen Captain, John B. Goodell, 1st Lieutenant, and Luther H. Bigelow, 2d.-Traveller.
[Mr. Higginson is not, technically, “a Garrisonian abolitionist,” but has always acted with the Republican party.]
Gen. Cassius M. Clay has taken the field in Kentucky with a brigade. Gen. Lew. Wallace also takes the field. There will not be much done by these officers in sending back fugitive slaves.
Gen. C. M. Clay has left Lexington with his brigade for Cumberland Gap, and Cot. Charles Anderson, of the Ohio 93d, has been appointed commandant at that place.
Charles T. Congdon, Esq., of the Boston Atlas and New York Tribune, enlisted on Saturday, as a private, in one of our city regiments.
John J. Crittenden proposes to retire from public life after the expiration of his term of service in the present Congress. How melancholy for his reputation that he did not make the same resolution four years ago!
The notorious George N. Sanders is the “Confederate Envoy” who escaped into Canada, and thence sailed for Europe. He left Richmond on the 11th, and was secretly entertained by the Baltimore Secessionists on the 14th ult.
Jeff. Davis has issued a general order, setting forth that whereas General Fitch, at the West, has put several guerillas to death, he therefore decrees that as many prisoners from the command of Gen. Fitch shall be placed in close confinement for execution at the order of the President General Fitch, if captured, is to be treated as a felon, and not as a prisoner of war.
<C06>
MINNESOTA SETTLERS MURDERED BY INDIANS.-
The Indians in Minnesota, instigated, as is supposed, by the Secessionists, have murdered a large number of white settlers in the northern counties of that State. According to some estimates, 500 whites have been put to death, but later accounts are less gloomy. Great fears have been felt for Fort Ridgely, assaulted by the Indians, but Col. Sibley is marching to its relief, as is also Col. Cullen, with 700 cavalry. Hon. J. B. Cleveland writes that he saw at New Ulm the most horrible sights, in one instance eight stalwart men with their throats cut from ear to ear, skulls battered and limbs mutilated. At one place visited by Mr. Freenier, he found the occupants of the houses all lying dead, some on the door steps and some inside the habitations. He went to the house of John R. Brown, and recognized every member of the family, eighteen in number, all of whom had been brutally murdered. Large tracts have been depopulated, the grain left unstacked in the fields, the owners flying eastward.
It is believed that the Indian atrocities in the Northwest are at the instigation of rebel emissaries. They have shown in the Southwest that they are capable of it. Alas! that the chief man in such villany, such barbarism, should be a New Englander- Albert Pike.

TERRIBLE STEAMBOAT ACCIDENT. The steamer Acacea ran on a snag, sixty miles below Memphis, at one o’clock Thursday morning, 21st ult, and sunk in five minutes. She had 150 passengers, six of whom were ladies; she had also a cargo of seventy-five tons sulter’s goods. In five minutes after striking, she capsized, the upper deck floating off, and many passengers who clung to it were saved; but fully half were in the berths asleep, and were lost. Most of the passengers were soldiers, who were returning to their regiments. A number of survivors have arrived at Helena. Not less than seventy-five or eighty persons perished. The captain and most of the crew were saved.
HAIL STORM. A special despatch to the Boston Herald from Worcester, 27th ult., says-“A tremendous hail storm passed over this city at a late hour this afternoon, surpassing in violence any thing of the kind within the memory of the oldest inhabitant. Thousands of panes of window glass were broken, fruit trees were stripped bare, and gardens were destroyed. Over six thousand panes of glass were broken in the elegant conservatory of D. Waldo Lincoln.”
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the Mass. Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at McINDOES FALLS, Vt., on Sunday, Sept. 7th, at hours to be named in local notices.
Subject-The Rebellion, its Cause and Cure.
He will also speak, on the same subject, on the evenings of the days named, as follows:-
St. Johnsbury, Monday, Sept. 8.
Barton, Tuesday, Sept 9.
Albany, Wednesday, Sept 10.
Craftsbury, Thursday, Sept 11.
Hardwick, Friday, Sept.12.

POSTPONEMENT OF THE WOMAN’S JOURNAL.-The changes in public affairs, leading to a prolongation of the civil war, which have occurred since our issue of the prospectus of the Woman’s Journal in May last, have determined us, with the concurrence and advice of the friends of the enterprise, to postpone its publication to a more favorable turn of events. Meanwhile, we shall be glad to receive communications as before from those interested, at Lock Box 2, Roxbury, Mass. The money already received for subscriptions will be returned on demand, or will be deposited in bank to the credit of the parties sending it, to await the appearance of the Journal.
MARY L. BOOTH,
MARIE E. ZAKRZEWSKA, M. D.
Boston, Aug. 29, 1862.

GROVE MEETING.-The colored people of Plymouth County and vicinity will hold a Grove Meeting in Harris’s Grove, half a mile from Centre Abington Depot, to commence on Friday, the 5th of Sept., and continue four days. All persons, without distinction, of sect or color, are respectfully invited to attend.

JEFF. DAVIS’S COACHMAN.-We understand that Jeff. Davis’s coachman will speak in Tremont Temple on Sunday evening next. There is no doubt that he is the veritable man who drove Davis’s span, and his story of the inner life of the family of the President of the Confederacy is intensely interesting.-Traveller.

WANTED-A colored girl-one who has good references, and is competent to do general housework. Address Box 2744, Boston PostOffice.
August 29. 2w

MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. 
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.

DEATH OF WILLIAM M. CHASE, ESQ.
We have to announce the death of WILLIAM M. CHASE, Esq., a highly esteemed gentleman, and long a citizen of this State. He was a native of Rhode Island, but had resided here for many years, during which time he built up for himself a lucrative practice in his profession as a lawyer. He was well known as a gentleman of very generous disposition, having lofty ideas of the moral and political duties and responsibilities of the citizen. Ever since the organization of the Republican party, Mr. Chace has taken an active interest in its welfare, and aided it with his labors and his purse. When the present war commenced, he soon sought out a place in which he could render a service to his fellow-countrymen, who were going to the seat of war as soldiers. He attended the early meetings of the sons of New England, with a view to form an association for the comfort of New England soldiers going to and coming from the war. He represented the State of Rhode Island on the Executive Committee of the New England Soldiers’ Relief Association, and in that position gave valuable aid by his counsel, his means, and his personal influence. He was a gentleman of pleasing presence, affable in his manners, and in society seldom, if ever, ventured to take the lead in conversation. This last trait, however, did not prevent his promptly condemning what he believed to he wrong, and attaching himself as an ardent worker on the side of what he knew or believed to be right. After ailing several days, although his sickness was not considered dangerous, he was found dead in his bed at his late residence, No. 35 Lafayette place, yesterday morning. His decease is deeply regretted by a large circle of sincerely attached friends and associates. He was about fifty years of age, and unmarried.-New York Tribune, Sept. 2.
Mr. CHACE was one of our earliest coadjutors in the Anti-Slavery cause; and for several years was a most efficient agent of the Liberator, from the start, in Providence, R. I. He was indefatigable in his efforts and fearless in the expression of his sentiments, and was of great service to the cause in the time of its severest needs.- [Ed. Lib.
DIED-In North Andover, August 22, ISAAC STEVENS, Esq., aged 77 years-father of Gen. Isaac I. Stevens, who was killed a few days since in the battle near Fairfax, Va. He was one of the best of men, and long a devoted friend and advocate of the Anti-Slavery, Temperance, and other good causes. Blessed be his memory!

BRISTOL BOARDING-SCHOOL FOR GIRLS.
THIS School is located in the borough of Bristol, Pa., on the Delaware River, twenty miles above Philadelphia. It will open its fall session on 2d day, Ninth month, 1st.
Terms-$75 per session of five months.
For circular, address
RUTH ANNA PHIRCH, PRINCIPAL 
REFERENCES.
JAMES MOTT, Philadelphia.
ANNE CHURCHMAN, 908 Franklin street, Philadelphia.
C. N. PEIRCE, 501 N. Seventh street, Philadelphia.
HENRY W. RIDGWAY, Crosswicks, N. Y.
DAVID L GRISCOM, Woodbury, N. J.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Boston.

A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW,
EARLVILLE, La Salle Co., III.
Especial attention given to securing and collecting Claims for Eastern Merchants.
August 8. tf.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
WILL FREEDOM COME?
Will the Jubilee song, that so sweetly is ringing
Through Antilles Isles e’er be heard in our land?
Will Freedom, white-robed, from the war-cloud descending,
On the bondman’s worn brow lay in blessing her hand?
When the Angel of Peace, on the red field of battle, 
Shall fold her white wings o’er the graves of the slain,
Will the manacled hands be unloosed at her bidding?
Will she break every fetter, unbind every chain?
Will the slave, toiling still in the dank, lonely rice-swamp,
Hear her sweet voice proclaiming, “Henceforth thou art free!
With the blood of the noble and brave thou art ransomed-
The scourge and the chain wait no longer for thee!”
To the fields, where the cane and the cotton are waving,
Will she bear the blest tidings in triumph along?
And hear the glad voices, in grateful hosannas,
To our Father in heaven raise the Jubilee song?
Will the message be borne to the lowly-roofed cabin,
Where the slave-mother weeps in anguish untold?
Will the Angel-voice whisper, “The man-thief no longer
Shall barter thy loved ones for silver or gold?
“In its cradle thise infant may now sleep securely,
Thy fond heart no longer shall tremble with fear;
And cowering, no more shall ye shrink when the footstep
Of the Christian slave-master with shuddering ye hear!”
To the maiden, who, helpless, by law unprotected,
Now thrilling with horror, awaits her sad doom,
And known that for her there’s but one only refuge-
The safety and quiet that shroud the dark tomb:-
Will the message, as blest e’en as Heaven’s own accents,
In seraph-tones whisper, “Thou’rt safe from all harm;
The sons of the North-land have come to thy rescue,
And Justice and Truth have o’erthrown giant Wrong!”
Alas! to our questionings earnest and tearful,
There comes no response from the blood-crimsoned field;
Still the dark, dreadful war-cloud rolls on through our borders-
And to Death, the stern Reaper, our hearts’ wealth we yield!
No strong arm is lifted to smite the foul Demon,
Who all this dark ruin and sorrow hath wrought;
In vain have we given our loved and our trusted,-
Our Rulers still falter, by <illegible> untaught!
How long must we lay on the altar of Slavery,
Love, Honor, and Truth,-all the blessings of home;
And still blindly groping amid the thick darkness,
See no rainbow of Hope illumine the gloom?
And yet we unfurl not the banner of Freedom;
Still a race pines in bondage, and forged are the chains,
While Union is ever the rallying war cry-
And Justice and Right all in vain urge their claims.
And can we believe that our “Father in heaven”
Will give us his blessing, will prosper our cause,
While, wickedly selfish, his voice still unheeding, 
We list not his mandate-obey not his laws?
Must the “Red Sea” of carnage engulph our loved Northland,
Ere we hear the blest sound of the Jubilee song? 
Must a deluge of blood crimson hillside and valley,
Ere the altar of Slavery is crushed and o’erthrown?
Barre, August, 1862. CARRIE.

For the Liberator.
TO NATURE.
There is too much of brightness in the sky,
Too green the earth all bathed in radiance seems,
Too fair and flowery are the fields that lie 
Beneath the splendor of the day-god’s beams.
What though our country, racked with inward pain, 
Lifts up her voice with deepest anguish filled?
What though the tears of the oppressed, like rain, 
Bedew the earth their own rough hands have tilled?
And though the high in power shrink to strike 
The death-blow at the serpent whose foul fangs
Have poisoned with their venom all alike 
Within its folds, thou heedest not their pangs.
For thou, O Nature, calmly still dost wear
A mild, unruffled mien of soft repose; 
Thy birds sing on; thy very clouds are fair:-
Hast thou no sympathy with our deep woes?
Thy fields should blacken with remorseless blight;
Mildew should settle on the rose’s leaf; 
Thy clouds should lower with an awful might,
Their bolts of wrath should turn joy into grief.
This is no time for slumber so serene,
For gentle smiles and languid airs of case;
Too long a settled calm has filled thy mien- 
Hear’st thou no sound but rustling of the trees?
A voice replied to my complaining words, 
In accents mild, but blent with stern reproof,
A voice that smote upon my spirit’s chords, 
And awed me with its solemn tones of love:
“A mind, attuned true wisdom to discern, 
Shows never doubt when trouble thickly crowds;
But higher still its faltering prayers must yearn, 
Ere shows the silver lining of the cloud.
“My calmness is a gift from Heaven sent,
A beacon that shall shine throughout your night; 
That speaks to those who watch my face intent, 
A prophecy of JOY, and PEACE, and RIGHT.”
NINA.
From the Atlantic Monthly.
MID-SUMMER.
Around this lovely valley rise 
The purple hills of Paradise.
O, softly on yon banks of haze, 
Her rozy face the Summer lays!
Becalmed along the azure sky, 
The argosics of cloudland lie, 
Whose shores with many a shining rift, 
Far off their pearl-white peaks uplift.
Through all the long mid-summer day, 
The meadow sides are sweet with hay. 
I seek the coolest sheltered seat, 
Just where the field and forest meet-
Where grow the pine-trees tall and bland, 
The ancient oaks, austere and grand, 
And fringy root and pebbles fret 
The ripples of the rivulet.
I watch the mowers as they go, 
Through the tall grass, a white-sleeved row; 
With even stroke their seythes they swing,
In tune their merry whet-stones ring. 
Behind the nimble youngsters run, 
And toss the thick swaths in the sun:
The cattle graze, while warm and still 
Slopes the broad pasture, basks the hill, 
And bright when summer breezes break, 
The green wheat crinkles like a lake.
The butterfly and bumble-bee 
Come to the pleasant woods with me; 
Quickly before me runs the quail, 
The chickens skulk behind the rail,
High up the lone wood-pigeon sits, 
And the woodpecker pecks and flits, 
Sweet woodland music sinks and swells, 
The brooklet rings its tinkling bells, 
The swarming insects drone and hum, 
The partridge beats his throbbing drum, 
The squirrel leaps among the boughs, 
And chatters in his leafy house, 
The oriole flashes by; and, look! 
Into the murmur of the brook, 
Where the vain blue-bird trims his coat, 
Two tiny feathers fall and float.
As silently, as tenderly, 
The dawn of peace descends on me. 
O, this is peace! I have no need 
Of friend to talk, of book to read:
A dear Companion here abides:
Close to my thrilling heart He hides; 
The holy silence is His Voice; 
I lie and listen, and rejoice.
<c02>
The Liberator.
LIFE AMONG THE CONTRABANDS.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
I thank you for the request of a line on the condition of the contrabands, and what I hare seen while among them. When we parted at that pleasant gathering of the Progressive Friends at Longwood, you to return to the Old Bay State, to battle for freedom and justice to the slave, I to go to the District of Columbia, where the shackles had just fallen, I hoped that the glorious echo from the blow had aroused the spirit of freedom, if a spark slumbered in its bosom. Having purchased my ticket through to Washington at the Philadelphia station, I reached the capital without molestation. Next morning, I went to Duff Green’s Row, Government head-quarters for the contrabands here. I found men, women and children all huddled together, without any distinction or regard to age or sex. Some of them were in the most pitiable condition. Many were sick with measles, diphtheria, scarlet and typhoid fever. Some had a few filthy rags to lie on; others had nothing but the bare floor for a couch. There seemed to be no established rules among them; they were coming in at all hours, often through the night, in large numbers, and the Superintendent had enough to occupy his time in taking the names of those who came in, and of those who were sent out. His office was thronged through the day by persons who came to hire these poor creatures, who they say will not work and take care of themselves. Single women hire at four dollars a month; a woman with one child, two and a half or three dollars a month. Men’s wages are ten dollars per month. Many of them, accustomed as they have been to field labor, and to living almost entirely out of doors, suffer much from the confinement in this crowded building. The little children pine like prison birds for their native element. It is almost impossible to keep the building in a healthy condition. Each day brings its fresh additions of the hungry, naked and sick. In the early part of June, there were, some days, as many as ten deaths reported at this place in twenty-four hours. At this time, there was no matron in the house, and nothing at hand to administer to the comfort of the sick and dying. I felt that their sufferings must be unknown to the people. I did not meet kindly, sympathizing people, trying to soothe the last agonies of death. Those tearful eyes often looked up to me with the language, “Is this freedom?”
A new Superintendent was engaged, Mr. Nichol, who seemed to understand what these people most needed. He laid down rules, went to work in earnest pulling down partitions to enlarge the rooms, that he might establish two hospitals, one for the men and another for the women. This accomplished, cots and mattresses were needed. There is a small society in Washington-the Freedman’s Association-who are doing all they can; but remember, Washington is not New England. I often met Rev. W. H. Channing, whose ‘hands and heart are earnestly in the cause of the enslaved of his country. This gentleman was always ready to act in their behalf. Through these friends, an order was obtained from Gen. Wadsworth for cots for the contraband hospitals.
At this time, I met in Duff Green Row, Miss Hannah Stevenson, of Boston, and Miss Kendall. The names of these ladies need no comment. They were the first white females whom I had seen among these poor creatures, except those who had come in to hire them. These noble ladies had come to work, and their names will be lisped in prayer by many a dying slave. Hoping to help a little in the good work they had begun, I wrote to a lady in New York, a true and tried friend of the slave, who from the first moment had responded to every call of humanity. This letter was to ask for such articles as would make comfortable the sick and dying in the hospital. On the Saturday following, the cots were put up. A few hours after, an immense box was received from New York. Before the sun went down, those ladies who have labored so hard for the comfort of these people had the satisfaction of seeing every man, woman and child with clean garments, lying in a clean bed. What a contrast! They seemed different beings. Every countenance beamed with gratitude and satisfied rest. To me, it was a picture of holy peace within. The next day was the first Christian Sabbath they had ever known. One mother passed away as the setting sun threw its last rays across her dying bed, and as I looked upon her, I could not but say-“One day of freedom, and gone to her God.” Before the dawn, others were laid beside her. It was a comfort to know that some effort had been made to soothe their dying pillows. Still, there were other places in which I felt, if possible, more interest, where the poor creatures seemed so far removed from the immediate sympathy of those who would help them. These were the contrabands in Alexandria. This place is strongly secesh; the inhabitants are kept quiet only at the point of Northern bayonets. In this place, the contrabands are distributed more over the city. In visiting those places, I had the assistance of two kind friends, women. True at heart, they felt the wrongs and degradation of their race. These ladies were always ready to aid me, as far as lay in their power. To Mrs. Brown, of 3d street, Washington, and Mrs. Dagans, of Alexandria, the contrabands owe much gratitude for the kindly aid they gave me in serving them. In this place, the men live in an old foundry, which does not afford protection from the weather. The sick lay on boards on the ground floor; some, through the kindness of the soldiers, have an old blanket. I did not hear a complaint among them. They said it was much better than it had been. All expressed a willingness to work, and were anxious to know what was to be done with them after the work was done. All of them said they had not received pay for their work, and some wanted to know if I thought it would be paid to their masters. One old man said, “I don’t kere if dey don’t pay, so dey give me freedom. I bin working for ole maas all de time; he nebber gib me five cent. I like de Unions fuss rate. If de Yankee Unions didn’t come long, I’d be working tu de ole place now.” All said they had plenty to eat, but no clothing, and no money to buy any.
Another place, the old school-house in Alexandria, is the Government head-quarters for the women. This I thought the most wretched of all the places. Any one who can find an apology for slavery should visit this place, and learn its curse. Here you see them from infancy up to a hundred years old. What but the love of freedom could bring these old people hither? One old man, who told me he was a hundred, said he had come to be free with his children. The journey proved too much for him. Each visit, I found him sitting in the same spot, under a shady tree, suffering from rheumatism. Unpacking a barrel, I found a large coat, which I thought would be so nice for the old man, that I carried it to him. I found him sitting in the same spot, with his head on his bosom. I stooped down to speak to him. Raising his head, I found him dying. I called his wife. The old woman, who seems in her second childhood, looked on as quietly as though we were placing him for a night’s rest. In this house are scores of women and children, with nothing to do, and nothing to do with. Their husbands are at work for the Government. Here they have food and shelter, but they cannot get work. The slaves who come into Washington from Maryland are sent here to protect them from the Fugitive Slave Law. These people are indebted to Mr. Rufus Leighton, formerly of Boston, for many comforts. But for their Northern friends, God pity them in their wretched and destitute condition! The Superintendent, Mr. Clarke, a Pennsylvanian, seems to feel much interest in them, and is certainly very kind. They told me they had confidence in him. as a friend. That is much for a slave to say.
From this place, I went to Birch’s slave-pen, in Alexandria. This place forms a singular contrast with what it was two years ago. The habitable part of the building is filled with contrabands; the
<c03>
old jail is filled with secesh prisoners-all within speaking distance of each other. Many a compliment is passed between them on the change in their positions. There is another house on Cameron street, which is filled with very destitute people. To these places I distributed large supplies of clothing, given me by the ladies of New York, New Bedford, and Boston. They hare made many a desolate heart glad. They have clothed the naked, fed the hungry. To them, God’s promise is sufficient.
Let me tell you of another place, to which I always planned my last visit for the day. There was something about this house to make you forget that you came to it with a heavy heart. The little children you meet at this door bring up pleasant memories when you leave it; from the older ones you carry pleasant recollections. These were what the people call the more favored slaves, and would boast of having lived in the first families in Virginia. They certainly had reaped some advantage from the contact. It seemed by a miracle that they had all fallen together. They were intelligent, and some of the. young women and children beautiful. One young girl, whose beauty I cannot describe, although its magnetism often drew me to her side, I loved to talk with, and look upon her sweet face, covered with blushes; besides, I wanted to learn her true position, but her gentle shyness I had to respect. One day, while trying to draw her out, a fine-looking woman, with all the pride of a mother, stepped forward, and said-“Madam, this young woman is my son’s wife.” It was a relief. I thanked God that this young creature had an arm to lean upon for protection. Here I looked upon slavery, and felt the curse of their heritage was what is considered the best blood of Virginia. On one of my visits here, I met a mother who had just arrived from Virginia, bringing with her four daughters. Of course, they belonged to one of the first families. This man’s strong attachment to this woman and her children caused her, with her children, to be locked up one month. She made her escape one day while her master had gone to learn the news from the Union army. She fled to the Northern army for freedom and protection. These people had earned for themselves many little comforts. Their houses had an inviting aspect. The clean floors, the clean white spreads on their cots, and the general tidiness throughout the building, convinced me they had done as well as any other race could have done, under the same circumstances.
Let me tell you of another place-Arlington Heights. Every lady has heard of Gen. Lee’s beautiful residence, which has been so faithfully guarded by our Northern army. It looks as though the master had given his orders every morning. Not a tree around that house has fallen. About the forts and camps they have been compelled to use the axe. At the quarters, there are many contrabands. The men are employed, and most of the women. Here they have plenty of exercise in the open air, and seem very happy. Many of the regiments are stationed here. It is a delightful place for both the soldier and the contraband. Looking around this place, and remembering what I had heard of the character of the man who owned it before it passed into the hands of its present owner, I was much inclined to say, Although the wicked prosper for a season, the way of the transgressor is hard.
When in Washington for the day, my morning visit would be up at Duff Green’s Row. My first business would be to look into a small room on the ground floor. This room was covered with lime. Here I would learn how many deaths had occurred in the last twenty-four hours. Men, women and children lie here together, without a shadow of those rites which we give to our poorest dead. There they lie, in the filthy rags they wore from the plantation. Nobody seems to give it a thought. It is an every-day occurrence, and the scenes have become familiar. One morning, as I looked in, I saw lying there five children. By the side of them lay a young man. He escaped, was taken back to Virginia, whipped nearly to death, escaped again the next night, dragged his body to Washington, and died, literally out to pieces. Around his feet I saw a rope; I could not see that put into the grave with him. Other cases similar to this came to my knowledge, but this I saw.
Amid all this sadness, we sometimes would hear a shout of joy. Some mother had come in, and found her long-lost child; some husband his wife. Brothers and sisters meet. Some, without knowing it, had lived years within twenty miles of each other.
A word about the schools. It is pleasant to see that eager group of old and young, striving to learn their A, B, C, and Scripture sentences. Their great desire is to learn to read. While in the school-room, I could not but feel how much these young women and children needed female teachers who could do something more than teach them their A, B, C. They need to be taught the right habits of living and the true principles of life.
My last visit intended for Alexandria was on Saturday. I spent the day with them, and received showers of thanks for myself and the good ladies who had sent me; for I had been careful to impress upon them that these kind friends sent me, and that all that was given by me was from them. Just as I was on the point of leaving, I found a young woman, with an infant, who had just been brought in. She lay in a dying condition, with nothing but a piece of an old soldier coat under her head. Must I leave her in this condition? I could not beg in Alexandria. It was time for the last boat to leave for Washington, and I promised to return in the morning. The Superintendent said he would meet me at the landing. Early next morning, Mrs. Brown and myself went on a begging expedition, and some old quilts were given us. Mr. Clarke met us, and offered the use of his large Government wagon, with the horses and driver, for the day, and said he would accompany us, if agreeable. I was delighted, and felt I should spend a happy Sabbath in exploring Dixie, while the large bundles that I carried with me would help make others happy. After attending to the sick mother and child, we started for Fairfax Seminary. They send many of the convalescent soldiers to this place. The houses are large, and the location is healthy. Many of the contrabands are here. Their condition is much better than that of those kept in the city. They soon gathered around Mr. Clarke, and begged him to come back and be their boss. He said, “Boys, I want you all to go to Hayti.” They said, “You gwine wid us, Mr. Clarke?” “No, I must stay here, and take care of the rest of the boys.” “Den, if you aint gwine, de Lord knows I aint a gwine.” Some of them will tell Uncle Abe the same thing. Mr. Clarke said they would do anything for him-seldom gave him any trouble. They spoke kindly of Mr. Thomas, who is constantly employed in supplying their wants, as far as he can. To the very old people at this place, I gave some clothing, returned to Alexandria, and bade all good bye. Begging me to come back, they promised to do all they could to help themselves. One old woman said-“Honey tink, when all get still, I kin go an fine de old place? Tink de Union’ stroy it? You can’t get nothin on dis place. Down on de ole place, you can raise ebery ting. I ain’t seen bacca since I bin here. Neber git a libin here, where de peoples eben buy pasly.” This poor old woman thought it was nice to live where tobacco grew, but it was dreadful to be compelled to buy a bunch of parsley. Here they have preaching once every Sabbath. They must have a season to sing and pray, and we need true faith in Christ to go among them and do our duty. How beautiful it is to find it among themselves! Do not say the slaves take no interest in each other. Like other people, some of them are designedly selfish, some are ignorantly selfish. With the light and instruction you give them, you will see this selfishness disappear. Trust them, make them free, and give them the responsibility of caring for themselves, and they will soon learn to help each other. Some of them have been so degraded by slavery that they do not know the usages of civilized life: they know little else than the handle of the hoe, the plough, the cotton pad, and
<c04>
the overseer’s lash. Have patience with them. You have helped to make them what they are; teach them civilization. You owe it to them, and you will find them as apt to learn as any other people that come to you stupid from oppression. The negroes’ strong attachment no one doubts; the only difficulty is, they have cherished it too strongly. Let me tell you of an instance among the contrabands. One day, while in the hospital, a woman came in to ask that she might take a little orphan child. The mother had just died, leaving two children, the eldest three years old. This woman had five children in the house with her. In a few days, the number would be six. I said to this mother, “What can you do with this child, shut up here with your own? They are as many as you can attend to.” She looked up with tears in her eyes, and said-“The child’s mother was a stranger; none of her friends cum wid her from de ole place. I took one boy down on de plantation; he is a big boy now, working mong de Unions. De Lord help me to bring up dat boy, and he will help me to take care dis child. My husband work for de Unions when dey pay him. I can make home for all. Dis child shall hab part ob de crust.” How few white mothers, living in luxury, with six children, could find room in her heart for a seventh, and that child a stranger!
In this house there are scores of children, too young to help themselves, from eight years old down to the little one-day freeman, born at railroad speed, while the young mother was flying from Virginia to save her babe from breathing its tainted air.
I left the contrabands, feeling that the people were becoming more interested in their behalf, and much had been done to make their condition more comfortable. On my way home, I stopped a few days in Philadelphia. I called on a lady who had sent a large supply to the hospital, and told her of the many little orphans who needed a home. This lady advised me to call and see the Lady Managers of an institution for orphan children supported by those ladies. I did so, and they agreed to take the little orphans. They employed a gentleman to investigate the matter, and it was found impossible to bring them through Baltimore. This gentleman went to the captains of the propellers in Philadelphia, and asked if those orphan children could have a passage on their boats. Oh no, it could not be; it would make an unpleasant feeling among the people! Some of those orphans have died since I left, but the number is constantly increasing. Many mothers, on leaving the plantations, pick up the little orphans, and bring them with their own children; but they cannot provide for them; they come very destitute themselves.
To the ladies who have so nobly interested themselves in behalf of my much oppressed race, I feet the deepest debt of gratitude. Let me beg the reader’s attention to these orphans. They are the innocent and helpless of God’s poor. If you cannot take one, you can do much by contributing your mite to the institution that will open its doors to receive them. 
LINDA.

“RIGHTS OF WHITE LABOR OVER BLACK.”
To the Editor of the Liberator:
SIR-The article under this caption, copied into your paper of the 22d, from the Boston Irish Pilot, is of a piece with the infuriate and blind prejudice entertained by the Irish and their descendants in America towards the African race; and it is the effects of such counsels as this we see cropping out in the riots at Brooklyn, Cincinnati and elsewhere, between Irish and black. It is this narrow-sighted and unphilanthropical advice to Irishmen, by those who set themselves up as their leaders, that serves to strengthen the Slave Power of Rebeldom, by maintaining an element in our midst of disloyalty to humanity, to true liberty, and the common rights of man.
This blind leader of the blind, who will not see the hand of God in the present fearful reformation; who will not see that this glorious and extensive country if man were free everywhere in it, would be large enough for all; who will not wait until society, within the bounds of our common territory, rights and settles into its natural position, after this state of convulsion and unrest it is now in be past; who can see no destiny for the black man, no place for the sole of his foot, but the cities and towns of the Northern States, should he, in the Providence of God, become free,-sets himself up as the counsellor of the people, and stimulates this condition of unquiet by stirring up hatred for those who have as good a right in this land as himself. He does not stop to take a broad or rational view of the question, “What will become of the black man?” such a view as we would expect taken by an educated man; but, with nineteen out of twenty of the lowest intellectually and most ignorant Irishmen you could meet in the neighborhood of Fort Hill to-day, he falls into their groove of thought, and says-“Liberate the slaves throughout the land, and they will overrun the North, looking for work, and the white man will be destroyed by their attempt to find it.”
A few years ago, no voice than that of this Pilot was more loud in its denunciation of the cry of “America for Americans.” Now none is more furious it its own cry of America for the white man. By white man he means, of course, Irishman, as no other white man in the length and breadth of the land is the least afflicted at the prospect of general emancipation of the slaves, unless it be slaveholders and their political sympathizers.
A philosopher, such as, I have no doubt, the writer of that article would delight to have himself considered, would take a philosophical view of this question, and argue, a priori, that, wherever they are free to do so, like seeks like and run together, as do drops of water or grains of sand; that were the black man no longer restrained by the bond of slavery in this nation, he would prefer to dwell where he was born; and he who had wandered from there would seek happiness in that climate most favorable to his growth, which his very nature covets, and which he left to gratify but one object, the instinct of freedom implanted by nature in the heart of every man who is born upon the earth. From a high stand-point, and uncontaminated by the influences of his locality, in which is generated the belief that there is but one god-the institution of slavery-of which the faubourg of Franklin and Milk streets enjoy and were built up by the profit,-he would see some ten thousand of the black race in Massachusetts, some driven here by the instinctive desire for freedom, others born here, all Americans by birth and such education as they possess; all entitled, therefore, to the rights which the political privileges of this free land confer upon its inhabitants; and all fully as intelligent, as a class, as the same number and intellectual grade of Irishmen. That in the object for which those not born here came hither, both classes present an exact analogy-both came here seeking freedom, and to better their natural and political condition beyond what it was where they were born; and that were the reasons for that condition not being as good in the land of their birth as it is here, to be removed, thousands of them would instinctively desire to go back; for each love the land of their birth, and in that love exhibit the oneness of their humanity.
But neighbor Pilot (oh, what a misnomer! Heaven preserve us from such a pilot for our ship of State as he would make!) can see nothing but an exodus of black men setting towards the North Star, should the Abolitionists obtain the object for which they have striven alone, and been persecuted for thirty years; and that they are going to, in the course of the next twelve months, he is too sharp a Pilot not to see. Hence his uproarious cry of Down with the black man! enslave him! kill him! do any thing with him! but if you will make him free, drive him instantly out of the country, which is only large enough for the white man, and particularly for white Irishmen, this Pilot’s flock!
“To white toil,” says this Pilot, “the nation owes every thing-to black, nothing.” Well, if that is not the height of audacious and cold-blooded lying, the height has never been reached! The four million slaves, not to speak of the one million free blacks
<c05>
and colored, have done nothing for this country! Why! before an Irish laborer had a foothold on this soil the blacks were the only laborers the South had for fifty years. Does the Pilot know this? or is he so grossly ignorant of the chart of the country that has received him, and thousands like him, not for the benefit they would be to the country as a first cause, but to relieve them from that oppression which, if Irishmen are to be believed, (and I believe them,) they have groaned under for ten generations? So atrociously profligate an untruth as this is without a parallel. The blacks, the bone and sinew of some thirteen States, the toiling millions who, for a hundred years, have known nothing but labor, who are crucified by work, and die daily to supply the wants and luxuries of their owners and taskmasters, have done nothing for this country! while the few hundred thousand Irishmen and their descendants in that time have done all! Preposterous and unjust decision!
As mere laborers, hewers of wood and drawers of water, as the mass of the Irish emigrants to our Free States are, I deny them no jot nor tittle of all they deserve. They have hedged and ditched and borne burdens, built the earthwork of railroads, and dug out canals; they have extended a ready hand for labor wherever they have found it to do. As a class, they are industrious and willing to work; but in that particular, they are not superior, by one jot or tittle, to the black man in a state of freedom; and, as a class, it is well known that, for all the purposes of intelligent citizenship, free black men are more tractable and thoughtful, less inclined to fight among themselves or with others, to brawl, to quarrel about trifles, to drink whiskey and get themselves into the hands of the police authorities, than free Irishmen. Yes, I say boldly, and call for proof to the contrary, that in peace or in war, free black men-who have been long enough free to know the value and privileges of freedom-are as serviceable to the country as a like number of Irishmen, or any other nationality of their degree of intelligence. I would not take one grain of credit from the thousands of Irishmen who have gone forward to fight for the republic. They have done nobly. But I say, let the free black men of America have a chance, and they will do as well. History, wherever it has a chance, will support me in this assertion. And it is this fact that the Pilot fears. Of all things, he dreads that the opportunity should be given the black man to distinguish himself as a soldier of the republic upon the battle-field. That is a privilege not for the black man to enjoy, lest he should prove, by the most irresistible evidence, that he is in this particular, as in everything else, the equal of the Irishman of equal attainments and education. But even in the face of such proof, the Pilot would be found cursing him, and desirous to expel him from the land; and, basing its reasons upon the few isolated facts recorded within the past month, and which such incendiary publications have been the generating cause of riot between blacks and Irish, it would again hurl forth its manifesto that, “While they are in the land, we shall have tumult and sedition.”
This blind leader proposes no means of diverting the fertilizing stream of black emigration he so much dreads, but at once to open a way for it into the sea. Instead of going to the source of the stream, and there providing means for it to go gladly on its way into a thousand fields of usefulness and freedom on its own soil, and, by embankments properly constructed, keeping it within its natural bounds, he calls his laborers around him to dig deep and wide a single channel, through which it may rush out of the country, and thus deprive the country of the benefit of its teeming strength, its thousands of toiling hands, which know no direction but to work in the soil-know no art nor handicraft, but possess the main strength, the bone and muscle to till the soil, to grasp the plow and hoe, which provide bread for a nation of freemen. And what substitute does he provide? Nothing, unless it be a sparse future emigration of Irish laborers-an emigration that cannot, in the very nature of cause and effect, be but slender for years.
O, thou blind leader of the blind, who can see the mote in thy brother’s eye, but not the beam in thine own, didst thou suppose that any but thy slavish, ignorant followers would believe thy doctrines, thy incorrect statements, thy gross untruths? No, thou couldst not do so. Written and printed only for them, thou believedst they would help to leaven that spirit of riot natural to them, and which Jeff. Davis, whom thou indirectly servest, doth glory and rejoice to see, as it is as good for his cause as 20,000 men.
Boston, August 23, 1862. JUSTICE.
LETTER TO THE PRESIDENT.
PRESIDENT LINCOLN:
RESPECTED FRIEND-On behalf of one hundred and eleven signers of an accompanying petition, I would respectfully ask to submit a few brief reflections for your consideration.
From the moral stand-point which we occupy, it does seem to us that this terrible war might be brought to a speedy and righteous termination, were all the instrumentalities brought to bear upon it which lie within your reach, under the war power, as President of the United States.
Though now occupying, as you do, one of “the high places of the earth,” we have, nevertheless, been led to regard you as one possessing feelings and sympathies in common with the people, and who conscientiously does his part in accordance with his convictions of duty. Yet, while we thus regard you, we cannot see clearly why you shrink from grappling with the active and vital cause of our present national troubles.
Slavery seeks to extend its dominions-seeks to rule, or to be “let alone.” Its intrinsic nature is to tyrannize over humanity, and to rule as with a rod of iron. “Slavery is itself essentially, and in its most quiet condition, a rebellion-a rebellion against the law of this universe-a guilty defiance of God and man.” It asks not whether its subjects be white or black-only that its insatiable demands be heeded, and its empire extended. For this sole purpose is the South now at war; and in slavery lies her strength, as well as her weakness. Strike the blow at slavery, and the rebellion ends. Treat it as something too sacred or time-honored to be handled roughly or irreverently, and it sits in demoniacal power and dignity, to baffle and foil every effort to conquer the rebellion.
While the South is radically in the wrong, the North is not radically in the right. The one is fighting for slavery per se, while the other is not fighting for liberty as a principle, but for the Union and the Constitution, which are only a shadow or a sham, if they do not represent the Genius of Liberty, and are not vitalized by the spirit of Justice.
If we plant ourselves upon the rock of principle, contending inflexibly for freedom and justice, on the side of which are arrayed the Lord and his angel hosts, we shall “conquer gloriously.” Otherwise, new difficulties, new entanglements, and new complications will arise, to educate us, as it were, in the school of calamity, and to purify us by the fires of suffering, until we are humbled, and made willing to do the will of heaven!
Be assured, President Lincoln, there is no more peace or rest to this nation, until it is willing to do simple justice. For long years, things have been culminating for the great issues now at hand.
“Let truth and falsehood grapple-”let there be a distinct issue between Liberty and Slavery-between God and Baal, and the result is not doubtful. It is only by a temporizing, compromising policy, and a disposition to make friends “with the mammon of unrighteousness,” that the reign of Evil has been so long perpetuated on the earth. There is safety only in the Right-on the side of God and Justice. There are perils and woes unspeakable in the wrong-for sorrow and suffering must follow wrongdoing as surely as God’s laws are unrepealable, and His truth ever-
<c06>
lasting. For the slaveholder as well as the slave, Justice and Truth have blessings-to the realization of which Slavery rears forever an impassable barrier. Let this dark barrier be thrown down, that a delivered nation’s Jubilee may come, amid gratulations of brotherhood and hasannas of rejoicing!
“The work of righteousness is peace, and the effect of righteousness quietness and assurance forever.” 
With cordial good wishes, and with every consideration of esteem,
I am truly yours,
MILO A. TOWNSEND.
New Brighton, Pa.
EDUCATIONAL PROGRESS IN VIRGINIA.
ALEXANDRIA, Va., July 29, 1862.
A scene which, for some years, has been unknown in this city, might have been witnessed last night. Since the transfer to the State of Virginia of that part of the District of Columbia lying west of the Potomac river, the laws of the State have taken the place of the enactments of Congress.
Among other provisions in operation is the statute forbidding the education of the colored race. Since the entrance of the Federal troops, and the establishment of military supremacy, in the crushing of rebellion, this has been waived, and the colored people have been allowed to establish a day school, which has been in progress since the first of January.
There are now in attendance nearly a hundred scholars, varying in age from six years to fifty, and in color from black to white, and yesterday was “commencement.”
During the day, an examination was held, at which a number of the friends of the enterprise were present. The display made was gratifying in the extreme to those interested in the cultivation and welfare of humanity.
In the evening, the African Baptist church was crowded by “an admiring audience,” to witness the commencement exercises. These were introduced by the singing of the “Sabbath-School Army,” by the entire assembly, and prayer by a clergyman from Washington. The programme was well prepared, consisting of Essays, Dialogues and Music. First came an Essay on Education, by Miss Sarah Gray. This was a well prepared paper, evincing perception and reflection. It contained one of the best and most earnest appeals to the colored race, which we remember to have met. True Freedom, and how to gain it, was the title of a well-studied effort. The Star, by Virginia Bell, was a perfect gem, well delivered. The African Chief, by Robert Mitchell, was a beautiful poem, but a sad tale of oppression, suffering and death. Come in and Shut the Door, by Louisa Hansberg, met with a storm of applause. Altogether, it was a perfect success, and I hope may prove the commencement of better days.
Yours, truly, STANLEY.
“WE KNOW NOT WHERE ELSE SO MUCH AUTHENTIC INTELLIGENCE OF THE REBELLION CAN BE OBTA1NED.”
“NO OTHER WORK POSSESSES THE VALUE AS A WORK OF REFERENCE.”
“IT IS RELIABLE, COMPLETE, AND DESIRABLE.”
THE
Rebellion Record,
EDITED BY FRANK MOORE.
Is the only publication which gives the HISTORY OF THE GREAT STRUGGLE FOR FREE GOVERNMENT NOW GOING ON.
IT IS
Full, Impartial and Reliable.
A RECORD WHICH THE COURTS, THE DEPARTMENTS AND THE PRESS quote as the
HISTORY OF THE TIMES.
It appeals to the intelligence of every citizen. By reference to it, every person can be fairly and truthfully posted up in relation to this
GREAT REBELLION.
IT CONTAINS,-I.,
The Causes of the Great Struggle and the Great Issue before the Country,
BY EDWARD EVERETT.
II.
A DIARY OF VERIFIED EVENTS:
Commencing with the meeting of the South Carolina Convention, Dec. 17th, 1860-giving, in the form of a Diary, a concise, succinct, and truthful history of every event as it occurs.
III.
Documents, Speeches, Extended Narratives, etc.,
CONSISTING OF ALL THE
OFFICIAL REPORTS OF BATTLES, SKIRMISHES,
&c., MESSAGES AND PROCLAMATIONS
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
SPECIAL ORDERS, &c. &c.
GRAPHIC ACCOUNTS of the Movements of Troops,
IMPORTANT SPEECHES AND LETTERS, from leading
Men, North and South.
PICTURESQUE NARRATIVES, (from eye-witnesses) of the GREAT BATTLES, SECESSION ORDINANCES. MESSAGES, PROCLAMATIONS, &c.
IV.
Rumors, Incidents, Patriotic Songs and Ballads.
Illustrated with correct Portraits, engraved on steel, of the
NOTABLE MEN OF THE TIME, AND WITH MAPS AND DIAGRAMS OF THE PLANS OF BATTLES.
The Rebellion Record
Is publishing in PARTS, each Part Illustrated with TWO FINE PORTRAITS, 50 cents each.
ALSO, IN VOLUMES.
Six Parts, with Copious Index, comprise a Volume.
NOW READY,
VOLUMES ONE, TWO AND THREE.
Bound in cloth, $3, 75 each; sheep, $4.00; half <illegible> or half calf antique, $5.00 each.
A NEW EDITION,
Sold EXCLUSIVELY by Canvassers and Agents, is now publishing in Nos. at 25 cents each. Each number illustrated with a Portrait on steel.
G. P. PUTNAM, Publisher,
532 BROADWAY, New York
C. T. EVANS, GEN. AGENT.
IMPROVEMENT IN
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
Hopedale Home School
THIS Institution, after a suspension of some months, will be re-opened to well-disposed pupils of good habits, on Wednesday, Sept. 3, for a term of fifteen weeks.
For particulars, address
WM. S. HEYWOOD, 
A. B. HEYWOOD, Principals.
Hopedale, Mass., Aug 6. 4t
