THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221, WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENRAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, 
Our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO. 34. BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 19, 1864, WHOLE NO. 1750.
<C01>
Refuge of Oppression.
ANTI-SLAVERY INIQUITY.
The whole history of our government contains no such iniquity as has been enacted under the color of anti-slavery morality. The Church has been debased and degraded, the Bible has been scoffed at, the Decalogue has been violated in every letter and line. The hour has long since arrived when a 2nd line. The hour has long since arrived when a respectable man hesitated to be seen walking in the streets with a radical, because the inference was universal that he must be concerned in some scheme of plunder. This is solemnly true. No one can deny it. The first question now, which is asked about a man, when it is said, "he is black in politics," is, "What contracts has he?" And these miserable wretches, forsaken of honest men, broken down in character, "unfit for earth, unfit for heaven," are the men who have been so prominent in recommending that the frown of society be bestowed on" copperheads," and, in New England especially, have urged the impropriety of trading or even associating with copperheads. It is the purest impertinence in the world for the radical newspapers to attempt now to excite the people against the old Union. We may admit everything alleged against it, all the aggressions of the slave-power, all the wickedness of slavery; and yet, if we could get the white and black races both out of the grasp of this abolition demon which drinks the blood of the nation till she reels and staggers from very faintness, we would cut off right and left hand, pluck out right and left eye, yield fortune, life itself, only to accomplish that blessed return to the old times. What reckless folly does he display who seeks in these times to convince the people that they were not well off three years ago? Who does he think will believe him?-N. Y. Journal of Commerce.

SUBJUGATION OF THE SOUTH.
Sooner or later, the radicals must be brought face to face with this great fact: that the subjugation of the South, upon the plans proposed, and the overthrow of slavery, will destroy the negro race. The extermination is already begun, and is going on at a terrible rate. Is it too high an estimate to say that a quarter of a million of negroes have died from wounds, overwork, starvation and disease since the war broke out? We have no figures upon the subject. If we cannot obtain reliable tables of the number of white soldiers killed in the war, how can we expect to be posted on the mortality statistics of slaves who are" emancipated" in the progress of our armies, armed with muskets and made to fight, or put to work in the trenches, or gathered together in great colonies like those on the Mississippi, where they soon become a prey, to epidemic diseases, or left to starve (if too old or young to be removed) upon their masters' plantations, after all the buildings have been burned down, the crops gathered, and the stock driven off? Does 250,000 strike the reader as too large an estimate of deaths among the blacks in consequence of the war, considering that both North and South have each lost at least three times that number, fighting over the ground where the negro lives, and with which his fate is linked, each using him in his own way to carry on the war? Who can fail to realize that the extermination of the white Southerners, involving innumerable battles all through the South, and the desolation and impoverishment of that whole region, must also produce a terrible diminution in the ranks of the black Southerners? The destiny of the two races in the South seems to be one. They are not linked together exactly like the Siamese twins. The blacks might be killed off, and the white still live; but, as surely as the whites are exterminated, the blacks will share their fate, not simultaneously, perhaps, but soon enough thereafter to demonstrate the cause and effect.
If the remnant of the negro race which will be found at the end of the war (supposing the contest to continue upon the present plan) could be restored as all its old circumstances of plenty and comfort and <illegible> contentment, there would be some chance of its increasing, and, in the course of time, making good its losses by the war. But this remnant will be deprived of home, of protection, of support in old age, of care in sickness. It will be an outcast, despised and scattered race. If cared for by the government, it will be regarded as a nuisance and a burden, just as the Indians are to-day. Nobody (of the abolitionists) will be sorry when it is all gone, and the nation relieved of a heavy bill of expense and a troublesome question. Does not the government" make" by the extinction of a tribe of Indians? And would it not also find an item of profit in the extinction of any negro stipendiaries that the war may leave on its hands? Or, suppose the negro-Heaven help him!-is turned over to the tender mercies of contractors, on the system adopted in the Southwest. This would be the shortest way to send the entire race out of the world. A speedier release from his sorrows could not be invented for the unhappy negro than the hard taskmaster of the new school, the Northern contractor, whose grand motive is to make the most money in the shortest time, would give him. The utter extinction of any race which is loaned out to government contractors, is only a question of time. All these causes combined-neglect, cruelty, overwork, the breaking up of the homes and home associations, the cold shadow of a superior race ever over him, which takes no interest in the negro except to work him like a horse or ok-will terminate the tragedy of the black man on this continent.
The impartial historian of the next century will record that the worst enemies of the slaves were those who pretended to be his best friends; and that the freedom of the negro was but the precursor of his destruction.-N.Y. Journal of Commerce.
The Atlanta Appeal has the following letter from an officer in Hood's army:
"Pendleton's speech, published in yesterday's Appeal, has attracted much attention in the army. It is regarded as the clearest vindication of State rights that has ever emanated from the North. Pendleton, Vallandigham, Cox, Kendall, &c., present an array of talent and respectability of formidable proportions, which in the strained state of affairs at the North must prove very annoying to the Lincoln negro worshippers in the coming Presidential campaign. I for one, have never expected anything from the Northwestern republic, copperhead organization, or anything of the kind; yet if all the elements of opposition to the war administration were united, they might seriously impede the prosecution of the war.
The array of journals that have ventured to speak out against the war party includes some of the ablest papers of the North. The New York News, the Metropolitan, the World, Cincinnati Enquirer, Chicago Times, and even the filthy but influential Louisville Journal. may be considered in the ranks of the anti-war party."
<c02>
Selections.
THE WAR VIEWED BY A TRUE DEMOCRAT
The annual address before the Alumni Association of Franklin and Marshal College, at Lancaster, was delivered on Tuesday evening, the 26th ult., by Hon. John Cessna, of Bedford county. Mr. C. is well known as a life-long Democrat, and one of the most prominent public men of the State, the session before last being Speaker of the House of Representatives; and we rejoice to be able to contrast his noble sentiments with those of some of the would-be leaders of this party. The following extract from his speech will be read with pleasure by every loyal man:-
"The great mass of the people of all parties are honest at heart, and mean to do that which they think will best promote the welfare and prosperity of the country. But it is not always so with the party leaders. Some of these, at least, are unscrupulous. So completely do they become embittered against each other that they would sacrifice almost anything, not excepting the cause of country and of truth, in order to secure their own triumph and the overthrow of their political adversaries.
These are the most efficient emissaries of the rebellion, and vastly more serviceable to its leaders than an equal number of armed men in the ranks of the country's enemies.
In our own midst these emissaries have been actively at work to aggravate the rancor of party spirit-to array one portion of the people against the other-to cause dissatisfaction among the people with the necessary measures adopted to suppress the rebellion- to excite the people against the enforcement of the draft, and the collection of the revenue sufficient to carry on the war. Our people are taught to favor peace-compromise-an armistice-anything except a vigorous prosecution of the war.
At one time this is styled a negro war-at another, a negro has no business to serve as a soldier. When our armies are defeated, the Government is incompetent and inefficient, or it would have raised more men. When volunteers are called, they are opposed to the plan. They want an enrollment so that all may have an equal and a fair chance. When the draft comes, it is unfair, unlawful, and deprives them of their constitutional rights. The clause of the act allowing payment of commutation is all wrong, because it discriminates between the rich and the poor. As soon as it is repealed, these men strive to excite the anger of the people because it is another step towards a military despotism. All these things do the people no good, lead only to angry discussion, bitter controversies, numerous dissensions, prevent men from enlisting into the service of their country, have already produced bloody riots, and may culminate in fierce neighborhood and fireside war. These dangers are truly great, and calculated to dishearten the patriot; but it is confidently believed that they will all, sooner or later, be overcome.
There are unfortunately those among us who cannot discuss the question a single moment, without showing that they are at heart foes to the Government and enemies to their race. The people soon learn to find out and know these men. Human skill and ingenuity and all of a traitor's cunning cannot long succeed in concealing their real sentiments. They hang back or skulk away from our public, gatherings on our national holidays; they disparage Union officers and soldiers, and eulogize the rebels. All Union victories are insignificant, of little account; rebel victories are of incalculable value and importance. Good news is never credited; bad news is often originated, believed, and circulated long before verified. Taxes are obnoxious and oppressive; drafts are unconstitutional and odious; war is bloody and desolating, and the nation ought at once to stop it. For nearly four years everything has been wrong; nothing praiseworthy or passable has ever been done by their own Government; only mistakes, wrongs, wicked acts of tyranny; and earnest appeals are made to the people to arise in their might, and prevent the establishment of a military despotism. During all this time, they have never been known to utter a word of denunciation against the rebellion, or see an improper act south of the rebel lines. These are the unmistakable ear-marks of the traitor. He may remonstrate; he may write down beneath the picture, in large letters, the 'word’ Patriot;' he may in very noisy and earnest words, insist that he is a ‘sound Democrat;' and that every man of his party who sustains the war is an' Abolitionist;' yet after all be is neither a patriot nor a good democrat. You may turn him upside down and inside out, and cleanse and wash him with all the pure waters of America, and you can make nothing out of him but a poor miserable traitor-just such a one as General Jackson would have strung up for treason in his day, and looked for the authority afterward."

PREACHING vs. PRACTICE.
The recent Democratic State Convention in Kentucky, among other resolutions, passed the following:
Resolved, That a free press, free speech, free ballot, freedom of religion, and the right of habeas corpus, to protect the personal liberty of every citizen, are essentials of a free government, and a free people will maintain them at all hazards.
This sounds well, falls euphoniously upon the car, and looks pretty on paper. It is very good preaching; but how have the practices of the Democratic party tallied with such an enunciation? How have the Democrats practically vindicated the freedom of the press? Let the frequent mobbing of anti-slavery newspapers, by Democratic mobs, answer this question. Even in Kentucky the endorsers of this very resolution and the blatant advocates of a free press, not many years since, destroyed the establishment of Cassius M. Clay, because he fearlessly discussed the policy of negro slavery; and threw the press of Wm. Shreve Bailey into the Ohio, and attempted the murder of its proprietor, because he advocated universal freedom.
Their sacred regard for free speech has been shown in breaking up anti-slavery meetings, in rotten-egging anti-slavery lecturers, in lynching anti-slavery men North as well as South; and within the last three years this same sacred regard for free speech was vindicated in the model city of Boston-which enjoys the full blaze of illumination of the Courier of that metropolis-by a Democratic mob taking forcible possession of a public hall hired by gentlemen for peaceful anti-slavery purposes, and with orgies over which a conclave of devils might exult, and laugh, and lash their tails. Such a respectable mob denied the rightful possessors of the place the rights for which they paid their money, and in the enjoyment of which they should have been protected against all the brutality of the
<c03>
city. More than this: the same persistent defenders of free speech, within the last few years, have converted the Sabbath into a day of riot and disorder almost beneath the shadow of Bunker Hill monument, following Wendell Phillips from the lecture room to his house with yells and demonstrations worthy the abode of demons.
Going back to a better day in Democratic history than the last few years of treason have afforded, we find some manifestations under Democratic auspices not very consistent with the Kentucky resolution above quoted. For example: long years ago, Gov. Marcy, the Democratic Governor of New York, recommended in a message to the legislature of the State that the discussion of the slavery question should be suppressed by special law.
It is also in evidence that Amos Kendall, noted as a leading Democratic politician, and during the first term the" power behind the throne" in the administration of Gen. Jackson, and afterwards Post-Master General, while holding the latter office authorized and directed the search of the United States mails by deputy post-masters, and the removal there from and destruction of all letters and papers containing any allusion to the peculiar institution.
These things were not done in a corner, and they are not only historically true, but it is equally true that the Democratic party of New York approved the act of their Governor, while the Democratic party of the nation endorsed and sanctioned the unconstitutional rifling of the mails by the authority and sanction of the Post-Master General.
On the question of habeas corpus and personal liberty, we have a historical reminiscence which may be of interest to those of our readers who are not thoroughly posted in such matters. One Andrew Jackson-in his day thought to be a tolerably good Democrat-in the latter part of the year 1814, not when the Government was threatened by armed traitors, and the existence of the nation hanging by a thread, but to prevent a remote city from falling temporarily into the hands of a foreign power, without authority from the Government suspended and set aside the civil power, and arrested and imprisoned the civil judge who interfered with his authority. And the Democratic party endorsed and approved this" arbitrary arrest" by twice electing General Jackson to the Presidency. They not only did this, but they made it a party duty- the shirking of which was thought worthy of excommunication from the Democratic church-to labor incessantly, in season and out of season, to secure from Congress the restoration of the fine imposed upon Gen. Jackson by the civil magistrate for his exaltation of the military above civil law, and not the restoration simply, but a restoration coupled with an assertion of the right of the military commander thus to set aside the civil tribunals, and a denial of the authority of the civil magistrate to impose the fine.
But we stop here. History is full of facts showing the tortuous course of the Democratic party when compared with the standard now set up by copperheads.
We commend the foregoing to the reader's careful attention, and think he will agree with us that, while Democratic preaching is one thing, Democratic practice is another, quite a different, and often a totally contradictory thing.-Maine State Press.

THE QUESTION OF NEGRO SUFFRAGE.
In some of the border slave States, the question of admitting the colored people to vote at the polls is now earnestly discussed, and those who favor this measure recommend it as only a return to an old custom, which was but recently abolished by the slaveholders.
Parson Brownlow gives, in a recent number of his newspaper, the Knoxville Whig, some instructive and curious facts about the negro vote in Tennessee, showing that thirty years ago there was no repugnance in that State to free colored men voting. They were first disfranchised by the Constitutional Convention of 1835:-
"In the convention that formed the first constitution of Tennessee, the question arose as to who should exercise the right of suffrage in the State. Slaves were held in Tennessee while she was yet a territory; and a fact not generally known is this- a majority of the delegates who framed the constitution were slaveholders. In fixing the qualifications of voters, all" free citizens" were designated as proper persons to vote. An amendment was offered to insert the word" white" after the word free. This brought up the question of the right of free negroes to vote. The vote was taken upon the amendment which contemplated the exclusion of negroes from the polls, and the amendment was lost by a decided vote. The first constitution of the State, therefore, declared free negroes to be citizens, and gave them the right of voting, which they exercised for many years, and were electioneered with by politicians and demagogues for their votes. John Bell, in a closely contested race for Congress in the Nashville district, when he defeated Felix Grundy, owed his election to the votes of free negroes, there being several hundred in his district.
"Andrew Jackson was popular with the negroes on account of his bravery, and his eulogy upon negro soldiers at New Orleans; and when he defeated Colonel John Williams before the legislature at Murfreesboro, it was only by seven votes, and these seven votes were gained for Jackson before the people by the negro voters of the counties sending them.
"Governor Carroll was a very popular man with the negroes, and could come more closely to the thing of uniting their votes than any man in the State. At one of his closely contested elections, a friend of his led a procession of sixty or seventy negroes to the polls at one time, who all voted for the old war-horse.
"Hon. Cave Johnson, Postmaster-General under a former democratic administration, has been seen, in his early political contests in Tennessee, when he used to serve in Congress, during the administration of John Quincy Adams, leading negroes to the polls, arm in arm. The young scions now in the rebel army must permit us to tell them, in frankness, that their fathers used to go to the polls in this State-and even before they were born-side by side with the black negroes, and vote for governors, congressmen, and other civil officers."
Mr. Brownlow takes from the Nashville Times another case, which occurred in the election of delegates to the Second Constitutional Convention in 1835:-
"It also happened in the county of Wilson, in Middle Tennessee. The notorious Robert M. Burton was a lawyer of prominence, a proud slave-holder, and an aristocrat related to the slaveocracy of that county. The negroes became alarmed at the proposition made by some of the candidates to disfranchise them in the then approaching conven-
<c04>
tion to revise the constitution. Burton ran as the friend of the negroes, and pledged himself to stand by them and advocate their righrs. He received something less than four hundred negro votes, while his majority over his competitor was about half that, showing that he was returned to the convention by negro votes. To his disgrace Burton betrayed the negroes, and voted to disfranchise them. For let it be remembered that negroes were never disfranchised in Tennessee until it was done by the Constitutional Convention of 1835."
"We notice some of the northern newspapers which copy Parson Brownlow's article do not credit his assertions. We think it worth while, therefore, to print here the clause in the Tennessee constitution of 1796, which secured to the colored men the right to vote at the polls:
"ART. III. SEC. 1.-All freemen of the age of twenty-one and upwards, possessing a freehold in the county where he may vote, and being an inhabitant of any one county within the State six months immediately preceding the day of election, shall be entitled to vote for members of the General Assembly for the county in which they shall respectively reside."
Under this Constitution, every free negro in the State who owned an acre or half an acre of land, or a town lot twenty feet square, voted forty years-till 1836- for county. State and federal officers, for sheriff, for representatives in the legislature, governor, congressmen, and President of the United States. Mr. McEwen, a well-known citizen of Nashville, a native of Tennessee, wrote last summer to the Nashville Union the following reminiscence of the exercise of this right:-
"In the election for State officers, governor, &c., in 1827, I had in my employ a free negro. On the day of the above election, he asked the privilege of accompanying me to the polls, wishing me to certify his freedom. I did so. I saw him vote for governor."
This colored man voted for Gen. Sam Houston. John Bell boasted that he was twice elected by negro votes.
But Tennessee is not the only slave State whose free negroes have exercised the right of suffrage. They were permitted to vote in North Carolina until 1835, when in that State also the Constitution was revised, and the colored people were disfranchised. The Nashville Union, discussing the question last year, wrote that Senator Douglas, in the debate on the admission of Minnesota into the Union, stated as an actual historical incident, (and was not contradicted by the North Carolina Senators present,) that a distinguished North Carolinian emancipated a large number of negroes, in order to make them voters to elect him to the legislature of the State.-N. Y. Evening Post.

THE WAR AND SLAVERY.
During the recent peace negotiations at Niagara Falls, Mr. Lincoln had occasion to say upon what terms his Government would entertain proposals for peace coming from the Confederate leaders. In doing so, he condensed into a single sentence all that he had need to say. The restoration of the Union, and the abandonment of slavery by the rebels, are, in his mind, indispensable conditions in any agreement for the termination of the war.-Minor points he is willing to treat in a liberal spirit. He puts in no harsh conditions relative to the future treatment of even the most prominent of those who have been in arms against the Federal Government. No mention does he make of the wholesale confiscation of Southern property, which is sometimes spoken of. Upon matters of detail, he offers to negotiate in a liberal spirit; but upon these two cardinal points of the restoration of the Union and the abandonment of slavery, he cannot negotiate, for the reason that the phrases of which he makes use express the only terms upon which he and those who sustain him are willing to consent to a termination of the war.
In declaring so broadly, on behalf of his Government, that the abandonment of slavery must be a condition in the restoration of the Union, Mr. Lincoln certainly displayed a high degree of moral courage. There was no absolute necessity, at so early a stage in a negotiation that was certain to come to nothing, for so unequivocal a declaration against the restoration of the Union without the abolition of slavery. A diplomatic, time-serving politician would have at least contented himself with a more vague utterance. It would have been most easy for Mr. Lincoln to have framed a despatch which, giving no offence to his anti-slavery friends, would have put no argument into the mouths of those miserable men at the North who, claiming to be for peace and the restoration of the Union, are loud in their outcry against any and every measure which looks to the removal of the curse of slavery. But Mr. Lincoln scorned to do this. He must have known the character of his Northern enemies. He must have known that his honesty would give them new heart in their denunciations of the" abolition war," and the" war for the nigger." He could not but know that his manly declaration in favor of freedom for the whole country would be used by the apologists for slavery, with whom the Northern States even yet abound, to excite discontent in reference to the coming draft, and to drive away from the Government the support of the timid, the sordid, and the wavering. He must have known, too, that his outspoken candor would be sure to be made with these people the basis of a strong "cry" against him at the election which is but a few months distant. He must have recollected, too, that the dreadful sacrifices which the people of the North have had to make already, have made them weary of the war, and have left too many in a mood to listen to the arguments of those who would seek re-union by means of a renewed submission to the dictation of the slave-power, rather than by an adherence to the policy of abolishing the accursed institution which has wrought the mischief of disunion. In the face of this, the President preferred, either from the love of doing right because it is right, or from an implicit confidence in the honor and fidelity of the North, to declare boldly that in the reconstruction of the Union, slavery must be abandoned.
True to their character, the pro-slavery sympathizers at the North have seized with avidity upon the declaration of the President, and are making the country ring with their frantic appeals against giving another man or another dollar to the war for abolition. They want the Union restored, but that it should only be restored at the cost of removing the foul blot of human slavery is a thought which horrifies them. They who before the war disgraced the Northern people in the eyes of the civilized world by their humiliating compromises with the slave-power, and by their endless concessions to the demands of the man-stealing aristocracy of the South, are still of the same disgracefully subservient spirit. The experience of the war has been lost upon them; they still cling to their sympathies with the infamy which, after so long disgracing, at last broke up the Union. With a Presidential election
<c05>
coming on, they regard the plain declaration of Mr. Lincoln for a free Union as a godsend. It is, of course, true that the Federal Government has long been committed to the policy of abolition-that by his emancipation proclamation last year, the President pledged all the power of the Government to the work of securing freedom in the rebel States-and that in many ways the national Congress and the people have endorsed that proclamation. But though these have been the facts for a considerable time, and though the pro-slavery people of the North have made the most of them, they have not before had the happiness of having a direct contrast between Mr. Lincoln's policy of emancipation, and even a supposititious offer for peace from the Confederate authorities. The events of the present month have placed that contrast within their reach, and they have hastened to make the utmost use of it.
Whatever measure of success may attend the efforts of the Northern adherents of the slave-power to make capital out of Mr. Lincoln's recent declaration of terms for peace negotiations, we think that this much must be clear to every impartial observer-that any reconstruction of the Union which would again consign to bondage the people declared free by the emancipation proclamation, would be an everlasting disgrace to the North. We can understand that the Northern people may fail in their effort to subdue the rebellion, and that they may in the end be compelled to assent to a separation. That contingency would, undoubtedly, be most galling to their pride, but it would not irretrievably disgrace them. But that they should consent to purchase a restoration of the Union by one of the basest acts of infamy of which it is possible for a nation to be guilty, we cannot believe. The Federal Government is bound by every means in its power to maintain the freedom of the people whom they have declared free; the honor and faith of the Government are in that respect most solemnly pledged. The obligation is as sacred as can be any obligation which a Government can impose upon itself. If the Government of the United States could now be mean enough to break that obligation for a consideration, and to sell back into slavery for a price the people whose freedom it had solemnly engaged to maintain by every means in its power-then, indeed, would that Government crown itself with a foul dishonor, compared with which the discredit of disaster in the field, or the ultimate success of the rebellion, would be the height of honor itself.-Weekly Globe, Toronto.

THE CAUSE OF FREEDOM IN AMERICA.
The cause of freedom in America is advancing with firm and rapid strides. There is no halting or going back in this great and noble work. It is true that the proposal to amend the Constitution, by inserting a clause abolishing slavery, failed to obtain the requisite majority in the House of Representatives; but the resolution was sustained by a considerable numerical majority, and the number will, no doubt, hereafter increase until the two-thirds vote is obtained. But the Senate, by a vote of twenty-four against seven, has passed the bill repealing the Fugitive Slave Law; and that iniquitous measure is now blotted out of the statute-book.- This triumph of justice recals the days-not so very long ago-when the South ruled supreme at Washington. It is only fourteen years since, in the intoxication of their pride and audacity, they wrung from the Legislature a measure which converted the free States into a slave's hunting ground, and which, as Senator Toombs boasted, was intended to prepare the way for the time when they would call the muster-roll of their slaves on Bunker Hill. Not only has the prophecy been completely falsified, but "the peculiar institution" itself is being assailed by a curse as blasting as that which the senator for Georgia, if he had wielded the thunderbolts of Jove, would have caused to descend upon the soil of New England. Slavery is now being assailed in her own strongholds, and one by one their capture is being effected. It is convenient to some critics, who are determined at all costs to conceal the weakness of a tottering cause, to confine their strictures and prognostications to the military situation. If Sherman sustains a shock in Georgia, or Grant cannot at once make himself master of the enemy's capital, they are in the seventh heaven of jubilation. But they are entirely forgetful of the fact, that the system which the South went to war to perpetuate and extend is rapidly passing away. If it should, to some extent, escape a fate like that of Pompeii, and the fiery torrent of war should not entirely bury or consume it, the destruction of the great iniquity will be accomplished by agencies not less potent and effective. We have already seen Western Virginia and Missouri adopt measures of gradual emancipation, and Delaware elect an anti-slavery Governor and return Republican members to Congress. Now Maryland has followed the good example, with this praiseworthy difference, that she has grappled more boldly with the giant evil than her sister States.-On June the 24th, the Constitutional Convention sitting at Annapolis agreed that in the new" Bill of Rights" the immediate and perpetual abolition of slavery or involuntary servitude, except in punishment for crime, should be decreed. The glorious day is not postponed-the freedom which is proclaimed to the sons and daughters of Africa is not clogged with conditions which would rob it of half its grace and value; but, from the moment the new Constitution takes effect, there will be no such thing as a human chattel or serf on the soil of Maryland. It is a great boon to the black man, but it will prove an equal blessing to the white. The experience of other States renders it certain that, under a system of free labor, the immediate increase in the value of the land will far more than compensate for the pecuniary sacrifices which emancipation will entail. The moral results will be as satisfactory as the economic. No more will a President-elect of the United States have to pass through Baltimore by night, that he may cheat the pro-slavery assassins of their prey. No more, to employ Jefferson's simile, will the white mother on the distant plantation clasp her infant more tightly to her breast as she thinks of the danger with which she and her child are menaced from the sullen discontent of the overworked slave-gang. Maryland has a career before her which will make her the New England of the South. More fertile by far than the granite States, she may hope to achieve a prosperity greater even than theirs, and, what is still more to be desired, she may, like them, become a successful propagandist of the new faith, and inspire her neighbors with the desire to walk in her footsteps.
We confess, when we find that so much progress has been made under President Lincoln's administration, we are well satisfied with the prospect of his re-election to the exalted office which, on the whole, he has so worthily filled. A censorious judgment may discover something to find fault with. Errors indeed have been committed, but they dwarf into nothingness by the side of the grand achievements of the last three years. After all, the negroes themselves are the best judges of Mr. Lincoln and his
<c06>
policy. Do they impugn his good faith, or cast doubt on his thoroughness of purpose? He recently visited General Grant's headquarters, and is riding to the front he passed a brigade of negro troops. What followed we will quote in the words of the correspondent of the New York Herald. (Let the reader mark the journal.)" The troops," writes this gentleman," were lounging by the roadside, but seemed to know by instinct who was approaching. They came rushing, almost to the horses' feet, by hundreds, screaming, yelling, ‘shouting’ Hurrah for the Liberator!’ 'Hurrah for the President!' and were perfectly wild with excitement and delight.- It was a spontaneous outburst of genuine love and affection for the man they look upon as 'their’ deliverer from bondage,' and their wild huzzas were perfectly deafening."
Those who think that President Lincoln is not moving fast enough, and, in consequence, attack him with more zeal than discretion, may perhaps profit by this illustration of the enthusiastic confidence which is felt in him by those who have the greatest interests at stake. Another and a very different class of detractors might, if it were possible, learn a lesson of charity from another fact. Mr. Roebuck, in his peculiarly good-humored and unexaggerated style, has again and again taunted the Northern people with the social proscription of the negro.-" They will not," he says," eat, sit or ride with the hated African." He speaks of the past-we will deal with the present. A bill introduced into the Senate by Mr. Sumner, and adopted by both houses of Congress, compels the railway authorities in Washington to allow persons of color to travel like other passengers in the street cars. Thus we find chattel slavery and social prejudice both giving way at one and the same time, and the Almighty establishing freedom throughout America on the sure foundations of moral and political justice.-London Star.

MONTGOMERY BLAIR ON SLAVERY.
Extract from a Speech of Hon. Montgomery Blair, on the Causes of the Rebellion, and in Support of the President's Plan of Pacification, delivered before the Legislature of Maryland, at Annapolis, on the 22d of January, 1864:-
Slavery was thus to become the sure foundation of their republic; and it is, we see, the basis of the despotic military rule which subjects the South under a dictator, and sheds the blood of the North in torrents to defend itself and the Union against the frenzied ambition of the chivalry that hoped to make cotton king over the cabinets of Europe, and the negro institution the throne of a king over this Continent. It was in this spirit that it sent out its filibusters, in Cuba, in Central America, and sought an alliance with a revolutionary party in Mexico, to restore the reign of slavery in that republic. It was in this view that Toombs, who apes the oratory of Mirabeau in convulsing the South, announced that it would make" the Gulf of Mexico its mare clausum," and" call the roll of its Slaves on Bunker Hill." The maniac is now fettered; but if he had broken our army at Antietam or Gettysburg, could our unarmed farmers and citizens have arrested him in his way to Philadelphia, Baltimore and New York, with an army flushed with victory, and bearing the arms and spoils of ours? Might he not have bribed mobs like that which held our emporium for three days in terror, to take the arms won from us in the fields of battle, and join him in the plunder and conflagrations of our cities? 
I have not made this recapitulation of the causes originating, the consequences flowing from the bloody rebellion that shakes our country, to embitter animosities on either side. My effort is to expose to view the rooted evil, which must be extracted, if we would relieve the nation from its convulsions. 
Slavery, as a great element of society, makes slaves of all associated with it, by the passions it inflames-the masters, by the ambition it inspires-the masses with which it mingles, by the deadly contagion it spreads in a thousand forms. It is marked in the Declaration of Independence as the most virulent poison instilled by the king, to enfeeble for subjugation, the people on whom he made war; and it has proved the most potent ingredient that could be employed for the dissolution of the fabric of free government which withstood the king's attempt. If the virus he infused, which was strong enough, amid the enthusiasm for new-born freedom, to stifle the voice of the Declaration of Independence denouncing slavery, and has kept the free Government-the hard-earned prize of the revolutionary war-in tremor ever since, is it now, when it has been poured out with the nation's blood in the fratricidal war, it forced on the country, again to be admitted into the system? 
What patriotic party will sanction such a suggestion? The people of the slave States will repudiate slavery when the duress of the rebellion is removed. Missouri and Western Virginia have already formally renounced it, and the recent votes of Delaware, and our own dear Maryland, manifest their purpose to renounce it at once. In Louisiana, Kentucky, Tennessee and Arkansas, the indications are also decisive. The proclamation of the President to deprive the enemy of this greatest element of power, this sinew of war exerted at all points, has announced the extinction of slavery as essential to the success of the measures he has been compelled to adopt to conquer a peace for the Union. The armies of the Republic are on the march to accomplish the aims which have been submitted without reserve to the decision of public opinion, and they have the support of the people's suffrage. What, then, is the duty of all who are sensible that the war is an inevitable evil, from which there is no safe or honorable deliverance, but by supporting with united strength and counsels the Chief Magistrate, to whose conduct the issue is committed, and in whose avowed designs the nation has voted its confidence? Are there any who would rescind the votes of the border States, and re-establish slavery therein? Are there any who would annul the proclamation to reinvigorate the institution so skilfully plied to instigate the war, and so essential to provide the means for its prosecution? 
The Democratic party of the North was seduced to countenance the measures of the southern oligarchs, preparatory to the war against the Union, under the idea that they were designed as mere menace, and were really conservative. The event has shown that the whole policy of the dominant class in the South has been war for absolute dominion in the slave States-war to extend the despotic system on which it built, at home and abroad. Is this the conservatism to which Democracy anywhere should lend itself? Bulwer, though a Tory, has this aphorism in one of his late papers: "A true conservative policy for a nation is the policy of progress;" and he gives his conservative friends the admonition that" resistance to progress is destructive to conservatism." The Democracy was in its better day a progressive party. Would it not be an advance backwards to restore the slave institu-
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof." 
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE BEST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. . . . From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. . . .It is a war power. I say it is a <illegible> power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
tion to the position it has lost in being used during the greater part of a century, covertly at first, but now in open rebellion, to destroy the free Government by which it had been tolerated, only in the hope it would have been gradually thrown off under the influence of public sentiment? When the masters of millions of slaves have boldly proclaimed slavery the best basis of government, and founded on it the military despotism they have set up within the jurisdiction of the United States, with the avowed purpose of superseding its authority, what friend of the Union-what friend of free government-can hesitate to strike down that system which endangers both? The plea that slavery is a local institution, not to be dealt with by Federal authority, was universally admitted to be true, till that institution engendered a rebellion which, by an admission equally universal, seriously imperils the existence of the national Government. It could not be called a Government, if, in virtue of the right of self-defence, common alike to Governments and individuals, under such circumstances it could not destroy its enemies.
It is absurd to consider the war now raging as one meant to draw a line between coterminous nationalities, of a people of the same race and language, on an arena bounded by the lakes, the ocean, the Gulf, and the great tributary streams that unite and insulate and mark it as the domain of one great Government. It is a war of principle and for dominion. If the dynasty founded on the slave system triumphs, it will give law to the continent. If it fails, as fail it the must, unless the tendency of age becomes inverted, there is an end of slavery among civilized nations. What a humiliating contrast is presented for the new world in the attempt of Jefferson Davis and his coadjutor rebels striving to fetter their poorer and more ignorant fellow-citizens in the chains of their four millions of negro slaves; while the Autocrat of the Russias proclaims the freedom of forty millions of serfs, delivering them from the yoke of a haughty nobility and his own right of seigniory, and establishing them as freeholders!
Our would-be nobility of slave creation has thrown down the gage of battle for the slave system against the free system of government. When the batteries at Charleston poured their hot shot into the fortress built and armed and manned by the nation to protect that city from foreign invasion, under which it had twice fallen, it signified a war of fire and sword against the nationality founded by our forefathers to secure the liberties for which our countrymen fought and conquered. The Democracy of the North rose as one man with the Republicans, in whose hands the elections had placed the Administration, to defend the cause of freedom and the Union. The Democracy then saw the conflict in which this act involved the country in its true aspect. Every step in its progress proves that it was a war waged for military supremacy on the side of the assailants-for the liberty and nationality it secures on the other. Foreign kings and emperors are invoked to join with the conspirators in making a wreck of the Republic, and share in the advantages to be derived from its ruin. Pirates, bearing the flag of the rebellion and fitted out under the auspices of wealthy speculators, looking for remuneration in the plunder of our commerce, disgrace the civilization of the age by robberies and conflagrations on the high seas. In such a war a war for freedom on one side and slavery on the other no permanent peace can be patched up. To endure, there must be submission to the Government as constituted by our fathers, or as it would be constituted by Mr. Davis and his military adherents. Any compromise or partition treaty would give but a breathing spell for fresh preparations for a renewed struggle.
May we not hope, as there is no escape from an issue so forced upon us, that the Democracy of the North will, as at the threshold of the war, be found with the great majority of the constituency of the loyal States, zealously battling for the right, which every patriot, of whatever party, holds to be with the Government of the Union? It has taken the stand that the extinction of the slave institution is essential to save the Union, and perpetuate the Government which it has put in jeopardy. The armies of the Union fight to make prisoner of this giant of the war on the side of our adversaries. Once withdrawn from them, he takes from them the motive and the means of continuing the conflict.
The partisan who may thwart the brave men that risk their lives in battling for a consummation alike patriotic and humane will, on the return of the maimed veterans to their homes, covered with laurels and honorable scars, hide his diminished head in obscurity forever.
In ordinary contests of opinions between parties, the utmost virulence of expression is soon forgiven and forgotten. But when war strikes the country, the man who withholds support to the soldiers who offer their lives in its defence, or disables their efforts by words or acts favoring the cause of the enemy, never recovers its confidence. What was the fate of the public men who took sides with England in the war of the Revolution, or that in 1812?
The political convulsions of 1798-'99, ending in the election of Mr. Jefferson, were characterized by more bitterness, with a party frenzy more intense, than when blood flowed in battles on the field. But the ill spirit vanished like the spectre of a morning's dream when Mr. Jefferson rose to the nation's chief honor, and the country was relieved of the apprehensions of the loss of the election made by the people. The struggle had been on one side to consolidate the Federal power, and by construction give it the tone and tendency of the British government; on the other, to assert State rights and popular sovereignty, by strict adherence to the republican model presented in the Constitution. This, fairly construed, embraced the opinions of both contending parties. They were reconciled in the admirable inaugural address, which allayed partisan fury in its assertion of what was true of the great body of the people: ”We are all REPUBLICANS-all FEDERALS." It may be truly said now, speaking the sense of the masses of our countrymen,” WE ARE ALL REPUBLICANS-ALL DEMOCRATS."—Exclude the conspirators and the slave institution, which they have shaped into a glut to split the Union; exclude the conspirators, and those whom slavery has made their slaves, and our countrymen are at this moment “all Democrats-all Republicans"-asserting popular sovereignty, the right of self-government, the rights of the States, the nationality of the Union-all defined, balanced, checked, and bound together in the republican form of government inherited from our fathers. May it be perpetual!

AN ADDREES OF FROM SWITZERLAND.
An immense mass meeting was held at Geneva, Switzerland, on the 9th of July,” in favor of the Union, and of measures taken by the Government at Washington for the abolition of slavery," at which an address was adopted, offering” the most ardent prayers that, inspired solely by patriotic-thoughts, the States still in revolt may range themselves forever under the Star-Spangled Banner of the Union." The people of Geneva with all their wishes forward this movement, because thenceforth liberty will be triumphant, without distinction of race at the North as well as at the South.
The following is a copy of the address which was adopted, and transmitted to our Government:
PEOPLE OF THE AMERICAN UNION: The people of Geneva, in meeting assembled at the Electoral Hall, address to the people of the Union brotherly greeting, and testimonials of their lively sympathy.
The events which are happening in the bosom of the great Republic of the Union have not found the people of Geneva indifferent. It is with painful feelings that they have witnessed the violation of the Federal compact by some States. It is with grief they have seen States forget that federative unity is proclaimed by the Constitution; that such unity was recommended and maintained by the first Presidents of the Union, the immortal Washington, twice elected President, 1789, 1793; John Adams, 1797; Thomas Jefferson, twice elected President, 1801, 1809, &c.
The people of Geneva offer the most ardent prayers that, inspired solely by patriotic thoughts, the States still in revolt may range themselves ever under the star-spangled banner of the Union. The people of Geneva with all their wishes forward their movement, because thenceforth liberty will be triumphant without distinction of race at the North or at the South.
The citizens of Geneva recognize that strict solidarity exist between free people; that one of them cannot suffer without the others experiencing a sad counter blow. Convinced of this truth, in the presence of the civil war which facilitates the projects of the enemies of the American Republic, they believe it to be their duty to give expression to a fraternal word of encouragement to Republicans on the other side of the ocean,
<c02>
People of the United States, the only Republic of Europe, Helvetia, has had also her moments of intestine strife and attempts at separation. She has come forth stronger, more united, than before. Those of our cantons which formerly wished to separate would now rise without distinction to uphold the Federal compact. It will be the same with the American Union. The Southern States will comprehend that the safeguard of their independence and of their prosperity is to be found in the Constitution—in Liberty.
People of the Union! Soldiers of the entirety of the country! courage and constancy. You have our sympathies because in defending the Union you also defend Liberty-you abolish the odious, crying shame of a part of the United States—Slavery.
The violation of a part of the Federal Constitution by some States of the Union has caused to the people of Geneva a sentiment the more powerful, because nothing justified that violation. No wrong can be alleged by the secessionists either against the Federal Government or the Federal compact of the Union. Their conduct is explicable only by the wish to maintain slavery-by the determination to make that essential to the form of government.
This scheme we truly hope will not be realized; but were it so, we think that no European Government, and with stronger reason free Switzerland, would abase itself by acknowledging a power based upon slavery.
People of the Union! the citizens of Geneva assembled in meeting address to you their felicitations on the course you pursue to maintain the Constitution inviolate and destroy slavery.
The struggle has commenced between two principles, liberty and slavery.
The consequence of victory must be the abolition of slavery forever and everywhere.
Hail, Liberty! Hail, Republic of the United States!
COMMITTEE ON THE MEETING-James Fazy, Ch. Vogt, Deranyo Guerie, H. Vancher, J. L. Dufour, Moise Pequot, J. Diday, Henri Fazy, Mase Vaufier, J. C. Ducommum, M. Lombard, Pierre Senechand, M. Schwarm, Herm Hug, Mier Becker, Adolphe Catalan, L. Pittara. 
The Secretary of State has responded as follows: 
To THE PEOPLE OF GENEVA: I have received from the American Consul who resides at Geneva, and have laid before the President, your fervent, eloquent and most fraternal address to the people of the United States. By his command I give you thanks in the name of all my countrymen, for the timely and appropriate words of sympathy and friendship which you have spoken. Your address adds strength to the already strong claim which binds the first Federal Republic of America to the oldest and foremost Federal Republic of Europe. The people of Switzerland may rest assured, whoever else may fail, that it will not be the people of the United States which will betray the Republican system to foreign enemies, or surrender to domestic faction. With ardent prayers for the preservation of the Constitution, the freedom and the prosperity of Switzerland. I have the honor to remain, citizens, your most obedient and sincere friend,
WM. H. SEWARD.
State Department, Washington, July 30, 1864.

JUDGE winter, OF GEORGIA.
To the Editors of the Evening Post:
Sirs: Upon reading Judge Winter's letter accompanying his contribution to the Washington Wilks fund, which was published in the Post of day before yesterday, I felt that something more ought to be known by his fellow-countrymen of the North about the character and career of this courageous and self-sacrificing patriot; and with your permission I will give your readers a few facts and personal reminiscences about him.
John G. Winter was, as early as I can remember, a large slave-owner; and of that class—small and select—which, by its humane treatment of the slave and its reasonableness as to the theory of slavery, furnished to northern men the best reasons and the most captivating illustrations of the benign influences of the institution upon the negro. Mr. Winter always held slavery to be wrong as a theory; but he also thought that a kind and intelligent master might defeat the most atrocious assumptions of its philosophy in his practical administration of the system. “A slave,” he used to say, “need not be a brute, nor his master a fiend." This, of course, was a mistake; but it is of the kind which is more easily exposed than corrected, and in Judge Winter's case it existed more from a desire that the assumption should be true than from any real belief that it was. The slaves of Columbus, Georgia, used, I know, to give him credit for this state of feeling— regarding him more a slaveholder in fact, than in heart, and, next to being free, some of them coveted being Judge Winter's slaves.
My memory does not reach the time when Mr. Winter was not one of the most influential men of Western Georgia. He was for a long time Mayor of Columbus. He has been a Judge of the Court of Probate, and for many years, and up to the time of the breaking out of the rebellion, he was the President of the St. Mary's Bank.
He was a whig until the disorganization of that party, when, as the nearest approach to whig principle allowed in the South, he became a strong Douglas man. He has ever been a fierce and influential opponent of secession. Possessing more moral courage than Mr. A. H. Stephens, he did not feel that the evil which had attacked “the best government of the world” could, by the mere agreement of mad numbers, become a new political revelation, showing the mistakes of Jefferson and the men who built that best government of the world. But, knowing that if secession was an evil when it threatened, it was a greater evil when it struck, he still continued to arraign the act of his State in seceding as unjust to the North and suicidal to the South.
In a controversy at the post-office in Columbus on this subject, an influential gentleman, who had aided in giving Mr. Douglas a hearing there, but who had now been frightened into conformity with the ruling evil, told Judge Winter that sentiments such as his were dangerous, and should be checked. The stern old Unionist replied: “Yes, sir; reason is ever dangerous to folly, and wrong always tries to check, because it never reasons." This answer was very exasperating, both to the person addressed and to the community which felt itself attacked. The Judge being very wealthy, and having many wealthy friends, who, though not as courageous as he, were still true, the community felt that it would not be safe, nor perhaps best for their purpose to use personal violence. So a conspiracy was formed. Specie payment having been suspended by all the banks, an agreement was secretly entered into not to receive the St. Mary's bank bills in any of the other banks except at great discount, and so there was a rush upon the Judge's bank. He tried to arrest what he believed to be a panic by redeeming every bill with specie; but the conspiracy was so well laid, so deep and wide-spread, that the effort was vain. The bills were discredited by the papers, but sought after by creditors who knew of their redemption by specie, until at last four hundred thousand dollars had been redeemed. The Judge then became fully aware of the nature of the movement, and finding that the bank must go under, he advertised that there were some two hundred and twenty thousand dollars still out which he was ready to redeem with specie, which he did. Thus the honest old banker, the stern old patriot, the glorious old Unionist, went down with his colors still flying.
Shortly after the bank was closed, and while he was talking to a few friends on the stree, a young man whom I remember as a snob, after listening to Judge Winter's denunciation of secession, said to him," I would be one of twenty to take you out on the common, and hang you." The Judge, with a skill and quickness of repartee for which he is celebrated, answered: “You are mean enough to do it, and coward enough to want help; but before I hang, some blood will be spilt." The scene came near ending in personal violence, and it was checked only to give this snob time enough to muster the forces of mob-law which, had not Judge Winter's sons forced him to leave the city, would no doubt have put him to death that very night. Their yells of rage were fearful when; they found that he had escaped them.
The Judge went immediately to England, where he has been for eighteen months, and where by his pen be still encourages those who think with him in the South, whenever he can get his writings by English ships through the blockade. The judge informed me, if I mistake not, that his whole family had become suspected of Union sentiments, and one of them, Joseph Winter, of Montgomery, Alabama, had been compelled to leave, and come North. He is now in Canada. The judge has 
<c03>
a source of greater grief than his exile from his home and his means-he has two grandsons in the rebel army, fighting against that cause which is dearer to the old patriot than life itself. There is another son in Columbus, James Winter, but how much he sympathizes with his father I do not know. He has also a daughter who is married to a gentleman who, from what I used to know of him, ought to be a Unionist.
Judge Winter is a fine specimen of the Southern gentleman. He is about sixty-three or sixty-four years old, and of a size and appearance which do him the injustice of causing him to be mistaken for an upper class Englishman. His appearance is venerable, and his manners are full of that ease and suavity that have taken the backbone out of so many northern politicians. The judge attended my religious ministrations while I was in London, and I found him ever cheerful as to our prospects, always jovial and kind as a companion, and a fervent believer in and depender upon that providence which we both felt had allowed slavery to merge the weapons of private assassination and domestic cruelty into the weapons of rebellion, only that providence might be vindicated by showing that the evil which lived by the sword shall perish by the sword.
I trust that these few words about one whom I always respected, but whom I have lately learned to love and revere, will add some little force to the appeal for which the letter was used which suggested this my letter to you. Washington Wilks was truly our friend, and Mr. Winter does not overestimate the value of his services to the Union when he speaks of him as deserving more from Americans than any other Englishman. Eighteen months of co-labor with him give me the right thus to speak.
I am, dear sirs, yours truly,
SELLA MARTIN.
34 Lispenard street, New York city.

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 19, 1864.
WHERE LIES THE DANGER.
As between the North and the South-granting to them equal determination and unity of purpose-there can be no rational doubt as to the final result of the appeal to arms for the settlement of the question at issue. The South, struggle desperately as she may and will, must sooner or later succumb; and the authority of the Federal Government be recognized and obeyed on every inch of her soil. She has neither the population nor the resources, neither the intelligence nor the powers of endurance, of the North. Indeed, the disparity is immense, and becoming more and more evident even to the most infatuated of the rebel crew. It is true, this disparity is lessened by the immense difference between invading and being invaded; for, in the latter case, the natural difficulties to be overcome are so great as to require a vast preponderance of military strength on the part of the invaders. That preponderance the North possesses. Hence, as we have said, granting equal determination and unity of purpose to the conflicting sections of the country, the inevitable result must be the suppression of the rebellion, and, consequently, the triumph of the Government over all its foes. For, no matter how long the struggle or how costly the sacrifice of life and money may be, there will be no lack of men or means until the work is fully accomplished.
But, unhappily, the North is neither as determined nor as united as the South. Hostility to the Government is growing more defiant every hour; treasonable utterances are heard on the right hand and on the left; everywhere the sympathizers with the Southern traitors are in conspiracy to take the reins of administrative power into their own hands, “forcibly if they must," that chaos may come and hell rejoice; numerous journals are constantly printing and circulating with impunity sentiments as seditious as any ever published by the Richmond Examiner or Charleston Mercury; all our cities, towns and villages are swarming with those who, if they do not openly exult at every disaster encountered by the army and navy, at least are prompt to magnify all rebel successes, and whose efforts are to thwart every governmental measure, cover the President with the blackest infamy, excite universal distrust and panic, paralyze the strong arm of patriotism, and perfidiously communicate to the enemy whatever information may be advantageously used to the furtherance of his nefarious designs; and, finally, the party calling itself by the name of Democracy has at last thrown aside its mask of loyalty, and in its public gatherings, whether for local or national ends, is applauding sentiments and adopting resolutions in favor of peace on any terms, and surrendering at discretion to Jefferson Davis and his slaveholding banditti!
In full view of this monstrous and dangerous abuse of the freedom of speech and of the press, and of party privilege, Gen. Fremont, in his letter accepting his futile nomination for the Presidency by the Cleveland Convention, joins in the Copperhead hue-and-cry against Mr. Lincoln, falsely accusing him of being “faithless to the principles he was elected to defend," and as falsely asserting that “the ordinary rights secured under the Constitution and laws of the country have been violated, and extraordinary powers have been usurped, by the Executive”—thus directly playing into the hands of the deadliest enemies of the Government, as administered in the interests of freedom. He further alleges that” we have an Administration marked at home by disregard of Constitutional rights, by its violation of personal liberty and the liberty of the press,(!) and, as a crowning shame, by its abandonment of the right of asylum”(!!) Now, this is the stock in trade of all who are in affiliation with the rebels; it is what every Copperhead demagogue is rehearsing in the ears of the ignorant and brutal; the rebels are endorsing it at the point of the bayonet; and it is causing such divisions in the loyal ranks as may prove fatal to the life of the republic.
The President is not amenable to any such condemnation. He is neither usurper nor tyrant, neither an aristocrat nor a contemner of the people. Judging him by his position, the war plane on which he stands and the perils which threaten national existence, he has weakly and dangerously erred on the side of indulgence towards the enemies of the Government.— We agree with Gerrit Smith, that the President should have imprisoned many more Northern traitors, and suppressed many more treasonable newspapers. His unparalleled leniency constitutes the real danger of the hour, and for this he deserves to be solemnly admonished. While such journals as the New York World, News, Express, Journal of Commerce, and Metropolitan Record, Boston Courier and Post, &c., are allowed to be issued, the prolongation of the rebellion is secured, the permanence of the Government seriously imperilled, and the final success of slaveholding treason rendered probable. If Vallandigham deserved to be sent to the rebels for his treasonable utterances, there are scores of the Copperhead leaders who should be subjected to a treatment far more rigorous. A Government which can be bullied and defied in this manner makes itself contemptible, and is digging its own grave. Surely, it is a pressing crisis. A timid, half-way policy will not discourage, but rather embolden and stimulate sedition. Open-mouthed conspirators, who possess any influence, should be promptly arrested; and every traitorous gathering should be summarily dispersed by the strong arm of military authority. If this cannot be done, then the Government is already a rope of sand. By their own Constitution, THE PEOPLE have provided for the exercise of this summary power in times like these, as a matter of self-preservation; and, unless they have ceased to believe in the right or expediency of upholding the Constitution, they will stand by its enforcement to the extremest need. They have provided for the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus in time of war; and to carry out what they have enjoined upon the President is a vital part of the oath-bound relation which he sustains to them.
<c04>
MORE ENCOURAGING LETTERS.
NEW YORK, Aug. 15th, 1864.
WM. LOYD GARRISON, ESQ.:—
MY DEAR SIR.—A month or two ago, I paid my subscription as usual for the Liberator, but really that will not do at all as you are situated. Accept, if you please, twenty dollars more, which I enclose, to help in this time of need. May the Liberator flourish, and live to record the death of the Rebellion and of Slavery together!
Very faithfully, your friend,
EDGAR KETCHUM.
PHILADELPHIA, 8 mo, 18th, 1864.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON:
ESTEEMED FRIEND,—I have just re-read Benjamin Emerson's letter, requesting a discontinuance of The Liberator, and thy editorial on “Our Position." 
Regarding the spirit of independence and liberty as essential to the age, I am surprised that any one, especially a reader of the Liberator for thirty years, should say one word, or do one act, to curb either; and I shall take pleasure in sending two new subscribers for every one who orders a discontinuance of thy paper under such circumstances.
Enclosed find six dollars and the address of the two now obtained.
Kind and generous criticism is desirable, but not unjust and denunciatory condemnation.
Charity still demands her place, and appreciative commendation never ceases to encourage.
Who shall forget thy labors of a score and a half of years? and who shall fling thy paper back in thy face, because thou hast dared to be as independent as thou art free, and would have all others?
It is the manner, rather than the act, of discontinuance that is unkind and reprehensible.
As one who cannot vote for any one as President, severe as the sacrifice is, for by so doing I should vote for some one to be commander in chief of an army and a navy, and hence incompatible with a testimony against all military organizations, I would not restrain any one from freely expressing his opinions as to who can best serve his country.
I honor all loyal advocates, even if differing in the means to attain devout ends. Wendell Phillips is a necessity of the age, and there is no danger of his becoming a man-worshipper, as there is none of thy becoming a villifier of the race. Thy spirit of love in condemnation for the wrong, and commendation for the right, is truly sublime.
It is met by President Lincoln in a desire for re-traction rather than protraction when in error; and the fact that he invites criticism and heeds reason should insure him friends, and mark him as one well calculated to be the Executive of the nation.
There is a tendency to expect the legislative, judicial and executive powers all vested in the President. We forget it is his duty to feel the pulse of the people, and honestly execute their wishes.
Let us, then, work to elevate the tone of the people. It will not be done by scoffing at the efforts of the tried friends of the anti-slavery cause; by aiding in stopping abolition presses and chilling abolition hearts. Surely they have enough to contend with from pro-slavery and disloyal enemies. Rather join hands for the right, and while we give a sincere and genial encouragement, yield to every one the right of expressing his views as to the best means of insuring the success of the best cause.
To lighten thy labors, thy friend,
ALFRED H. LOVE. 
SPRINGFIELD, (Mass.) Aug. 13, 1864.
FRIEND GARRISON-Whatever it may be for which nature has fitted me, or education, or rather the lack of it, qualified me for doing, I am sure it cannot be writing for the public; nevertheless, I feel constrained to say a word in regard to the Liberator and its editor, touching matters about which certain private individuals, and one public cotemporary anti-slavery print, call it and him to account in an apparent mood of mind neither candid, tolerant, just or amiable.
You prefer that Abraham Lincoln, with all his faults, should be his own successor, rather than, in an effort to get a better man, one much worse be allowed to slip into his place. And for the expression of such preference, together with a desire to be candid and just towards the President, your antislavery character is assailed, and you are denounced as having “fallen," and as having “abandoned the cause of the slave."
Now, who believes you have fallen from those anti-slavery principles which you have held and advocated in the Liberator and elsewhere, and everywhere, for more than a generation? No one—not even those who denounce you in such embittered speech.
It is quite clear to me that Abolitionists can readily find fitter objects on which to bestow their reproachful denunciations.
Now I like, in general, the sharp, incisive, radical methods of The Commonwealth; but I do not relish the rough personalities it indulges in towards the editor of the Liberator, when speaking of his opinions on the Presidential question and cognate matters: it does itself injustice.
Candor also compels me to say that, in my judgment, it was not by any means the wisest thing the esteemed editor of the Liberator ever did, when he put a certain testy paragraph from The Commonwealth, all bristling with undeserved philippics on himself, into his “Refuge of Oppression." It was a suitable scrap for a Refuge of Petulance, I admit, but not for a Refuge of Oppression.
Abolitionists have more useful work for their breath and their types than mutual annoyance and abuse. Let us all cultivate more practical charity for each other in matters of opinion wherein we must necessarily differ; for, to say nothing of other moral considerations, a wise regard for our influence on the public mind, never more important than at the present time, demands it.
The Liberator must be sustained until the last slave in the land gets his God-given, inalienable rights. The prompt munificence of the noble-hearted GERRIT SMITH is an earnest that it will be. Others will follow his noble example, and thus more than supply the loss occasioned by the withdrawal of the hasty and intolerant.
In my judgment, the Liberator would be more useful, and, at the same time, get a much better support, if its outside pages were devoted mainly to miscellaneous matter—the Arts, Science, Ethics, and a concise view of the current news and events of the week, &c., &c. But I shall be content if my views in this matter are not adopted, if so be the old pioneer sheet can live, and continue to be what it has hitherto been, the fearless, free, unflinching advocate of impartial liberty.
Enclosed I send you a trifle, not to apply on my subscription, but to assist in supplying the place of such as have withdrawn.
Yours, truly, E. W. TWING.
PHCENIXVILLE,(Pa.,) 8 mo., 12, 1864.
DEAR GARRISON,—We have for years welcomed, and still welcome, the Liberator. It is the most cordial weekly visitor, in the shape of a periodical, that reaches my family.
I sympathize fully with thy views, and the course thou art taking in reference to the pending Presidential election; and regret very much that when the slaveholding desperadoes South are aiming to crush and prostrate the institutions of freedom, we should, in the least degree, be divided in counsel or energy. The war of the Sword and the war of Ideas is a direct contest between Freedom and Slavery; and to this contest there ought to be but two parties—-the one to save the government, and all that pertains to the progressive humanity and civilization of the nineteenth century; and the other to destroy the government, and build on its ruins a slaveholding despotism. During the critical period we are passing through, the government cannot be sustained without sustaining the administration of it, and the administrator of the government has become so practically anti-slavery,
<c05>
that it is now a virtue to sustain him. The highest idea attainable by the civil and war powers is the entire abolition of slavery by an amendment to the Constitution. The President and the convention which nominated him have declared in favor of this. Equality before the law depends upon State sovereignty.
Thine, truly,
E. F. PENNYPACKER.
ROCHDALH, (Eng.,) August 2, 1864.
DEAR SIR,—Will you kindly order the Liberator to be sent to me for six months? I should pay for it in advance, but do not know the cost of it.
May I add my hope that you will revisit England before long, and receive such a welcome as I am sure the People would give you, for they are not deceived as to the merits of the great struggle of the age.
I feel as though I could not close you without expressing something of the grateful admiration with which many of us regard you and other Abolitionists, who are striving to secure equal freedom to all, irrespective of color and sex.
I am, very respectfully,
HELEN P. BRIGHT.
To W. L. GARRISON.

LETTER FROM GERRIT SMITH.
PETBRBORO, August 8, 1864. 
HON. B. F. WADE, HON. H. WINTER DAVIS: 
GENTLEMEN,-I have read your Protest. It is a strongly-reasoned and instructive paper. Nevertheless, I regret its appearance; for it will serve to reduce the public good-will toward Mr. Lincoln; and that is what, just at this time, the public interest cannot afford. It may turn out that Mr. Lincoln is the man for whom it will be vital to the national existence to cast the largest possible vote. Personally, he may not be more worthy of it than Mr. Fremont, or Mr. Chase, or some other man who may be nominated; but if, as the election draws near, it shall be seen that he will probably get a larger vote than any other candidate of the uncompromising opponents of the Rebellion, then it will be the absolute duty of every one of them to vote for him. The election of a man who would consent to any thing short of the unconditional surrender of those, who, without even the slightest cause of complaint, have made war upon us, would not only be the ruin of our nation, but it would be also the base betrayal of that sacred cause of nationality which they of one nation owe it to those of every other nation, the earth over, to cherish and maintain. But no such consequence, nor any other fatal consequence, would there be, should a loyal man of whatever faults be elected-a man who, because he is loyal, would in no event fail to insist on the absolute submission of those who had causelessly rebelled against their country. Hence, though it may be at the expense of passing by our favorite candidate, we should, nevertheless, all feel ourselves urged by the strongest possible motives to cast our votes just where they will be like to contribute most to defeat the compromising or sham Peace candidate.
Mr. Lincoln, although an able, honest, patriotic man, has fallen into grave errors. But who, in his perplexing circumstances, would have been exempt from them? He has depended too largely on the policy of conciliation. He has made too much account of pleasing Border States and Peace-Democrats. But, in all this, he has sought not his own advantage, but the safety of his country from the harm with which Border States and Peace-Democrats (same thing as Pro-Slavery Democrats) threatened her.
Nor has Mr. Lincoln always kept himself within the sphere of his office. I do not mean that he went out of it in imprisoning a few treasonable men. He should have imprisoned more. Nor do I refer to his suppression of a few treasonable newspapers. He should have suppressed many more. In almost any other nation, with rebels at its throat, the printing of “the forged proclamation” would have been visited with the severest penalties. The plea that the offence was committed where war was not actual would have been scouted. Nay, the presumption to offer it would have been lacking. By the way, the city of New York is emphatically a theatre of the war. Thousands there with worse than Southern hearts-for Northern rebels are worse than Southern rebels-are constantly plotting war against their country. Occasionally their war comes to the surface. It did so when, a little more than a year ago, it broke out in plunders and murders meaner and more malignant than the world had ever before seen. It will break out again as soon as some other conjunction of circumstances shall promise success. New York not a theatre of the war! Why, we have immeasurably more to fear from the ever-warring disloyalty of New York and Philadelphia than from the swords and guns of Richmond and Atlanta! But what if there be not actual war, has been none, and probably will be none in the locality where the press utters treason? May not the War-Power lay its suppressing hand on that press? If it may not, then the country may be lost. For, in the first place, civil proceedings may be too slow to save it; and, in the second place, the locality may be too disloyal to favor even civil proceedings. New York has not favored them. She has not punished her treasonable newspapers; and that she has not is strong proof that she will not, and is of itself ample reason why the War-Power should. Moreover, however loyal might be the locality, it would not be right in all cases for the War-Power to depend upon her motions. In a matter which is vital to the nation, the nation itself must act. Her life must not be left to hinge upon the will or conduct of any locality, however loyal.
I have virtually said, that a treasonable press is capable, of working ruin to the country. “The forged proclamation," for instance, was a blow at the credit and at the very life of the nation. But for the intervention of the military arm, it would have done much evil, and other disloyal presses would have been emboldened to do more. I add, that if it were left alone to the civil authority to watch the presses in the North, a very considerable share of them would quickly be teeming with treason. If then the War power is as limited as last Saturday's Opinion of the Court in the case of the People against General Dix makes it, and if also that Power shall submit to that limitation, then of necessity will the work of debauching the Northern mind by a disloyal Northern press go on toward its fatal result, even more rapidly than ever.
The jurisdiction of Gen. Dix is called in question. It is as ample and absolute as that of Sherman before Atlanta, or Grant before Richmond. Were citizens of New York to strike Government troops in that city, he clearly would have as much right to strike back as have Sherman and Grant in such a case; and as clearly he would no more than they be under obligation to wait for redress at the hands of the civil authorities. But the right of the military commander to strike back, when newspapers strike at the existence of the nation, is even more vital. A single column of newspaper treason might imperil the nation more than could many columns of armed foes. Is it said that so great power in an individual is very dangerous? I grant it. And, therefore, we must as far as possible keep out of war—for in war there must be such power in a single hand.
I do not fear that Gen. Dix will abuse his office. He is both a wise and a just man: and that he, who has borne himself so beautifully in our war, should be degraded to a culprit in our Courts—and this, too, in return for a service he did his country— makes us blush for that country. It was he who, in his Order, at the very beginning of the war, to shoot down the man who should strike down the flag, sounded the very keynote of that patriotic spirit in which it was our duty to conduct the war. In that Order he virtually bade us all stand unconditionally by our country, against whatever rebels or rascals.
I honor the good intentions of President Lincoln. But I would that he had the nerve to meet, as Gen. Jackson would have met, these traitorous men
<c06>
amongst us, who, when the state of the country is such as to make its salvation turn on a liberal interpretation of the powers of the Executive, study them reduction and belittling of those powers. Valuable as are the virtues of forbearance and forgiveness, we have had quite too much of them for our safety. Stern justice, whilst always a no less excellent virtue, is in the time of stern war a far more timely and necessary one. Would that the President might mingle a little more of it with his kind and patient spirit!
I said that the President had not always kept himself within his official limits. His Amnesty Proclamation is one of the instances in which he has exceeded them. In his military capacity, he had nothing to do with the reconstruction of civil governments; and in no other capacity had he any thing to do with it until Congress had acted upon it. It was for him to set up military governments in the wake of our advancing armies; but it was not for him to concern himself about the permanent or civil governments that would come to take the place of these temporary provisions.
By many the President is condemned for his slowness. Perhaps he is slow in some things. There are others, however, in which he is too fast. But in this latter fault, the great mass of loyal men both in and out of Congress are with him. I agree with you that the President's plan of settlement is a wrong one. But your Congressional plan, like his, is premature. How much precious time was wasted over the premature question of the confiscation of real estate! Not a foot of it should have been sold before the close of the war. Nothing should have been done with it but to lease the vacant portions of it, and that only from year to year. No great inconvenience could ensue from such a postponement of the sale of Southern soil, nor from such a postponement of the setting up of civil government upon it. War, and especially such a war as this, is no time for unnecessary work. It will not be well done. Moreover, the doing of it will leave necessary work ill-done.
Then there is the unseasonable work of altering the Constitution. Not one moment should have been wasted in that worse than useless direction. If nothing in the Constitution hinders the most effectual prosecution of the war, then, surely, there is no excuse for embarrassing ourselves in time of war with attempts to alter it. If, on the other hand, anything in it stands in the way of such prosecution, Congress can virtually overcome it. For the Constitution does itself accord to Congress the power to make whatever laws it thinks ”necessary and proper" for carrying on the war, be it even laws for taking into the military service every slave and every apprentice, or every schoolhouse and every church in the land. A nation is no nation certainly, it could not long be one-that does not recognize such absolute power.
Then there is the undue haste to come to the terms of peace-a haste with which the President is no more chargeable than thousands of loyal men. When they, who, without the least provocation, took up arms to dismember our beloved country, shall lay them down, then, and not till then, are we to be for peace, or for any other thing but war. Then, and not till then, are we to talk or even to think of terms of peace. The war ended, then will be the time for concessions to our deluded brethren. Just and generous may these concessions be! There are many good people who, in their great desire for peace, would have the war ended on any terms. They would even come to the ever-insisted-on terms of the rebels, and accept of disunion. But these good people are foolish people. There can be no peace in disunion. A truce, and a very brief one, is the best there could be. War would break out every few years. Besides that, we can get a peace only by conquering it; it can abide only on the condition of reunion.
And then these premature Presidential nominations, which for six months I was so earnestly deprecating. God grant that they may not fatally divert our interest from the prosecution of the war! But the blame of these nominations rests not on the President, but on the mass of his party.
The putting down of the Rebellion-that is our one present work. Our absorption in it should be so entire as to leave us no time and no heart for anything which is unnecessary, or for anything which is necessary, until the very day, nay, the very hour, when it has become necessary.
I scarcely need add that, in giving ourselves to the work of overthrowing the Rebellion, we are to make no conditions. I scarcely need add, that those Democrats are to be condemned who insist on stipulating for the safety of slavery ere they can embark in this work; and that those Abolitionists are also to be condemned who put the abolition of slavery before the suppression of the Rebellion. This suppression is the duty which must be discharged, come what will of its discharge to the Democratic or the Abolition Party; for it is the nearest duty. Moreover, let the Abolitionist magnify the crime of slavery as he will, the crime of the Rebellion remains the far greater one; for the Rebellion superadds to all that is bad in slavery, parricidal blows at the life of the country, and contempt at the sacredness of nationality. I have myself been a somewhat earnest advocate of Abolition; but at no time during the Rebellion have I felt at liberty to inquire of Abolition whether, or how, I should work toward putting down the Rebellion. I add that, as the sole legitimate object of the war we are prosecuting is to put down the Rebellion, therefore none have the right to embaraass or pervert the war by their schemes to harm or their themes to help slavery. We do not say that the Abolitionist is to cease working against, or the Anti-Abolitionist is to cease working for slavery; but we do say that the putting down of the Rebellion is the common work of Abolitionists and 
Anti-Abolitionists, Democrats and Republicans; and that, differ as they may in other respects, they are to be one in the prosecution of this common, work. A traitor to his country is he who, when traitors have fallen upon her, allows himself, under the counsels of any party however dear, any interest however cherished, or any cause however sacred, to withhold his help from her. Such party, such interest, such cause notwithstanding, he is to be “arm and soul" against the traitors.
I repeat that I regret your Protest-or rather, I should say, the unseasonable publication of it. There is a great deal of truth in it, and, generally, a very forcible presentation of that truth. But the country cannot now afford to have the hold of Mr. Lincoln on the popular confidence weakened. Pardon me for saying that the eve of the Presidential elections is not the time to be making an issue with Mr. Lincoln in regard to either his real or supposed errors; for, from present indications, it is highly probable that we shall need to concentrate upon him the votes of all the loyal voters in order to defeat the disloyal candidate. Issues with the Southern rebels and their and their Northern friends are the only ones we can afford to make before the election. Let Lincoln get all the loyal votes, let Fremont get them, let Chase get them, let any other loyal man get them, if this shall be necessary to prevent the election of one who is in the interest of the Rebellion and of a sprious peace. I doubt not, from your ardent patriotism and your strong sense, that you entirely agree with me at this point; and they altogether misjudge you who suppose that you will in no event vote for Mr. Lincoln. The election of no loyal man, however faulty he may be can destroy the nation; but the election of whatever disloyal man will. 
Strong as is your dislike of some of Mr. Lincoln's measures, you will not suffer it to stand in the way of your voting to save the country, not in the way of your entreating others to do so,
With great regard yours,
GERRIT SMITH.
MONTOGMERY BLATR. The extract we have made from a speech of Hon. Montgomery Blair on the extinction of slavery with the rebellion, is certainly very cerditable to that gentleman. He is now an immediate emancipationist.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. No. XIV.
NEW YORK, August 11, 1864.
To the Editor of The Liberator: 
A complete exposition of the causes which ensured the recent bloody disaster before Petersburg has not yet been given to the public. Meanwhile, it is conceded on all hands that only by criminal blundering could such wasteful slaughter have been possible, and upon him must rest a large share of the responsibility who committed to the poorest brigade of the poorest division of the poorest corps in the army of the Potomac the initiative of the charge which ought immediately to have followed the springing of the mine. In such indiscriminate overthrow, it is unjust to attribute any malevolent motives to the commander who sacrificed the black troops as he had done the white. What was the fate of the former when captured is of course uncertain, nor has the Government, by any action since Fort Pillow, obtained a hold upon the Confederates for good behavior towards our colored prisoners. The relatives and friends of these unhappy victims can derive some consolation from the rather surprising fact just evolved, that in Charleston are still alive, though in custody and suffering privations, many of the dusky heroes of Wagner and several seamen, whom we had long since abandoned to slavery or death.
The political waters have been notably disturbed since my last writing by Senator Wade and Winter Davis, the joint fathers of the reconstruction bill which the President squelched. Their so-called manifesto is characterized by the bluntness of the one and the legal ability of the other, and presents many strong points of offence and .defence. Perhaps its chief merit is in displaying the confusion which exists in the powers of the Executive, now as Chief Magistrate and now as Commander-in-Chief. This is a muddle likely to arise in any country in time of civil war, and pardonably so in ours, where the Constitution is destitute of limitations upon the military authority of the President. The distinguished protestants array very forcibly the dangers which their pet measure was calculated to avert, but which Mr. Lincoln's adherence to his own policy leaves as imminent as ever-the return of the slaveholding lords to place and sway, the imposition of the Confederate debt on the national shoulders, and the restoration of the slave system. This is just criticism, but it is only new from the lips of men like Wade and Davis. These perils are not of mushroom growth, nor were they difficult to be foreseen. They were pointed out as soon as the President issued his Amnesty Proclamation, and the 8th of July is but the perfectly legitimate sequel of the 8th of December. Then, gentlemen, was the time for your fulminations, not seven months after date. Because your voices were not raised instanter in warning and protest then, you raise them now ineffectually, and are alone to blame. The silence which gave consent in the winter of '63 cannot become a critic in the midsummer of 64. Because you did not then either check the President in his unsafe career, or, failing in that, enlighten the people beyond their ruler, you are responsible for the nomination at Baltimore, and all its train of consequences to the country. I call it cowardly that, at this hour, you are willing to hazard the fall election by a thrust at the candidate which would have been merciful half a year ago, but which now comes like the to Et <illegible>, Brute! stab.
Exception is well taken that a State and its representation in Congress are inseparable in a real existence. Posit or remove the one, and you posit or remove the other. Congress, accordingly, having refused to honor the election returns of Louisiana and Arkansas, it is held that these States are without lawful establishment. To this the assent of the President is claimed, as due to the legislature of the land, and be is denounced for an attitude of opposition. It is evident, however, that the care which the President intends to exercise over the communities in a transition state proceeds in his mind from his function of Commander-in-chief; and if it was always a difficult problem to determine when Congress should intervene and assume control of the conquered territory, it is still more perplexing now that Louisiana and Arkansas have been erected into some sort of States, without timely and efficient protest from Messrs. Davis, Wade, and other Republican leaders. Military Governors were at least a convenience, and their appointment was accepted by the nation at large as no usurpation. It may be that Congress had a right to fix the term of their incumbency, but it never asserted that right save in the rejected bill of reconstruction; and it seems to me the President might properly decide when the necessity of military rule was over, and the time for civil life had come, though in that moment the details of reorganization would indisputably fall within the province of Congress.
One very shameless assumption ought not to be passed by: I mean the declaration that the bill "made all men equal before the law." This is just what the bill did not do, except in the single item of personal liberty, for it prohibited the negro element from entering at all into the reconstruction of the disloyal States. And I commend this fact to an eminent divine of this city, who in one breath condemns Mr. Lincoln for his refusing the right of suffrage to the freedmen, and in another for not consenting to make this bill a law. The Reverend Doctor might find in that Bible by which he judges men in office and out, not always with discrimination, some text which would prove the failure of the bill to be Providential because of this legalized injustice which it contained. Would not some of his grand old thunder against compromise apply to a wicked concession to the spirit of a dying abomination? I for one, though in perfect sympathy with the main objects of the bill, have never mourned its loss; for its successful passage of the two houses was aided by the desire of the Copperheads to deprive the President of additional electoral votes, and without the disfranchisement of the blacks it had never lived to be strangled by Mr. Lincoln.
I do not know what may be the chances of a civil war-a wheel within a wheel- growing out of the Presidential election in Arkansas and Louisiana. 'Tis a thing more possible after being suggested than before; and my advice to Messrs. Wade and Davis would have been: "Istuc in inimicis siet"--Leave that to out our enemies. Perhaps a more formidable prospect is wrapt up in the closing paragraph of the manifesto, by which the people are admonished to "consider the remedy for these usurpations, and, having found it, fearlessly execute it." The Herald promptly interpreted this to allude to a Buffalo Convention in reversal of Baltimore; and it is an open secret that such a movement has long been in contemplation among men who cannot be denied the epithet loyal, whatever may be their title to that of prudent. It is unquestionable that there is a very wide-spread disaffection from Mr. Lincoln on the part of the most thoughtful, earnest and radical friends of liberty and Union. They will <illegible> him in the party, and so vote for his reelection only as a bitter resort; and if they had done their duty in the past, they were now to be pitied, and their efforts to rescue themselves from their hard necessity commendable. They are all involved, however, in the error of silence at a time when to be silent was to be <illegible>. They forget now what encouragement they have given the President to believe his policy acceptable to all grades of his constituency, and their present conduct savors of desertion, and must be felt as such. The remedy they propose is entirely novel in our politics: heretofore the convention has settled the canvass; now it seems that nothing is settled. If Buffalo may reverse Baltimore in September, there yet remains a month for another and another counterplot, and what confusion would be upon us! If there is any surer way of yielding the election to the Copperheads, I am not aware of it; and if ever the story of swapping horses in midstream was pertinent, it would be in this instance. It will be curious, if not too painful, to watch the process of persuading a majority of the loyal papers North to haul down the banner of Lincoln and Johnson, which has been blazoned.

<c02>
at their columns’ head since the seventh day of June.
The Administration being accounted responsible for the action of its several parts, it should be credited with the recent regulations of the Treasury Department in reference to the freedmen, which will supersede those of Gen. Banks and the Adjutant General. In fact, we seem to have obtained the practical advantages of a Freedmen's Bureau, without additional machinery, and with probably equal guaranties of fair-dealing and protection. The main features of the new system, which is it very flexible, are, that under proper supervision, reasonable wages are accorded common laborers by classification,-the lowest hire exceeding the highest under Banks’s regiment; that skilled labor may seek its own market in preference; that benevolent societies are admitted to cooperation on sufficient security; that schools are to attend the colonies; and that a penal code is to be established to shield the freedmen from ill-usage. The humane and the financial aspects of this new plan are alike admirable; and I wish I knew upon whom to bestow the credit, which, in the absence of contradictory evidence, belongs to Mr. Fessenden. I may mention, in this connection, that I saw two days ago a young colored girl from Washington, who was redeemed out of slavery scarcely four years since,-in great part through the contributions of Plymouth church,-and who at once began to keep a boardinghouse in the Capital. Three friendly Congressmen furnished lavishly at their own expense a fine house, and installed her as its keeper. In the interval of the war's duration, she has purchased of them the entire furniture valued at $30,000, and has taken the house on a ten years' lease. The only trouble is, that the poor creature cannot take care of herself, as was testified by her elegant, lady--like apparel and demeanor. 
The McClellan mass meeting held here last night in Union Square was similar in design to the Grant demonstration which preceded Baltimore, and may have no better result. At present the peace party controls "Chicago, but there are hopes and fears that the War Democracy, when it comes to the struggle, will prevail. We might almost be justified in the squatter's indifference to the issue of the quarrel between his wife and the bear, but Buffalo and other movements hang upon the Chicago nominations and platform, in which I can only pray that the devil may prevail. 
M. DU PAYS. 

LINCOLN–LIBERTYLABOR. 
STEAMER MONTGOMERY,
STRAITS OF MACKINAW, August 5, 1864.
WM. L. GARRISON:
Mr. FRIEND-I left Port Sarnia for Chicago last evening, via Lake Huron, Straits of Mackinaw, and Lake Michigan, about seven hundred miles. These inland seas of pure fresh water-comprising Lakes Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie and Ontario-all connected by narrow straits and rivers, and all flowing to the Atlantic through the river St. Lawrence, are unrivalled by any thing on earth in the form of rivers and lakes. Port Sarnia is at the foot of Lake Huron, on the Canada side of the river St. Clair, that connects Lake Huron with Lake Erie, at Detroit. The St. Clair is about one fourth of a mile wide where it comes out of the lake, and Port Huron is on the Michigan side of the river. In all the towns on the grand trunk railroad from Montreal to Port Sarnia, are multitudes of persons from the land of whips and chains seeking to interest all in the cause of the slave-breeding rebellion. The Copperhead sympathizers with the man-stealing traitors, in their efforts to destroy the U. S. Government, and subjugate the nation and the continent to slavery and slave-labor, are fierce, loud and bitter in their denunciations of Lincoln and the Administration; and their grand argument is, that the President has made the war a war for the aboliton of slavery. But the all-sufficient reply is, that the South began the war to abolish freedom, free labor and free institutions. It is therefore necessarily made by Mr. Lincoln and his associates the means to abolish slavery, slave labor, and slave institutions. 
The relation of Mr. Lincoln, as President, to freedom, free labor, and free institutions-this is the one question to be considered in guiding the votes to be given for President next November. Is there a man in the political world with whom freedom and free labor are so entirely identified? During the canvass of 1860, which resulted in giving Mr. Lincoln a clear, constitutional majority, who were opposed to his election? All the slavemongers of the nation, North as well as South. Every man who believed the negro had no rights, and who was for extending and eternizing slavery, was against him. What was the one sole argument they used against him? Simply that he was an Abolitionist. Whether he was in our sense of the word is not the question. He was in their sense of the word; and from North to South, from East to West, the one loud, long cry against him was, he is an Abolitionist, and will convert the Federal Government into an engine of Abolition! If elected, he will seek to abolish slavery and slave labor in the South, and to establish there freedom and free labor. At all of their mass meetings, all over the North and South, the one unanimous and uniform cry against Mr. Lincoln raised by all the orators of his opponents was, he is an Abolitionist, and will use his power, as President, against slavery and slave labor, and for freedom and free labor. Not one ever opposed him because he was opposed to freedom and free labor, but they all sought to defeat his election solely because he was opposed to slavery and slave labor. No protestations of Lincoln and his Republican supporters, declaring that he was not opposed to slavery in States where it now exists, were of no avail. Every one of his Democratic, slavemongering opponents insisted that he was an Abolitionist, and opposed to slavery and slave labor. 
When, in his inaugural address, March 4, 1861, he assured the nation in these words"I declare that I have no purpose, directly or indirectly, to interfere with the institution of slavery in the States where it existsI have no lawful power to do so, and no intention to do so"it was of no use. It did not satisfy his Democratic, pro-slavery opponents. The cry was continued"Lincoln is opposed to slavery and slave labor, and will use his power to abolish them." And when the leaders of the slave-breeding Democracy opened their career of blood and slaughter at Sumter, in the interests of slavery and slave labor, and Mr. Lincoln for nearly two years persisted in his refusal to touch slavery,- the sole cause of all our national calamities,-still the cry was kept up by the entire South, and echoed by the Copperhead Democracy of the North, led on by Seymour, Vallandigham & Co., that Mr. Lincoln was an Abolitionist, and opposed to slavery and slave labor. The entire pro-slavery press and party of the North, from the first attack on the Government in defence of slavery, declared that Mr. Lincoln was converting the war into an Abolition war. Every step taken by Mr. Lincoln and Congress in favor of freedom and free labor has been met by the Copper head Democracy with the same cry"Lincoln is an Abolitionist! and is making this an Abolition war!" These Democratic leaders know that the South began the war solely to abolish freedom and free labor. Not a word did they say against such an abolition war! But the moment Mr. Lincoln began to make it a war to abolish slavery, and slave labor, then the Copperhead press and Democratic yell against such an Abolition war became fierce and factious. 
The slaveholding rebels and their allies in the North and in Europe have compelled the nation and the world to regard Mr. Lincoln as the great political representative of freedom and free labor. At length his utterances and his acts so present him to the nation as the political embodiment and representive of freedom and free labor. The single question now is-: —LINCOLN, LIBERTY and FREE LABOR-or, SOMESOME BODY ELSE and SLAVE LABOR. Whose votes against Mr. Lincoln in the coming war of ballots, practically votes for slavery and slave labor. So every slavemonger and every Northern and European ally

<c03>
of slavemongers regards it. There can be but two parties-those who are for Lincoln and Liberty, and those who are for somebody else and Slavery.
Yours, 	HENRY C. WRIGHT. 
P. S. Saturday, l0 o'clock, night, Augusts August 6, 1864.- Still aboard the steamer Montgomery, steaming our way up Lake Michigan on to Chicago. We passed through the Straits of Mackinaw last night, and entered the foot of Michigan. Stopped to take in wood at Monitto, on the great Monitto Island, about noon, over 300 miles down the lake North of Chicagothe island being inhabited mainly by Indians and fishermen, who catch and cure the Mackinaw trout and the white fish. Great is the variety in country and opinions among our passengers. The following written request was presented to me, signed by some twenty passengers:- 
Steamer Montgomery, Aug. 6, 1864.
HENRY C. WEIGHT:
DEAR SIR-Understanding something of the position which you occupy as one of the reformers of the present day, and desiring ourselves to become more enlightened on the great Humanitarian questions which have so to long engaged your attention, the undersigned passengers and crew of this steamer would deem it a great privilege to listen to one of your lectures on board the boat this evening, at an hour convenient to yourself. 
Respectfully, &c. &c. 
So I lectured at half-past 7 in the saloon, to quite a large gatheringtaking for my subject, The American Republicits Origin, Mission and Destiny, and our Duty in regard to slavemongers and their Northern and European allies to destroy it.
I spoke to them an hour and a halfdemonstrating that the sole and single object of the war, as avowed by those who began it, is to abolish freedom and free labor, and establish slavery and slave labor over all the nation and the continent; demonstrating also, that all that is for slavery and against liberty in the nation, North and South, are opposed to Mr. Lincoln and his political supporters, because they are opposed to slavery and slave labor, and in favor of freedom and free labor. I showed how it has come to be the fact, that Mr. Lincoln now stands before the nation and the world as the political incarnation of freedom, free labor and free institutions. Whatever may have been his sympathies and wishes in the matter, (and for one, I do not think his sympathies and wishes ever would lead him to aspire to the satanic distinction of incarnating, morally or politically, slavery and slave labor,) he has been placed in the position by the combined efforts of Abolitionists and of slave-holding rebels and their Copperhead Democratic allies, of a Governmental, Presidential embodiment of political Abolitionism. This position, the highest and noblest a man can hold in the realm of politics, he, by word and deed, now accepts. No matter what may have been his shortcomings in the past, Mr. Lincoln now stands before all nations as the representative of political Anti-Slavery, pledged to the abolition and prohibition of slavery and slave labor. 

OUR COLORED SOLDIERS. 
DEAR GARRISON,-The following is an extract from a letter sent me by an officer in one of the Massachusetts regiments, now in the front near Richmond, dated August 9, 1864. Speaking of the explosion of the mine near Petersburg, and the fight that followed, my correspondent says:- 
"As to the colored soldiers, I will tell you what I myself saw. When the first brigade, (colored,) that fought so well, were commencing the charge, one of the officers, a white major, skulked back, and took shelter in a rifle-pit. Upon seeing him, a negro sergeant, turning back, and, pointing his musket at the major's head, said:'’ You d-d coward! if you don't leave that pit, and take your place in the regiment, I'll blow your brains out!' Of that scene I was an eyewitness. 
"I afterwards saw a white major of this same regiment under arrest in the rear, with four negroes standing guard over him! This was during battle; but whether this was the same white-livered major who skulked into the rifle-pit, only a short time before, I do not know. But you can imagine that sight, when I inform you that this was the first staff officer that I ever saw with sentinels placed over him. You should know that it is considered a great indignity; as it is customary in relation to any commissioned officer who commits an offence, merely to take his sword, and tell him to consider himself under arrest; or, at the farthest, to order such not to leave his quarters until further notice. It is unusual to see a commissioned officer, in front of the enemy, in time of battle, under guard. But here was a major, in the open field of battle, a white commissioned officer, in the sight of thousands, with four black soldiers standing guard over him with fixed bayonets. 
"The first brigade, (colored,) put into the fight July 30, fought like demons, driving the rebels out of their works, and chasing them into a complete panic, which was continued till they were ordered to halt. But another brigade (colored) was then brought up, and formed on one of the wings; and this gave the enemy time to reinforce, when they rushed back upon our line with a yell; and then it was that this second brigade broke, and this caused a retreat of our whole line, in spite of the efforts of the first brigade to rally them; and so the rebs re-took the three lines we had captured from them."
Incidents like the above are worthy of record while there is any reluctance on the part of our officials against granting commissions to our brave colored troops, now in the field. However "hard" this "road" may be for our government to “travel," we shall, nevertheless, come to it by and by. This world, we are told, was not made in a day; our government was not formed in a year, and some among us may be slow in learning the lesson set before us in this war. But, in time, the nation will comprehend the logic of these portentous events, and do justice to those whom, for so many generations, it has so flagrantly wronged. 
LAROY SUNDERLAND.
BOSTON, August 15, 1864. 

PAYMENT OF COLORED TROOPS.. 
The following order, just issued from the War Department, should stand on record as at one among many proofs of the combined injustice and impolicy manifested by the Administration towards an important arm of our military force:- 
WAR DEPARTMENT, Adjutant General's Office, Washington, August 1, 1864. In pursuance of Section 4, of the Act of Congress making appropriations for the support of the Army for the year ending thirtieth of June, eighteen hundred and sixty five, and for other purposes, approved July 4th, 1864, all officers commanding regiments, batteries and independent, companies of colored troops, will immediately make a thorough investigation and individual examination of the men belonging to their commands, who were enlisted prior to January 1st, 1864, with a view to ascertain who of them were free men on or before 1 April 19th, 1861. The fact of freedom to be determined in each case on the statement of the soldier, under oath, taken in connection with the most reliable information that can be obtained from other sources., And when, in view of all the facts in each case, commanding officers are of opinion that any enlisted men of their commands were free on the date aforesaid,’ they will, upon the next muster rolls, enter the following remark opposite the names of such soldiers, viz: "Free, on or before April 19th, 1861"; and such soldiers shall be mustered for pay accordingly. Such muster shall be authority for the Pay Department to pay said soldiers from the time of their entry into service to the 1st day of January, 1864, the, difference between the pay received by them as soldiers under their present enlistments, and the full pay allowed by law at the same period to white soldiers.
By order of the Secretary of War,
E. D. TOWNSEND,
Assistant Adjutant General. 
Col. T,. W. Higginson has written a letter to the Tribune in regard to this order, pointing, out, besides its injustice and impolicy, the troublesome complications it must inevitably produce in the Paymaster's business. He assumes, however, that the Massachusetts colored troops (freemen who have long been defrauded of the pay promised by the recruiting officers on their enlistment) will at last obtain their dues under this order. The Tribune, however, declares that even this assumption is not well founded, and states that the Paymaster still refuses them full arrears of pay, except from January last. No wonder that the Tribune feels compelled to say"The course which has been pursued is simply disgraceful and dishonest..... It is simply a bald defrauding of men, who have no remedy, of money due for work done."

<c04>
One of President Lincoln's <illegible> jokes-quite plausible and effective, indeed, to those, who looked only at its surface-was the following. To one who complained to him about Seward and Blair he put this question-"—"Is there any fault to be found with the Diplomatic correspondence?" The respondent, as the story goes, answered "No." Then said the President, "Mr. Seward is Seward it my Secretary for that particular business, writing the letters that my other duties leave me no time to write. Since he does his duty well, why complain of him?" And again"Is there any difficulty about the arrival and delivery of your letters?"-"No."-"Well, Mr. Blair is my Secretary for that particular business, doing the work which I have not time to do. If he does his work well, why interfere with him?"
Very well. If the President chooses to put the matter on this ground, it is our part to remember, when deciding on his fitness for reelection, that General Banks in his establishment of <illegible>serfdom over the Louisiana negroes, and the Adjutant General and the Paymasters, in their fraudulent withholding of the hire of the colored military laborer, are Mr. Lincoln's secretaries for those particular departments, doing his work in the manner that he wishes; and that if they disappointed his wishes, or violated or neglected his orders, he would of course displace them, and appoint others. A word to the wise is sufficient.-C. K. W.

ANTI-SLAVERY LECTURES IN MAINE.
ANDREW T. Foss, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will spend a short time in the State of Maine, speaking on the great questions of Emancipation and a Free and Just Union. He will be glad to receive calls to lecture from any of the Anti-Slavery friends in Maine.
His address, for the present, is, Care of S,. Waterhouse, Esq., Ellsworth, Me. 
WM. WELLS BROWN, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, has gone to the State of Maine, where he will spend four or five weeks. He is to lecture at Winterport, on Saturday and Sunday next. His addresses on the entire emancipation of the slaves, and the recognition of the rights of men without regard to color, will no doubt interest the people.

CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
BOSTON, Aug. 16, 1864. 
MR. GARRISON:
DEABDEAR SIR-Do me the favor, if you please, to caution the public against giving aid to a Mrs. Julia E. Lewis, sometimes called Madame Lewis, who, under the pretence of bringing on freedwomen as domestics, has collected large sum of money in Cambridge, Lynn, Newburyport and other places. She has no connection whatever with this movement, and is a proper subject for the friends of these people to make an example of. 
Yours, respectfully, L. A. GRIMES.

HARPER'S MONTHLY MAGAZINE, for- September, presents the following table of contents:-1. An Adventure on the Coast of Australia. 2. High Private. 3. At Home with the Esquimaux. 4. My Lost Sister; a Confession,. 5. President Monroe and his Administration. 6. The Last of Seven. 7. The First Time under Fire. 8. Libraries. 9. In Bonds. 10. Presentation Week at Yale. 11. The Wedding. 12. Aunt Thorneypine. 1318. The Cafe Greco. 14. A Lancashire Doxology. 15. Our Bet. 16. Our Mutual Friend. 17. Monthly Record of Current Events. 18. Editor's Easy Chair. 19. Editor's Drawer. 20. Fashions for September.

SHARP LETTER FROM GEN. SHERMAN. 
HEADQUARTERS, Military Division of the Mississippi, in the Field, near ATLANTA, Georgia, July 3080, 1864. 
John A. Spooner, Esq., Agent for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Nashville, Tenn.: 
SIR-Yours from Chattanooga, July 28, is received, notifying me of your appointment by your State as Lieutenant-Colonel and Provost Marshal of Georgia, Alabama and Mississippi, under the act of Congress approved July 4, 1864, to recruit volunteers to be credited to the States respectively. 
On applying to Gen. Webster, at Nashville, he will grant you a pass through our lines to those States, and, as an I have had considerable experience in those States, would suggest recruiting depots to be established at Macon and Columbus, Miss., Selma, Montgomery and Mobile, Alabama, and Columbus, Milledgeville and Savannah, Georgia. 
I do not see that the law restricts you to black recruits, but you are at liberty to collect white recruits also. It is waste of time and money to open rendezvous in Northwest Georgia, for I assure you I have not seen an able- bodied man, black or white, there, fit for a soldier who was not in this army or the one opposed to it. 
You speak of the impression going abroad that I am opposed to the organization of colored regiments.
 My opinions are usually very positive, and there is no reason why you should not know them.
 Though entertaining profound reverence for our Congress, I do doubt their wisdom in the passage of this law: 
1st. Because civilian agents about an army are a nuisance. 
2d. The duty of citizens to fight for their country is too sacred a one to be peddled off by buying up the refuse of other States. 
3d. It is unjust to the brave soldiers and volunteers who are fighting, as at those who compose this army do, to place them on a par with the class of recruits you are after. 
4th. The negro is in a transition state, and is it not the equal of the white man. 
5th. He is liberated from his bondage by act of war; and the armies in the field are entitled to all his assistance in labor and fighting, in addition to the proper quotas of the States. 
6th. This bidding and bantering for recruits, white and black, has delayed the reinforcement of our armies at the times when such reinforcements would have enabled us to make our successes permanent. 
7th. The law is an experiment which, pending war, is unwise and unsafe, and has delayed the universal draft which I firmly believe will become necessary to overcome the wide-spread resistance offered us; and I also believe the universal draft will be wise and beneficial; for under the Providence of God it will separate the sheep from the goats, and demonstrate what citizens will fight for their country, and what will only talk.
No one will infer from this that I am not a friend of the negro as well as the white race. I contend that the treason and rebellion of the master freed the slave, and the armies I have commanded have conducted to safe points more negroes than those of any general officer in the army; but I prefer negroes for pioneers, teamsters, cooks and servants; others gradually to experiment in the art of the soldier, beginning with the duties of local garrisons, such as we had at Memphis, Vicksburg, Natchez, Nashville and Chattanooga; but I would not draw on the poor race for too large a proportion of its active, athletic young men, for some must remain to seek new homes and provide for thee old and young-the feeble and helpless.
These are some of my peculiar notions, but I assure you they are shared by a large proportion of our fighting men.
You may show this to the agents of the other States in the same business as yourself.
I am, &c., T. W. SHERMAN,
Major-General. 
Official copy.
L. M. DAYTON, Aide--de-Camp.
THE CHARLESTON SECESSIONISTS. Gen. Seymour, recently released from the rebel prison at a Charleston,. S. C., visited Troy. N. Y., on his way to Williamstown, Mass., where he is to recuperate his feeble health pending the receipt of orders from Washington, and in course of conversation-according to the Troy Times of the 11th instant-said in to substance: 
"He had conversed freely with the secessionists about the war. He told them the North would never yield; that the determination of the people was to wipe out the rebellion and save the Union, no matter what sacrifices the great work should involve.’ Their chief hope was based upon a political reaction in the loyal States, by which a peace Democrat should be elected to succeed Mr. Lincoln as President. He told them that event was not likely to occur; but if it did, it would be the result of a monstrous deception practiced I upon the people, and they would never submit to such a peace as the South required; there would be a general revolution and chaos first. When the intelligence came that President Lincoln had made a call for' five hundred thousand more,' they were much depressed, and manifested: unmistakable indications of discouragement. We have only got to press right onward against the cohorts of treason, and spare, not, and the rebellion will inevitably collapse, and that much sooner than many persons believe."

<c05>
POLITICAL.
The Richmond Examiner, in  reviewing the political situation of the North, attributes the recipient--nomination Mr. Lincoln to the vast army of contractors and office-holders. It accuses the administration of retarding the capture of Richmond before the Baltimore convention, so as to prevent the nomination of Butler or Grant, and thinks that if the federal forces shall be driven from the soil of Virginia before November, as it fervently trusts, Lincoln will not get a single vote.
As for Fremont, with his "radical abolitionism," it thinks there is no chance for him, and looks hopefully to the action of the democratic party. It learns by a special channel that the Democrats are "now universally universally turning their thoughts to Franklin Pierce and the Connecticut. Seymour as their nominees for President and Vice President. To give them the least chance of electing those two advocates of peace, Grant must be defeated, the invasion must collapse and die out, the very name of war must become a word of horror, uttered with loathing and execration. Therefore, it is the interest of the Democrats to do their very uttermost to weaken the Federal army, discredit Federal finance, in short, to extinguish the party which invented the war , and governs it, and lives by if."
It attributes the rise in gold to Lincoln's nomination on, and rejoices at the prospects of trouble and storm which threaten to interfere not only with his election, but with the peace of Yankee society." Before November," it says, "the whole North may be writhing in intestine convulsion; her brute mass now pressing us so heavily may be flung off", and this Confederacy may be standing erect, redeemed, radiant, triumphant, shaking her invincible locks in the sun. For all this we look to the Confederate army. Lee, Beauregard and Johnston can both give the Yankees a President, and make us well rid of them and their Presidents forever."
GEN. FREMONT AND THE CLEVELAND NOMINATION. Thousands-we may say the great mass-of the truest friends of Gen. Fremont, who are also friends of the Administration  and the country, will read with equal surprise and regret the unfortunate letter in which he accepts the nomination of the Cleveland Convention. It is so unlike the modest, manly, patriotic course he has hitherto pursued on all occasions. For one, whatever may be his motives;, we feel that he has done himself a greater and, more lasting injury than it is in the power of any Administration to do him. He has descended from his high; and enviable position as the noble and self-sacrificing representative of a glorious and saving principle, to that of a disappointed and factious politician, and thereby lost the prestige, of his name, and shorn himself of his moral strength. Much as the people have; admired Fremont, and deeply as many of them have felt some of the errors of the Administration, they care more for the cause than for men, and will discard any leader, trusted and followed as the may have been in the past, when to do otherwise would give "aid and comfort to the enemy." To loyal men the cause is everything, and they will permit no division in their ranks; whereby it may be imperiled.- Jeffersonian Democrat. 
STRANGE INCONSISTENCIES. Few moves of political men have caused more surprise of late than that of Gen. J. C. Fremont, in accepting the nomination for the Presidency by a small convention held at Cleve-land. In his letter of acceptance he is severe upon the Administration for arbitrary power, by which he more than insinuates that the people are deprived of their liberties. All know what he means by this, and know that while he himself had a command in the army, he did the same thing, arresting traitors and suppressing newspapers in sympathy with the rebellion. Then he says, he has resigned his commission after having faithfully tried long to obtain service. That was consistent, we must think, to wish a command under an Administration that he represents as tyrannical, and must, be, overthrown! Verily, the Pathfinder has got lost in some wild, untrodden way. -Exeter News Letter. 
Gen. Fremont has accepted the nomination of the Cleveland Convention. It is plain from his letter of acceptance that personal enmity to Mr. Lincoln is the moving cause of his course. We are sorry that he should have so far forgotten his duty as a citizen as a to be made the instrument of an attempted division in the ranks of Union men at this time; but he has chosen his part, and must take its consequences. 
It is not likely, however, that this diversion in aid of the Copperheads will effect anything. Few Union men will allow their partiality for any man to stand in on the way of the welfare of the country, and we do not believe that any serious division in the Union ranks is possible. 
Gen. Fremont, in his letter, lays stress upon the interference of the Administration with the press. "The General doubtless does, not remember that two newspapers were suppressed by his order in St. Louis in . August, 1861. No doubt he was right in his course then, but he has probably forgotten the circumstance. -Delhi Republican. 
The manifest apostacy of Fremont from his conspicuously avowed principles makes him an object of natural distrust; but the Copperheads see that he is recklessly bent upon destroying the unity of the great Union party, and hence are willing to use him to help themselves into: power. They know he would prefer their success to that of Mr. Lincoln, and they consider him a ready ally. So he is. The Copperheads have more hope in Fremont to-day than they have in any other man in the nation, or in any event, except the defeat of Gen. Grant. They are advocating him, and urging him and his friends to action; and so well satisfied are they with his action and intention, that they are willing to stand aside, and let him achieve a Copperhead victory.—Chicago Tribune. 
FREMONT IN IOWA. The Davenport Gazette says, "We recently passed through twelve populous counties in this State, travelling in stages and railroad cars. We made diligent inquiries for Fremont men, and found but one solitary one. He declared his intention to vote for Fremont."
Among the delegates elected by the Indiana State Convention to the Chicago Convention is Washington Bradley, of Lawrence county, who served two years in the rebel army. Messrs. Pettit and Fitch, two other of the electors, were Breckinridge electors in 1860. 
The Boston Post notices that Secretary Chase has gone to a watering place to enjoy a little leisure, on which the gentle Greene advises the Secretary to go to the front to shoot. A gentlemanly, polite, humane and patriotic recommendation, one which the editor of the Post is going to illustrate by his own example. [Very appropriate advice, truly, for a Colonel (as is the editor of the Post, who has remained ensconced in his editorial chair through the war, discharging his pop gun, loaded with malicious contents, at those engaged in prosecuting it,) to give to a worthy civil ex--officer, who is trying to recover his exhausted energies!] 
PERSONAL. Col. J. B. Kinsman, A. D. C. of Gen. Butler and General Superintendent of Negro Affairs in the Department of Virginia and North Carolina, arrived in Boston last week on furlough, to recruit his health. 
The experiment of employing the negroes in this Department, and making them, so far as possible, self- supporting, is progressing satisfactorily. There are in the Department not far from 65,000 negroes, of whom all but about 10,000 sustain themselves. Col. Kinsman and his assistants have organized labor and established schools. Plantations have been stocked at the expense of Government, and are cultivated oh on shares, and openings for labor have been made in various directions. Col. Kinsman brought with him to the North one hundred, house servants, who immediately found employment in New York and Philadelphia. 
The New York Herald comes out in favor of an armistice. The Daily News, the Metropolitan Record and the Freeman's, Journal abound in language well calculated to make trouble at the coming draft. The News, for instance, says: 
"The working men of this city and Brooklyn are in no mood to be torn by military violence from their families. * * * Let them come together in public assembly, and trusting to God, the sympathy of the people, and the strong arm of the law, take counsel for their relief from a danger that, threatening the lives and happiness of themselves, their wives and their little ones, cannot fail to enlist for them the kindly countenance of good and true men. * * * The call of Mr. Lincoln for soldiers is not binding upon the people of New York. * * * Our working men will fall into a net if Mr. Lincoln be allowed to make his last draft."
NEW YORK, Aug. 17. The rebel privateer. Tallahassee has captured and destroyed the following vessels, viz.: Schooner Lamont Du Pont, of Wilmington, Del., on 18th13th August, lat.1st. 40, Ion. 65. Ship James Littlefield, (Capt.) Bartlett, of Bangor, from Cardiff, June 19, for N. J., on the 14th August, lat. 42, Ion. 66. August 15, lat. 43, Ion. 66,. schooner Marcy A. Howes of Chatham, Mass. The crews were put on board the Br. <illegible>. Sophia, from Turks Island, and landed at Yarmouth, N. S., Aug. Aug. 16. While in sight of the Tallahassee, she was seen to capture 4 schooners. 
THOMASTON, Me., Aug. 17.-The pirate Tallahassee, yesterday, at 38 P. M., destroyed 2526 vessels off <illegible> Rock. She was manned by Nova Scotia men. She <illegible> after <illegible> the crews and passengers, by a small boat, into Friendship. 

	<c06>
AARON M. POWELLPOWELL. will lecture at
Athol, N. Y., Friday, Aug. 19. 
Glens Falls, N. Y. Sunday Aug, 21.
Ballston, N. Y. Tuesday, Aug 23.

NEW ENGLAND FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.
The seventeenth Annual Term will <illegible>commence Nov. 2, 1864, and continue seventeen weeks. Tuition fee for the courses of the six Professors and the Demonstrator, $65- free to students needing aid, wherever residing. For particulars, address the subscriber, at the College, No. 30, Canton street, Boston.
3w SAM'LSAMPL GREGORY, M. >D., Secretary.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.- Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.

DIED- In Attleboro', July 20, MOSKSMOSES WILMARTH, aged 71 years.
With the exception of one the year, when, too ill to be interested in anything, he has taken and read the Liberator from its commencement, and been the firm and fearless friend of the slave, and what is rarer still in New England, of the negro.- Com.

Portrait of Mr. Garrison. 
JOHNSTON'SJOHNSON'S Crayon Portrait of Mr. Garrison is on exhibition at the store of Williams & Everett, 234 Washington street, and elicits warm approval. It will be lithographed by Mr. Johnston, and published early in September. Price $1.50 per copy.
C. H. BRAINARD. 
Subscriptions received by R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street. July 29. 

WEST NEWTON 
English and Classical School. 
THE next term will begin Sept. 7, 1864. For particulars, inquire of N. S. ALLEN,
Aug. 19. West Newton.

Proclamation of Freedom.
FINE Photographs, 18 by 13 inches, of Paine's<illegible> Pen-and-Ink Drawing of the Emancipation Proclamation, handsomely illustrated. The original was donated to the Brooklyn Sanitary Fair, and by a subscription of $500 presented to the President of the United States. A single copy sent by mail on receipt of $3.00. A liberal discount allowed to dealers or canvassers. It is a beautiful and artistic work.
Canvassers wanted for every section of the country. 
Copy-right secured. Apply to 
ROWLAND JOHNSON,
54 Beaver st New York, 119 Market st., Phila. 
August 19.
THE HUMAN VOICE indicative of character; Physiology of the Voice-bass, barytone, tenor, contralto, contralte to soprane; Male and Female Voices-what causes the difference? How to Cultivate the Voice; Stammering. 
CLIMATE AND THE RACES- Northerners and Southerners compared; organic difference; quality, hardness, softness, fineness, coarseness; Carbon-its transformations; Natural Development; Pauper Children; Thieves Photographed; Right Position in Sleep; Vanity, Self-Praise; New Views of Physiognomy; The Face; Signs of Character; Love of the Eyes-in PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL, Aug. No., 20 etc., or $2 a year. Newsmen have it. 
FOWLER & WELLS, 389 Broadway, N. Y. 
July 29.39. 2w 

The True Temperance Platform. 
BY R. T. TRALL, M. D. 
THE best and most scientific temperance document ever published. 
The errors of Temperance Reformers and the medical profession, and the effects of alcohol on plants, animals and man, are here for the first time plainly pointed out.
Price, per mail- mail — paper, 60 cents; cloth, 85 cents. 
MILLER & BROWNING;,
15 Leight Street, New York.
July 15. 3m 

MR. AND MRS. D. MACK'S 
Family Boarding School for Young Ladies, 
AT ORCHARD HILL, BELMONT, MASS. 
THE School will commence the last Monday of September.
Circulars and references when requested. 
July 8. 3m 

MASON & HAMLIN'S 
CABINET ORGANS. 
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family 
MAY HAVE 
A GOOD ORGAN 
AT a very moderate cost-$—$85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case. 
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years. 
THE CABINET ORGANS, 
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music. 
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the: Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are: 
1.The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is it attained in these organs. 
2.It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3.By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to o render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4.It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5.No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6.It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot to them, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who have preferred written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known, musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists<illegible> in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan of Grace Church, <illegible> of Mr. Beecher's Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, <illegible>, &c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, <illegible>, <illegible>, <illegible> etc.: In brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston, 7 Mercer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26 6m
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
BLESS GOD FOR RAIN.
"Bless God for rain! bless God for rain!"
The parch’d earth said unto the sky,
As pattering drops began to fall 
From massive clouds that hung on high:
"Lord, let as have full supply,"
Says Lily, "for we are so dry!"
Each spear of grass, each blade of grain,
And every leaf on tree so high,
Spake blessings as the water came,
Let fall their precious tears of joy:
The little flow’rs without a name
Hoped that such bliss would never cloy.
The good man raised his eyes to Heaven,
And said, “They love is never dry
Our feet have stray’d on burning sands
Of error, but Thy grace was nigh:
Thou hearest in our sore distress-
Lord, send Thy reign of Righteousness’!
Richfield, (N.Y.) July 25,1864. D. <illegible>

IN THE WILDERNESS.
BY GEORGE M. BOKER.
[The incident contained in the following poem is narrated by a correspondent of the New York Tribune, in a letter from the battle-field, dated Wilderness, May 7, 1864.]
Mangled, uncared for, suffering through the night,
With heavenly patience the poor boy had lain;
Under the dreary shadows, left and right,
Groaned on the wounded, stiffened out the slain.
What faith sustained his lone
Brave heart to make no moan,
To send no cry from the blood-sprinkled sod,
Is a close mystery with him and God.
But when the light came, and the morning dew
Glittered around him like a golden lake,
And every dripping flower with deepened hue
Looked through its tears for very pity's sake,
He moved his aching head
Upon its rugged bed,
And smiled as a blue violet, virgin meek,
Laid her pure kiss upon his withered cheek.
At once there circled in his waking heart
A thousand memories of distant home;
Of how those same blue violets would start
Along his native fields, and some would roam
Down his dear humming brooks,
To hide in secret nooks,
And, shyly met, in nodding circles swing,
Like gossips murmuring at belated spring.
And then he thought of the beloved hands
That with his own had plucked the modest flower;
The blue-eyed maiden, crowned with golden bands,
Who ruled as sovereign of that sunny hour;
She at whose soft command
He joined the mustering hand ;
She for whose sake he lay so firm and still,
Despite his pangs, nor questioned then her will.
So, lost in thought, scarce conscious of the deed,
Culling the violets, here and there he crept
Slowly-ah! Slowly-for his would bleed:
And the sweet flowers themselves half smiled, half wept,
To be thus gathered in
By hands so pale and thin,
By fingers trembling as they neatly laid 
Stem upon stem, and bound them in a braid.
The strangest poesy e'er fashioned yet
Was clasped against the bosom of the lad,
As we, the seekers for the wounded, set
His form upon our shoulders, bowed and sad;
Though he but seemed to think
How violets nod and wink;
As we then cheered him, for the path was wild-
He only looked upon his flowers, and smiled.
ANGELS OF MERCY.
In this conflict, where the Nation
Bares its arm in deadly strife
With the hell-engendered treason
Madly grappling at its life-
Oft shall Nature's voice be smothered,
While the <illegible> passions rage;
Oft the noble-hearted vainly
War with-subtle <illegible> wage.
Many a mother's heart shall sicken,
Many a stricken widow weep,
For the loved who, unrecorded,
On the field of battle sleep.
In the struggle yet believe not
Kindlier feelings have no share;
There are messengers of mercy!
There are pitying angels there!
When the battle-cry no longer
Thrills the soldier's life-blood warm,
But where, all unnerved and <illegible>,
<illegible> lies his stricken form-
'Mid the scenes of pain and anguish,
Ghastly wounds, diseases dread,
Where no kindred form is bending
O'er the dying and the dead-
Minist' ring with courage saintly,
Where the heart of man would quail,
There is many an Abby Gibbons,
Many a Florence Nightingale.
When the contest, now so deadly,
Shall have spent its rage at last,
And its thrilling history only
Shall be history of the past-
Many a name shall live in story,
Many a brave have won renown;
But if angels weave a chaplet,
Woman's brow shall wear the crown!
-N. Y. Christian Inquirer.
JENNY AND JAMIE.
A POEM FOR THE LOYAL WOMEN.
Jenny in fine array,
Jamie so far away;
Jenny in silken attire,
Jamie in muck and mire;
Jenny with full and plenty to eat,
Jamie without a morsel of meat.
Jenny must needs have diamonds to wear,
<illegible> and feathers, and gems for her hair;
Jamie's clothes are tattered and torn,
His luckless boots so cut up and worn,
That he thinks with dismay
On the fast-coming day
When "upper" and "sole" will both give way.
Oh, Jenny! just think
That we're on the brink
Of a struggle most mighty and fearful;
And that soon Jamie's head
May lie midst the dead,
On a field so pitifully dreadful.
Then give us your diamonds, your silks, and your laces,
Throw by all your follies, and <illegible> all your races
After fashion and dress;
And strive to think less
Of what you will buy;
And more, how you'll try
To bear your own share
In sorrow and care,
That darkens our nation, once blest;
And <illegible> pray
That bright peace soon may
Shine on Jamie, and all of the rest.
—Philadelphia Press.
THANKSGIVING.
All that Spring with bounteous hand
Scatters o'er the milling land,
All the plenty Summer pours,
Autumn's rich, o'er flowing stores:-
Lord, for these our souls shall raise
Grateful vows and solemn praise.
<c02>
FORM VERSUS SUBSTANCE.
Well, we have had our Fast, so-called. We may thank the progress of civilization, rather than any reformatory character in our religious teachers, that this is now a figurative and not a literal observance; and that men no longer think it necessary to go without their dinners, with the expectation of there-by appeasing the anger of their Creator. The consecrated name is still retained, but the altered usage is gradually displacing the meaning of the word, so that, if the observance now in vogue should last half a century  more, only antiquarians will know that the Sandwich-Island idea called "taboo" was  applied with conscientious earnestness by the New England professors of piety, as an exercise and manifestation of piety, to the dinner of one Thursday in every year.
The chief stress is now laid, by the publishers and inculcators of this observance, upon “humiliation and prayer”; the celebration held on Thursday, the 4th of August, followed a Proclamation made by the President of the United States, in accordance with the request of the two Houses of Congress that such observance should be held; and the specified purposes of this "humiliation and prayer" were the speedy suppression of the existing rebellion, and a maintenance of this nation, entire and complete as hereto fore, among the family of nations.
Such was the official appointment. In consequence of this it came to pass, that a considerable number of "houses of worship" were opened for prayer and preaching on Thursday, the fourth of August, and a twentieth part (more or less) of the population resorted to them, the remainder using the occasion as a holiday, for rest or recreation.
The former of these classes thought the latter censurable for their failure to unite in the devotional services, and will (very sincerely, I believe,) attribute the continuance of the rebellion, and the delay of success to the Federal arms, to this very want of national unanimity in "humiliation and prayer." It is worth our while to inquire Are they right in this idea? If the whole of this people, magistrates and citizens, men and women, soldiers and civilians, had spent the whole of that Thursday in accusing themselves as miserable sinners, and in importunate petitions that God would overthrow the rebellion for them, would it have been overthrown by this time? Would it be any nearer to overthrow? It is worth our while to consider this question.
There is one mode in which we could certainly have conquered the rebels, and extinguished the rebellion, in any one of the three years, perhaps in any one of the seven half-years, during which we have been ineffectually waging war. Moreover, by this same method we might still gain this victory, certainly in a year, probably in six months, from the earnest and hearty beginning of attempt at it.
The rebels being fewer in number, lower in intelligence, and inferior in prosperity, credit and present resources to the people of the United States, how is it that they have not already been conquered? The reason is, that for a long time we avoided touching, and we still avoid fully and freely using, our chief means of advantage over them.
The rebellion was caused by slavery. It is owing to slavery that the rebellious States, with immense natural advantages of soil and climate, have continued to deteriorate from the beginning, even while they held special privileges from the Government, and bent the laws, institutions and customs of the nation into accomplice ship with their favorite vice.  They have always been allowed to make slavery predominant, but this did not suffice them. Their ambition was to make it supreme. After many unsuccessful efforts to this end, they at last used rebellion as a feint, expecting to gain further concession from us as the price of their return. Despair and hatred have now led them really to desire separation; but originally this was proposed as a means, not as an end.
It is unnecessary to describe, at length, the various ways by which slaveholding depraved, perverted, demoralized, weakened and besotted the class which practiced it. I will mention here but two of these sources of weakness.
First, slavery is wrong; a sin against God, a crime against man. Prosperity is impossible to it, under the divine laws which regulate the universe. In oppressing and degrading his victim, the slaveholder necessarily, inevitably, degrades and perverts himself. His welfare is impossible under God's providence. All the sublime forces of right, justice, holiness, take part with the oppressed against the oppressor.
Next, from the very nature of slavery, it is a state of war, and maintains a class of enemies within its bosom. All the interests of the slave are naturally and necessarily opposed to those of the master. The enemies of the master, other things being equal, are friends and allies of the slave. An intelligent enemy of the master would, other things being equal, offer friendship and alliance to the slave, as the most efficient partner in his warfare.
Now look at the enormous, overwhelming strength of the position which the United States might have taken at the commencement of the rebellion, or at any subsequent period down to the present moment.
As soon as an act of war on the part of the rebels had invested the Government of the United States with extraordinary and unaccustomed powers, Government might have gained for itself, by a single act, and a course of policy accordant with it, two immense advantages, sufficient, of themselves, to make a speedy end of the rebellion.
This act of the Executive, demanded alike by justice and policy, should have been immediately to invite the slaves, and their colored kindred throughout the country, to take part with the Government and the nation in its struggle, assuring to them, by open declaration before the world, the protection and cooperation of that Government during the war, and their elevation to citizenship and equality before the law as soon as peace should be restored.
What would have been accomplished by this act?
First, and chiefly, the Government and the nation would have placed themselves, so, far, in the right; on God's side; in conformity with the laws of the universe; in accord with the reason and conscience of man; in the course naturally tending to solid and permanent welfare.
Next, instantaneously placing the wishes and interests of every black man and woman in opposition to the rebellion and in favor of the Government, this step would have gained for us, at once, an immense advantage, in one of these two ways; either, compelling large bodies of slaveholders to remain in their respective localities to keep the negroes in subjection, it would have prevented that concentration of rebel troops at their prominent points of defence which has hitherto been the chief obstacle to our armies; or, if the rebels found it indispensable to draw men from the interior in sufficient numbers to defend their borders, a force of able-bodied negroes from that interior would soon have been pressing upon their rear, and giving the most efficient aid to Federal forces on the other side. So far from making raids into free States, the rebels must of necessity have kept on contracting their lines, and relinquishing more and more of their Northern border, their Gulf and Atlantic coasts, and their Mississippi river, to our advancing forces. All these contracting border lines would have been crossed, as opportunity offered, by fugitive slaves, bringing us not only the strength of their free arms and loyal hearts, but information of priceless worth about the position, forces and resources of the enemy.  And, in these circumstances, the labors of slaves for their masters having ceased except where a white force remained sufficient in number to compel them, the supplies of rebel  armies and of rebel households would long since have been exhausted, and the rebellion-would have come to an end by starvation long since, without a tithe of the looses, in men
<c03>
and money, in character and credit, in body, mind and soul, which we have now suffered.
Well, our rulers were not wise or good enough to do this, and our people were not wise or good enough to demand it of them. We are now in the fourth year of the contest, which  seems nowhere near a conclusion. Both sides have frequently conquered in battle, neither have yet achieved victory in war. Forced by necessity into several meager and grudging instalments of alliance with our black countrymen, we have never had either the wit or the manliness to make that alliance perfect and effective by offering them friendship and justice. This course, be it remembered, is still in our power, still as possible and desirable as ever, still offering a speedy and certain victory over the rebels; only, we do not choose to take it.
These things being so, is anything to be gained by the formal (or even the hearty and unanimous) observance of a day of "humiliation and prayer”? Let us look at it.        We are credibly assured that, in God's sight, obedience is better than sacrifice or ceremonial observance; and that love to Him is properly shown by doing the things that He has commanded. Nobody doubts that we have acquired and merited His displeasure by our ill-treatment of the negro. Hypocritically pretending to be Democrats, we have trampled upon the weak and ground the face of the poor. Hypocritically pretending to be Christians, we have enslaved our brother, made of one blood with us, in the image of God. The way to get out of this vicious position is to change our course of action ; to cease from doing evil and learn to do well; to cease from doing the particular evil in question, and begin to do the particular duty in question.
How is a pickpocket to cease from doing evil and begin to do well? Is he to go on pilgrimage, say six hundred Pater Nosters, give half of his stolen goods to the poor, build a church, go as a missionary to the heathen, or hold with himself a day of "humiliation and prayer”? Nothing of the sort. He is to restore the stolen goods to the owners. And every hour that he spends by himself in humiliation and prayer while those owners are within his reach, is so much deliberate persistence in his fraud. While he keeps his grasp upon the stolen property, he is condemned; under sentence and undergoing execution; to him one thing is needful; no amount of miscellaneous good works, of any good works except the one, will avail him.
Shall a nation double-dyed in sin-blood-red with one particular species of guilt-pause before making restitution to hold a day of humiliation and prayer? nay, worse! offer a day of humiliation and prayer instead of making restitution? Folly and wickedness! It is iniquity, even the solemn meeting."
“It is instructive, nevertheless, to hear what use the shepherds of the people make of these  occasions. On the Fast-day in question, I went to the church of one of the best of them, who took occasion to bestow emphatic eulogy on the resolution of Congress requesting the appointment of that day, and suggesting the purposes for which it should be observed.  He thought this specification of purposes appropriate and excellent, and was particularly pleased with that one of them which is italicized below. Here are the objects for which the people are invited to assemble:-
“To confess and to repent of their manifold sins, to implore the compassion and forgiveness of the Almighty, that if consistent with His will the existing rebellion may be speedily suppressed, and the supremacy of the Constitution and laws of the United States may be established throughout all the States; to implore Him, as the Supreme Ruler, not to destroy us as a people, nor suffer us to be destroyed by the hostility or connivance of other nations, or by obstinate adherence to our own counsels, which may be in conflict with His eternal purposes; and to implore Him to enlighten the mind of the nation to know and do His will, humbly believing that it is in accordance with His will that our place should be maintained as a united people among the family of nations; to implore Him to grant to our armed defenders and the masses of the people that courage, power of resistance, and endurance necessary to secure that result; to implore Him, in his infinite goodness, to soften the hearts, enlighten the minds, and quicken the consciences of those in rebellion, that they may lay down their arms and speedily return to the allegiance of the United States, that they may not be utterly destroyed, that the effusion of blood may be stayed, and that unity and fraternity may be restored, and peace established throughout our borders." 
To me this action of Congress seems very far from satisfactory, and the clause specially praised seems to me specially objectionable. To ask God to suppress this rebellion when the sufficient means for its suppression lie unused in our own hands is like the lazy wagonner's petition to Hercules, of which <illegible> tells us; a piece of presumptuous impertinence. The inappropriateness of this request is aggravated by the fact that the two Houses of Congress which passed the resolution, and the President who issued his Proclamation in accordance with it, are the very powers whose function it was to do the thing which they ask the people to ask God to do. It was within the legitimate function of those two authorities, or of either of them, to pass an act abolishing slavery and establishing freedom throughout the land, and making such overtures of justice and friendship to the colored people as would certainly have wrought to the speedy over throw of the rebellion. Under these circumstances, and with the knowledge which both these powers possess, first, of the pernicious influence of slavery upon our nation, and next of the direct and efficient support given to that wickedness by their predecessors in the Legislative and Executive chairs, it was the height of hypocrisy and presumption for them to propose to the people the hypothetical confession italicized above, suggesting that the nation's maintenance of slavery and caste from the beginning to the present moment may be in conflict with God's commands and purposes. The President knew, and Congress knew, the reality and thoroughness of that conflict. For criminals at the bar, with the stolen money in their pockets, to say to the Judge-” If we are guilty, be pleased to convince us of it, and dispose us to make restitution”-is not penitence, but impudent audacity.
The sum of the matter seems to be, that this Fast, like all the ceremonies of humiliation performed by our oppressive nation, is the offering to God of a complimentary formality in place of the discharge of that duty which we know to be incumbent on us. Surely this is not the fast that He has chosen.- K. W.

THE CLERGY AND THE CHURCH.
CONCORD, (N. H.) August 4,1864.
EDITOR, LIBERATOR,- We listened this (Fast day) morning to an excellent discourse by Rev. Dr. Bouton on the condition of the country, and the duty of the people at the present critical period. He rebuked in strong terms those who are continually finding fault with the President and the government for all the reverses which we meet with, and all the evils that are experienced by reason of the continuance of the war; and also those who are for "peace on any terms." He was not for a peace that might be obtained by a division of the country, and the setting up of a government whose foundation should be human slavery, which had been the sole cause of the terrible conflict now raging. The sermon was truly patriotic, full of faith in the final success of the right, and the crushing of the rebellion.
The Doctor did not tell his congregation who he thought were most responsible for the rapid growth of the system which had been the cause of so much suffering and sorrow in our land; but he did not show any disposition to clear ministers or church-members from their share of the responsibility; and I think he would not agree with Dr. Stebbins, (mentioned in your paper a week or two since,) that "ministers as a class" foresaw the consequences of our alliance with the great national sin, and with prophetic foresight announced the solemn doom which awaited the trampling down of the indestructible rights of man.” I wished that he might come a little nearer home,
<c04>
and give his views more fully on that part of the subject; for we fully believe that “ministers as a class," with a few honorable exceptions, and church members or professed Christians, are in reality the most responsible for the rapid growth of the Slave Power, and the dreadful consequences which we are now experiencing. I will give my reasons for so believing.
Christ said to his disciples, and through them to all Christians, "Ye are the salt of the earth; but if the salt have lost its savor, it is good for nothing," &c. Again- “Ye are the light of the world: a city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Let your light so shine before men that others may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.” Now, if the salt had not lost its savor, would there not have been enough among the tens of thousands of ministers, and the hundreds of thousands of the professed followers of Christ, to have saved this nation from the crime that has brought all this evil upon us? And if they had possessed the true light of the gospel, and had let that light so shine among men as to lead others to glorify their Father in heaven, would it not long ago have dispelled the worse than heathenish darkness, prejudice and sin that have disgraced us as a nation? But the light in them was darkness-and how great that darkness!
We well remember when that noblest of Christian patriots and statesmen, GEORGE  THOMPSON, was hunted by a mob in this city of Concord, composed in part of members of the church, and upheld and encouraged by a majority of the ministers and church-members. We remember how he was denounced by the Rev. Dr. Wilbur Fisk, then President of the Wesleyan University, as a "bankrupt in character and purse;" and by the Hon. Isaac Hill as a " fugitive from justice."
But, to come down to a later period. We could mention scores of instances within the last twelve years, where antislavery speakers-some of them ministers in regular standing-have been denied the use of churches, and other places of worship.
Some ten years since, in an adjoining town, we were appointed a committee to invite a clergyman to deliver an evening lecture on the subject of slavery, selecting a text from the Bible, making it a religious discourse. The first man we invited was the Congregational minister of the village; and his reply was, that "it was rather a delicate subject," and as he had not been long in the place, and did not know the minds of the people on that subject, he would rather not say any thing about it. The next one invited was the Methodist minister who was then preaching in the place; and he replied that he would either deliver it himself, or procure some one of the students at the Methodist Biblical Institute in this city to deliver it, as there was a large number of good speakers among them; but, after giving them all an invitation, he was obliged to fulfill his engagement himself. It was such a "delicate subject," that not one could be found with sufficient courage to venture upon it. But Rev. Mr. Piper (the Methodist minister) delivered an excellent discourse, doing himself credit and justice to his subject;  notwithstanding the Presiding Elder of the District told him that, if he had been a member of Conference, he should not have given his consent for him to speak on that subject. “Then," said Mr. Piper, "I should not belong to the Conference, if I could not have liberty to preach what I believe to be the truth." “Well," said the Elder, "perhaps you can say 'Nigger' without displeasing some one, but there are not many who can." We have never been able to look upon the Elder since as any thing but a coward and hypocrite.
A Baptist D.D. in this city, three or four years since, in giving out an appointment for Fast day, said that he should not preach a political, but a purely gospel sermon. We did not hear the sermon, but have no doubt it was satisfactory to a portion of his hearers, who were notoriously pro-slavery and abolition haters.
Since the commencement of the war, and within the last two years, this same D.D. gave notice in the public prints, that on a certain Sabbath he would preach a discourse on the condition of the country, the causes of our present calamities, &c. Having a desire to hear him, we attended. He said that nations were punished for their sins as well as individuals, and this nation was now suffering on account of its wickedness. He proceeded to point out some of the sins which had been the cause of our present troubles, such as the love of riches, pride, intemperance, profanity, Sabbath-breaking, staying away from public worship. This last-named sin was prevailing to an alarming extent among professors, and even in his own church and society. Among other things might be mentioned the system of slavery; but perhaps enough had been said on that subject, and he did not propose to discuss it! Here was the "delicate subject" which "ministers as a class" have been so much afraid of, that when they have looked on it, they have, like the priest and Levite, passed by on the other side. His discourse was a poor substitute for a bold and fearless utterance for truth, justice, liberty and humanity, which we had a right to expect on such an occasion. We must confess that we left the house with less faith in "ministers as a class" than ever before. But there are a few who have been true, firm and faithful, through all the storms of persecution that have raged around them. Their reward is sure. N. W. GOVE.
PERSONAL REFERENCES.
Let me state a fact that reflects honor upon a really great man. Dr. Lushington, both as a lawyer and an advocate of emancipation, has a reputation certainly not second to that of Lord Brougham. He is as old as his once illustrious colleague; but, unlike him, his intellect has lost none of its brightness or vigor. A year after William Craft's arrival in England, he acted as godfather to his infant son, the other sponsor being Lady Byron.  When the life, as well as the liberty, of John Anderson, the fugitive slave, was in jeopardy, he manifested the most lively interest in the case, and co-operated with his old associates, of the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society to obtain Anderson's release. And, to the honor of his family, I must say that his son was one of the first to join the Emancipation Society. Dr. Lushington has always avowed his sympathy with the Federals, and his detestation of the Confederate cause. The other day he attended a banquet at the Fishmongers' Hall, and made a speech denunciatory of the slaveholders, which fairly astonished some of the gentry who, at a previous dinner, had given an ovation to Mason, the rebel envoy. But, mark! not a word of this speech was printed; only one reporter is allowed to attend the dinner at Fishmongers' Hall, and, although be must perforce send copies of his report to all the papers, he is still in a position to suppress anything that may offend his patrons. Although I am unable to send you a report of Dr. Lushington's speech, I thought it only just that you should have an opportunity of giving him credit for the good word which he has spoken in season. While he is living, the garrulous Brougham has no right to speak as the sole representative of the anti-slavery men of Clarkson and Wilberforce's time.
Mr. G. A. Sala is, I perceive, a contributor to The Atlantic Monthly. I wonder whether the distinguished gentlemen who conduct that periodical are in the habit of reading Mr. Sala's letters to The Daily Telegraph, or whether it is agreeable to them to have their country and institutions caricatured, and the women, as well, as the men, of America buffooned. You know what Mr. Sala's style is: it is the grotesque. He can see nothing as it really is -only the ill-shapen figures to which an eccentric imagination has given the semblance of life. In all that he ever wrote, one sees the exaggeration of language and the same <illegible> of thought, and description. He aims to be a humorist; but so does the ape when he imitates the grimaces of his master. He pretends to be fair in his descriptions of American life; so did that Japanese traveller who, on returning to his own country, gave the ladies a bad name because they wore crinoline and danced at evening parties. His libels on American women were scandalous, and I regret to say he has not improved since his return from Mexico. His last
<c05>
performance has been to write none or ten columns of insufferable twaddle about the Fourth of July, his object being to excite the utmost possible amount of vulgar merriment at your expense. I don’t want to fill your columns with the off coursings of Mr. Sala’s pen; but here are a few sentences which you ought to have the benefit of. He writes:
“I have ever had the greatest difficulty in persuading myself that the coarse, vulgar, bearded man who occupies the rostrum in American Dissenting churches-now spouting like an auctioneer, now like a strolling player, now lolling in an armed chair while the hymn is being sung-was a priest of any creed. This, of course, arises from prejudice, and from having been brought up in the Church of England. To prejudiced persons the services of the church should be, to a certain extent, a mystery, and elevated far beyond the petty environments of daily life. Prejudiced persons look upon the <illegible> as the priest as a man set apart. When their priest is a funny priest, or an abusive priest, they are apt-in their prejudices-to look upon him, not with admiration, but with horror. There is nothing mysterious about the religion of the masses here. The ‘Episcopal Methodists' have ‘hot turkey supper celebrations;' and the ‘Church of the Holy Trinity’ advertises a ‘clam-bake feast and strawberry ice cream festival.' The pulpits are draped in party flags, the preacher reeks from last night's stump oratory, and the printer's devil is waiting with the proof of his last political sermon to be inserted in next week’s Independent.  Everybody is familiar with the Scriptures; and scriptural jokes, of the most abominably blasphemous kind, are the choicest pearls in the garland of American humor. In fact, the money-changers have got into the temple, and there are no means of driving them out; but then the Priests and Levites have in their turn gone down town, and are great in Wall street and at Tammany."
With this rich morsel from Mr. Sala's last letter, I leave that worthy gentleman, thanking him, in return, for the information which he communicates, that there are in America " Dissenting churches;" and, as a quid pro quo, reminding him that, as Manhattan is dead, he might add to his income by writing to The Standard as well as The Telegraph. No man is better fitted to do Manhattan's peculiar work.
Judge Winter, of Georgia, who has settled an annuity of ten pounds a year upon the widow of Mr. Washington Wilks, is one of the most loyal Americans I ever met.  Although formerly a slaveholder, he is now a consistent Abolitionist; and the public testimony he has repeatedly borne to his change of opinions and to the strength of his attachment to the Union has carried more weight with it than the arguments of twenty Northerners would have done. No American in England has established a greater claim to the gratitude of his countrymen.-London corr. N.Y. Independent.
BARBAROUS TREATMENT OF SLAVES IN KENTUCKY.
Many of the good people of the free States are inclined to be rather incredulous in reference to the reports of the barbarous treatment of slaves by their inhuman masters in the far South, and still try to cover up their dark deeds of villany to keep them from the public gaze. But we propose to give a few instances of the same kind a little nearer home.- The first instance was related in this town a few hours after it occurred, by a young man who has always been pro-slavery in his feeling, and a strong sympathizer with the South. The scene occurred in Kentucky-chivalrous Kentucky. Just across the river from Newberg, Ind., there lives a man by the name of George Hill, who owns a large farm and a number of negroes. To the latter, however, he has only a thief's title. One of these negroes expressed a determination to leave his master, and join the Federal army.  By some means Hill found-out the intentions of the man, and at once determined to prevent it. It was Sabbath morning that he got the news, and at 10 o'clock he took the poor fellow, stripped and tied him, then took a strap of leather about two feet and a half long, and an inch and a half broad. This he perforated with holes, and cut notches like saw-teeth on the edges, then dipping it into salt brine, proceeded to the brutal work of whipping. Of course, every stroke of such an instrument would produce a horrible blood-blister. Thus he continued, stopping only at intervals to rest himself, until four o'clock in the afternoon, and how much longer we know not, for our informant, who was in the employ of Hill, grew sick at the frightful scene, and left the place, to return no more.  During these six hours he could not help evincing strong sympathy for the poor, suffering one; and for this Hill, with bitter oaths, frequently threatened him with similar treatment.  A short time previous to this, an older brother of Hill's undertook to whip a negro for some trivial offence, and the negro, thinking that kind of work about, played out, offered resistance, whereupon Hill took his rifle and shot him. Fortunately, however, the wound was slight, and the man recovered, and is now in the Union army. Now these men have talked hard and cursed bitterly against a certain imaginary party of amalgamationists in the North, and at the same time they are holding, working, and abusing as slaves their own half-brothers and half-sisters; children that their father raised by a black woman after he and his wife had separated. This is slavery as it is; not as it might be. And a person would suppose that such men as these would be the last ones to say aught against amalgamation.
Our second scene was in the same community, and, if possible, more horrible than the first, and is equally as well authenticated, being related by an eye-witness: A man, familiarly known as Corneel McCormick, an overseer for John McCormick, took a negro woman, stripped and tied her, and then proceeded to whip her until he completely exhausted his strength at the fiendish work. Then, after resting himself, he took two little boys, tied them with ropes around the wrists, then hung them up two feet above the ground, stripped them, and then whipped the little fellows until they were so near dead they could not cry. These things are done in Kentucky, where slavery is said to exist in its mildest form-if so, I pity the worst form. If a man in this community were to tie up his horse or ox, and wantonly beat him to death, the curses of a justly indignant community would rest upon him. But a demon in human shape can tie up a man his brother, his equal, nay, in humanity his superior-and beat him to death, and cast aside his carcase as he would that of a hog, and then walk forth into the community as a gentleman of high standing and a clever fellow.- And I am sorry to say that there are men in all the free States that are so devoid of all the principles of moral honesty, justice, and humanity, to say nothing of virtue and religion, that they can unblushingly advocate the perpetuity of this most abominable of all systems known in the catalogue of infamy.
NEW CONSTITUTION OF LOUISIANA.
The new Constitution of Louisiana, adopted in convention July 23, is divided into fifteen titles, and each title into several articles. The preamble is embraced in two lines, and simply declares that the people of Louisiana "do ordain and establish this Constitution."  Title the first declares Slavery and involuntary servitude, except as a punishment of crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, forever abolished and prohibited throughout the State, and prohibits the Legislature from ever recognizing property in man. A temporary apportionment is made of 118 Representatives, of which New Orleans has 44. The State is also divided into Senatorial Districts, which are to elect 36 Senators.  These apportionments, however, will be changed periodically, as the census shall show changes in the population. Every white male who has attained the age of 21 years, and who has been a resident of the State twelve months next preceding the election, and the last three months thereof in the parish in which he offers to vote, and who shall be a citizen of the United States, shall have the right of voting. The Legislature shall have power to extend the right of suffrage to such other persons, citizens of the United States, as by military service, by taxation to support the Government, or by intellectual fitness, may be deemed entitled thereto. The Legislature is required to make provision for the education of all children of the State between the ages of six and eighteen years, by the maintenance of free public schools by taxation or otherwise.”
Henry Richards' “Life of Joseph Sturge," lately published in London, is a large volume of over six hundred pages, and closes with Whittier's memorial lines of Sturge, beginning 
“By <illegible> -.”
It illicits much criticism, both as a literary work and from the eccentricities of the subject-the really amusing mistakes sometimes made by Mr. Sturge, not withstanding his really eminent philanthropy.
<c06>
DESERVED COMPLIMENT. Mr. J.H. Robbins, of this village, returned home from Northampton last week, having been engaged for some time past on the imitation painting and graining of a $30,000 school building in that town. By his skill, neighbor Robbins has won an enviable reputation in his line of business in Western Massachusetts, as he does all over the country, wherever his services are called inin to requisition. The Northampton Free Press, in a description of the building upon which Mr. Robbins has
been engaged, thus speaks of his work:-
“I.R. Jones did the painting, and his former employer, J.H. Robbins, of Harwich, who is one of the best workmen in the State, the graining. The graining was done by the Adams patent process, a great improvement over the old method. It is peculiarly neat, and the imitation of oak is so good that it is difficult to detect it from the original wood that it is intended to represent."
Mr. Robbins has from an early period been one of the most reliable and active abolitionists of the Cape. He always does his work well.
DELIRIUM <illegible>. The Syracuse Courier, a New York Copperhead organ, badly snake bitten, and with snakes in its head as well as in its boots, raves as follows in the midst of a long editorial on Lincoln's re-nomination:-
"Ye minions of power! Ye slaves to profit! Ye servile parasites and fanatics! Ye mockers! Ye worshippers of Mammon! Ye tyrants who harden your hearts! Ye devils incarnate, who with hearts of adamant and fearless eyes drag hundreds of thousands to your slaughter-pens, and demand the extermination of millions more of the very brothers of your blood-tremble! Tremble in view of a speedy day of retribution! Avaunt, ye fiends in human form! Avaunt, and hide ye from the wrath to come while ye may! Fly ye to the mountains while ye may! With what measure ye mete, it shall be meted to you again, brimful and running over!"
<illegible> tremens isn't a circumstance to the above!
PAPER CURRENCY. Senator Sherman, of Ohio, in referring to Secretary <illegible> and the finances, says:-
"We have reached the limit of paper money, and will hear no more about inflated currency. Those among you who will transact business on the ides that the currency of the country is to disappear like the assignmants of the French Revolution, will surely meet ruin and disaster. This country can carry on the war on the present basis of expenditure without borrowing from any traitor, croaker or coward, and although the debt we may impose on posterity will be large, very large, yet we must remember that every ten years doubles our ability to pay."
NEGRO BURNED AT THE STAKE. A case of barbarous punishment occurred recently in the vicinity of Saccapatory, a village a mile or two from Bradford, which would be incredible were it not supported by the testimony of eye-witnesses, and had not slavery and secession together turned men into friends. A negro, charged with having killed his master, was arrested by the citizens of the neighborhood, tied to a tree, and burned to death. His torture was, no doubt mitigated by the very means used to make it severe. Dry pitch pine was piled up closely around him, which burned so rapidly, and poured out such a dense smoke that he was almost instantly suffocated.
A GOOD MAN FALLEN. With sincere sorrow we announce the death of the Rev. Duncan Dunbar, <illegible> of the McDougal street Baptist Church, of this city. He died on Saturday morning last, July 30th, at the age of seventy three years. The cause of God and humanity has lost a sincere, able and ardent friend. He was well known throughout the country in other denominations as well as our own, and beloved by all who knew him. He leaves to his weeping children the rich inheritance of a memory of a life of unsurpassed loveliness and an unsullied character. 
-American Baptist.
Gov. Andrew has received a rude boat made by a contraband named Jack Flowers, who sailed in it through the rebel picket lines three miles, and thus escaped to freedom at Beaufort, S. C. The <illegible> is made of a rice basket, the bottom of which was tarred over, after which pieces of board were attached to it, making a flat bottom, and a very good-looking but rather fragile boat to put to sea in. The contraband sent the boat to the Fair at Philadelphia, with the following inscription: "A Freedman's Gift to the Great Central Fair held at Philadelphia, being all that he possessed." The boat was transmitted by Gen. Saxton, U. S. A.
SOUTHERNERS IN NEW YORK. The city swarms with men and women from the Southern States-refugees, blockade-runners, spies, released prisoners of war, secession speculators, relatives of rebel officers, and others. Some of them speculate in gold-some of them keep boarding-houses-some of them live upon the charity of their acquaintances, and a majority of them exert the utmost of their efforts to discourage enlistments, lower the tone of patriotism, and give all the aid and comfort they can to the enemy. When it is possible to send contraband news to the rebels, they do so, at any risk or cost. They do the trading with disloyal merchants, and send shiploads of goods to blockaded ports. They are the principal operators in the money market, and the rise in the price of gold is <illegible> chiefly to their exertions.- N. Y. Tribune.
The only merit we can discover in the Baltimore ticket is the merit of consistency; it is all of a piece; the tail does not shame the head, nor the head shame the tail. A rail-splitting buffoon and a boorish tailor, both from the backwoods, both growing up in uncouth ignorance, they would afford a grotesque subject for a satiric poet, who might celebrate them in such strains as Dean Swift bestowed on Whiston and Ditton, or Aristophanes on that servile demagogue, Hyperbolus. We degrade our highest office, as the free republics of antiquity scorned to degrade even their political punishments. New York World.
Vice President Hamlin has enlisted as a private in the Maine State Guard. People will be rejoiced to know that one abolition official has at length found his level. With old Abe as groom for the commanding officer, the Maine State Guards would have at least two men who would be exactly fitted for the position they would occupy.- Chicago Times.
These are choice specimens of Copperhead democracy. Look at them, working men of the land!
Mr. Sumner made a proposition in the late Congress to incorporate two national academies, one of literature and art, and the other of moral and political sciences. Bryant, Church, Dans, Holmes, Curtis, Emerson, Prof. Whitney of Yale, and such, are the proposed corporators of the first; while among those of the last are Beecher, Phillips, Bancroft, Dr. Horne, Edward Everett, Gen. Halleck and Prot H. B. Smith, of New York.
The contrabands and refugees in the city of St. Louis now number 10,000. The chief quartermaster, Col. Myers, is having immense wooden barracks put up for their accommodation.
THE HOTTEST DAY IN TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS.- Prof. Snell, of Amherst College, who has kept meteorological register for twenty-eight years, says that Monday, the 1st August, was the hottest day during that period.
A GOOD RIDDANCE. Within the past forty-eight hours, Richmond has been relieved of the presence of over 3,000 Yankee prisoners. About 1,000 remain, but they will soon follow their brethren. The number of Yankee wounded in the hospitals in Richmond is about 1,260, but they are dying at a pretty rapid rate per day.-Richmond paper.
BELLE ISLE. This Yankee resort has been reopened again, and some hundreds of prisoners of war in Richmond have been sent there for safe keeping.-Lb.
Colley Grattan, the English orator, artist, M.P. and dramatist, whose death was recorded recently, has left the stage a "thrilling" <illegible> in which a negress is the heroine.
<illegible> Charles Stewart, "Old <illegible>," has completed his eighty-sixth year, and he is yet as active and cheerful as a man of fifty.
General <illegible> has banished from his department to the Southern Confederacy, Mrs. Nina E. Hough, who carried on her person a piece of a Union soldier's skull, and who under oath exhibited a levity and disregard of truth unworthy of a <illegible>.
An Atlanta paper boasts that there are now not less than a hundred officers in active rebel service with but one leg a-piece.
A law has just been enacted in <illegible> which permits any <illegible> inflict twenty-five <illegible> on every man or woman on his estate, at discretion. Is Germany retrograding?
A New Orleans letter to the N. Y. Herald states that Judge Handlin has been removed from the bench by Gov. Hahn for deciding that slavery still existed in Louisiana.
On the 10th of June, the Crystal Palace had been open ten years. During that period it has been visited by the extraordinary number of over fifteen million and a quarter of persons.
