THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT THE-
ANTISLAVERY OFFICE, 21 CORNHILL.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed,(POST PAID), to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for $1.00.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentleman constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, ENSUND QUINCY, SAMUEL PHILBRICK, AND WENDELL PEILLIPS.
WM, LLOYD GARRISON, Editor
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printer.
VOL. XXIX NO. 47 BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1508.
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
THE GUILTY PARTIES.
Violated laws and murdered citizens demand a victim at the hand of justice; if Brown is a crazed fanatic, irresponsible either in morals or law, there are yet guilty parties. He is then the agent of wicked principals. If the Northern people believe Brown insane, what punishment is due to those who have poisoned his mind with the ‘irrepressible conflict,’ and spurred his fanaticism to deeds of blood and carnage? He may be insane, but here are other criminals, guilty wretches, who instigated the crimes perpetrated at Harper's Ferry. Bring Seward, Greeley, Giddings, Hale and Smith, to the jurisdiction of Virginia, and Brown and his deluded victims in the Charlestown jail may hope for pardon. In the opinion of Virginia, the five Republican leaders above mentioned are more guilty than John Brown and his associates. An ignorant fanaticism may be pleaded is palliation of the crime of Brown, but the five Republican leaders would spurn such a stultifying plea! They would not compromise their intelligence even at the cost of their morality. Let the friends of Brown, let all those who believe him insane, and all who intend to represent him as a crazy fanatic, for whose folly no party is responsible, deliver up Seward, Greeley, Giddings, Hale and Smith. A fair trial, at their own time, with their own counsel, will be freely given them, and if Virginia does not find them guilty, they, too, shall go unhurt.-Richmond Enquirer.

THE INSURRECTION.
We are somewhat surprised that the people of the South have so calmly and dispassionately viewed the Harper's Ferry insurrection. When the news reached our ears, the warm, southern blood, boiled in our veins, and we thought then, that ‘spirits form the vastly deep' had been called in to requisition by them, to aid them in their hellish designs. That Brown, even backed by Giddings and others, should have the audacity to attempt such an outrage, was foreign to our mind. No matter how clandestinely the plan was formed-how secretly and faithfully they were executed-this far-famed personage, who was ever ready to blow the horn belonging to the black cow, and to cry out ‘Freedom, Freedom,' when the Brown Bull bellowed, and the dust was seen flying in the air-when he faced the conflict-lo! and behold! this Honorable Gentleman was not in ‘the thickest of the fray.’
This riot is the blackest crime on the pages of American History, and the result of that favorite doctrine of that foul-hearted, slimy-mouthed Seward-the irrepressible conflict', and we presume that his followers are into an [in fact] 'irrepressible conflict.’
With Giddings, Gerrit Smith and others lent their aid in, and urged on, this mongrel conspiracy, for which, they richly deserve, and should receive, the same fate that awaits the ‘gallant Brown'.
The Press, generally, North and South, are down on the rebels, so far as we have been enabled to see, when we say Press North and South, we do not allude to those who know no other god but the deprivation of the rights of the people of the South of their interest, for, ‘Mene, Mene, tekel Upharsin' has already been recorded against them; but we allude to those who are true to the whole country.-Southern Diamond,(!) Dadeville, Alabama.

NO MERCY FOR JOHN BROWN.
The New York Journal of Commerce publishes the following extract of a letter form ‘a distinguished Southern gentleman to a friend in New York, in reply to a suggestion in favor of commuting Brown's sentence'-adding, ‘It shows how Southern men feel on the subject:'-
Brown and his fellow-traitors have committed a grievous crime against Southern peace and life, against the happiness and mutual confidence of two races, against the integrity of our Union. Death is the least punishment for any one of these crimes. Shall it be omitted for an offender against all law? Do so, and Abolition would yell ‘Craven' in our ears, the efforts would be repeated, our slaves would see it, and our peace be but for a moment.
Why is sympathy felt at the North for such a ruffian as Brown? Why is murder by him to be excused? Is it because it is for the down-trodden slave? Let us allow that plan and where are we?
He cannot be pardoned by the Governor without the Legislative action, and should not be with it.-
He has staked his life upon his wicked scheme of lawless murder, rapine, and rebellion. He has lost-and must pay the forfeit!
Your heart will say, ‘Amen.' You have let your generous impulse, to show Southern men magnanimous, make you forget that if we failed to be just, in order to be esteemed generous, we should lose character in the eyes of good men, and of God!
Excuse this hot-headed letter, as I fear you will term it. I do not want Brown's blood. I have no such feeling. If we could safely spare his wretched life, I would. But justice, not vengeance, requires his death, and without any feeling of compunction, but only from dread of his future and eternal state, I would, were it my official duty, unhesitatingly sign his death-warrant.
The ‘chances' of a dissolution of the Union begin to taper off into the creation of a Southern States Assembly, to devise measures of self-protection against Abolitionism. Says the Washington Star:
'That the Jouth can afford to live under a Government, the majority of whose subjects or citizens regard John Brown as a martyr and Christian here, rather than a murderer and robber, and act up to those sentiments, or countenance others in so doing, is a preposterous idea, as will be comprehended by all the North ere the end of the next session of Congress, in the course of which the chances are that, in pursuance of an address from nine-tenths of the Southern Senators and Representative, the Governors of the several slaveholding States will call together their respectives Legislatures, to authorize a regular election of a Southern-States Assembly, charged with the duties of devising measures of self protection against Abolitionism, the Governments of the Northern States being almost all of them in the hands of those whose political teachings have hatched all the mischief brewing to the future of the integrity of the Union. In view of the great Northern unanimity in sympathizing with Brown and fellow convicts, with the certain consequences of the general manifestation of that sentiment, that such action will be taken by the South is the opinion of almost every public man, of both parties, throughout the slaveholding States.'
We hope to assist in handing Mr. Brown to future generations as an abolition Republican, hang at Charlestown, State of Virginia, by southern slaveholders. It would also afford us <illegible> satisfaction to add to the list the name of Jeshua R Giddings, as one who, if living, could certify to the virtue of slave-grown hamp.-Canfield(S.C.) Sentinal.
<c02>
SATANIC ORTHODOXY ON JOHN BROWN.
From the New York Observer. 
There may be reasons of policy or expediency for commuting the settence. But we see nothing in al the nature of the crime, or the circumstances attending its commission, unless Brown was insane, to call for clemency in the case. On the contrary, in the deed, the object, the long, cool, deliberate, malignant, murderous calculation and perpetration with which it was planned, the blood-thirstiness with which they murdered the first negro who fell into?' their hands, the pertinacity with which they held out when their inhuman designs were baffled, the slaughter of unoffending citizens, and the avowed purpose to ravage the country and usurp the government, there is every element that goes to constitute he highest crime known to the laws of God and man. It is a moral wonder that any one, in his senses, who believes that a murderer ought to be put death, should doubt that these murderers deserve die. In every intelligent Christian mind there is a sense of right and wrong, that for a moment may be obscured by sympathy with suffering, so that it fails to utter itself correctly when it speaks, but the sober judgment of the Christian world responds to a he sentence which God and man have pronounced ft upon the murderer: ‘Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed.'
There are interests most awful to be contemplated, when we decide to extend sympathy and forgiveness such crimes as this! Where is law, where is safety, where is virtue, where is the distinction between right and wrong, where the difference between reward and punishment, if we are to pardon these men? Is there any crime known to the laws, or any circumstances under which crime can be committed, or any antecedents or consequents of crime that would call for the extremest punishment, which tree not pre-eminently present in this case?
From the Central (Richmond, Va. Presbyterian. 
We discover, with great regret, that some of the most conservatives journals at the North, which have taken the true ground on other points, are now contending that Brown and his associates are proper subjects for executive clemency. They say that a great chivalrous State like Virginia might forgive a poor old fanatic like Brown and his comrades, now that they have been defeated, tried and condemned. What does this mean? Here are a company of men who make a midnight assault upon unarmed and unoffending citizens; they seize upon the government arsenal; they place deadly weapons in the hands of the negroes, and incite them to butcher their masters; they murder several persons; they are arrested fairly tried, defended by counsel of their own choice, are convicted and condemned. Their guilt is not denied; nay, it is admitted to be complicated and aggravated; and yet, conservative journals appeal to executive clemency, and say let these men be, pardoned! And why? Because their execution will excite abolition sympathy! And this is the logic of these whimperers. Here is a band of traitors, robbers and murderers; they have been convicted of their, crime; they deserve to died-but pardon them; let them loose upon society again, for, it is argued, if the majesty of law is vindicated-if justice is administered-abolition sympathy may be augmented! 
In this whole matter, nothing has been more discouraging to us, nothing has given us more pain than the fact that some of the very men at the North upon whom we relied, and to whom we looked as the instruments by which we trusted Providence would arrest and turn back the tide of fanaticism, in that quarter, by sternly upholding LAW, and its solemn sanctions, are now contending that undeserved clemency should usurp the throne, and wrest the sword from the hand of righteous judgment.
If the abolition element at the North is so powerful that conservative men seek to conciliate it at such a price, then indeed may the most Union-loving men at the South begin to despair as to the possibility of its preservation.
From the Philadelphia Christian Observer.
Who is responsible for this terrible drama?-this fiendish invasion of a peaceful community-this long meditated treason and plot to enlist thousands in a civil and servile war against the laws and government of their country? What might have been its horrible consequences, but for the ignorance of the conspirators respecting the condition and feelings of the slaves, and the tardiness of their fanatical allies! What wide-<illegible> scenes of rapine, murder and crimes still more horrible might have marked their. progress, bad their confederates rushed to the place of action before the military could have reached the field! Who is responsible for the thousands of gold and silver, expended for arms and ammunition, which bad been brought and concealed near the place of this outbreak?
Is not the animus of this horrid tragedy inspired by an unscriptural dogma, that slaveholding is a crime, ‘a sin,' or ‘an offence'? Is not the fanaticism of the conspirators the culminating point, the development of the malign spirit which has severed the bonds of Christian fellowship among brethren created alienations, divided churches, and rent societies, formed to evangelize and bless the country and the world-and which is now seeking to control the powers of Church and State throughout the land?

THE HARPER'S FERRY INSURRECTIONISTS.
We give such details of the trial of these miscreants as our columns will permit. It will be seen that Brown, the leader of the nefarious band, has been found guilty of the three charges found in the indictment-treason, insurrection and murder, either of which crimes are punishable with death. All honor is due the noble Virginians, for the law-abiding sentiment manifested in this case. And the notorious Brown, whose life has been literally steeped in blood and crime, who has already disturbed the peace and friendship of the two sections of the Union, and finally crowned a life of wickedness by the most diabolical attempt known to the country in which be lived, will have the satisfaction if satisfaction it may be considered, to know that although he dies an ignoble death, it is meted out to him by the stern justice of the law. There are many, very many localities in the South, where under similar circumstances, a more summary judgment would have ended his fanatical career. If every lynch law could be justifiable, or summary vengeance meet the approbation of a whole people, it would have done so in this case.-I allapoosa Times.
OUTRAGROUS. Dr. Cheever, of Brooklyn, who is so abjectly on his knees beseeching the British public for funds to sustain his abolition crusade, lectured on Tuesday in Charlestown before what purports to be a literary association. He seized the occasion to outrage hid audience by lull doses of the worst form of Garrisonian Abolitionism. To their credit they did not listen with perfect composures to an outpour of treason at the <illegible> of Banker Hill; but by unmistakable marks hurled back upon the insulter, general and repeated expressions of their indignation. Not a few turned their backs on the impudent <illegible>, and left the hall. This
<c03>
was as it ever should be in similar circumstances, do not until such a course of treatment is followed up smartly, will the community, on national, literary and other occasions, be secure from similar insult. But in the first place, men of such a pestilential cast ought not to be asked to officiate on such occasions; and in the second place, if they are asked, and they violate the occasion by a display of their crotchets, the patriotic portion of audiences, men and women, ought to take the matter in hand, and express their disapprobation. More especially it a duty, on every occasion, to stamp with a just indignation sentiments fostering insurrection and treason.-Boston Post. 
THE NATURAL RESULT. The telegraph announces that Gerrit Smith is now a raving lunatic in the insane asylum at Utica. Can any one read this intelligence without feeling that the natural result of chronic abolitionism has in his case speedily exhibited itself? That abolitionism is in one sense but the incubative stage of a particular form of mania, rose explosion will occur just in proportion to the; strength of the brain in which it resides, who can any longer doubt? Garrison, who is a sturdy old fanatic somewhat of the John Brown school, has managed to keep out of the lunatic asylum thus far, though all things seem at present to indicate that is freedom of pasturage will not long continue. So, too, with Wendell Phillips, the oily, smooth tongued sophist. Phillips came near kicking the beam of insanity at Brooklyn, when he made his great howl there. As for Parker Pillsbury, the man who baptized dogs, and whose public speeches are a farrago of billingsgate and blasphemy, we have long ago considered him among the moon-truck inhabitants of this State. Well, as men sow, they must expect to reap. A man who sows himself full of liquor is very apt to reap a crop of delirium-tremens; and a man who sows himself full of abolitionism must expect to reap a crop of insurrectionary fancies and insane delusions, such as will sooner or later send him to the mad-house or be jail.-Taunton Gazette.
GOT NOT FRIENDS. The miserable men who got into difficulty through the failure of their diabolical attempt at Harper's Ferry seem utterly friendless. They were not only left in the lurch by those who tad promised co-operation in carrying out the plot, nit now in their extremity they seem almost wholly abandoned. Even the few solitary instances of fidelity which have come to notice, among those volunteering assistance, appear to have been actuated by selfish motives. 
Forbes, and the editor if the Lawrence Herald of Freedom, complain of treachery and deception.-Abolitionists appear to be very brave when using quill muskets through newspaper columns, but take good care to keep out of harm's way when there is real danger. Gerrit Smith appears to have been about the only one in the whole lot possessed of any liberality or having any magnanimous feeling. They give nothing, and risk nothing. There are men at the South who have individually made greater pecuniary sacrifices to effect the emancipation of their slaves, than the aggregate donations given to promote American Abolitionism, from its inception to this day.-N. Y. Journal of Commerce. 
Correspondence of the Journal of Commerce. 
LOWER DELAWARE, NOV. 4, 1859. 
With respect to Brown, the insurrectionist, all are agreed as to the wickedness of his bold attempt, and that he richly deserves the penalty of the rope, while it is thought the ends of justice and the good of the country will be best attained by so commuting the punishment as to render him harmless for the few remaining days of his miserable life. The Abolitionists are in great want of a martyr just now, and Brown would suit them exactly. He has made affecting speeches, has sanctified himself with pious language, rectified himself, he fancies, before his country, and now waits to be bound to the altar, for such would the gallows be to him and his friends. If the real friends of the blacks and of the Union would unite in expressing their views to Gov. Wise, it would doubtless much assist him in making his decision, for the life or death of this poor old fanatic is now in his hands. In his cool moments the Governor easily yields to generous impulses, and perhaps the exercise of mercy would in the circumstances be most advantageous to all parties. 
If our country is not wrapped in the flames of civil war. no thanks will be due to these agitators and murderers. When-as I recently visited the, rural districts on the banks of the Delaware-I beheld such evidences of prosperity on every side-the well-cultivated farms-the abundant harvests of the season-the rich contentment of the people-stalwart young men and fair, blooming maidens-healthy old men and happy matrons of like age, industrious during the week, and punctual on the Sabbath at the house of God-schools well attended, am taverns deserted-peace and quietude every where reigning-I said to myself, what a happy country is this, and who but a demon incarnate from of darkness would wish to despoil so fair a heritage; to set brother against brother, to array the North against the South, to encourage violence and bloodshed; to overturn, if possible, the beneficent institutions of our country, and instead of a well-ordered government with freedom to worship God, a chaotic mass of broken elements, which, like the fragments of a once beautiful temple, serve but to remind us of the magnitude of the ruin wrought. If disunion, misery, and destruction are to be our lot, they will have been brought on by the machinations and measures of just such men as sympathize with and encourage Brown, who would gain such notoriety as fell to the lot of the incendiary who applied the torch to the Ephesian temple. From the tenor of conversation with a friend from the South, I am sorry to infer that there is for Brown little hope, if Southern feelings, so outraged by him, shall have full away. To deny him the halter would be, it is thought, to deny protection to the whole community against fearful outrages. Still, time may soften that severity of vengeance a little, and an old man be saved from the terrors of the gallows. It will, I think, be long before such another outbreak will occur. I hope it will not be long before our armories will be put in a state of more effectual defence. Harper's Ferry would be a sort of Thermopylae to foe advancing from the East or West. No flank movement could possibly be made there. 
So pitiful are the pretexts that the Black Be is publicans profess to set up in disguising their complicity in the Virginia invasion, that they unwittingly expose the designs they had secretly matured. Baffled in their intentions by the untimely attempt of Brown, defeated in their treasonable purposes the miscarriage of the plot which they <illegible> conceived, and arraigned before the bar of public opinion for the conspiracy against their country which they incited, they now give expression to the despair which haunts then, by acts of contrition which are unmeaning only as far as they show what extent their canting <illegible>-ST.LOUIS BULLATHS.
<c04>
SELECTIONS. 
From the New York Tribune. 
JOHN BROWN'S COLORED REFUGEES IN CANADA.
WINDSOR, UPPER CANADA, NOV. 6. 1859. 
As everything relative to Old John Brown’ is now interesting, I would inform your readers that I have spent a few hours in Windsor, Upper Canada, with seven of the twelve colored Missourians who are now residing in that place. The other five are living about nine miles in the country. These make the twelve persons taken by Brown last January into Canada. As various reports are afloat concerning: them, I wish to inform all parties that those living here are very industrious. Two of the seven are men. They ‘team,' saw wood, and ‘job round.'-One a boy about twelve, helps around generally. Two of the women, who were field hands in Missouri last spring, on arriving at Windsor, hired, for $4, an scre of land, and with a spade each, they actually spaded it, planted it with corn and potatoes, and attended it well; this crop would challenge and crop I ever saw in Missouri, and not often; <illegible> even in Kansas, where soil and climate are superior to most portions of this world; their potatoes are very fine-all dug and put up in secure manner in the garden back of their house, for winner; the corn, of which I brought some away, is beautiful. One of their houses has a small garden they pay $2 a month for this. In this little garden they have grown some very fine onions, carrots, parsnips, and some extraordinary cabbages; the cabbages are taken up, put together, and covered thick with fodder or straw, rather neatly packed. They have amply sufficient corn, potatoes, &e., for winter. As to meat, they do without, till they have some fit to kill. They have three hogs growing finely, which they paid $1 each for, and feed them on what they collect in swill from neighbors, &c. As to clothing, they are neat, with well patch-articles. They say they have $20 salted down. They informed me that, after being here a short, they were burned out, losing all, or nearly of the useful articles given them by friends on their way, while escorted by that man whom they venerate. While I read aloud the sentence of Brown, with his speech from the paper, to them, oh! how affecting to see their tears and bear their sobs; two women declared, if it could be, they would willingly die instead of their liberator. A woman among them remarked, if the bible was true, be (Brown) practiced most of It here; so be would be rewarded by ‘old Matter' up higher, with greater happiness, father, mother, and these children in the country, work a farm on shares; they have about sixteen acres of corn, potatoes, &c, part of which are theirs; they all are anticipating the day when they can get a piece of land of their own. 

JOHN BROWN'S EARLY HISTORY-ALMOST A.D.D. 
Want of space compels us to abridge somewhat a communication received from William H. Hallock, of Canton Centre, designed to correct erroneous statements concerning Capt. John Brown. We give that portion relating to his early life. The Public are already familiar with his history during the past few years. 
'In the burying-ground near the church in Canton Centre, Conn., stands a marble monument upon which is inscribed the following: 
“In memory of Captain John Brown, who died in he Revolutionary Army, at New York, Sept. 3d, 1776. He was of the fourth generation in regular descent from Peter Brown, one of the Pilgrim Fathers, who landed from the May Flower, at Plymouth, Mass., December 22, 1620." 
‘Captain Brown, at his country's call, led forth a company of West Simsbury (now Canton) troops, to toe deadly conflict, and fell a victim to the then prevailing epidemic in the American camp. He left a numerous group of little ones, who were reared by his widow with singular tact and judgment, to habits of industry and principles of virtue, and all became distinguished citizens in the communities in which they resided. One of the sons became a Judge in one of the Courts of Ohio. One of the daughters had the honor of giving to one of our most flourishing New England colleges a President for twenty years, in the person of her son. 
'Owen Brown, one of the sons, and father of the present Captain John Brown, married a daughter of Gideon Mills, Esq., who was himself (Mills) an officer in the Revolutionary Army, and was intrusted with the command of the guard who had in charge a large portion of the prisoners comprising Burgoyne's army, thus proving that John Brown inherits his military spirit through a patriotic ancestry. Soon after the marriage of Owen Brown, he removed with his family to Torringford, Connecticut, when the present Captain John Brown was born. While he was yet in infancy or early childhood, the parents returned to West Simsbury, and there remained for a few years, when they emigrated Hudson, Ohio, where Owen Brown became one o the principal pioneer settlers of that then new town, ever respected for his probity and decision of character. He was endowed with energy and enterprise and went down to his grave honored and respected about the year 1852 or 1853, aged 87.
‘At the age of eighteen or twenty, the present Capt. John Brown left Hudson, Ohio, and cam east with the design of acquiring a liberal education through some of our New England colleges. His ultimate design was the Goapel ministry. In pursuance of this object, be consulted and conferred with the Rev. Jeremiah Hallock, then clergyman at Canton, Conn.,(whose wife was a relative,) and in accordance with advice there obtained, proceeded to Plainfield, Mast., where, under the instruction c the late Rev. Moses Hallock,(father of the present senior editor of the Journal of Commerce,) fitted or nearly fitted for college. While there pursuing his studies, he was attacked with inflammation of the eyes, which ultimately became chronic, and precluded him from the possibility of the further pursuit of his studies, when be returned to Ohio. Had not this inflammation supervened, John Brow would not have died a Virginia culprit upon a Virginia gallows, but in all probability would have died on a feather-bed, with D. D. affixed to his same.’-Tribune. 

BROWN'S CONVERSATION WITH GOV. WISE.
A correspondent of the N. Y. Herald, under date of Richmond, Va., Oct. 29th, detailing incidents in relation to the Harper's Ferry Insurrection, gives a mere extended report of the conversation between Jobs Brown and Gov. Wise than that at first received. He says:-
I have beard Governor wise questioned to-day regarding the statement circulated by the press that Brown, in an impertinent manner, said to the Governor,’ If you have your opinions about me, I have my opinions about you,' was <illegible>. The Governor positively denied the truth of this statement and, <illegible>
<c05>
their interview, never uttered a single word which as personally offensive to his. The Governor says that somebody in the crowd applied to Brown the epithet ‘robber,' and that Brown retorted by saying, ‘You’(alluding to the slaveholders) ‘are the robber.’ And it was in this connection that he said, If you have your opinions about me, I have my opinions about you. At this time the Governor is remarked to him, ‘Mr. Brown, the silver of your hair is reddened by the blood of crime, and it is meet thank you should eschew these hard allusions, and think upon eternity. You are now suffering from wounds which, perhaps, may terminate your existence; and should you perchance escape death from causes, you will have to submit to a trial in the court which may involve that result. Your confessions are of a character which might well justify the presumption that you will be found guilty; and even now you are committing a felony under the laws of this State, by uttering sentiments like those you have just expressed. It is better you should urn your attention to matters concerning your eternal future than, dealing in denunciations which an only injure you.' 
Brown replied by saying, ‘Governor, I have, from all appearances, not more than fifteen or twenty years the start of you in the journey to that eternity of which you kindly warn me; and whether my tenure here shall be fifteen months, or fifteen days, or fifteen hours, I am equally prepared to go. There is an eternity behind and an eternity before, and he little speck in the centre, however long, is but comparatively a minute. The difference between your tenure and mine is trifling, and I want to therefore tell you to be prepared. You all (referring to the slaveholders) have a heavy responsibility, and behooves you to prepare more than it does me.' Such, as I gathered them from Gov. Wise, was the substance of the remarks on both sides. 

From the New York Tribune. 
NO CHANCE OF REPRIEVE. 
Certain Northern papers convey the impression of very general belief in John Brown's safety from execution. They assume that, for political or other reasons, Gov. Wise will be induced to show clemency to this condemned man. Such ideas are here received with indignation. I certainly do not see any ground for hope in Brown's case. It is evident that attempt to remove him alive from this town; would fail. The people say that a regiment of soldiers, with the Governor at their head, could not accomplish it. In the event of an attempt at rescue, which has been the great fear all along, and to prevent which all these extraordinary military precautions are still kept up, the jailers have been instructed to shoot him and his companions instantly. The populace are resolute in their determination that their victims shall never be taken from them, and it does not seem that this determination is to be shaken by any expedient. Brown's own ideas on the subject are characteristic. He tranquilly says-‘I do not know that I ought to encourage any attempt to save my life. I am not sure that it would not be better for me to die at this time. I am not incapable of error, and I may be wrong; but I think that perhaps my objects would be nearer fulfilment if I should die. I must give in some thought.'-There is no insincerity about this, you may be sure. Brown does not value his life: or, at least, is wholly unmoved at the prospect of losing it. He was never more firm than at this moment. The only, compunctions he expresses are in relation to his management at Harper's Ferry, by which he lost not only himself, but sacrificed his associates. He sometimes says that if he had pursued his original plan of immediate escape to the mountains, he could never have been taken, for he and his men had studied the vicinity thoroughly, and knew it a hundred times better than any of the inhabitants. It was, he says, his weakness in yielding to the entreaties of the prisoners, and delaying his departure, that ruined him. ‘It was the first time,' are his words, ‘that I ever lost command of myself, and now I am punished for it.'
The reason Brown has given for asking his wile to remain away is also characteristic. He knows it will cause great suffering, and will, possibly, shatter his composure in a manner which he is resolved I against, lest his captors should esteem it an evidence I of regret for what be has done. 
Here is his own account of his purpose at Harper's! Ferry:-
He had calculated upon, and fully expected to accomplish, a rescue of a great number of slaves. To maintain a warlike position in Virginia for any definite period was not his object. The idea of his seizing the Arsenal for the sake of the weapons it contained, he will not admit. He says he had far better weapons of his own. His occupying it at all was a variation from his original determination. He had decided to take Col. Washington and the other! prisoners to the Harper's Ferry Bridge, and there to establish a commanding position, from which he would insist upon exchanges of slaves for his prisoners. In ease be should have been dislodged, he would have retreated in haste to the mountains, with the intricacies of which he had made himself so much more familiar than the inhabitants themselves, that he believed he could defy all attempts to apprehend him. He had supposed, that after a few days of successful evasion, he would be joined by hundreds of slaves anxious to escape, by whose aid be could have perfected arrangements for an enormous rescue. This, as I understand it, was his real plan.
The reason of the change was, be avers, that as the night of the rising was very severely cold, he suddenly concluded to have the prisoners taken to the armory, where they would not be exposed to the weather, anticipating no trouble in moving off with them, in case he should not be able to effect the exchanges with negroes before the general alarm should f spread. Disappointed in this hope, be had only to fight to the end. 
Some one the other day asked Brown the reason why he did not go further South to make this at-tempt. He answered that there were stong objections on the score of humanity-meaning, as was afterwards explained, that the ferocity of the slaves further Sooth could not have been checked, and that n a great massacre would nave been the result. 

CAPT. JOHN BROWN.
From a notice of Brown, published in the Exeter News-Letter, we copy the following concluding paragraphs:-
In person, Capt. Brown is tall, sinewy, and hard featured, with blue eyes and grey hair. In times of excitement his severe eye flashes, and his closely cut hair seems to stand op like <illegible>. He generally dresses in sombre colors, <illegible> the fashion of twenty years ago. He speaks in measured, decided tone, going straight to the point. His band-writing is angular and constrained.
Like Cromwell’s man, he is <illegible> to the <illegible> of <illegible>, but is his <illegible>, he is without cent. In <illegible>, he <illegible>.
“The <illegible>
<illegible>
<c06>
His courage is undoubted; at the battle of Osawatomie he went from point to point, arranging his men in full view of the enemy, whose whizzing balls he minded no more than the buzzing of flies. His sense of honor is most keen; his word is as good as his bond. Of him it may be said, as the Arab Chief said of the traveller, ‘I love him, for his word is as straight as my spear.’
With his great and manly virtues, and his excusable faults, he is now a prisoner, awaiting the judgment of the chivalry of Virginia. Having hacked his body, after his surrender, her distinguished sons are now seeking to ‘entangle him in his talk' before his trial. Soon, undoubtedly, the old man will follow his children to the land where ‘the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest. There they hear not the voice of the oppressor; the small and the great are there, and the servant is free from his master.'
Hampton Falls, Oct.24, 1859.
C.H.S.

AN IRREVERENT JUDGE ON TRIAL.
The Pittsburgh Dispatch says that when Thomas Cunningham, Esq., of Beaver, Pa., went to Kansas, under an appointment as United States Judge, in passing through a settlement he met Old Osawatomie Brown, who had just arrived with half a dozen pro-slavery prisoners, captured while in arms to assail the free state settlers. Among them were several slaveholders, who were discharged by Brown,(as Gov. Wise promised to discharge Gerrit Smith,) with a lecture, as poor, ignorant devils, who knew no better; then, turning to the northern men with southern principles, he remarked;-‘As for you fellows, you ought to know better, having been brought up in the free north; I must ask the Lord what I shall do with you!' Whereupon the stern old man commenced praying to the Almighty, asking his aid, that the might so dispose of these prisoners as to best promote the free state cause, & c., in the midst of which Judge Cunningham, after vain attempts at restraining it, burst into a fit of laughter. In a moment Brown ceased praying, and turning his piercing eyes upon the offender, remarked:-'And if you don't stop laughing, I shall dispose of you, sir, without asking the Lord anything about it! 'It is unnecessary to say that the honorable court resumed its accustomed grave demeanor, and that the subsequent proceedings of JOHN Brown's drumhead court-martial were marked with no levity, so far as Judge Cunningham was concerned.

CAPTAIN JOHN BROWN.
Correspondence of the New York Tribune. 
IOWA, Nov.4,1859.
Far away in Iowa, distant from the wounded prisoner, there are those who knew him well to admire him for all that was known of his career, up to the Harper's Ferry occurrence. It was my pleasure to chat with Brown many hours while he was under my roof. In correspondence with the N.Y. Independent, months since, I made him the hero of my heart, for what he had suffered and dared to do While in Iowa, the flash of his eye and the boldness of his movements led many to pronounce him insane. Nothing seemed to so much excite him as an intimation that oppression aroused a spirit of revenge. As he spoke in public, there was no boasting nor a display of himself. The wrongs of Kansas and the atrocities of Slavery he pictured in a clear style, declaring that it was nothing to die in a good cause, but an eternal disgrace to sit still in the presence of the barbarities of American slavery. His logic with all who were captions as to his course, was like a chain-shot argument, yet he courted no discussion, being then occupied with the safe escape of the eleven supposed chattels from Missouri. ‘Providence,' said he, 'has made me an actor, and Slavery an out law. A price is on my head, and what is life to me? An old man should have more care to end life well than to live long. Duty is the voice of God, and a man is neither worthy of a good home here, or a heaven, that is not willing to be in peril for a good cause! The loss of my family and the troubles in Kansas have shattered my constitution, and I am nothing to the world but to defend the right, and that, by God's help, I have done, and will do. ‘This, in substance, and much more, was said in reply to a wish which I expressed that he would not return to Kansas, but seek that rest and quite with his family which his health demanded. He scouted the idea of rest while he held a ‘commission direct from God Almighty to act against Slavery.' He claimed to be responsible for the wise exercise of his powers only, and not for the quality of certain acts. In taking slaves out of Missouri, he said that he would teach those ‘living in glass-houses not to throw stones,' and they would have more than they could do to keep Slavery in Missouri, without extending it against the will of Kansas. The battle of ‘Black Jack' and others, he was free to say, he thought had scared Missouri, and that was Gen. Lane's opinion. They did not report half the number killed, which they were ashamed to do, nor will it ever be known. I could repeat much that he said which showed a wonderful sagacity, and a bold, undaunted spirit. His whole demeanor was that of a well-bred gentleman, and his narratives were given with childlike simplicity. He feared nothing; for, said he, ‘Any who will try to take me and my company are cowards, and one man in the right, ready to die, will chase a thousand. Not less than thirty guns have been discharged at me, but they only touched my hair. A man dies when his time comes, and a man who fears is born out of time'. It was the opinion of a physician here, a graduate of Harvard, that by his rolling eye he was insane, and that his future would prove it. There was, at times, a wildness, then a gloomy expression, noticeable, and I have no doubt that he was a monomaniacs, as shown by his desperate resorts. Yet what millions honor him for courage and endurance! Who would not make a long journey to dress his wounds? If insane at all, it is by the wrongs of Slavery, The nation was not worthy of him. Tyranny is relentless as the grave, and its tools want a victim. Cowardice will hand him, but humanity will stand appalled at the <illegible> of such a victim to the cruel Moloch. The gods have made tyrants mad, ready for their destruction. The Slave Power will be brought to the judgment, and tried for almost every crime known to the race, and one ‘count' will be inviting the violence of these who deem it a sacred duty to be as Joshun, in leading out those who are in chains. Let the trenches around the great Bestile he filled with the wounded and the slain; the sooner will truth scale the fortresses and heat down the <illegible>. Let the poor, bereaved, wounded old man die in <illegible>! It will only so seen in the present hour. Thousands and millions would <illegible>, and will build him a monuments <illegible> as <illegible>, and in a better age will associate his name with ‘the faithful among the faithless found' to his <illegible>

A MEMBER OF THE IOWA LEGISLATURE.
The Pittsburgh Dispatch says that the negro Newly, who was one of the insurgents at Harper’s Ferry, was a while since the slave of his own father, in Virginia, by whom he was emancipated, and that Newly’s and two children are still slaves.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The United States Constitution is a covenant with death, and an agreement with hall.'
'The free States are the guardians and essential supports of slavery. We are the jailers and constables of the institution. There is some excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other States, and by force restore their rights, but they are without excuse in siding other States in binding on men an unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR FATHERS, IN FRAMING THE CONSTITUTION, SWERVED FROM THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half of century, see the path of duty more clearly than they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution. No blessing of the Union can be a compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.'-WILLIAM ELLERY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
From the N.Y.Tribune
THE EXPULSION OF MR.HOYT FROM CHARLESTOWN.
Sir: order that the conduct of the people and authorities of the Town of Charlestown, Va., in recently expelling Mr. Jewett, of Frank Leslieï¿½ s paper, and myself from that locality, may be perfectly exposed and understood, I deem it proper to make a brief statement of the facts in the case.
My return from Boston to that town was heralded by the press, and the object of my visit announced, days before I reached there. My business was known to be legitimate. I went back to do what was possible to rescue and recover the scattered effects of Capt. Brown, in order that the avails of the same might be secured to his destitute and heart-stricken family. My business also related to the copies of the records in the other cases, intending to obtain and transmit them seasonably to counsel who were to argue the exceptions in the Court of Appeals. Because I was regularly associated in the trial, and known to be actively engaged in the defence of Brown and Coppic, no man had a right to accuse me, upon havesuspicion, without a particle of evidence to confirm it, of being an agent of ï¿½Boston Abolitionist.
I could not fail to observe, immediately upon my return, that, where I had formerly been treated with studious civility, 1 had now to meet the inhospitable frown; and where before I atleast was permitted to pass without insult, I must expect offensive and opprobrious epithets, and denunciations not the least vulgar. I cannot say that I did not expect this, for, when first a sojouruer in the town, I had concluded it was no genuine, but a forced civility, which allowed the counsel of John Brown to perform their sad duties unmolested. I saw a deep under-current of feeling smothered, for the time, by a desire to be rated fair, all ready, at the slightest breath, to burst into consuming madness. But, so long as their victim lay in his prison-cell, waiting his fast-approaching doom, and the decision of the higher Court, I felt certain the valry of the Old Dominionï¿½ would attempt no bodily violence to his counsel I had expected the copies of the record would be ready for me to bear to Washington Saturday morning, but I failed to obtain them, and had concluded to wait a later train, when the singularï¿½ proclamation Mayor Green, (who, it will be remembered, was Mr. Brownï¿½ s counsel in the first instance, ) fell into my hands. My surprise was great when a gentleman intimated that my case was referred to in that document, and that my friend, Mr. Jewett, was also included. I sought Mr. Jewett, and found him pondering over the extraordinary production. I informed him what I had heard, and after a debate as to whether two individuals, whose business was so well known, and whose characters were privileged, had any right to take thisï¿½ notice to quit,ï¿½ Mr. J. sought Col. Davis, Chairman of the body constituted and authorized by this curious paper to act in the premises, and demanded to know if it had any reference to us. Col. Davis accompanied him to my presence, and in answer to a direct interrogatory, plainly said it did. He further informed us, that, although aid-de-camp to Gov. Wise, and under instruction to preserve the peace, he had no force at his command upon which he could rely to protect us from the mob, which would certainly assemble the next day (Sunday). He was willing to lay down his life in our defence, but it could be of no avail, and conjured us, for our own sakes, and for the sake of the honor of the State of Virginia, and in consideration of the trifling personal inconvenience such a sacrifice would be to him, to leave that afternoon.
Although I had seen considerable excitement in the place during the first days of the trial and afterward, I confess I never had seen anything like the wild foment in which the town was this afternoon thrown. Some spiteful enemy had set fire to a Mr. Tate stable, and the over-zealous, fire-eating chivalry the time of our first advent in the place, had striven to make our visit uncomfortable, and our efforts futile, and who had never ceased their causeless and ridiculous denunciations, eagerly took hold of the occasion to spread the report that they wereï¿½ Abolition emissariesï¿½ acting under mydirections, had set the torch to the wheat stacks and barns.
What I most feared was an attack on the jail, in which theï¿½ militaryï¿½ would participate. I have some good reasons for believing that there was a band of organized desperadoes who, at one time, determined to force the jail, and lynch the prisoners. This was seasonably discovered, and prevented, by an officer in command. Now, if a mob, composed of a drunken and infuriate people, should assemble to drive obnoxious people out of the town with the genteel incidents ofï¿½ tar and feathers,ï¿½ and not over fresh eggs, such a mob would be more than likely to make an attempt on that little prison-house: and, by way of parenthesis, let me say, I think the gallows a parenanter instrument of torture and death than the torments of a Virginia mob.
Deeming it no valor, but sheer fool hardiness to brave the populace, Mr. Jewett and I packed our bags, and quitted the municipality of Charlestown, the County of Jefferson, and the gallant old Commonwealth of Virginia. At this time I do not know whether my associate, Mr. Sannott, survived the Sabbath which ensued upon our departure, or not. Being an avowed political friend of the South, he was not so unpopular as the undersigned, who never know how toï¿½ cotton.ï¿½ It is to be hoped that those who remain or go to serve John Brown in a legal capacity, may not meet the same sort ofï¿½ hospitalityï¿½ and treatment which theï¿½ chivalryï¿½ bestowed upon
Yours truly, GEO. H. HOYT. National House, Washington, Nov. 16.
WHAT IS THE CHIVALRY OF THE SOUTH?
Charlestown [va.) correspondence of the New York Tibune
I think you will be able to understand it when I tell you of the manner in which a lady, to whom I have before referred, once or twice, has been received in this half-civilized town. She came with no purpose beside that of imparting that comfort and sympathy which a woman can best give, to the prisoner Brown. Her visit was induced by a belief that Mrs. L M. Child would be in Charlestown before she could arrive, and that she would be able in many ways to assist that lady in whatever duties might have been confided to her. But Mrs. Child did not come at all, in consequence, probably, of Brownï¿½ s unwillingness to receive visitors from the North, who are sure to be looked upon with excessive suspicion, so this lady found herself alone. For two days she was subjected to rudeness which I could not have supposed it possible for any decent community to inflict. The community of Charlestown, Virginia, however, is not decent. Her coming was the signal for renewed flastes of indignation on the part of the street strollers. An editor of one of the weekly prints urged the organitation of a committee to warn her and all her party away, with threats of lynching in case hesitation should be shown. When, quietly, very quietly, triumphing over all difficulties, she gained access to the prison, there was talk of a mob, and I am confident that she herself was unaware of the dangerous position she was in. The Independent Democrat made its weekly appearance, and wreaked its little wrath in two articles, thus
A woman by the name of Mrs. R.B. Spring, accompaniedhailing from Eagleswood, N J., arrived here on Saturday last, and requested the privilege of being allowed to act the nurse to Brown and his confederates in prison The request was very properly denied by the Sheriff, he being of opinion that the health of Brown & Co. was sufficiently cared for at the present, for all practical purposes. We are sorry, very, that the kind intentions and self-sacrificing devotion of Mrs. Spring has been and unceremoniously frustrated by a cruel denial, but we hope she will be able to survive the disappointment and that no damage byï¿½ land or seaï¿½ will overtake her, but that she will return safely to her home, entirely convinced that Brown & Co. are safe in the hands of the Sheriff and all the-conveniences extended to them which the nature of the case and the fatality attending their diseases, will permit
In justice to ourselves, all Yankees, of either son who caanot show a clean record, should be at once driven from ourmidst. Will we suffer ourselves to be insulted by their insolentpresence? Our conscious seruity from the further machination of these pusillanimoun wretches both male and female, should not induce us tolerate their presence for a moment. For ourselves, we would rather meet a band of co manches, at any time, and trust ourselves to their honor and protection, than we would any of the long faced pharisaical Abolitionists of the North. We Confece to a supreme hatred for the whole of them, male and female.
I am happy to say that these contemptible exhibitions at last moved Judge Parker to a sort of bacit rebuke of them.He proposed to Mrs. Spring that she should visit the jail, escorted and introduced by him in order that the capers of the populace might to <illegible> this was well of the Judge, but it did
<c02>
not appear to assuage in any degree the anger of the crowd, whose coarse insolence was as freely displayed, as before. Mrs. Spring does not stand alone. A lady who preceded her was likewise treated, and, very fortunately, showed an equal disregard for all that was said or done during her visit. Here is her benediction, pronounced after her departure:-
ï¿½ The wife of Judge Russell, of Boston, accompanied him here for the purpose of paying her respects to the marauder Brown. She was permitted to visit him in his cell, and we are informed that the meeting was of an affecting character; she embraced him as a martyr in the cause which she had deeply at heart, and her deep commiseration and sympathy for his fate quite overcame her ladyship, and she burst forth into a flood of agonizing tears. Strange sympathy this for a scoundrel whose purpose was to place those of her own sex in Virginia in the power of the unbridled passions of cut-throats and villains! Her presence here upon such a mission was doing violence to the feelings of our mothers, wives and sisters, and we are glad she made her stay but a short one.
From the New York Independent, Nov.16. 
INTERVIEW WITH MRS. BROWN
I write this morning, on board a steamboat, a hasty account of a personal interview last evening with Mrs. Mary Brown, wife of Capt. John Brown, now under sentence of death in Virginia, for having bravely failed in a brave deed.
I conversed with her during the entire evening. But only ten minutesï¿½ acquaintance is enough to show that she is a woman worthy to be the wife of such a man. She is tall, large, and muscular, giving the impression at first sight of a frame capable of great strength and long endurance. Her face is grave and thoughtful, wearing even in this hour of her trial an expression of soberness rather than of sadness, as if, like her husband, she had long since learned how to suffer, and be calm. Her manner is singularly quiet and retiring, although her natural simplicity and modesty cannot hide the evident force of her character, and strength of will and judgment which have fitted her so long to be a counselor to her husbandï¿½ s enterprises, and a supporter in his trials.
She is a native of Whitehall, near Lake Chomplain, and has been the mother of thirteen children; but, notwithstanding the cares of her numerous family, and her many privations and struggles independent of household burdens, she still appears as fresh and hale as if she were only now in the prime and vigor of life.
A NEWSPAPER CORRECTION.
The conversation, of course, was of the scenes at Harperï¿½ s Ferry-both those which have already been enacted, and those which are shortly to follow. She alluded, with subdued though evident emotion, to the wounds of her husband, and to the loss of her two sons, Watson and Oliver, who fell in the struggle. But she made no such remark as that recently attributed to her in a New-England newspaper,ï¿½ that four of her sons had already been slain, and she would be willing that all the rest of her family should be made a sacrifice, if necessary, to the cause of Freedom.ï¿½ These words, she said to the could never possibly have fallen from her lips; for she had already felt too many griefs to court any fresh sacrifices; and she could not think, without pain, of any new death-stroke to her family. She would not shrink from any necessary trial or struggle when the hour came for it, but she could not look forward with composure to any further lessening of her family, already too sadly broken. She regretted that such a remark should have been putin the mouth, ï¿½ for as she observed,ï¿½ they werds.ï¿½ 
She said that she had been so long accustomed tosorrows that she had been trained to bear them-While living in Ohio, four of her children died from dysentery, within eleven days, three of whom were carried to the grave together on the same day! She mentioned in this connection that her husband had always been a watchful nurse, and the chief caretaker of the children and of herself, during periods of sickness.
CAPTAIN BROWNï¿½ S RELIGIOUS CHARACTER.
I adverted, in alluding to Capt. Brownï¿½ s religious opinions, to the common report that he was an Old School Presbyterian. She replied that he had been a church-member ever since he was a boy; that he united, when 16 years of age, with a Congregational Church in Hudson, Ohio ; and that on removing to pennavlvania, thirty years ago, he transferred his membership to the Presbyterian Church, with which he had since remained connected. She said that the religious element of his character had always been the ruling motive of his life. He had always observed religious exercises in his house with exemplary regularity. It had been for many years the custom of the family to read the Bible every morning, in regular course of chapters, each member reading in turn a verse. She said that her husbandï¿½ s fauiiliarity with texts of Scripture was so great that he could detect almost the slightest misquotation of any passage, and that if a portion of a verse, in almost any part of the Bible, was rend or repeated to him, he could immediately repeat the remainder. His conversation frequently abounded with Scripture texts, and his letters were always filled with them.
I asked if she knew what were his favorite passages, to which she replied:
He had a great many; but one was, Remember them that are in bonds as bound with them.ï¿½ 
How nobly his life has proved his deep-hearted sympathy for the slave 
In his habits of living, his wife testified that he was always singularly self-denying. As an example, he never suffered himself or his family to wear expensive clothing. His standing admonition was,ï¿½ Let us save the money, and give to the poor. Day before yesterday, when some clothes were sent from New York to go in a box to her husband, among the articles was a new coat of fine, brown cloth, which, when it was shown to her, she immediately pronounced too gay for her husband to wear It was accordingly sent back; and last evening therecame in return a coarser coat, which would better suit his taste, and which the brave old Puritan might not think too good for him to put on! He never in his life has used tobacco or ardent spirits, and never, until within the last few years, has or coffee. His mode of living has been so rigidly temperate that, in Kansas, he would sometimes go for days with scarcely a mouthful of food, and suffer no faintness or exhaustion.
HIS LONG-MEDITATED DESIGN.
I referred incidentally to the design upon Harperï¿½ s Ferry as having been premeditated for two years, to which she indignantly replied:
Not for two tears, but for twenty!
He had been waiting for twenty years for some opportunity to free the slaves : we had all been waiting, with him, the proper time when be should put his resolve into action; and when, at last, the enterprise of Harperï¿½ s Ferry was planned, we all thought that the time had now come. Mr. Brown was sanguinewe or success; weall were equally confident; he had no idea, nor had any of the family, that the experiment would result in defeat; we all looked to it as fulfilling the hopes of many years!
As I listened to this, I could not help half exclaiming What heroic words! What a man! What a men! What a woman!ï¿½ 
I wrote down these sentences a few moments after they were uttered, and as I repeated them to her, she added
For he has borne the yoke of the oppressed as if upon his own seek for these thirty years!
She made several and repeated references to various newspaper accounts, in which her husbandï¿½ s character had been misrepresented. She had been pained to see him described as cruel, for, as she said, ï¿½ No man ever had a kinder heart. He is generous by nature. He has always aimed to impress his family with a spirit of benevolence. He has always taught his children to be unselfish ; to act always for othere others before acting for themselves. His sympathies for the poor and the oppressed have always been too easily excibed.ï¿½ 
I inquired as to his habit of carrying firearms about his person. She said that since the many threats upon his life during and since his efforts in Kansas, he had carried a revolver, but never before.
 IS HE INSANE?
I then put the question which I bad been chiefly, solicitous to ask-ï¿½ It is the common talk of the newpapers that Capt. Brown is insane. What do you say to that opinion?ï¿½ 
I never knew,ï¿½ she replied,ï¿½ of his insanity, until I read it in the newspapers. He is clear-headed man. He has always been, and is now entirely in his right mind. He is always cool, deliberate, and never over-hasty; but he has always considered that his first perceptions of duty, and his first impulses to action were the best, and the safest to be followed. He had almost always acted upon his first sugges
<c03>
tions. No, he is not insane. His reason is clear. His last act was the result, as all his other acts have been, of his truest and strongest conscientious convictions.
THEODRE TILTON.
AID FOR THE FAMILY OF JOHN BROWN.
In his letter to Mrs. L. Maria Child, John Brown says:-
ï¿½ I have at home a wife and three young daughters, the youngest but little over five year old, the oldest nearly sixteen. I have also two daughters-in-law, whose husbands have both fallen near me here. There is also another widow, Mrs. Thompson, whose husband fell here. Whether she is a mother or not I cannot say. All these, my wife included, live at North Elba, Essex county, New York. I have a middle-aged son, who has been, in some degree, a cripple from his childhood, who would have as much as he could do to earn a living. He was a most dreadful sufferer in Kansas, and lost all he had laid up. He has not enough to clothe himself for the winter comfortably. I have no living son, or son-in-law, who did not suffer terribly in kannan
ï¿½Now, dear friend, would you not as soon contribute fifty cents now, and a like sum yearly, for the relief of those very poor and deeply-afflicted persons? To enable them to supply themselves and their children with bread and very plain clothing, and to enable the children to receive a common English education? Will you also devote your own energies to induce others to join you in giving a like amount, or any other amount, to constitute a little fund for the purpose named ?
Friends of Freedom at the North, to these simple and touching words, nothing more effective and affecting can be added. The story is here in its simplest and saddest form. Widows and fatherless children! and all for liberty! Slain for a principle The heads of the entire family slain! All the male members cut off! And this in the Nineteenth Century, and this amid a free people!
If there be any braver man in the country than John Brown, let him criticise John Brown at Harperï¿½ s Ferry. If not, let another generation pase upon the fact and its author. Our duties now are with and for the living. God and history will have a care for the dead.
Friends at the North, what will you do for John Brownï¿½ s family? I have a photograph of the old man presented to me by his own hands, an admirable likeness. Let all who sympathize in the purpose send each a dollar, and I will forward for each such sum an exact copy of the original, and with it, if possible, John Brownï¿½ s autograph. The proceeds from ten thousand such copies will produce a fund of eight thousand dollars for the benefit of the helpless and afflicted ones, whom the Kansas hero so touchingly commends to our sympathies and care.
Suitable acknowledgment of funds received and applied will be made from time to time through the columns of The New York Tribune, The photographs can be sent by mail, as music is sent, at the expense of a stamp, which may be inclosed with the order. Address me at NewYork, 
THADDEUS HYATT.
New York, Nov. 14, 1859.
THE JOHN BHOWN FUN
To the Editor of the New York Tribune:-
SIR: Thirty-five dollars have been sent in to-day on the first short notice that a practical way was opened to relieve John Brownï¿½ s family. This hearty and instantaneous response satisfies me that there will be no difficulty in disposing of 10, 000 copies of the old manï¿½ s photographs the moment the news spreads through the country.
A correspondent asks the following questions:
First:ï¿½ Mr. Hyatt, how can you get so many autographs? Is old John Brown busy writing them now?ï¿½ 
Second:ï¿½ How soon will you commence delivering the picture, and will they all be actual photographs or engravings?ï¿½ 
Third: How will you deliver the pictures?ï¿½ 
I reply: The autographs will be photographic copies of the old manï¿½ s signature, taken at the same time with the likeness. The pictures will be ready to commence delivery on the first of December. City subscribers will receive theirs at THE TRIBUNE office. They will all be photographs, and not engravings. Subscribers through the country will receive their by mail, unless otherwise ordered The pictures Will be delivered on the principle of first come, first serve;ï¿½ the earliest orders will be first filled. 
THADDEUS HYATT.
New York, Nov. 15, 1859.
The Liberator, 
BOSTON, NOVEMBER 25, 1859.
EXECUTION OF CAPT. JOHN BROWN.
At a meeting of the Exlavery Society, held in Boston, Nov.
e Free States, in case of the ex in their various localities-whether justifiable mode of action- and renewedly to consecrate therehensively described than asï¿½ THE SUM OF ALL VILLANINI., 
profess to deplore the ex and sympathies engendered by the Dec. 2d, with reference to the stragis eve arrangements be made, due notice At a meeting of the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery Society, held in Boston, Nov.1st, the following Resolution was adopted:-Resolved, That it is recommended to the friends of impartial freedom throughout the Free States, incase of the execution of Capt. JOHN BROWN, now ontrial for his life in Virginia, to observe that tragical event, ON THE DAY OF ITS OCCURRENCE, in such manner as by them may be deemed most appropriate in their various localities-whether by public meetings and addresses, the adoption of resolutions, private conferences, or any other justifiable mode of action-for the furtherance of the Anti-Slavery cause, and renewedly to consecrate themselves to the patriotic and Christion work of effecting the abolition of that most dangerous, unnatural, cruel and impious system of slavery, which is the fruitful source of all our sectional heart-burnings and conflicts, which powerfully and increasingly tends to promote servile insurrection and civil war, which cannot be more truly be more comprehensively described than as * THE SUM OF ALL VILLANIEL, which is a burning disgrace and <illegible> curse to the whole country, and by the <illegible> of which, alone, can the land be saved from violence, blood, and utter demoralisation.
This recommendation has been widel copied be the press, and is favorably regarded in all directions. The Committee leave the mode and hour of, observance to local choice. It will be observed that their appeal is not to abolitionists in special, but to all who profess to deplore the existence of slavery, great source of all our national troubles, perils, and threatening judgments. The object of it is to make a strong moral demonstration that shall powerful impress the South, and to gather up and concentrate the feelings and sympathies engendered by the occasion into a live thunderbolt, to be hurled with divine assistance at the head of the Colossal Iniquity of the land.
It is probable that a public meeting will be held in Boston on the evening of Dec. 2d, with reference to the tragic event of the day. Should the neeessary arrangements be made, due notice will be given in the daily papers of the city.
In whatever form that event may be observed, it is suggested that contributions should then be taken up for the benefit of the suffering family of Capt.Brown and those of his slaughtered sons and association unless previously made.
The meeting held at the Tremont Temple, in Boston, on Saturday evening last, in aid of the suffering families of John Brown and his associates was a most significant and cheering indication of the wonderful Change going on in public sentimantal the North, favorable to the cause of universal emancipation. Though called at scarcely a dayï¿½ s notice, on an evening the most inconvenient to the public generally, and in a very unpropitions status of the weather, more than two thousand persons promptly assembled, at 25 cents a ticket, embodying an amount of intellectual force and moral excellence not to be surpassed; and a more united and enthusiastic audience never assembled within the walls of the Temple. A letter was read from Rev. Mr. Hepworth, ignorably retracting his promise to speak at the metting, and couched in a heartless and condemnatory tone to the general disgust and contempt of those present The speech of Rev. Mr. Manning well deserved the warm approbation it received. We copy the report of the proceedings from the courbar as the fullest and best.
<c04>
MEETING IN AID 
OF THE 
FAMILY OF JOHN BROWN.
The meeting in Tremont Temple on Saturday evening, gathered in response to the invitation addressed to those sympathizing with the family of John Brown a their poverty and distrees, was large and quite enthusiastic.
The speakers announced to address the meeting were Mr. John A. Andrew, Rev. George H. Hepworth, Mr. Ralph Waldo Emerson, Rev. Jacob M. Manning, and Mr. Wendell Phillips. They were present, with the exception of Rev. George H. Hepworth, whose absence was explained by the following card, which appeared in the Transcript on Saturday afternoon, and subsequently in the Gazette:-
A GARD I wish to correct a slight error concerning the speech I was to have made at the Temple to-night.
The advertisement does me great injustice. I laid great emphasis, when I was invited to speak, on the fact that my opinions would contradict the spirit of the meeting. I supposed there would be speeches on both sides of the subject, and it was understood that I would assume the negative.
The advertisement, however, conveys to the publicno such impression.
I deem this sufficient reason for declining to speak at all. G. H. HEPWORTH. 
Saturday, Nov. 19, 1859. 
Mr. John A. Andrew, who was chosen to preside at the meeting, came on the platform at 7 1/2 oï¿½ clock, accompanied by the Rev. Rollin H. Neale, Rev. J.M. Manning, and Mr. Wendell Phillips. At the conclusion of the prayer by Rev. R. H. Neale, Mr. Ralph Waldo Emerson ascended the platform, leaning on the arm of Mr. Charles W. Slack, and was received with immense applause. A carefully prepared verbatim report of the speeches made on this occasion will be found below.
Mr. John A. Andrew opened the meeting with the following remarks:
Ladies and Gentlemen.-Before proceeding to the other exercises and offices of this meeting, I doubt not that it will be entirely accordant with the feelings of you all, as it certainly is with the proprieties and solemnities of an occasion like this, that the audience should first unite in a solemn act of religious worship. To that end, I invite you to join in prayer with Reverend Doctor Neale.
DR. NEALEï¿½ S PRAYER.
Let us unite in prayer. Oh God, we rejoice that thou art ever nigh ; that though Eternal, Immortal, Invisible, dwelling in light which no man can approach unto, thou art yet not far from every one of us, that we may ask counsel of Him whose wisdom is Infinite, who is ready to guide us in the path of duty, and to prepare us to meet every responsibility that rests upon us. We rejoice that in our weakness, we may lean upon Divine strength, and out of thy fulness receive even grace for grace. We rejoice that thou art ever present with all those that call upon thy name in sincerity and in truth; that thou art present to guide by thy counsel, to lead by thy care, and supply abundantly all our needs, according to the riches of thy glory, in Christ Jesus. We pray, Oh God, that thou wilt be with us on the present occasion; guide us in the proceedings of the present meeting. We pray especially for him who has so extensively excited the public sympathy and approbation. We render thanks to thee for the noble spirit of generosity and of fidelity and of bravery which he has manifested, and his deep sympathy for the oppressed. We thank thee that he is sustained in the present trying hour by a consciousness of having acted in accordance with his sense of obligation to God; and we pray that he may be sustained to the last. May he enjoy the light of thy presence and thy sustaining power, and a hope full of immortality, looking forward to a world where there is no sin, no suffering, no oppression of any kind. We pray for his family, Oh God ! We rejoice to feel that thou art with them ; that in this hour of their suffering and sorrow, they may have communion with thee, and we pray that they may have a rich experience of thy goodness, of thy love, of the consolation ot thy grace. We pray that thou wilt be with them especially in the scenes of intense suffering which they now anticipate. Oh, be thou their guide, be thou their consolation, thou their support. And we rejoice, Oh God, that the circumstances which are occurring, all the trying scenes of life, are in thy control. The events which have recently occurred we know are capable of subserving the wisest and most omniscient purposes. The Lord reigneth, and we will ever rejoice. Be with us in the proceedings of the present meeting, and prepare us for all the duties of life, and for the enjoyment of life hereafter; and to thy great and glorious name shall be the praise forevermore.
SPEECH OF MR. ANDREW.
At the conclusion of Dr. Nealeï¿½ s prayer, Mr. Andrew said:
Ladies and gentlemen:-Obedient to the commands of the gentlemen who arranged the meeting on this occasion, I am here present to occupy the simple and inarduous duties of chairman. They do not impose upon me the office of speech, and I hardly deem it consistent with the proprieties of the position I hold. It simply is incumbent upon me to say a single word by way of explanation, of the order and arrangement and principles of this meeting, and to present to you the distinguished and eloquent friends who have complied with the invitation of the committee, and are here preent to address this audience. Many hearts were touched by the words of John Brown, in a recent letter to Lydia Maria Child:
I have at home a wife and three young daughters, the youngest but little over five years old, the olders nearly sixteen. I also have two daughters-in-law, whose husbands have both fallen near me here. There is also another widow, Mrs. Thompson, whose husband <illegible> she is a mother or not, I <illegible> I have a middle-aged son, who has been, in some degree, a cripple from his childhood, who would have as much as he could well do to earn a living. He has not enough to clothe himself for the winter comfortably.
John Brown and his companions in the conflict at Harperï¿½ s Ferry, those who fell there and those who are to suffer upon the scaffold, are victims or martyrs to an idea. There is an irresistible conflict (great applause) between Freedom and Slavery, as old and as immortal as the irrepressible conflict between right and wrong. They are among the martyrs of that conflict.
I pause not now to consider, because it is wholly outside of the duty or the thought of this assembly to-night, whether the enterprise of John Brown and his associates in Virginia was wise or foolish, right or wrong; I only know that whether the enterprise <illegible> was the one or the other, John Brown himself is right. (Applause.) I sympathize with the man. I sympathize with the idea, because I sympathise with and believe in the eternal right They who are dependent upon him, and his sons and his associates in the battle at Harperï¿½ s Ferry, have a right to call upon us who have professed to believe, or who have in any manner or measure taught, the doctrine of the rights of man as applied to the colored slaves of the South, to stand by them in their bereavement, whether those husbands and fathers and brothers were right or wrong. (Applause.) And therefore we have met to take counsel together, and assist each other in the arrangement and apportionment of means for the purpose of securing to those widowed and bereaved wives and families the necessities of own mortal existence, which the striking down of husbands and sons and brothers has left them bereft of. The committee for this evening had invited to address you the Rev. Mr. Manning, Mr. Ralph Waldo Emerson, and Mr. Wendell Phillips. Added to these gentlemen was the Rev. George H. Hepworth. Mr. Manning, Mr. Emerson, and Mr. Phillips are here to speak for themselves. Mr. Hepworth has addressed to a member of the committee the following note :-
Boston, Nov. 19.
Dear Sir, -I shall not be with you to-night to speak concerning the great question of the day, because I feel that the advertisement in the papers has compromised my position. It does not tell that truth which is of prime importance to me, that both sides of the question were to be discussed. It gives a decided in
<c05>
pression that those who were to speak favored the whole movement, whereas I am severely opposed to it. Feeling that I should be out of harmony with the meeting, I remain away.
Yours, truly, 
(Signed) GEORGE H. HEPWORTH.
The gentlemen who invited Mr. Hepworth and the other gentlemen who are present to-night, to occupy this platform, attempted to make themselves explicitly understood, and it is quite a misfortune either to them or Mr. Hepworth, or to all, that they did not succeed in that instance. This platform is entirely free from the expression of any sentiment on the part of those who occupy it, touching the subject matter of the meeting. It was not suspected by anybody that there were two sides to the question whether John Brownï¿½ s wife and children should be left to starve or not. (Long continued applause.) On that issue I expect no considerable acrimony of debate between the gentlemen of extreme orthodoxy and of extreme heterodoxy whom I shall have the honor hereafter to present to you upon this platform. Gentlemen, all of them, of marked, of intelligent, of decided opinions, and of entire respect for themselves and for their own individuality, they will each present such aspect of this great cause, and of this most touching and pathetic case, as occurs to them. It will not compromise Mr. Phillips that he sits upon a platform consecrated by the prayer of the Rev. Dr. Neale, and it will not compromise the Rev. Mr. Manning that he works tonight. side by side and hand in hand with Ralph Waldo Emerson, in the cause of God and humanity. (Applause.) Standing in the valley of the shadow of death, -looking, each man, from himself toward that infinite and eternal centre of life and love and power, the Infinite Father, -all differences between us mortals and men become dwarfed into infinite littleness. We are to-night in the presence of a great and awful sorrow, which has fallen like a pall upon many families, whose hearts fail, whose affections are lacerated, and whose hopes are crushed-all of hope left upon earth destroyed by an event which, under the Providence of God, I pray may be overruled for that good which was contemplated and intended by John Brown himself. But this is not my occasion for words. I have only to invite you, friends, to listen with affectionate interest and feeling hearts to what you shall bear from hence to-night, and by practical sympathy and material aid, help to assuage those sufferings and those griefs. Among other instrumentalities for the aid of the family of Mr. Brown and those of his immediate associates, in addition to the collection which may be realized by the sale of tickets at the door, there will be a committee appointed this evening, for the purpose of receiving subscriptions and donations, of whatever amount, from whatever friends choose to contribute of their substance; and this committee, having a central position here in Boston, will receive contributions from any part of the neighboring country. I am requested, also, to call attention to the project of Mr. Hyatt of New York, by which photographic likenesses of Capt. Brown are to be placed on sale in a short time, -the profits of which will go to the benefit of Mr. Brownï¿½ s family. I am also requested by a gentleman of this city, to say that he has caused the address of Capt. John Brown to the Virginia court, upon the reception of his death sentence, to be printed in this neat form for preservation.
[The speaker here exhibited a large illuminated card, on which the document is printed.] It has the additional attraction of a fac-simile of the signature of Capt. Brown. This will be for sale at the door at the low price of ten cents each. A thousand copies have been struck off, and the whole proceeds will go into the treasury of the committee hereafter to be appointed, the gentleman defraying the expenses of printing, himself. (Applause.) 
I have now, ladies and gentlemen, the pleasure of introducing to you the Rev. Mr. MANNING, of Boston.
SPEECH OF REV. J.M. MANNING, OF THE OLD SOUTH 

I feel greatly indebted to the gentleman who presides over this meeting, for the explanation he has made in regard to the objects which have called us together; for if I had understood the objects of the meeting as they seem to have been understood by the gentleman whose note has just been read, I should have been inclined to stay away. The gentleman who called on me, and invited me to speak here this evening, told me, and if I have read the notice right in the paper that also tells us, that this is a meeting in which we are to express sympathy for the family of John Brown. (Applause.) And I suppose that if there were a destitute family in Boston, and I should take my little basket of provisions, and go to relieve that family, and should there meet the distinguished gentlemen who are on the stage this evening, and who are to speak to you, or if I should meet others of adverse religious sentiments who may be in the audience, -I suppose we could each leave the little gifts we had brought, and go away without quarrelling. I cannot see any negative to the question. It seems to me it is all affirmative, so far as this is concerned, -and if there is a negative, there is not an instinct of my humanity but it cries out, and tells me not to be on that side. I suppose, from what I have heard, that, so far as religious sentiment is concerned, I am more nearly in sympathy with that prisoner in Charlestown jail, Virginia, than perhaps others who may address you this evening, and in this respect may number with myself that honored minister of Christ who has led in our devotions this evening. You have expressed your sympathy with the family of John Brown by purchasing tickets; we express our sympathies by declaring our opinions, -and it is rather difficult for me to speak without alluding to that outbreak at Harperï¿½ s Ferry, and giving my judgment upon it; and though in some particulars I may differ from many who are present, probably from some who will speak, I think that in the main we shall agree. 
The act of John Brown was not one to which I could have advised him. If he had come to me while he was meditating that undertaking, and asked me whether he should go forward or not I should have told him to refrain. I should have said to him,ï¿½ You will be performing as unlawful, a fool-hardy, a suicidal act.ï¿½ And yet, when I make this remark. I remember that we have fillibusters who go to Central America to liberate those living under Spanish tyranny, as they callï¿½ it, and it seems to me that if our General Government winks at their iniquity, it has no right to pounce upon John Brown for what he has done, because he is a weak man, alone, and because he has meddled with something which affects the relations of political parties. I could not have advised him to it, and yet, now that the event has taken place, I stand before it wondering and admiring (applause.) I remember that it is something which he has been revolving in his mind for years, until his soul has become possessed with the idea. He says he is not insane. I believe he is a good man, and has been doing that which he thought was right; and the only explanation I can now give is, that he has been the instrument of Providence in this. The distinguished speaker who is to follow me would call it destiny : I should prefer to call it God, my heavenly Father, who has used this man, John Brown, as His sword, to inflict a wound on the Slave Power. Whatever we may say of it, he has been possessed by some power higher than manï¿½ s. As I view it, he is Godï¿½ s finger coming forth in the halls of the great modern Belahazzar, and writing over ag the wall those mysterious, yet appalling words, at which the monarch trembles, and turns pale on his throne. While we are here this evening, knowing that safely wives-if not present-and our little ones, stay safely in our homes, there are mothers in the Southern States, whom the Providence of God has made the wives of slaveholders, -innocent of this great sin, who may say that Providence placed them in their present circumstances; and these wives and mothers to night, as they gather their children around them, offer the prayer that they may be
<c06>
protected from the invader. And they will go to bed with weapons under their pillows, knowing that their streets are patrolled by an armed police. This is the condition of the Southern States; verily, the tyrant trembles, and turns pale in the midst of his revels. 
(Applause)
It has seemd to me that we might, perhaps, get a juster view of this transaction by comparing it with a parallel case, lying back two or three generation in history the Boston Massacre of March the 5th, 1770. Then it was a black man sacrificing his life in behalf of oppressed white men. Here it is a white man sacrificing his life in behalf of enslaved black men. Crispus Attacks, not a citizen of Boston, but of Middlesex County, came to this city when the inhabitants were full of terror, greatly excited by the presence of two regiments of British soldiers;and on the evening of March th, there was an outbreak in King street, now State street, headed by Crispus Attucks, which resulted in his own death and that of several of his comrades, at the hands of the British soldiery. Now, if I been living at that time, and Crispus Attucks had come to me, and asked my advice in regard to the matter, I could not have advised him to undertake it. (Laughter.) I should have said to him, Refrain restrain your feeling. I think that Samuel Adams and John Adams and John Hancock and Joesph Warren-one of his eulogists afterwards-would have given him the same advice, had he come to them for it beforehand; and I believe that few if any historians have commended that outbreak in Kingstreet. I have never seen a full and thorough endorsement of it in itself considered. But after the event, they had a funeral; and the citizens of Boston marched six abreast through the streets, the carriage following; and they carried Crispus Attucks and his fellow vietim to the middle buryins-ground now overlooked by the Athenaeum, and over their remains erected a stone, and on it carved this inscription:-
Long as in freedomï¿½ s cause the wise contend, 
Dear to your country, shall your fame extend:
While to the world the lettered stone shall tell
How Caldwell, Attucks, Gray and Maverick fell.
And when the anniversary of that tragedy came round-the fifth of March-they observed it in the Old South Church, still standing. (Applause) There was an oration, and the wounded survivors of the massacre were present on the stage, in thatï¿½ sanetuary of freedom,ï¿½ and a collection was taken in their behalf. And so it grew to a custom. And the last public address that Joseph Warren ever made, a few weeks before the battle of Bunker Hill, was on that occasion, when he was surrounded by British soldiery, some of them standing in the pulpit with him, telling him to desist. But he spoke on like a man, (applause, ) and they did not dare to touch a hair of his head. And when the Declaration of Independence was promulgated, they changed that celebration, in honor of the event, from the fifth of March to the fourth of July. (Applause.) Thus it is that we have come to have our annual oration on the fourth of July, which has given us so many excellent orations, -Unionsaving which of latter years have made our City Fathers so much pleasant work, all growing out of that same Boston massacre, to which I could not have advised the leader, if he had come to me before hand. (Lauhter) Even Daniel Webster has said thatï¿½ from that moment,ï¿½ the moment when the blood of those men stained the pavement of King street,ï¿½ we may date the severance of the British empire.ï¿½ And so I say, in regard to my brother John Brown-if he dies, as it seems he must, for the Virginians are between two fears-an immediate fear that a volcano will explode under them, and a more distant fear that they shall not reap the fruits of political success; and I am afraid that the immediate fear, as is apt to be the case, will overpower that which is more remote, and therefore that John Brown will suffer the sentence which has been pronounced upon him; and if he does, and if that event should be observed next year, when it comes round; and so on from year to year; and if, half a century hence, our children should be rid of this great national curse of slavery, then no one will refer, except with pride and exultation, to the battle of Harperï¿½ s Ferry. (Applause.) And there will come forth some other Daniel Webster, who, standing at a safe distance from the event, (laughter and cheers) will say that from the time when John Brown swung between heaven and earth, we may date the beginning of the end of American slavery. There is another parallel in these two cases. It is amusing to read the journals of that early day, especially those in the interest of the English Government, about the year 1770, and to see the curious explanations which they give of the outbreak in King street. They say that it was attributable to the influence of certain hot-headed ministers and others in Boston; some of them are named, names that we love and honor now. It was said that these had produced an excitement in the country, and encouraged a fanatical spirit, which had resulted in the mob and massacre. But what said the people of Boston? The selectmen called a town meeting, and they went to Faneuil Hall. It was not large enough to bold them and again they went to the Old South Church. And they appointed a committee-of which, if I mistake not, Samuel Adams was the chairmanto intercede with the Governor, that those two regiments of British soldiers might be removed from the city; for, said they, in substance, we deplore this outbreak we regret that it has taken place; we fear that there will be other outrages of the same kind, if the incitement is not taken out of the way. Our people are very much excited, and their consciences are awake in this matter; and if you would not see this affair repeated many times, you must remove the soldiers. And, after a great deal of chaffering and hesitating, the Governor complied with the request and thus the inhabitants were pacified. Now we believe that they located the responsibility where it belonged. We believe that it was the presence of those regiments of British soldiers, and not a few hot-headed ministers. who were chargable with that outbreak on King street. And just so we say with regard to this affair at Harperï¿½ s <illegible>The journal in the interest of the Slave Power ascrib it to a few Northern fanatics, who have roused up the baser passions of men; and they say that we are responsible for the bloody acts of John I own and his associates.But we say no, the Brown and his associated. But we say no, -the regiments are to blame. The Slave Power itself, standing up there in all its deformity and wickedness in the sight of Northern consciences, -that is the cause, (applause, ) and there the responsibility belongs. The wise man Solomon-what does he say of oppression? He says that itï¿½ maketh a wise and man mad.ï¿½ It does; and it will make others like John Brown, if it is not taken out of the way. It stands there a continual provocative. We cannot resist such a temptation while we have humane instincts, and concience within us. (Applause.) We may become men of distinction, like John Brown of Osawatomie, and Providence will use us to write ominous inscriptions in the presence of this tyrant.
And now it occurs to me, before I sit down to give way to those whom I know you are waiting to hear, -inasmuch as much as I have alluded to removeal of the great primal cause of these outbreaks, to speak of the spirit in which we should endeavor to remove the evil of American slavery out of the land. I do not wish to speak unkindly of any who have labored in this glorious cause of freedom, and I will not. But is there not room to suppose, my friends, that we have not manifested enough of that spirit of love which is so powerful in all reformatory undertakings, I do not take back my words; I would not have any manless faithful and plain-spoken, but more so, in holding up the wickedness and violence of this system. But cannot we be loving at the same time that we are manful? Let us be careful that the element of maliguity does not mingle in our philanthropy. If we love our fellow-men, we must hate some things; but let

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
NOVEMBER25.
us guard that felling of hatred. My friends, you know how it is with the mother when she corrects her wayward child You can see the tear in her eye and her face is full of affections emotion, while she is faithful to correct that child. So with the father when he rebukes his son-he weeps and laments his heart. Let us remember the story of Eva and Topsy. The abuse which that strange little creation received from her owners before she came into the hands of St. Clair, did not make her any better, but worse; nor did the lecturing of Miss Ophelia accomplish the result. It was Eva, going to her and saying-'Topsy, you say nobody cares for you--I care for you--why will you be so naughty? 'Faithfulness mingled with love, generosity and kindly interest breathed through her efforts to liberate that little one from her wicked whims, And I remember that when our Saviour uttered his anathemas over the city of Jerusalem, he wept, saying, 'Oh! that thou hadst known, but it is hid from thine eyes.’ And when he was pouring forth those maledictions upon the heads of the Pharisees, saying--'Woe unto thee, Chorazin, woe unto thee, Bethsaida,'-or when in the midst of that storm, while his words fell like thunderbolts upon their devoted heads, in the midst of it all we hear the voice of love and compassion, musical as the tones of an AEolian harp-'come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.' It seems to me, my friends, that we have an opportunity, now, to exercise this generosity toward out fellow-citizens of the South. They are in danger; they tremble; they fear for their homes, their firesides, their families, their lives. Now is the time for us to endeavor to devise some means by which the chasm that separates us from them may be bridged over, so that we may go to them and say, 'I love you; I do not wish to see your families murdered. I do not wish to destroy your property. But you are engaged in a great sin, American slavery. It is a sin. We must lift up our voices like a trumpet to show you that it is sinful. But we love you; it is a national sin; its roots are in Northern soil (applause) as much as in Southern soil. Let us reason together over this matter. And now help us; let us work hand in-hand in endeavoring to remove from our country this great evil and curse.' While we labor in this spirit manfully, truthfully, faithful to justice and to the right. yet remaining fraternal all the while, if we can unite these two elements in one effort to remove slavery from the land, then it seems to me that we shall use influences which, under God's blessing, shall result ultimately in the accomplishment of that for which we pray and labor. And though it should not be done in our time, though we should be gathered to the fathers, and our enterprise should seem to be frustrated, yet when we lay our heads low we can reflect, as John Brown to-night in his lonely cell may reflect, and as his widow we fear that is to be, and his children and friends may reflect-I say we can all feed our courage with the reflection that 
'They never fail who die
In a great cause. The block may soak their gore;
Their heads may sodden in the sun; their limbs
Be strung to city gates and castle walls.
But still their spirit walks abroad. Though years
Elapse, and others share as dark a doom,
They but augment the deep and sweeping thoughts
Which overpower all others, and conduct
The world at last to freedom.'
At the conclusion of Mr. Manning s remarks, Mr. Andrew said: I think the interior of the Old South Church has been extensively remodelled, and I believe the pulpit in which Warren spoke has been removed me replaced by a new one; yet I think the spirit of Joseph Warren sometimes at least revisits those ancient walls, sacred to liberty; and that we have heard an echo of his voice to-night. (Applause.) From the Old south Church we will turn our eyes to the battle-ground of Concord. When the monument was inaugurated which marks the spot consecrated by bloodshed in the cause of American liberty a concord poet hung garland from his muse upon its shaft, and the first stanzas may not be inappropriate as his introduction:
'By the rude bridge that arched the flood,
Their flag to April's breeze unfurled-
Here once the embattled farmers stood,
And fired a shot heard round the world.'
That poet and that writer needs no introduction by one so humble as I to a Boston assembly. I now introduce to you Mr. Ralph Waldo Emerson.
SPEECH OF MR. RALPH WALDO EMERSON. Mr. Chairman and Fellow-Citizens: I share the sympathy and sorrow which have brought us together. Gentlemen who hare preceded me have well said that no wall of depuration could here exist. This commanding event which has brought us together,-the sequel of which has brought us together,-eclipses all others which hive occurred for a long time in our history, and I am very glad to see that this sudden interest in the hero of Harper's Ferry has provoked an extreme curiosity in all parts of the republic, in regard to the details of his history. Every anecdote is eagerly sought, and I do not wonder that gentlemen find traits of relation readily between him and themselves. One finds a relation in the church, another in the profession, another in the place of his birth. He was happily s representative of the American republic. Captain John Brown in a farmer, the fifth in descent from Peter Brown, who came to Plymouth in the Mayflower, in 1620. All the six have been farmers. His grandfather, of Simsbury, in Connecticut, was a captain in the Revolution. His father, largely interested a raiser of stock, became a contractor to supply the army with beef, in the war of 1812. and our Captain John Brown, then a boy with his father, was present and witnessed the surrender of General Hull. He cherishes a great respect for his father as a man of-the character, and his respect is probably just. For himself, he is so transparent that all men see him through. He is a man to make friends wherever on earth courage and integrity are esteemed; (applause) the rarest of heroes, a pure idealist, with no by-ends of his own. Many of you have seen him. and every one who has heard him speak has been impressed alike by his simple artless goodness, joined with his sublime courage. He joins that perfect Puritan faith which brought his fifth ancestor to Plymouth Rock, with his grandfather's ardor in the Revolution. He believes in two articles-two instruments, shall I say the Golden Rule, and the Declaration of Independence (applause); and he used this expression in conversation here, ‘Better that a whole generation of men women and children should pass away by a violent death, than that one word of either should be violent in this country.' There is a Unionist-there is a strict constructionist for you! (Applause and laughter.) He believes in the Union of the United States, he believes in the Union of America, and he conceives that the only obstruction to the obstruction to the Union is slavery, and for that reason, as a patriot, he works for its abolition. The Governor of Virginia has pronounced his eulogy it a manner that discredits the moderation of our timid parties. His own speeches to the Court have interested the nation in him. What magnanimity, and what innocent pleading, as of childhood! You remember his words-If I had interfered in behalf of the rich, the powerful, the intelligent, the so-called great. or any of their friends, parents, wives or children, it would all have been right. No man in this court would have thought it a crime. But I believe that to have interbred as I have done, for the despised poor. I have done no wrong, but right.' 
It is easy to see what a favorite be will be with history, which plays such pranks with temporary reputations. Nothing can resist the sympathy which all elevated minds must feel with Brown, and through them the whole civilized world; and, if he must suffer, he must drag official gentlemen into an immortality some <illegible> and of which they have already some disagreeable forebodings. (Applause.) Indeed, it is the reductio ad absurdum of slavery, when the Governor of virginia is forced to hang a man whom he declares to be a man of the most integrity, truthfulnees,
<c02>
and courage has ever met. Is that the kind of a man the <illegible> is built for? It were bold to affirm that there <illegible> that broad Commonwealth, at this moment, another citizen as worthy to live, and as deserving of all public and private honor, as this poor prisoner.
But we are here to think of relief for the family of John Brown. To my eyes that family looks very large and very needy of relief. It comprises his brave fellow <illegible> in the Charlestown jail; the fugitives still hunted the mountains of Virginia and Pennsylvania; the sympathizers with him in all the States; and, I may say, almost every man who loves the Golden Rule and the Declaration of Independence, like him, and who sees what a tiger's thirst threatens him in the malignity of public sentiment in the slave States. It seems to me that a common feeling joins the people of Massachusetts with him, I said John Brown was an idealist. He believed in his ideas to that extent, that he existed to put them all into action. He did not believe in moral suasion;-he believed in putting the thing through. (Applause.) He saw how deceptive the forms are. We fancy, in Massachusetts, that we are free; yet it seems the Government is quite unreliable. Great wealth,-great population,-men of talent in the Executive, on the Bench,-all the forms right,-and yet, life and freedom are not safe. Why? Because the judges rely, on the forms, and do not, like John Brown, use their eyes to see the fact behind the forms.
They assume that the United States can protect its witness or its prisoner. And, in Massachusetts, that is true; but the moment he is carried out of the bounds of Massachusetts, the United States, it is notorious, afford no protection at all; the Government, the Judges, are an envenomed party, and give such protection as they give in Utah to honest citizens, or in Kansas: such protection as they give to their own Commodore Paulding, when he was simple enough to mistake the formal instructions of his Government for their real meaning. (Applause.) The Judges fear collision between their two allegiances; but there are worse evils than collision; namely, the doing substantial injustice. A good man mill see that the use of a Judge is to secure good government, and where the citizen's weal is imperilled by abuse of the Federal power, to use that arm which can secure it, viz: the local government. Had that been done, on certain calamitous occasions, we should not have seen the honor of Massachusetts trailed in the dust, stained to all ages, once and again, by the ill-timed forma-ism of a venerable Bench. If Judges cannot find law enough to maintain the sovereignty of the State, and to protect the life and freedom of every inhabitant not a criminal, it is idle to compliment them as learned and venerable. What avails their learning or venration? At a pinch, they are of no more use than idiots. After the mischance, they wring their hands, but they had batter never have been born. A Vermont Judge, Hutchinson, who has the Declaration of Independence in his heart, a Wisconsin Judge, who knows that laws are for the protection of citizens against kidnappers, is worth a court-house full of lawyers so idolatrous of forms as to let go the substance. Is say man in Massachusetts so simple as to believe that when a United States Court in Virginia, now, in its present reign of terror, sends to Connecticut, or New York, or Massachusetts, for a wit nets, it wants him for a witness? No; it wants him for a party; it wants him for meat to slaughter and eat. And your habeas corpus is, in any way in which it has been, or, I fear, is likely to be used, a nuisance, and not a protection; for it takes away his right reliance on himself, and the natural assistance of his friends and fellow-citizens, by offering him a form which is a piece of paper. But I am detaining the meeting on matters which others understand better. I hope, then, that in administering relief to John Brown's family, we shall remember all those whom his fate concerns, all who are in sympathy with him, and not forget to aid him in the best way, by securing freedom and independence in Massachusetts.
MR. EMERSON CONTRIBUTES FIFTH DOLLARS.
Mr. ANDREW-Added to the words which Concord has sent hither to-night, also keeping in mind its reputation for deeds, Mr. Emerson was the bearer of fifty dollars to add to the treasury of the evening. (Great applause.) I think, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the time has arrived to appoint a financial committee to receive this the first offering. I will take the liberty to appoint Messrs. Samuel E. Sewall, Geo. F. Bigelow, John R. Manley, John L. Emmons, and Humphrey Jameson.
Contrasts and comparisons (said Mr. Andrew) are al ways disagreeable, at least to one side. Without a single word of remark, I will proceed at once to pre sent to the audience one of whom it can truly be said, none but himself can be his parallel-Mr. Wendell Phillips. (Great applause.)
{We regret that the crowded state of our columns obliges us to defer Mr. Philips's speech until our neat number. J-Ed. Lib. The audience were now about to separate, when Mr. Andrew claimed their attention. 
He said that the arguments upon the writ of error in Brown's case were made on Thursday. Every le-gal mind knew that such errors existed in the indictment as would secure a reversal of the judgment, if the case were freed from its present excitements. He spoke of the Court of Appeals as the highest of Virginia, and of the counsel, Messrs. Chilton and Greene, as among the ablest lawyers in the South. There had been no difficulty in obtaining the best of legal counsel to defend these men. 
Mr. Phillips here interrupted, to state an incident which he had heard. The wife of one of the counsel who went to Virginia, learning that he had gone to Charlestown, wrote to him, saving,-I fear for you-you may not return to me-but do your duty. I had rather be the widow of a brave man than the wife of a coward.' [Great applause.]
Mr. Andrew continued, stating that the gentleman who is the acknowledged head of the Virginia bar, only declined to argue the writ of error before the Court of Appeals because his other engagements would not allow him to give his mind to it with that entirety which he should desire. These incidents, said Mr. Andrew, should not be forgotten, because it was true, that notwithstanding the terrible blight of slavery which curses Virginia and all the South, humanity is nevertheless the same everywhere, and God is nowhere on the face of the earth in human hearts without a witness. (Applause.)
The meeting was then closed without further formality.
In recording the expressions of sympathy and admiration which are so widely felt for John Brown, whose doom is as swiftly approaching, we desire to say-once for all-that, judging him by the code of Bunker Hill, not think he is as deserving of high-wrought eulogy as any who ever wielded sword or battle-axe in the cause of liberty; but we do not and cannot approve any indulgence of the war spirit. John Brown has, perhaps, a right to a place by the side of Moses, Joshua, Gideon and David; but he is not on the same plane with Jesus, Paul, Peter and John, the weapons of whose warfare were not carnal, though mighty to the pulling down of strong holds. Bui the professedly Christian church, with all Christendom, rejects our peaceful interpretation of Christianity, and has no right, therefore, to measure him by any higher standard than its own.
ARRIVAL OF HON.CHARLES SUMMER. Hon Charles Sumner, who came a passenger from Europe by the Canada, arrived at his home is Hancock Street, at eight o'clock Monday forenoon. He is in good health, and looking well, and was not injuriously affected by the sea voyage. Quite a number of his personal and political friends haw called upon him, He will shortly proceed to Washington.
<c03>
LYDIA MARIA CHILD'S REPLY TO GOV. WISE.
In your civil but very diplomatic reply to my letter, you inform me that I have a constitutional right to visit Virginia, for peaceful purposes, in common with every citizen of the United States. I was perfectly well aware that such was the theory of constitutional obligation in the Slave States; but I was also aware of what you omit to mention, via: that the Constitution has, in reality, been completely and systematically nullified whenever it suited the convenience or the policy of the Slave Power. Your constitutional obligation, for which you profess so much respect, has never proved any protection to citizens of the Free States, who happened to have a black, brown, or yellow complexion; nor to any white citizen whom you even suspected of entertaining opinions opposite to your own, on a question of vast importance to the temporal welfare and moral example of our common country. This total disregard of constitutional obligation has been manifested not merely by the Lynch Law of mobs in the Slave States, but by the deliberate action of magistrates and legislators. What regard was paid to constitutional obligation in South Carolina, when Massachusetts sent the Hon. Mr. Hoar there as an envoy, on a purely legal errand? Mr. Hedrick, Professor of Political Economy in the University of North Carolina, had a constitutional right to reside in that state. What regard was paid to that right, when he was driven from his home, merely for declaring that he considered Slavery an impolitic system, injurious to the prosperity of States? What respect fur constitutional rights was manifested by Alabama, when a bookseller in Mobile was compelled to flee for his life, because he had, at the special request of some of the citizens, imported a few copies of a novel that everybody was curious to read? Your own citizen, Mr. Underwood, had a constitutional right to live in Virginia, and vote for whomsoever he pleased. What regard was paid to his rights, when he was driven from your State for declaring himself in favor of the election of Fremont? With these, and a multitude of other examples before your eyes, it would seem as if the lest that was said about respect for constitutional obligations at the South, the better. Slavery is, in fact, an infringement of all law, and adheres to no law, save for its own purposes of oppression.
You accuse Captain John Brown of ' whetting knives of butchery for the mothers, sisters, daughters, and babes' of Virginia; and you inform me of the well-known fact that he it ' arraigned for the crimes of murder, robbery, and treason.' I will sot here stop to explain why I believe that old hero to be no criminal, but a martyr to righteous principles which he sought to advance by methods sanctioned by his own religious views, though not by mine. Allowing that Capt. Brown did attempt a scheme in which murder, robbery and treason were, to his own consciousness, involved, I do not see how Gov. Wise can consistently arraign him for crimes he has himself commended, You have threatened to trample on the Constitution, and Wreak the Union, if a majority of the legal voters in these Confederated States dared to elect a President unfavorable to the extension of Slavery. Is not such a declaration proof of premeditated treason: In the spring of 1842, you made a speech in Congress, from which I copy the following:
Once set before the people of the Great Valley the conquest of the rich Mexican Provinces, and you might as well attempt to stop the wind. This Government might send its troops, but they would run over them like a herd of buffalo. Let the work once begin, and I do not know that this House would hold me very long. Give me five millions of dollars, and I would undertake to do it myself. Although I do not know how to set a single squadron in the field, I could find men to do it. Slavery should pour itself abroad, without restraint, and find no limit but the Southern Ocean. The Camanches should no longer hold the richest mines of Mexico. Every golden, to <illegible> worship, should soon be melted down into <illegible> American eagles. I would cause as much gold to cross the Rio del Norte as the mules of Mexico could carry; aye, and I would make better use of it, too, than any lazy, bigoted priesthood under heaven.'
When you thus boasted that you and your ' booted loafers' would overrun the troops of the United States ' like a herd of buffalo,' if the Government sent them to arrest your invasion of a neighboring nation, at peace with the United States, did you not pledge yourself to commit treason? Was it not by robbery, even of churches, that you proposed to load the mules of Mexico with gold for the United States? Was it not by the murder of unoffending Mexicans that you expected to advance those schemes of avarice and ambition? What humanity had you for Mexican ' mothers and babes,' whom you proposed to make, childless and fatherless? And for what purpose right this wholesale massacre to take place? Not to right the wrongs of any oppressed class; not to sustain any great principles of justice, or of freedom; but merely to enable ' Slavery to pour itself forth without restraint.'
Even if Captain Brown were as bad as you paint him, I should suppose he must naturally remind you of the words of Macbeth:
'We but teach
Bloody instructions, which, being taught, return
To plague the inventor: This even-handed justice
Commends the ingredients of our poisoned chalice
To our own lips.'
If Captain Brown intended, as you say, to commit treason, robbery, and murder, I think I have shown that he could find ample authority for such proceedings in the public declarations of Gov. Wise. And it, as he himself declares, he merely intended to free the oppressed, where could he read a more forcible lesson than is furnished by the State Seal of Virginia; I looked at it thoughtfully before I opened your letter; and though it had always appeared to me very suggestive, it never seemed to me so much so as it now did in connection with Captain John Brown. A liberty-loving hero stands with his foot upon a prostrate despot; under his strong arm, manacles and chains lie broken; and the motto is, 'sic simper Tyrannis' Thus be it ever done to Tyrants.' And this is the blazon of a State whose most profitable business is the internal Slave-Trade! In whose highways coffles of human chattels, chained and manacled, are frequently seen! And the Seal and the Comes are both looked upon by other chattels, constantly exposed to the same fate! What if some Vezey, or Nat Turner, should be growing up among those apparently quiet spectators? It is in no spirit of taunt or of exultation that I ask this question. I never think of it but with anxiety, sadness, and sympathy. I know that a slaveholding community necessarily lives in the midst of gunpowder; and, in this age, sparks of free thought are flying in every direction. You cannot quench the fires of free thought and human sympathy by any process of cunning or force; but there is a method by which you can effectually wet the gun powder. England has already tried it, with safety and success. Would that you could be persuaded to set aside the prejudices of education, and candidly examine the actual working of that experiment! Virginia is so richly endowed by nature that Free Institutions alone are wanting to render her the most prosperous and powerful of the States.
In your letter you suggest that such a scheme as Captain Brown's is the natural result of the opinions with whish I sympathize. Even if I thought this to be a correct statement, though I should deeply regret it, I could not draw the conclusion that humanity ought to be stifled, and truth struck dumb, for fear that long-successful despotism might be endangered by their utterance. But the fact it, you mistake the source of that strange outbreak. No abolition arguments or denunciations, however earnestly, loudly, or harshly proclaimed, would have produced that result. It was the legitimate consequence of the continual, and constantly-increasing aggressions the Slave-Power. The Slave-States, in their desperate efforts to sustain a bad and dangerous institution, have
<c04>
encroached more and more upon the liberties of the Free States. Out inherent love of law and crier, and our superstitious attachment to the Union, you have mistaken for cowardice; and rarely have you let slip any opportunity to add insult to aggression The manifested opposition to Slavery began with the lectures and pamphlets of a few disinterested men and women, who based their movements upon purely moral and religious grounds; but their expostulations were met with a storm of rage, with tar and feathers, brickbats, demolished houses, and other applications of Lynch law. When the dust of the conflict began to subside a little, their numbers were found to be greatly increased by the efforts to exterminate them. They had become an influence in the State too important to be overlooked by shrewd calculators. Political economists began to look at the subject from a lower point of view. They used their abilities to demonstrate that Slavery was a wasteful system, and that the Free States were taxed, to an enormous extent, to sustain an institution which, at heart, two-thirds of them abhorred. The forty millions, or more, of dollars, expended in hunting Fugitive Slaves in Florida, under the name of the Seminole War, were adduced, as one item in proof, to which many more were added. At last, politicians were compelled to tike some action on the subject. It soon became known to all the people that the Slave States had always managed to hold in their hands the political power of the Union, and that while they constituted only one-third of the white population of these States, they held more than two-thirds of all the lucrative, and once honorable offices; an indignity to which none but a subjugated people had ever before submitted. The knowledge also became generally diffused, that white the Southern States owned their Democracy at home, and voted for them, they also systematically bribed the nominally Democratic party, at the North, with the office, adroitly kept at their disposal.
Through these, and other instrumentalities, the sentiments of the original Garrisonian Abolitionists became very widely extended, in forms more or less diluted. But by far the most efficient co-laborers we have ever had have been the Slave-States themselves. By denying us the sacred Right of Petition, they roused the free spirit of the North, as it never could have been roused by the loud trumpet of Garrison, or the soul-animating bugle of Phillips. They bought the great slave, Daniel, and, according to their established usage, paid him no wages for his labor. By his co-operation, they forced the Fugitive Slave law upon us, in violation of all our humane instincts and all our principles of justice. And what did they procure for the Abolitionists by that despotic process> A deeper and wider detestation of Slavery throughout the Free States, and the publication of Uncle Tom's Cabin, an eloquent outburst of moral indignation, whose echoes wakened the world to look upon their shame.
By fillibustering and fraud, they dismembered Mexico, and having thus obtained the soil of Texas, they tried to introduce it as a slave state into the Union. Failing to effect their purpose by constitutional means, they accomplished it by a most open and palpable violation of the Constitution, and by obtaining the rotes of Senators on false pretences. Soon afterward, a Southern Slave Administration ceded to the powerful monarchy of Great Britain several hundred thousands of square miles, that must have been made into Free States, to which that same Administration had declared that the United States had ' an unquestionable right;' and then they turned upon the weak Republic of Mexico, and, in order to make more Slave States, wrested from her twice as many hundred thousands of square miles, to which we had not a shadow of right. Notwithstanding all these extra efforts, they saw symptoms that the political power so long held with a <illegible> by reason of the extension of Abolition sentiments: and the greater prosperity of Free States. Emboldened by continual success in aggression, they made use of the pretence of' Squatter Sovereignty' to break the league into which they had formerly cajoled the servile representatives of our blinded people by which all the territory of the United States south of ' 36 30' was guaranteed to Slavery, and all north of it to Freedom. Thus Kansas became the battle ground of the antagonistic elements in our Government. Ruffians hired by the Slave Power were sent thither temporarily, to do the voting, and drive from the polls the legal voters, wire were often murdered in the process. Names copied from the directories of cities in other States, were returned by thousands as legal voters in Kansas, in order to establish a Constitution abhorred by her people. This was their exemplification of Squatter sovereignty. A Massachusetts Senator, distinguished, for candor, courtesy, and stainless integrity, was half murdered by slaveholders, merely for having the manliness to state these facts to the assembled Congress of the nation. Peaceful emigrants from the North, who went to Kansas for no other purpose than to till the soil, erect mills, and establish manufactories, schools, and churches, were robbed, outraged, and murdered. For many months a war more ferocious than the warfare of wild Indians was carried on against a people almost unresisting, because they relied upon the Central Government for aid. and all this while, the power of the United States, wielded by the Slave Oligarchy, was on the side of the aggressors. They literally tied the stones, and let loose the mad dogs. This was the state of things when the hero of Osawatomie and his brave sons went to the rescue. It was he who first turned the tide of Border-Ruffian triumph, by showing them that blows were to be taken as well as given.
You may believe it or not, Gov. Wise, but it is certainly the truth that, because slaveholders so recklessly sowed the wind in Kansas, they reaped a whirl wind at Harper's Ferry.
The people of the North had a very strong attachment to the Union; but, by your desperate measures you have weakened it beyond all power of restoration' They are not your enemies, as you suppose, but they cannot consent to be your tools for any ignoble task you may choose to propose. You must not judge of us by the crawling sinuosities of an Everett; or by our magnificent hound, whom you trained to hunt your poor cripples, and then sent him sneaking into a corner to die-not with shame for the base purposes to which his strength had been applied, but with vexation because you withheld from him the promised bone. Not by such as these must you judge the free, enlightened yeomanry of New England. A majority of them would rejoice to have the Slave States fulfill their oft-repeated threat of withdrawal from the Union. It has ceased to be a bugbear, for we begin to despair of being able, by any other process, to give the world the example of a real republic. The moral sense of these states is outraged by being accomplices in sustaining an institution vicious in all its aspects; and it is now generally understood that we purchase our disgrace at great pecuniary expense. If you would only make the offer of a separation in serious earnest, you would hear the hearty response of millions, ' Go, gentlemen, and
"Stand not upon the order of your going,
But go at once!"'
Yours, with all due respect,
L. MARIA. CHILD.
A person calling himself T. A. Salvo, was taken up at Bamberg, S. C, on the 10th inst., for being too free in the expression of his opinions Slavery and his head was shaved on one side, and a coat of tar and feathers applied to him; he was then rode on a rail beyond the limits of the village!
Dr. S. G. Howe, of this city, is in Canada, for the reason intimated in his recently published letter on the John Brown affair.
<c05>
VIRGINIA AGAIN ALAENED.
WASHINGTON Nov.17.
The Richmond Dispatch states that Edward Moffit, who in arrested at Lynchburg as a suspected participant in Brown's foray, has been released for want of evidence. Identifying parties are to proceed to Wytheville, for the purpose of examining another suspected fugitive. Several suspected parties, mostly Northern pedlars, hare bees recently arrested at Culpepper Court House, and there appears to be an intention to place in confinement all who do net give a good account of themselves.
Richmond, Nov. 17.
The military here are under arms, and ready to march at a moment's warning, in consequence of reports from Charlestown of an intended rescue of Brown.
ALEKANDRIA, VA., NOV. 17.
There is great excitement here in consequence of a rumor of the rescue of Brown, and the volunteer militia are assembled at their armories.
BALTINORE , NOV. 17.
A despatch from Col. Davis, at Charlestown, to GOV. Wise this evening, requests the despatch of two companies of cavalry, stating that five barns and outhouses have been fired to-day, it is supposed by sympathizers with Brown. Despatches hare been received in Richmond, which hare caused the authorities there to take prompt action. Three hundred men and two pieces of artillery leave Alexandria at daybreak by Gov. Wise's order. The Richmond forces will probably leave on an express train at an earl y hour.
Col. Davis telegraphs to Gov. Wise to order out the cavalry, which has been done. Col. Davis says, ' there is a guerilla war here; the property of fire of our best citizens has been burnt.' Upon this the Governor has ordered the 1st Regiment (Richmond) to be in readiness, awaiting orders.
This alarm confirms anonymous communications received by the Executive in the last two days, warning him of the intended raids in different squads along the borders of Virginia and Kentucky. He is also warned of an abolition scheme which may be in concoction to kidnap and spirit away prominent citizens, or members of their families, and to keep them as hostages for the pardon of the culprits.
Charlestown, Nov. 21.
Order prevails here now. The excitement of Saturday has subsided, and no suspicious parties have been discovered.
It is rumored that Gov. Wise has received a despatch from Gov. Chase of Ohio, informing him that a large body of men, from 600 to 1000, are arming for rescue, under command of John Brown, Jr., and will undoubtedly start for Charlestown. Wise is said to have replied, that if Gov. Chase allows them to cross the line, he will take proceedings against him for treason Precautions.-The Hagerstown (Md.) Torchlight says:-• The Governor has ordered the Sheriff of Washington county to appoint a sufficient number of deputies, residing along or near the boundary line between this State and Pennsylvania, and others residing along the line of the Potomac River, who may be empowered to act with authority of law in case of any assembly of unlawful characters, or men whose character and purpose are not known, and to arrest and detain them. In pursuance of this order, the Sheriff has summoned five hundred men in different parts of the county to act as his special deputies.'
Joshua R. Giddings in going through Syracuse, a few days since, was astonished to find the depot crammed with people anxious to testify their respect and affection for him. The interval between the arrival and departure of the trains was but four minutes. As Mr. Giddings stepped on the platform to pass from one train to another, in company with Henry B. Stanton, who announced him to the people, three hearty cheers burst forth from the crowd. Among his humorous remarks, Mr. Giddings said that the gentlemen down South, who were in need of heads or brains, and who advertised for him, could have his head when he got through with it, if they would hand over the $10,000 reward to the executors of his will.
UNPAID PLEDGES in aid of the<illegible> setts Anti-Slavery Society, made in January last, or previously to that time, are now payable; and it is hereby requested that the same may be paid at the earliest practicable day.
All donations in furtherance of the Anti-Slavery cause, will be faithfully applied to the swelling of that Just and Righteous Public Sentiment, before which Slavery cannot stand, and must fall 
Treasurer, or to Samuel May, Jr., General Agent,
21 Cornhill, Boston.
ADVERTISEMENT.-A young woman from Demarara, who has lived several yean in this country, wishes to return to her native land; and, in order to support herself there and help her mother, she has a very earnest desire to learn the milliner's trade. Her brown complexion has hitherto frustrated all her efforts for that purpose. Is there any one, who has sufficient good sense and good feeling to rise above this absurd prejudice, and aid her in her laudable undertaking? She is a person of intelligence, reliable principles, good manners, and industrious habits. She is a very neat seamstress, and has general capacity. If she cannot learn a trade, she would like a situation as parlor girl, or chamber maid.
Please give an early reply to
L. MARIA CHILD.
Wayland, Mass.
Andrew T. Foes, an Agent of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture as follows:
West Cummingten, Friday, Nov.25.
Savoy, Saturday, Nov 26
Cheshire, Sunday, Nov 27
Hintdale, Tuesday, Nov 99
Mid.llefield, Wednesday, Nov 30
Worthington, Thursday, Dec.1
Plainfield, Friday, Dec 2
Aahfield, Sunday, Dec 4
Buckland, Tuesday, Dec 6
Shelburne Falls, Wednesday, Dec 7
GERMAN LECTURES AT THE TURN HALL,
No. 677 Washington Streest.
First lecture by Mr. karl Hrinzen, editor of the Pioneer, on Sunday evening, 27th inst.
subject: Die Teutschen and die Amerikaner.
Tickets 25 cents, admitting a gentleman and ladies.Lecture will commence at 8 o'clock, precisely.
NOTICE.-Wm. WELLS BROWN will deliver a lecture at Joy Street Church, on Monday evening, Nov. 28.subject:The Harper's Ferry Heroes.

PILLS AND POWDERS.
FORTY YEARS IN THE WILDERNESS THERE OF
By the late Dr. Wm. A. Alcott. Is one of the most amusing and instructive books of the year. Price $ 1. JOHN P. JEWETT & CO., Publishers,
No. 20 Washington street, Boston.
Not. 18.4w
Dunallan and Father Clement,
IN two handsome 12mo. volumes, from new type, being the first and only American edition of those admirable old English Novels from the graceful and elegant pen of GRACE KENNEDY. price $1 per volume, bound in cloth lished by JOHN P JEWETT & CO.,
No. 20 Washington street, Boston. Nov. 18. 3w
Another Slander Hailed to the Counter
IT has been so often said that most people now believe it. That cultisators of the soil do not read.
The fact that in so short a time Their Editions each of COPELAND'S COUNTRY LIFE and DR. DADD'S NEW CATTLE DOCTOR hare been call ed for, gives the tie to this libel upon oar intelligent yeomanry. These books should be in the hands of every man who cultivates an sere of ground, or owns a cow.
Price of Country Life, third edition,
Price Dr. Dadd's New Cattle Doctor, third edition, 1 00
Agents could make money by selling these valuable works.
JOHN P. JEWETT & Co Publishers No. 29 Washington st., Beaton. Nov. 18. 4wis
The Original ' Sensation Book,'
ALL others, excepting ' THE LAMPLIGHTER, being more abortive imitations. A new edition of ‘UNICLE TOM’S CABIN,’ 310 Edition, making a sale of THREE HUNDRED AND TEN THOU AND COPIES of this univalled book Price 1 60 for the two volumee, with portrait. Of the Author and Little Eva.
JOHN P JRWETT & co., publishers,
No,20 Washington street, <illegible>
4wis.
<c06>
THE BOOK FOR THE TIMES.
IN PRESS:
CAPT. JOHN BROWN,
THE LIBERATOR OF KANSAS,
AND THE
Hero of Harper's Ferry.
BY JAMES REDPATH.
AN elegant 12 mo. volume of 400 pages, illustratrated, and embellished with a superb
STEEL PORTRAIT
of the
GLORIOUS OLD MAN.
This book will be issued before the first of January, 1860, and will be a work of thrilling and fascinating interest. Price, $1.00. A. liberal percentage of the PROFITS resulting from its publication will be
Given to the family of Brown.
THOUSANDS OF AGENTS will be wanted to supply the demand in every town. village and hamlet, throughout the North.
Address, THAYER & ELDRIDOE, Publishers,
Nos.114 and 116 Washington street
BOSTON, MASS.

CARPETING.
'All the year round.'
JOHN H. PRAY, SON & CO.
IMPORTERS AND DEALERS IN
CARPETING,
285 WASHINGTON STREET.
(Near Winter Street,)
RECEIVE, by Steamers and Packets from England, the latest and hest styles and qualities of Carpeting, comprising Wiltons, Velvets, best qaatnies of Brussels, Tapestries, Three-plys, Kidderminsters, &c, Painted Floor Cloths (of all widths and qualities), Rugs, Mats, Bockings, Fellings, Canton and Cocoa Mattings.
-ALSO-
AMERICAN CARPETING.
ALL, WHICH ARE OFFERED AT
THE LOWEST PRICES,
For cash or approved credit. Sept. 16

WOMAN'S BIGHTS TRACTS.
THE following Woman's Rights Tracts may be obtained of SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Rochester, N. Y.:-
Single. Hundred.
Report of Ninth National Woman's Rights Convention, with phonographic report of the speech of Wendell Phillips,
by J. M. W. Yerrinton.06 4.00
The Position of Woman, as Woman, Wife, Widow, Mother-Address to N. Y. Statre
Legislature, by E. Cady Stanton.06 3.00
Series of Woman's Rights Tracts, viz.! Freedom for Women-Wendell Phillips, Public Function of Woman-T. Parker, Enfranehisement of Women-Mrs. Mills, Woman and her Withes-Higginson, Retpontibilites of Women-Mrs. Nichols,. 10 6.00 Civil and Political Equality-Report of Ohio Senate on giving the right of suffrage to Women.40
It is to Unladylike.40
I have all the right I Want 
Who are the Oppoters of the Woman mov
mentf.40
Oct. 28
CHARLES HAZELTINE.
PIANO-FORTE TUNER REPAIRER.
 Orders may be left at Russell & Tollman's, 291 Washington street, and at the Neponset PostOffice.
Mr. H. has permission to refer to Thomas Ryan, Wulf Fries, and their fellow-members of the Mendelssohn Quintette Club: also, to Woodward & Brown, and Wm. Bourne, Piano-Forte makers; B. F. Baker, and W. R. Babcock.
No. 4. *6m
LANDS FOR SALE.
A LARGE number of parcels of land an hereby offered for sale to persons of liberal and reformatory ideas and tendencies, sympathising with the fundamental principles and general objects of the Hopedale Community. These parcels, lying in and contiguous to the village of Hopedale, Milford, Mass., and constituting a part of the original Community Domain, are of different sizes, ranging from two to twenty acres, and present a good variety of tillage and pasturage, together with some woodland-most of the tillage being under a high state of cultivation-and are designed either for simple building lots, or for small farms, as may suit different classes of purchasers. Upon some of them are pleasant dwellings. sad tenements in the village may be rented by those unprepared, to buy or erect buildings. In the immediate vicinity there is a Foundry, suitable shop room and power, and an unoccupied Mill-privilege, rendering the location a favorable one for mechanics either to commence or continue a business, and especially for those who may desire to combine with their usual avocations such horticultural employment a health measure, or profit may dictate. Persons also of literary inclinations and pursuits may obtain that quiet retirement, and the opportunity for active, out-door manual or other exercise necessary to the highest <illegible> fulness and success in their chosen field of labor. And any or all of the class to whom the lands are offered. who may desire for themselves and families the superior moral and social influences of Hopedals, or who may wish to secure far their children the advantages of the Hopedale Home School-a flourishing Institution of much excellence, bath in its general character and in its methods of instruction, designed to aid in the attainment of <illegible>, symmetrical, and practical Education-will find Mrs unusual inducements for making themselves at Home. 
These lands are within two miles of the Milford Station, on the Boston and Worcester R. R., by which communication may be had three tines a day with Boston and the principal thoroughfares of New England.
Prices reasonable, and terms of payment suited to the circumstances of any honest, industrious, <illegible> ical family.
For <illegible>r particulars and all necessary information, inquire of „ E. D-DRAPER.
Hopedale, Milford, Mass, June 17, l859-tf.
HOPEDALE LANDS OPENED FOB SETTLE-MENT.
We bespeak attention to Br. E. D. Draper's advertisement as above, offering for sale sundry <illegible>of Hopedale land. Some two years since, when most of the Joint Stock Property of the Hopedals Community
was individualised and divided among the stack-holders, a large portion of the Community Domain went legitimately into the private <illegible> of Br. Draper. He has recently caused his lands to as <illegible> into <illegible> of from two to twenty acres each, with a view to offer them for sale to parsons friendly to our distinguishing principles, who may choose as settle in Mr midst . We hope that a goodly sumber of friends, <illegible> a general sympathy with onr people, and <illegible>to give their children the advantages of our <illegible> select <illegible>common schools, will avail<illegible> selves of the new opening. Seeing that we must be <illegible>
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY.
For the Liberator.
JOHN BROWN OF OSAWATOMIE.
BY G. D. WHITEMORE.
So you've convicted old John Brown! brave old Brown of Osawatomie!
And you gave him a chivalrous trail, lying groaning on the floor,
With his body ripped with gashes, deaf with pain from sabre slashes,
Over the head received, when the deadly fight was o'er;
Round him guns with lighted matches, judge and lawyers pale as ashes—
For he might, perhaps, come to again, and put you all to flight,
Or surround you, as before!
You think, no doubt, you've tried John Brown, but he's laid there trying you,
And the world has been his jury, and its judgment's swift and true:
Over the globe the tale has rung, back to your hearts the verdict's flung,
That you're found, as you've been always found, a brutal, cowardly crew!
At the wave of his hand to a dozen men, two thousand slunk like hounds;
He kennelled you up, and kept you too, till twice you saw through the azure blue,
The day-star circle round.
No longer the taunt, our history's new, ’our hero is yet to come'—
We've suddenly leaped a thousand years beyond the rolling sun!
And, sheeted round with a martyr's glory, again on earth's renewed the story
Of bravery, truth, and righteousness, a battle lost and won;
A life laid down for the poor and weak, the immortal crown put on;
The spark of Luther's touched to the pile—swords gleam—black smoke obscures the sun—
And the slave and his master are gone!
Ages hence, when all is over that shocks the sense of the world to-day,
Pilgrims will mount the western wave, seeking the new Thermopylae;
Then, for that brave old man with many sons, mangled and murdered, one by one,
Whose ghosts rise up from Harper's gorge, Missouri's plains, and far away
away Where Kansas' grains wave tinged with their blood, will the column rise!
The Poet's song and History's page will the deeds prolong of John of Osawatomie,
The Martyr to Truth and Right!

From the New York Tribune
JOHN BROWN'S INVASION
HOW OLD JOHN BROWN TOOK HARPER'S FEBRY.
A BALLAD OF THE TIMES
[Containing ye True History of ye Great Virginia Fright.]
JOHN BROWN in Kansas settled, like a steadfast Yankee farmer,
Brave and godly, with four sons—all stalwart men of might;
There he spoke aloud for Freedom, and the Border-strife grew warmer,
Till the Rangers fired his dwelling, in his absence in the night—
And Old Brown,
Osawatomie Brown,
Came homeward in the morning—to find his house burned down
Then he grasped his trusty rifle, and boldly fought for Freedom;
Smote from border unto border the fierce, invading band;
And he and his brave boys vowed—so might Heaven help and speed ‘em!—
They would save those grand old prairies from the curse that blights the land;
And Old Brown,
Osawatomie Brown,
Said—’Boys, the Lord will aid us!’ and he shoved <Illegible>
And the Lord did aid these men, and they labored day and even,
Saving Kansas from its peril—and their very lives seemed charmed;
Till the Ruffians killed one son, in the blessed light of heaven—
In cold blood the fallows slew him, as he journeyed all unarmed;
Then Old Brown—
Osawatomie Brown,
Shed not a tear, but shut his teeth, and frowned a terrible frown
Then they seized another brave boy—not amid the heat of battle,
But in peace, behind his plough-share—and they loaded him with chains,
And with pikes, before their horses, even as they goad their cattle,
Drove him, cruelly, for their sport, and at last blew out his brains;
Then Old Brown,
Osawatomie Brown,
Raised his right hand up to Heaven, calling Heaven's vengeance down.
And he swore a fearful oath, by the name of the Almighty,
He would hunt this ravening evil, that had scathed torn him so-
He would seize it by the vitals; he would crush it day and night: he
Would so pursue its footsteps—so return it blow for blow—
That Old Brown,
Osawatomie Brown,
Should be a name to swear by, in backwoods or in town!
Then his beard became more grizzled, and his wild blue eye grew wilder,
And more sharply curved his hawk's-nose, snuffing battle from afar;
And he and the two boys left, though the Kansas strife waxed milder,
Grew more sullen, till was over the bloody Border War,
And Old Brown,
Osawatomie Brown,
Had grown crazy, as they reckoned by his fearful glare and frown
So he left the plains of Kansas and their bitter woes behind him—
Slipt off into Virginia, where the statesman all are born—
Hired a farm by Harper's Ferry, and no one knew where to find him
Or whether he had turned parson, and was jacketed and shorn:
For Old Brown,
Osawatomie Brown,
Mad as he was, knew texts enough to wear a parson's Gown.
He bought no plows and harrows, spades and shovels, or such trifles:
But quietly to his rancho there came, by every train
Boxes full of pikes and pistols, and his well-beloved Sharp's rifles; 
And eighteen other madmen joined their leader there again
Says Old Brown,
Osawatomie Brown,
‘Boys we have got an army large enough to whip the town!
'Whip the town, and seize the muskets, free the negroes, and then arm them-
Carry the County and the State; aye, and all the potent South;
On their own heads be the slaughter, if their victims rise to harm them—
These Virginians! who believed not, nor would head the warning mouth.'
Says Old Brown,
Osawatomie Brown,
'The world shall see a Republic, or my name is not
JOHN BROWN!'
I was the sixteenth of October, on the evening of a Sunday—
'This good work,.' declared the Captain, ’shall be on a holy night!'
It was on a Sunday evening, and before the noon of Monday,
With two sons, and Captain Stephens, fifteen pri<Illegible>
<c02>
Captured all the country majors and the colonels, one by one;
Seard to death each gallant scion of Virginia they ran on,
And before the noon of Monday, I say, the deed was done.
Mad old Brown,
Osawatomie Brown,
With his eighteen other crazy men, went in and took the town
Very little noise and bluster, little smell of powder, made he;
It was all done in the midnight, like Emperor’s coup d'etat:
'Cut the wires: stop the rail-cars: hold the streets and bridges!' said he—
Then declared the new Republic, with himself for guiding star—
This Old Brown,
Osawatomie Brown!
And the bold two thousand citizens ran off and left the town
Then was riding and railroading and expressing here and thither!
And the MARTINSBURG SHARPSHOOTERS, and the CHARLESTOWN VOLUNTERES,
And the SHEPHERDSTOWN and WINCHESTER MILITIA hastened whither
Old Brown was said to muster his ten thousand grenadiers!
General Brown,
Osawatomie Brown!!
Behind whose rampant banner all the North was pouring down.
But,” at last, ’t said, some prisoners escaped from Old Brown's durance,
And the effervescent valor of Ye Chivalry broke forth,
When they learned that nineteen madmen had the marvellous assurance—
Only nineteen—thus to seize the place, and drive them frightened forth;
And old Brown,
Osawatomie Brown,
Found an army come to take him, encamped around the town.
But to storm with all the forces we have mentioned was too risky;
So they hurried off to Richmond for the GOVERNMENT MARINES—
Tore them from their weeping matrons—fired their souls with Bourbon whiskey—
Till they battered down Brown's castle with their ladders and machines;
And old Brown,
Osawatomis Brown,
Received three bayonet stabs, and a cut on his brave old crown.
Tallyho! the old Virginia gentry gathered to the baying!
In they rush and kill the game, shooting lustily away;
And whene'er they slay a rebel, those who come too late for slaying,
Not to lose a share of glory, fire their bullets in his clay;
And Old Brown,
Osawatsmie Brown,
Saw his sons fall dead beside him, and between them laid him down.
How the conquerors wore their laurels—how they hastened on the trials—
How Old Brown was placed, half-dying, on the Charlestown Court-House floor—
How he spoke his grand oration, in the scorn of all denials—
What the brave old madman told them—these are known the country o'er.
'Hang Old Brown,
Osawatomie Brown,'
Said the Judge, ’and all such rebels!' with his most judicial frown
But, Virginians, don't do it! for I tell you that the flagon.
Filled with blood of Old Brown's offspring, was first poured by Southern hands:
And each drop from Old Brown's life-veins, like the red gore of the dragon,
May spring up a vengeful Fury, hissing through your slave-worn lands;
And Old Brown,
Osawatomie Brown,
May trouble you more than ever, when you've nailed <illegible>
'The hunt was up—woe to the game enclosed within that fiery circle! The town was occupied by a thousand or fifteen hundred men, including volunteer companies from Shepherdstown, Charlestown, Winchester, and elsewhere, but the armed and unorganized multitude largely predominated, giving the affair more the character of a great hunting scene than that of a battle. The savage game was holed beyond all possibility of escape.'—Virginia Correspondent of Harper's Weekly.

From the Anti-Slavery Standard.
JOHN BROWN.
But shall he die? will frail Virginia dare
Strike the rash blow?—blood-seal the martyr-doom?
Will she not fear the spirit from his tomb,
That when it strikes, will beat no empty air?
Spirit, not phantom; be it then her care
To lull the giant, rising even now;
To wipe the dastard drops from her pale brow,
And her own heart with other heart compare.
Thought yet, but how soon may it action be!
Thought earnest, brave, ready to serve the right;
Thought daring—looking to the dawning light,
Glowing to save—ay, save from anarchy.
Ah! none se blind as they who will not see—
No State so weak as dotard chivalry! A. P. C.

THE LIBERATOR.
CAPE COD ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The annual Anti-Slavery Convention for this county, which assembled at Harwich on Saturday and Sunday, Nov. 5th and 6th, proved to be a most pleasing as well as important convocation.
Two more beautiful days for a Convention could not have been asked; neither could a better place than Harwich be found for holding one. In point of hospitality, too, the people are an example worthy the imitation of any town,—hearty in their friendship, generous and sympathetic. This fact must have been noted by all. Very obviously, it was not a question where a stranger might go with the certainty of feeling himself to be welcome, but rather, where not to go, and where all were equally kind, it were invidious to particularize any.
At 2 o'clock, P. M., (Saturday,) the Convention met, and was called to order by Zebina H. Small, who was, on motion, chosen President of the meeting, and Edward Coombs, Secretary. A Financial Committee was then chosen, consisting of Elkanah Nickerson and Z. H. Godfrey.
The principal Anti-Slavery speakers from abroad were Andrew T. Foes, Henry C. Wright, and Charles Lenox Remond.
After the meeting was organized, Henry C. Wright arose and said, there were three things which the people of this State have to accomplish. First, they were to make Massachusetts a protection for the fugitive, without necessitating the punishment of those who befriend him. Secondly, they were to send Daniel Webster back to his grave at Marshfield; and, thirdly, they were to dispose of the question of the Harper's Ferry insurrection. Brown was to be hung, he said; and what had he done to merit death? and who was his hangman? His crime was, that he had considered them that were in bonds as being bound with them, and had ventured his life for their deliverance. He concluded by presenting for the consideration of the meeting the following resolutions:—
THE STATUS OF WEBSTER.
Resolved, That the placing of the statue of Daniel Webster in the State-Hones grounds in Boston is a gratuitous, mean, and wicked homage to the Slave Power, and a fresh stab at human freedom, and therefore an insult to Massachusetts; and we hereby pledge ourselves never to cease our labor for its removal till it shall disappear from public view.
DEMAND FOR A PERSONAL LIBERTY BILL.
1.Resolved, That Massachusetts, by disarming the fugitive slave who comes upon her soil, and forbidding him to defend himself against a MAN-HUNTER, lays herself under the strongest possible obligation to give him protection from arrest and <illegible>
<c03>
ance; sad, failing to do this, she covers herself with infamy.
2. Resolved, That all friends of human freedom are exhorted to use the utmost diligence and real in procuring signatures to the petitions now in circulation in this State, asking for a Personal liberty Bill that shall give ample protection to all fugitives from slavery who may be found within her borders
THE HARPER'S FERRY INSURECTION.
1. Resolved, That’ resistance to tyrants is obedience to God'; therefore it is the right and duty of the slaves to resist their masters, [by such means as each deems right and proper;] and it is the right and duty of the people of the North to incite them to such resistance, and to aid them by such means as they shall think just and expedient, to free themselves from the power that crashes them.
2. Resolved, That Capt. John Brown and his associates, in their efforts to incite and assist the slaves to insurrection against their oppressors, acted in accordance with the essential spirit and principles of the Declaration of Independence, and of the governmental and religious institutions of our country, and also with the spirit of the precept, as it is generally understood,’ Do unto others as ye would that others should do unto you.'
3. Resolved, That the heroic bearing of John Brown, in taking and holding Harper's Ferry,—in defending himself and followers against the attack made upon them,-and his calmness and self-possession, as he lay wounded and bleeding in the engine house, and in his sublimely heroic bearing during his trial, conviction, and sentence to die upon the gibbet, has never been surpassed, and only in a few instances equaled in the history of the world. May his heroism inspire us all with a nobler manly courage!
Mr. Foss offered the following resolution relating to the Republican party:—
Resolved, That the Republican party is the white man's party. It does not profess to be an Anti-Slavery party; but only aims to restrict slavery to its present bounds. This party is pledged to sustain slavery where it now is; and we denounce it as unworthy the support of honest men.
These resolutions were discussed and enforced with great earnestness and power of speech by Andrew T. Foss, Charles Lenox Remond, Henry C. Wright, and others, and adopted.
Five consecutive meetings were held, commencing on Saturday afternoon, 5th inst. Upwards of forty dollars were collected in behalf of the cause, and to defray expenses. The occasion was one of great interest.
The words in brackets were not in the resolution, as originally presented by Mr. Wright, but were subsequently added, agreeably to the suggestion of Mr. Foss.

A TRIP TO KANSAS.
NEW YORK, NOV. 15, 1859.
DEAR GARRISON:—I have just returned from a brief sojourn in Kansas, and thought a hasty sketch of some things I heard and witnessed might not be uninteresting to you. I reached St. Louis Saturday evening, Sept. 5. Sunday morning, secured a passage on the steamer War Eagle, Capt. Wright, bound up the Missouri. I then took a turn about the city, to see what was to be seen. A few weeks previous to my arrival there, a great excitement had prevailed, relative to a better observance of the day, by compelling the lager beer saloons and grog shops to be shut up. Being submitted to a vote of the people, they decided by a large majority in the affirmative.
As I was perambulating the streets, noting the solemn faces of the pious throng as they wended their way in the direction of the church-going bells, my attention was attracted to a procession of men and women approaching me. First, came two villanous looking white men; then followed nine couples,-<illegible> women, some of them nearly white,—two white men; then twenty-one blacks, the rear guarded by three more whites. After closely scrutinizing them, I turned and followed with a sickening heart this poor, forlorn company of men and women, whose solemn faces were not put on to do homage to a day, but to cover broken hearts, torn and lacerated by cruel separations from friends and kindred, to the sound of the tolling Sabbath-bells of St. Louis. We marched to a New Orleans steamer at the lower end of the levee, where these thirty-nine human beings were consigned to a Southern market. The ringing sounds of the iron manacles that were to secure these poor creatures from fright closed the scene, and brought to my remembrance the declaration of the prophet:—’ When ye spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you; yea, when ye make many prayers, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood.' Thus I received the lesson for the day, and felt my experience deepened and my convictions, strengthened as to the awful guilt and hypocrisy of this people.
An intelligent colored man informed me that it was a common Sabbath day occurrence, and that a few Sabbaths previous, eighty-two men, women and children were taken from the slave-pen to the Southern steamboat. That the piety of St. Louis has rescued the day from lager beer desecration, and consecrated it to the domestic slave trade, seasoned with prayer and fasting, is confirmed by the following item, taken from the St. Louis Democrat:-
'PASSING AWAY' Forty-five of the chattels of the ‘peculiar institution' passed down Locust street yesterday morning, on their way to the ‘sunny South.' They were a motley group, composed of men, women and children, whose age ranged, apparently, from five to forty years. The procession was composed of fathers and mothers, with their little children by the hand, young girls and men, arm in arm. On the one hand the sight was suggestive of the ‘good time coming' for Missouri, but on the other hand awakened the liveliest sympathy for the condition of this gang of miserable beings. Nearly every Sabbath morning witnesses the exodus of these parties from our shores.
On Monday morning, we started for the Missouri river, which was very low, and difficult of navigation. Our trip on the muddy, sluggish, and uninteresting river was very monotonous, enlivened occasionally by debates growing out of the ‘irrepressible conflict.' Some thirty or forty hands are required to work these steamboats, delivering and taking in freight at the frequent landings. So far as I have observed, they uniformly employ white men, and the two mates drive them like a gang of slaves, frequently striking them, and in some instances beating them with their fists, and knocking them down. On one of those occasions, I remarked to a gentleman sitting beside me, that those men (alluding to the mates) must have been! slave-drivers. He said, ’Probably, as they generally selected such as being best qualified to get the most work out of the crew;' and he continued, ’These miserable, low whites require more looking after than the negroes. In Kentucky, the slaves feel insulted if compared with such poor trash. The negroes are superior to the low whites in every respect, and would be invaluable servants, excepting they will steal.' I looked at him very quietly, and said, ‘You steal the negro, his wife, his children, and all the earnings of his labor; and is it a marvel that he should prove an apt scholar and imitator of his exemplars? ‘That it very plain talk,' said he, ’for this latitude. 'I have always been used to plain speaking,' said I, and am, unfortunately, too old to mend my manners in that respect.'
The War Eagle, on her return trip, carried fifty slaves, bought by the traders for the cotton fields and rice swamps of the lower States; and almost every boat on her downward voyage has more or less, for the same <Illegible> destination—the rapid influx of settlers from the free States, and the fear of such incursions as made by Capt, John Brown, having rendered that peculiar species of property very untenable.
Arrived in Kansas, I found the people and politicians mostly absorbed in discussing the provisions of the Wyandot Constitution, sad the election of a Territorial delegate to Congress. I heard your Mr. Bar-
<c04>
lingame address a large gathering of people in Lawrence. The high-toned anti-slavery sentiments he uttered, Judged from a political stand-point, would not call forth criticism; but he must needs dilute them with a great profession of love and veneration for the Union. The next day I was present when he was looking admiringly at the portraits of the rescuers of Doctor Doy from a Missouri prison. Said L.’ Mr. Burlingame, it was not your Union that you so highly eulogised last evening, that delivered and saved our friend from a five years' incarceration in a State prison, for attempting to perform a noble and humane act; but he is indebted to those daring and brave men who so deliberately disregarded the unholy compact. And you know, perfectly well, that you could not deliver the same address in fifteen States of this confederacy, without jeopardizing liberty or life.' All of which he assented, to, saying he was speaking of a such a Union as should be, though he entirely omitted to make it apparent on the occasion. 
The Republican party will do a good work in their way, so long as they are in a minority; but I fear when they attain the power and spoils of the government, they will grievously disappoint the anti-slavery expectations of thousands who are led to sustain them.
I availed myself of every opportunity to protest against the insertion of the word’ white' in the new Constitution, and was assured by prominent men in the party, that it was mere policy, and that as soon as a State government was firmly established, the rights of the colored people and the Indians should be fully recognized. Had I not had some experience the in the promises of politicians before an election, I should <Illegible> felt considerably well-satisfied with their declarations to that effect. I, nevertheless, urged it upon the true and reliable men to bring the subject before the present session of the Legislature, and every succeeding one, until the new State should be purged from its foul disgrace, and equal justice meted out to all persons.
From Lawrence, I continued my journey for more than three hundred miles to explore the southern part of the Territory, and acquaint myself more particularly with its soil and climate, and obtain a personal knowledge of its resources and capabilities. The weather was most delightful, the roads in their natural condition perfect, and the country both cultivated and untilled, with its broad, undulating prairies, intersected with numerous streams skirted with timber, very beautiful to behold.
The first night I passed among the Sacs and Fox Indians, a wild tribe, numbering twelve hundred and thirty-six—a very few families having adopted civilized habits. The next morning I saw them all assembled around the Agency, preparatory to receiving their semi-annual payment from <Illegible> Both men and women were clad in <Illegible> blankets, and a  <illegible> As all of them came mounted <Illegible> horses, they, with their painted faces, made a very animated <illegible> picturesque appearance. Mr. Greenwood, the Commissioner on Indian Affairs, was there, and I have since been informed made a treaty with them, by which they relinquished a considerable portion of their valuable domain to government. On my return, I spent a night with John T. Jones, Chief of the Ottawa Indians, a small tribe, numbering two hundred and twenty-five, and located in Franklin County. These Indians, through the influence of Mr. and Mrs. Jones, are civilized, and very superior in their mental and religious acquirements. Mrs. Jones is a native of the State of Maine, and went to Kansas some seventeen years since as a voluntary teacher, to labor for the improvement and welfare of those small remnants of the once powerful tribes of the red men. They were getting on very prosperously until Kansas was opened for the settlement of white men. The same motives that induced them to labor for the advance <Illegible> own people, compelled them from principle to espouse the Free State cause, and, consequently, brought upon them the vengeance of the pro-Slavery Border Ruffian party. During one of the forays upon Lawrence, a band commanded by one General Reid made a night descent upon them, burnt their house and furniture, books and clothing, and took seven hundred dollars in specie, cattle, and such other property as they chose, to the amount of twenty thousand dollars, Mr. Jones and his wife barely escaping with their <Illegible> the timber was near, and covered <illegible>  saved them from the murderous balls which <illegible> around them, one of their people only being killed. The Territorial Legislature, last year, appointed Commissioners to estimate the damages sustained by citizens. They accordingly gave notice for the presentation of claims with proof, and subsequently reported to the Constitutional Convention that they had allowed such claims to the amount of half a million of dollars. Among other applicants for redress was the Ottawa Chief Jones, and the Commissioners had the hardihood to refuse him any allowance, on the ground that he did not stay by his property, and offer all the resistance in his power to the outrage. Application had previously been made at Washington, and Mr. Jones had spent two winters there, at great expense and inconvenience, without receiving any attention, and recently ascertained that his inventory of claims and proof had been filed away, without being opened! And all this in direct violation of the honor and good faith of the government, pledged to the Indians, and enacted into a law by Congress in 1850, entitled ‘ An Act for better regulating the Intercourse with the Indians, and to preserve the peace.' The sixteenth section in substance declares, that whenever any white person commits any trespass upon the lands or property of the Indians, upon complaint and conviction, the person so offending shall make restitution in double the amount of the property taken or destroyed; and if the person convicted of committing such trespass has not sufficient means for that purpose, then the government assumes the responsibility, and pays the Indian double the amount of the loss sustained by him; provided, that said Indian or Indians offer no resistance, but quietly submit to such wrong-doing when perpetrated. Jones and his party kept strictly to the letter and spirit of this non-resisting law; but, being in favor of universal liberty, they are denied redress by a government devoted to the enslavement of man.
Gov. Medary and family, on their way to Fort Scott, stopped for the night with the Ottawa Chief, who is always prepared to accommodate travellers.—The Governor is a very pleasant, social man, and professed a great interest in the welfare of the Indians. He said he had urged upon the government the importance of inducing the Indians to remove, and locate in the Indian Territory south of Kansas, organizing State Governments of their own, and admitting them into the Union, and to as representation in Congress. I asked him if the slavery question would not be an obstacle; but he thought it a matter of such moment, that the abolitionists would yield, for once, and conquer their prejudices.
On my return to Lawrence, I heard Gen. Lane harangue the people on political topics. He wants to be United States Senator. He dwelt upon the importance of having men sent to Washington, who would do their utmost to have the Indians removed, and their lands opened for settlement. I could not but call to remembrance, as it were but yesterday, when the nation was convulsed with the discussion of the same subject; when policy and expediency triumphed over the humanity of the people, as it was <Illegible> that they were to be removed west of the Mississippi and Missouri to a delightful country, where they would have sample hunting-grounds secured to them by treaty, never again to be molested. Lane is the man who killed his neighbor Jenkins,<Illegible> they could not agree to draw water from the same well He is a member of the Methodist Church, in good standing, and <Illegible>
<c05>
of their representative men, of whom they have reason to be proud. Alas for the <Illegible< Indian! what can he do between the upper and nether mill <Illegible>-the Slave Power and the last of acquisition by the people, and the coveting of their neighbor' lands Must they be despoiled, and <Illegible> from any resting-place they can call their home? The government says yes, and the Church endorses it—the same government that gives annually to the American Board of commissioners for Foreign <Illegible> fifty-thousand dollars to support pro-slavery missionaries among the Indians. Certain it is that their missions either carry slavery with them, or they are attracted by it. The affinity seems quite natural, as I cannot learn that they have any spiritual yearning after those tribes who are opposed to the abhorrent slave system. Fifty thousand dollars annually, if property applied and judiciously expended by disinterested men who would have gladly settled among them, and with a very little aid have introduced the science of model agriculture, and taught them habits of industry and self-reliance, would have done a thousand fold more toward their civilization and religious advancement than has been accomplished by bribing the American Board to do the dirty work of the slave oligarchy. If that amount were given to an anti-slavery organization and used to proclaim the gospel of freedom, the democratic slave-mongers would soon find out that it was very unconstitutional-a union between Church and State—a most dangerous precedent, and fraught with imminent danger to the liberties of our country!
While I was yet in Kansas, the Liberator brought the sad intelligence of the departure from this to a more glorious sphere of our dearly beloved friends, SAMUEL PHILBRICK and E. L. CAPRON. Sad to us in being deprived of their genial society and steadfast example; sad for the poor bondman, who, it would seem to us, has none to spare from the faithful few who plead his cause; joyful for them that they have passed serenely from this fleeting and transitory state, to one that is enduring and eternal in the heavens, where the sighing of the poor, and the crying of the needy, and the unutterable moans of the lacerated and bleeding slave, are heard only to be redressed.— We are indeed passing away; but, blessed be God, we know there shall be no lack of those who shall stand in the gap, and be ready with closed ranks for the death-grapple with the monster of cruelty and blood. How consoling the reflection to us that, whoever is stricken down or removed, the cause of the free Gospel of Liberty, Truth and Righteousness will as surely prevail as that the Lord liveth!
OBSERVER.

Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:-
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINTS, ERUPTIONS AXD ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOUREUX, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIDESTION, ERYSIPELAS, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY'S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF THE BLOOD.
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that sea, son of the year. By the timely expulsion of them <illegible> Multitudes can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when you find it is obstructed and sluggish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown.
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else.
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Extract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon is. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle.
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO.
LOWELL, MASS.
Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bottles for $5.
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long; been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jaundice, Dyspepsia, <Illegible> Foul Stomach, Erysipelas, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt Rheum, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pill, and for Purifying the blood.
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the beat aperient in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Price, 25 cents per Box; Five boxes for $1.00.
Great numbers of Clergymen, Physicians, Statesmen, and eminent personages, nave lent their names to certify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure. 
Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it.
All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO., BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING, Boston.
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every where. 6m May 7

BOARDING-HOUSE.
ROBERT R. CROSBY would inform his anti-slavery friends, and such others as desire pleasant rooms and good board, that having opened house No. 23 Eliot street, a few doors from Washington street, he will be happy to entertain such as may be <Illegible>.
<c06>
Is there any virtue in
MRS.S. A. ALLEN's WORLD'S HAIR RESTORER?
READ THE FOLLOWING AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
TO THE ED'S OF EVANGELIST:-'My age is sixty, One year ago, my hair was very gray, and had been gradually <Illegible>, until, on the crown, it had become quite thin. About the 1st of March, of the present year, I commenced using Mrs. S. A. Allen's ’restore' ,No. I, according to the directions, and have continued to apply a slight dressing of the same once in three or four weeks, on retiring to bed. My hair is now almost restored to its original color, and the has appears to be permanent. I AM SATISFIED THAT THE PREPARATION IS NOTHING LIKE A DYE, BUT OPERATES UPON THE SECRETIONS. My hair ceases to fall, which is certainly as advantage to one who was in danger of becoming bald.' Rev. M. THACHER,
Bridgewater, Oneida Co., N.Y., Nov, 22, 1855.
President J. L. EATON, LL. D., Union University,
Murfreesboro', Tennessee.
MADAM-I would state, that some time last spring I found MY HAIR FALLING OFF. I concluded to purchase a bottle of ’Mrs. S. A. Allen's World’s Restorer, '&e., and give-it a trial. I commenced using it, but irregularly; but notwithstanding this irregularity, I found that its influence was distinctly visible, THE FALLING OFF OF HAIR CEASED, and my locks, which before were quite GRAY. WERE CHANGED TO BLACK.I do not consider that I have given it a fair trial, but, from what I have seen of its effects in my own case, I have reason to believe that it is capable of accomplishing what it purports to do, viz., PREVENT THE HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, and to RESTORS GARY LOCKS TO THEIR ORIGINAL COLOR.'
Mrs. D. W. CLARK, wife of Rev. D. W. CLARK,
Editor’ Ladies' Repository,' Cincinnati, Ohio.
'I have been using Mrs. S. A. Allen's Zylobalsamum with much satisfaction in dressing my own and children's hair. After trying various articles manufactured for the hair, I feel no hesitation in recommending yours as the best I have ever used. It gives the hair a soft, glossy appearance, and retains it in any position desired.'
Rev. JOHN E. ROBIE, Editor’ Christian Advocate,’ Buffalo, N. Y
'Your Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum is the best I have ever known. It has restored my hair to its natural color,’ &c.
Rev. E. R. FAIRCHILD, D. D., Cor. Sec. American 
and Foreign Christian Union, N. Y. City.
‘Mrs. S. A. Allen's Hair Restorer and Zylobolsamum have been used in my family with beneficial effects? and I take pleasure in recommending them to such as have occasion to use such preparations.’
Rev. A. WEBSTER, WEBESTER, Editor ’Christian Era,’ Boston, Mass.
'Having used numerous specifics to little purpose, I discarded all, believing them to be of no value. So I regarded your World's Hair Restorer and Zylobolsamum, yet personal friends prevailed on me to use it. I have done so for several months past with good effect and entire satisfaction. I am now neither bold nor gray; my hair was dry and brittle, but has regained the softness of my earlier years.'
Rev. H. V. DEGEN, Ed. 'Guide to Holiness,' Boston,
Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer, found among our other advertisements, we insert from actual experiment. That it promotes the growth of the hair where baldness had commenced, we have now the evidence of our own eyes. We can satisfy to its good effects.'
Rev. S. B. MORLEY, Pastor Congregational Church, Attleboro,' Mass.
'I have used Mrs. S. A. Allen's Word’s Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum Restore and Zylobsamum. The effect of the Hair Restorer has been to change the ’crown of glory' which belongs to old men to the original hue of youth. This was done by a single bottle used according to directions. Others of my acquaintance have used it with the same effect. The Zylobalsamum I regard as an invaluable dressing for the hair.'
Rev. DANIEL T. WOOD, Middletown, Orange Co., N. Y.
'My hair has greatly thickened upon <Illegible> appearance The same is true of my daughter; HER HAIR HAD BECOME THIN, AND CAME OUT CONSTANTLY, UNTIL WE THOUGHT THE HEAD WOULD BE ALMOST BARE; HER HAIR HAS HANDSOMELY THICKENED UP, AND ALSO HAS A HEALTHY APPEARANCE We are thankful to you, and feel that we have full value of our money.'
GREAT BRITAIN.
Rev. W. B. THORNELOE, Prescot, Lancashire, England.
'Your Hair Restorer is a perfect marvel. After having used it for six weeks, my extremely gray hair was restored to its natural color,-, not the wig-like appearance produced by dyes, but to its own natural color, which satisfies my mind that it is not a dye. I can strongly recommend it, and shall feel happy in answering the queries of any you may refer to me.'
[The above clergyman is well known throughout Great Britain, and to many in the United States.]
HAYTI.
Rev. Mrs. E.S.ANDRUS, (many years Missionary to Hayti,) Martinsburgh, N. Y.
In consequence of her long residence in <Illegible> island, her hair and scalp were in a very unhealthy condition. After trying various articles without success, and eventually using Mrs. S. A. Allen's she writes to the ‘American Baptist,'-' I have derived much benefit from the use of Mrs. S. A. Allen's Allen's World's Hair Restorer Hair Restore and Zylobalsamum; I have tried many other any thing that so materially and permanently benefited me as those of Mrs. S. A. Allen.'
Rev. R.H. POLLOCK, Ed.’ Presbyterian Witness, Cincinnati, Ohio.
It is our settled policy to advertise nothing till we so it is what it purports to be. Having opportunity, being satisfied of the merits of Mrs. S. A.  Als Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamam, I would be used to insert advertisement,' &c.
Rev. J.A. H. CORNELL, Corres. Sec. Board of Education R. D. Church, 337 Broadway, N. Y., and New Baltimore, Greene county, N.Y.
Some time since, I procured a bottle of your World's Hair Restorer, &c., for the used of a relative; and I am happy to say, that it prevented the falling of the hair, and restored it from being gray to its original glossy and beautiful black.'
Rev. JAS. McFARLANE, Pastor Prot.Dutch Church, Esopus, Ulster county, N.Y.
'I have no hesitation in certifying that Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer and Zylobalsamum have produced all the effects described in her advertisement, in restoring the color and increasing the growth of the hair; and I would cheerfully recommend it to those whose hair may either begin to fail in color or decrease in luxuriance.'
Rev. J. WEST, 6 Washington Place, (Pacific street,) Brooklyn.
'I am happy to bear testimony to the value and efficacy of this preparation of Mrs. Allen's, in the most literal sense, and also thankfully acknowledge the use of it in curing my baldness and grayness.'
Rev. B. C. SMITH, Prattsburg, N. Y.
'I was really surprised to find my gray hair soon turned as black as when I was a young man.'
Rev. M. C. KLING, Lewistown, <Illegible>
'It has stopped the falling off of my hair, and caused a new growth, although I did not attend to it as your directions require.
Rev. AMOS BLANCHARD, Meriden, N. H.
We think very highly of your preparations, and have no doubt, if you had an agent in this vicinity, a large quantity might be disposed of.'
We think that if these fail to convince, nothing less than a trial will. Some few dealers try to <Illegible> an which they make more profit than on these; always INSIT on having these.
These are the only preparations exported in any quantity to Europe.
We aspire to have the best, not the lowest priced.
One bottle of the Restorer will last a year; $1 50 a bottle. Balsam, 871/2 cents per bottle.
Address all letters for information, &c., to 'Mrs. S. A. Allen's World's Hair Restorer Depot, .No.<Illegible> Street, New York.' The Genuine has ’Mrs. S. A. Allen, 'signed in Red Ink to directions pasted on bottles <Illegible> genuine. Signing the name by others is forgery, and will be <Illegible> by us as a criminal offence.
SOLD BY EVERY DRUG AND FANCY GOODS DEALER.
October 14. lycop.
