THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET., ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country in the World, our Country are all Manking.
J.B. YERRINTOIN & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI. NO. 10. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1861.
WHOLE NO. 1577.

REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
<c01>
EDIFYING CORRESPONDANCE
The Boston Journal has been furnished with copies of two letters, which have passed between Rev. Dr. Vinton, and Rev. Mr. Dehon of Charleston-viz.
CHARLESTON, Jan. 25, 1861.
DEAR SIR-You have done me the favor of sending me a copy of your sermon on” The Christian Idea of Civil ”Government.” I am not a little surprised that the idea never occurred to you, that a sermon like this, in which we of the South are classed with the notorious abolitionist and infidel, Henry Ward Beecher, and in which, moreover, we are represented as self-willed rebels and traitors, sinning against God and our own consciences, is not likely to meet with a cordial reception in this latitude, or be regarded by us as satisfactory evidence of the kind and Christian feelings entertained towards us by those who so strongly maintain the duty of preserving the Union.
That unprincipled politicians and abolition news papers should apply such epithets to us, and advocate coercion, does not surprise us; but that a Christian minister of the Episcopal Church should thus speak and thus write, is indeed a matter of pain and grief to us; and I must be permitted to say, that your sermon, and that delivered by another of your clergy,. the Rev. Thomas H. Taylor, are not much calculated to pour oil upon the troubled waters, or heal the unhappy breach between the North and the South; and which, I may add, would never have been made, had our Northern brethren only followed the apostolic injunction contained in 1st These., iv. 2. That you may come to view the action of the Southern States in its true light, as that which has been deemed best and wisest, and, under existing circumstances, necessary to secure” life, liberty and happiness" for ourselves, and our children after us,. is the heartfelt wish and earnest hope of one who does not look upon slavery as a sin, and who has found upon the page of the inspired volume this direction:” If any man teach otherwise, and consents not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, from such withdraw thyself." Here, we think, is full warrant for the action which you regard as sin against God, and treason against the United States. We would gladly separate from our Northern brethren in peace; but if they will not allow us so to do, we are content to commit our cause, to Him who judges righteously. With the hope that political differences may not alienate the hearts of Christians and Churchmen, 
I remain, very sincerely yours,
In the ministry of Christ and his Church,
WILLIAM DEHON.
TRINITY CHURCH, New York, 
January 29, 1861 
To the Rev. William Dehon, Rector of St. Phillips Church, Charleston, S. C.:
REV. AND DEAR BROTHER-I have just received your letter of January 25th. Your aminadversions on my sermon on the ”Christian Idea of Civil Government” are consistent with the political attitude, which South Carolina has assumed; and unless you are convinced, I could expect only condemnation of the doctrine of the sermon. But as you are accustomed to the same contrariety of treatment among those who believe and those who believe not your sermons, you can understand that I must regret and deplore your want of faith in the Scripture which I have adduced, ”For the doctrine is not mine, but His who sent me.” You mistake in supposing that I sent you my sermon. It was not published by me, but by gentlemen of the Democratic party, with my ”permission,” as stated on the title page. So I beg you to exonerate me from your censure, in this respect, of forcing an unwelcome argument upon you. Nevertheless, I cannot but rejoice that you have read the sermon, for the reason that it expresses the sentiment of the lovers of their country in the Northern States. 
But you do not read the sentiments aright, if you suppose that you of the South are classed with Henry Ward Beecher. ”We are speaking of principles!, not of persons; and it is very possible that persons may be antagonistically, whose principles coincide. And thus we think it is that the independency of self-will and impatience, under law, and the readiness to sacrifice the dearest bonds of affiliation for the sake of, a cherished idea, characterize the teachings and the actions both of the abolitionist and the seceder. You may not see your conduct in this light-indeed you do not. But, my brother, the time may come when you will discover that South Carolina is just as fanatical in pursuing the chimera of one idea, without thought of collateral or qualifying truths, at the cost of disunion and through oceans of blood, as the wildest abolitionist whom you condemn. Your principle of action is one and the same, with this difference, that the abolitionist goes for the independence, of the individual man, while the seceder goes for the independence of the State of South Carolina. 
You again mistake, in charging my sermon with, representing you of South Carolina as sinning against your own conscience., I have said nothing so severe as that. I am not a judge of the hearts of men. I do not doubt that you have obeyed the dictates of your conscience. But I cannot but think on this subject, that your conscience is not well instructed; that it is blinded by ignorance of God's will and God's law, and of the affectionate regard of your Northern countrymen. For thirty years, South Carolina has been taught vicious political ethics, under the title of ”State Rights.” Your campaign pamphlets, your political speeches, your conversations, and, for aught I know, your sermons besides, have inculcated the right to secede at pleasure. You have heard it continually said that ”the Union is a burden,” “the North is robbing the South," and lately that the ”North hate and despise the South.” These maxims we believe to be utterly unfounded. 
We love the South; and nothing is more significant of our love than the calmness with which we have received the <illegible> of the firing on the ship Star of the West, sailing under our flag. If a foreigner had done that, it would have been an outrage which would have fired the North. Neither is the North abolitionist. You seem to imply that I am so, and that the Rev. Dr. Taylor is so, because, we disapprove and condemn the conduct of South Carolina. But, on the late Fast Day, I expounded the Scripture authority for slavery, and Mr. Charles O' Conor, this very, morning, wrote to me that I had expressed his sentiments, arrived at after long study. Your letter and his lay sider by side, when I entered my office. We love you, and will cling to you as long as you will let us. We will not willingly let you go. But if you coerce the Government, and wage war, as you have done, then our country-our flag-and the sad duty to humanity, will oblige us to defend the Constitution of the United States. 
God bless and guide you! 
FRANCIS VINTON. 
<c02>
Selections.
NO COMPROMISE!
In the U. S. House of Representatives, the House having under consideration the report from the Select Committee of Thirty-Three, a most forcible, eloquent and uncompromising speech was made by Hon. Charles B. Sedgwick, of New York, one of the ablest men in that body. We regret that we cannot find room for the whole of it in our columns, but here is a sample of its spirit:-
But I must pass from this topic. I am opposed to compromise; because I believe the complaints, as stated by the members of this committee to have been brought before them, are utterly groundless, and the proposed remedies puerile. It does not touch the matter in controversy. And here my learned friend from Massachusetts (Mr. Adams) will pardon me for saying that I have read, with great interest, his historical parallel to show that a strong and proud nation should not despise even trivial and groundless complaints. I do not so read the history of the Revolution of our fathers. I do not understand that they went to war upon trivial and groundless complaints. I do not understand that that great contest was a mere contest about a three-cent duty on tea,. or a stamp upon paper, or a duty imposed upon window glass; but I do understand it to have been a contest for a great principle, going to the very foundation of organized civil society. I understand that the Parliament of Great Britain asserted the right, in all cases, whatsoever, to tax, or, in other words, to legislate for, the colonies, and this without any representation upon their part; and that they, imbued with the true principles of English liberty-the principle which established the right of revolution at home, which led them abroad to Holland, and again across the trackless waste of waters to this country-contended for the ever living principle of freedom, that taxation should be accompanied, in all cases, by representation; that they contended for that principle, and that submission to laws among freemen implied a voice in their enactment. There is no lesson in history which teaches that compromise or concession to the groundless demands or complaints of equal States, not only fully represented, but with more than an equal representation, based not only on persons, but upon their property, and who have exercised throughout all our history to the present time a controlling influence upon our legislation, and upon the foreign and domestic policy of the Government, are to be dignified by a comparison with the complaints of an oppressed people who were denied all representation by those who sought to govern them.
But we are told that the great Lord Chancellor of England,
"The greatest, wisest, meanest, of mankind,"
advised yielding something to discontentments. Now, I think, with all due deference to superior learning, that he never advised yielding to insolent demands from a discontented people, nor yet to change the British constitution and laws, to remove discontentments founded on no possible rightful complaints. I hardly think that, at this day, you will find a British statesman, of approved sense and wisdom, who would advise concession, a change in their time-honored constitution, and a reconstruction in their laws, because the clans of Scotland, asserting their ancient independence, should again rally on their mountains, and come down with arms, to demand guarantees for rights which nobody threatened, relief from laws by which nobody was oppressed, and security against events which it was perfectly impossible should ever happen.
But, sir, I am profoundly impressed with the wisdom of the saying, that” the surest way to prevent sedition, (if the times do bear it,) is to take away the matter of it; for if there be fuel prepared, it is hard to tell whence the spark shall come that shall set it on fire." Tell me, whence comes the spark which has set this country in a blaze? What is the ”matter of sedition” in our day that should be removed., ”if the times do bear it"? What is there, beyond these trivial and groundless complaints, beyond these discontents that appear on the surface? What is there in this country, which is always a magazine, not merely of prepared fuel, but of the dryest powder, which a single spark might explode, to the destruction of this whole Confederacy? What is it that, in the whole course of our history, has alone threatened the liberty, the Union, the prosperity of this country? What is it, that in 1811-nay, before that-and in 1820, in 1832, in 1850, in 1860, has been perpetually threatening the liberties of this country? Does anybody wait for an answer? Does anybody desire to know to what I point? It is the institution of slavery, inwrought into the very frame-work of our Government, covering with a black pall nearly one-half of this Confederacy, jealous of its rights, inflammable, unreasonable, easily excited, with cause or without.
No, sir, we need fear no foreign war. We need fear no aggression from without. The armies of the world may invade us. Our fortifications may be in the hands of the traitors who have now wrenched them from the Federal Government; they may be sunk in the sea, with our ships; and yet, so long as the red school-house stands on our hills, we are invincible, unconquerable by any foreign force, or any foreign element of power that' may be brought against us. But what is it that is eating into our vitals? What is it that is corrupting the very life blood of the Confederacy? Need I answer again, it is that accursed institution of slavery, which in all time has been, and in all time to come will be, a perpetual weakness, a disgrace, a calamity?
Now, sir, this is the disease with which we have to deal. It is not a case for the placebos of the committee of thirty-three, nor yet for the small pills of Hahnemann, nor for the bleeding, and warm water of Dr. Sangrado. It is a case for surgery. I am not now to speak of slavery as I look on it, as an institution of barbarism. I am not to speake of it as my people regard it; not to speak of it as all historians describe it, as all poets sing of it, as all moralists and philosophers teach about it, as all philanthropists look upon it; I merely wish to speak of it as a political power in this Confederacy. It is a great power. Whenever any of its real or supposed interests are affected, it rallies around it the Representatives and Senators of fifteen States as one man. It scents danger in the tainted breeze., It is unwearied in its vigilance, unrelenting in its purpose. It has controlled the politics of this country for sixty years and more; and now, when its political encroachments and unreasonable demands have rallied the North against it, and when the census, with unerring finger, points to the end of its political power and influence, it breaks out into rebellion and violence; it would usurp the Government by force, and override the expressed will of the people by terror and bloodshed. In several of the States, it is a settled policy to make this institution perpetual.
<c03>
THE HUMAN SACRIFICE!
Cleveland Offers a Victim!-The Union still Unsaved!!
Southern fury still burns, and the North shrinks before it. Cleveland has hastened with its propitiatory offering. The slimy Dragon of Slavery lurks along the Ohio, more terrible tha n the crocodile of the Ganges, and Northern cities, like Hindoo mothers, must toss their children into his insatiate jaws! Altars must flame and victims bleed. Juggernaut and the American Union alike are fed on human prey.
The following statements are condensed mainly from the Cleveland papers, a few additional facts being added upon reliable testimony.
A SYNOPSIS OF THE CASE. 
The victim just offered in Cleveland was a young woman, lately from Virginia, secretly married, a few months since, to a man now in Canada. Her farther account is, that she was brought into Pennsylvania in October last as a slave, but there learned that she could not be held as a slave, and so left her mistress, and fled to Cleveland. The kidnapper who claims her says he lives four miles from Wheeling, Va., and that his name is William S. Goshorn. The name of the poor unfortunate is Sarah Lucy Bagby.
The manner of the arrest is thus detailed in the evidence of Col. S. A. Abbey before the U. S. Commissioner:-
“I am one of the deputy marshals, and assisted in the arrest of this girl. I went with J. H. Johnson, Lambert White, and the claimant, to Mr. Benton's house on Prospect street, where she was. Mr. White and Mr. Johnson went to ring the bell, and I went to the side door. I was followed by Mr. Goshorn; we rapped twice at the door, and the second time the girl came to the window, and lifted the curtain, which she immediately let fall again, and made some noise at the door; and was, as I supposed, unbolting it. Mr. G. passed the window, and she had, I supposed, recognized him. Thinking the door unbolted, I lifted the latch, and pressed my shoulder against it somewhat, when it very readily came open. Mr. Goshorn went in, and I followed, and we both went into Mr. Benton's bed-room where the girl had fled. We then took her, and put her into the carriage, and the three others drove off with her, while I walked down town." 
The Colonel, as appears from the above, was one of the parties engaged in making the arrest, and we understand that he has heretofore been regarded as a respectable man by the community in which he lived; indeed, it is asserted that his presence somewhat redeemed the character of the gang, and enabled them to effect a capture that would otherwise have been more difficult. The respectability which breaks open doors at unseasonable hours, chasing a flying woman into the bed-room of her employers, and without regard to decency or propriety startles the terrified occupants from their slumber, and seizes its a prey in the chamber, and in the presence of Mr. Benton and his wife, is, to say the least, a very questionable sort of respectability. 
On Mr. Benton's demand, a warrant was shown for her arrest; and on the assurance that she should be fairly tried, she was taken from the house, put into a close carriage, and rapidly driven to the jail.
At the urgent request of Messrs. Spaulding, Riddle and Palmer, counsel for the girl, Judge Tilden issued a writ of habeas corpus, on oath of William E. Ambush, that the girl was unlawfully held. The writ was served upon the Sheriff. On examination, it was shown that there was no law or authority by which the Sheriff could hold a person charged with being a fugitive slave. If the Sheriff took charge of such a prisoner, he did it as a private citizen, and could not use the jail. She was, therefore, discharged from his custody. Marshal Johnson then took charge of her, and proceeded with her to the United States building. In crossing the Park, a slight demonstration was made, as if to rescue, her; but nothing of a serious character. A few negroes were knocked down by the ruffianly deputy marshals, of whom there were fifty-five sworn in. When near the Post Office, another rush was made, and some colored men were arrested, and lodged in jail. 
On the opening of the trial before U. S. Commissioner Bushnell White, affidavits were presented from John and William S. Goshorn, certifying that the girl Lucy had escaped, and was the said William S. Goshorn's property, etc., and a bill of sale presented.
Hon. R. F. Spaulding then made a statement, that he believed that the woman could be proven to be free, if time was granted to get evidence from Wheeling. The case was adjourned till Thursday.
Mr. Hovey was commissioned to go to Wheeling, to procure evidence to show that she had been brought into Ohio by her owner. He returned a, day sooner than expected, and the trial came off on, Wednesday. The evidence went to show that she really had escaped. After the statements were read, as procured by Mr. Hovey, Judge Spaulding surrendered his client to the slave-catchers, and the Commissioner granted a warrant for her rendition to Virginia.
A LEGAL FARCE.
The Republicans of Cleveland got up a great parade of legal talent for the girl's defence, employing no less than three eminent advocates, who might, had their hearts been in the matter, have presented a strong legal opposition, instead of the sham defence they made. Although in such a case jury trial was inadmissible, yet that other safe-guard of freedom, that test of legal justice, the writ of habeas corpus, was resorted to. But for what purpose? It certainly told well for the philanthropy of Cleveland that, when a fugitive slave was arrested in that city, she should be brought before one of the most anti-slavery judges in the State-Judge Tilden-on a write of habeas corpus. The merit of such an act a depends a good deal upon the question presented by the writ; and when it is seen from the character of the writ, the decision made upon it, and the admission of the claimant's counsel in relation to that decision, that the sole object of the issuing of that process was to determine whether the Sheriff and jailor could hold Lucy in durance inside, the walls' of the as jail as well as outside, one is not disposed to praise of very much this legal effort of Lucy's distinguished all counsel. Writs of habeas corpus have been issued all in Wisconsin for the purpose of testing the constitutionality of the Fugitive Slave Law; and inasmuch as the Republicans of Cleveland have, for the last ten years, been affirming it to be unconstitutional, the testing of this question before Judge Tilden might have been of some advantage not only to Lucy, but to all the fugitives of Cleveland, and would have afforded the Judge an opportunity legally to decide what his party have been continually asserting in their political meetings.
The Judge took from Saturday until Monday to fully investigate the important point he was called the upon to decide. We shall not copy his decision here, seeing it can be of no earthly advantage to any alleged fugitive, and although it may redound to the possible honor of the ”free, white, male citizens” of Ohio, that honor threatens to be swallowed up in the rendition of Lucy. The Judge quoted law after law; law positive, law amendatory, and law revoking,; exhibiting a see-saw process by which Ohio jails.
<c04>
have opened and closed their doors to the admission of fugitive slaves, until he felt constrained to settle down on the following decision, with which his opinion is closed:-
”The order of the Court, therefore, is, that the Sheriff forthwith discharge this woman from her imprisonment in the jail. WHEN OUTSIDE OF THE JAIL, IF HE CHOOSES TO RETAIN HER IN HIS CUSTODY AS THE AGENT OF THE MARSHAL, IT IS NOT THE PURPOSE OF THE COURT TO INTERFERE WITH SUCH ARRANGEMENT."
The first sentence of the above is in reality the judicial decision of Judge Tilden upon the point presented for adjudication. All that preceded it was but the rehearsal of the reasons and facts which influenced that decision. The concluding sentence of the above paragraph, and which is a trifle more lengthy than the first, is his extra-judicial decision upon a point not presented in the writ, not demanded at his hands, and which he was obliged to travel but of his record to reach. Why Judge Tilden gave this aid and comfort to the slaveholder,-why he was thus officious in assuring the jailor of Lucy, that, although he must not confine her in the jail, he need not loose his clutch upon her when he brought her outside of the prison walls,-is a mystery to which we can find no solution. His judicial decision amounted to nothing, one way or the other; and it is was a thousand pities he was not content to send it unattended on its way to posterity, instead of attaching to it an assurance that gave strength and comfort to the hounds that had seized poor Lucy. It would have been otherwise, perhaps, had he taken counsel of his heart rather than his head. 
The manner in which the decisions-both judicial and extra-judicial-were received by the U. S. Commissioner, and others interested in the case, may be gathered from the following statements made during the subsequent trial. 
Commissioner ”White said the law of Congress provides that Marshals may make any arrangement to keep a prisoner, and he had a right to do so. Judge Tilden has no control over the jail in this matter. The statute does not forbid the Sheriff keeping the prisoner. I still think my mediums was right in directing that the prisoner be detained in the county jail.
The claimant has said that he wanted to see if the people of Cleveland would enforce the laws of the United States; that he did not care for her value. While she is detained by the Marshal's agent, a habeas corpus is issued, and she is discharged. He referred to the habeas corpus case of Bushnell, saying the Supreme Court refused it because the prisoner was in the hands of a competent Court. A Sheriff cannot take a vessel from the District Court until that Court was done with it.
Mr. Backus-May it please the Court, Judge Tilden did not discharge the prisoner at all, but said that, although the Sheriff could not detain her as Sheriff, he had full power to act as agent of the Marshal in his private capacity.
A TEST QUESTION.
From the commencement to the conclusion of this case, it was clearly apparent, as well as openly avowed, that the claimant did not so much care, to recover possession of Lucy simply as a piece of property, as to make the question of her rendition one that should compel the people of Cleveland to belie all their anti-slavery professions, and bring upon them the curse that God pronounced on the serpent which tempted, but did not enslave, the woman. The Western Reserve has, or had, perhaps we should say, a terribly anti-slavery character in the South. It was the home of the junior John Brown and his companions, the City of Refuge for Coppock and Meriam, a very Fort Sumter of the anti-slavery garrison. If Cleveland, its chief city, should be captured,-if the Palmetto of slavery could there be made to supplant the banner of freedom,-glorious would be the slave-catcher's victory, and great the rejoicing throughout Slavedom! 
Having received notice in advance of the purpose of Lucy's claimant, it would seem as though such notice ought to have raised up Abolitionists by the thousand, and made every drop of Yankee blood boil to hurl back the insulting defiance. But such was not the case. The professed Abolitionists of Cleveland showed as little pluck as the coon that came down at the first sight of Captain Scott.
The case presents some very remarkable features, from which conclusions have been, drawn, that may, or may not, be correct. The actors seemed to have had their parts assigned and studied well. Each part was perfect in itself, and the combination formed a perfect whole; and had the performance of the tragedy been advertised by posters, it is not sure but the announcement would have been headed, ”By particular request.” Some affirm their belief that the girl's whereabout was communicated to the master by citizens of Cleveland, and that the order for her arrest and delivery was pre-concerted. Others go further, and insist that the girl was sent to Cleveland by her master, and he duly advised of all her movements; and that when the best time came for making the arrest, the time when Cleveland could be most easily humiliated, the girl was seized. These, it is true, are but speculations; but they have arisen in various and distant parts of the country, and without concert, and indicate a peculiar character in the incidents that suggest to different minds speculations essentially the same. 
Mr. Barlow, counsel for the claimants, used the following significant language in his address to the Commissioner:-
"In justice to the claimants, I will say that they are actuated by no mercenary motives, nor do they come to harass the prejudices of the North; their object is simply to test whether our declarations of being law-abiding citizens are true, and are really meant. Cleveland has come up to the work manfully, and no citizen has laid a single straw in the way, and these gentlemen from Virginia thank you for it, and it will satisfy them more than all else." 
Commissioner White bore the same testimony in regard to this. matter, most clearly indicating that the case was applied as a test. He says:-
"These men want to know if the people will enforce the law-they care, nothing about the $600 or $800. The people are in favor of the enforcement of the law, and I don't believe there are twenty men who would attempt a rescue. A delay will probably increase the feeling of devotion to law. The South does not believe a slave can be taken from this place, forming the belief from various meetings in a political' canvass. This exhibition to-day shows that this talk was all a owing to political excitement, and I wish to show that these people will continue faithful to the law,-that, in spite of unfaithfulness in the South, we will maintain the law, and with a clear conscience bring traitors to punishment, if necessary."
The market value of Lucy was probably about six hundred dollars, and a proposition was made to raise twelve hundred for her redemption, or rather to buy off Cleveland's humiliation. The claimant was willing to sell her for that amount, but unwilling to sell her for that or any other sum until she had been legally remanded to slavery, and delivered to him upon Virginia soil. Then, when the humiliation of Cleveland was accomplished, and Lucy had carried with her to the South the testimony of its 
<c05>
subserviency, those who were willing to pay twice her market value might buy her free!
HOW THE ISSUE WAS MET.
It was evidently feared by those who had the legal management of the case, that Humanity would prove stronger than the Fugitive Slave Law, and outraged Justice vindicate itself by direct process from the Court of ”Higher Law.” Hence there was any amount of affectionate recommendations to the people to keep the peace, and plaintive appeals for the due observance of law and order; the pleaders seemingly oblivious to the fact that the law to be observed was worse than any which the Emperor of all the Russias ever gave to crushed Poland, and the order to be maintained more fraught with death to the hopes of Humanity than that which ”reigned in Warsaw.” 
On the day of the arrest, Judge Tilden said,” I enjoin it upon all, and especially upon these colored persons, that they wait for the sure and certain relief which law can afford, and I hope that they will do their duty and remain quiet." 
If ”the sure and certain relief which law can afford” was to be understood to ap ply to the case in hand, the hope thus extended must have seemed to all, hollow and baseless. For the expectation of bringing relief to a captive by and through the Fugitive Slave Law, is born of the saddest infatuation, and is a hope that is hopelessly insane. But if this ”sure and certain relief” was to be distantly prospective, to be brought about by a due course of Republican legislation when the Fugitive Slave Law should be pruned of some of its least objectionable features, and so judiciously done” that its efficiency should not be impaired, ”then, too, this hope was hollow and baseless. And if Judge Tilden had been called upon to have given a reason for the faith in him, pointing to” sure and certain relief," it is possible he could not have furnished it.
When the colored people were” especially" enjoined to wait for legal relief, it was a pity that some of this portion of Cleveland's population had not then and there asked the Judge if he was not aware that, by the Dred Scott decision, their citizenship was denied them, and that, should they resort to law for redress, they would not be permitted to enter a U. S. Court as plaintiffs; and have informed him that it seemed-whether so designed or not-yet under the circumstances it seemed an insult to enjoin them to” wait for the sure and certain relief which law can afford." 
In Judge Spaulding's concluding speech he said:
“While we do this in the city of Cleveland, in the Connecticut Western Reserve, and permit this poor piece of humanity to be taken, PEACEABLY, through our streets, and upon our railways, back to the land of bondage, will not the frantic South stay its parricidal arm? Will not our compromising legislators cry,’' Hold! enough!'“ 
Human rights are one the world over:; and it is one of God's unchangeable laws that he who places a chain upon the limb of another, shall find the other end around his own neck. Had the Judge been as well versed in morals as in law, he would have perceived this truth, and not have imploringly asked the South to secure his rights, in return for the sacrifice of Lucy's. The very fact that Cleveland helped Goshorn strike down the God-given rights of that poor fugitive, gave the South new power to trample upon the rights of the North, new vantage ground upon which to rest the lever of oppression. 
There are two ways of obeying a distasteful law, even by those who believe that the lower law is of more binding force than the Higher Law. One way is, to submit with a sullen obstinacy, fighting the enforcers at every point, throwing difficulties in their way, and making them feel glad to leave as soon as possible, bearing with them as they go an unmistakable conviction that their absence is better than their presence, and that if they do not soon leave, they might suffer personal injuries as well as hear words of righteous indignation. The other way is that recommended by Daniel Webster, ”to conquer your prejudices," and to obey” with alacrity” what even the Cleveland Leader calls” an unjust, oppressive, infamous, and unconstitutional law," to treat slave-catchers as gentlemen, and place yourself upon a level with such hounds by the treatment you extend to them, and the servility to do their bidding. Cleveland chose the latter, and crystallized into actuality the empty, complimentary phrase of epistolary correspondence, ”Your most obedient servant.”
”The father of the claimant of Lucy was so affected by the evidence of good feeling which was manifest upon the part of Cleveland, that his counsel obtained of the Commissioner permission for him to speak-a permission which, probably, would not have been granted to an Abolitionist. He did so, and his speech, as afterward licked into form by the reporter, is given as follows:-
"He said language would not express his gratitude to the citizens for his treatment His mission was an unpleasant one, but it may be oil poured upon the waters of our nation's troubles. I would the task of representing Virginia had fallen to better hands. The South has been looking for such a case as this. I have no office, to gain,-I want to save the Union., We must do, it, if our servants will not. We have charged the North with persuading away our servants-I hope God will forgive them! How pleasant it would be if I could come among you with this same girl as my servant, and enjoy your hospitality as I have now!”
When he and his son were about leaving, they published the following card of acknowledgment, which is here placed upon record as a part of the history of Cleveland's infamy:-
“For the Cleveland Herald. 
”EDS. HERALD:-Before leaving Cleveland for home, we feel it a duty to the citizens of Cleveland, as well as ourselves, to express our unfeigned gratitude for the uniform kindness with which we have been treated. Nothing but courtesy has been shown to us by all of your citizens, who have even shielded us from the insults of your colored population-as an instance of which, we will refer to an incident which curred this morning at the breakfast table of the Weddell House. A negro waiter refused to serve us, and upon the fact being made known to Col. Ross, the proprietor of the House, the waiter was promptly discharged, and ordered to leave the House.
We again thank you all. JNO. GOSHORN,
WM. S. GOSHORN,.
Weddell House, Jan. 24, 1861. Wheeling, Va.”

FREE SPEECH DENIED IN CLEVELAND.
It is important to observe that the friends of freedom proposed a Convention in the city to protest against slave-hunting, as well under Republican as Democratic prestige; and to expose particularly this last, and, in many respects, most shameful outrage on humanity, justice, and the sacred rights of man, ever perpetrated in America., But, for reasons best known to themselves, though easily guessed, the proprietors of the-halls and houses used for 
similar gathering have peremptorily declined to allow such a use of them at this time. In justice to some of a them, it might be said, pre-engagements have prevented their use for an Anti-Slavery Convention at the time desired. But it is very doubtful whether even these would have been opened, had they been at liberty.
<c06>
It is certainly hopeful when even shame or mortification will induce a city or. community to hide, a far as possible, its deeds of oppression and cruelty from the public gaze!
AN INSULT TO CLEVELAND. 
The spirit of this whole atrocity is revealed in the following editorial article from the Leader of the 22d of January:-
”The appointment of the corps of special deputies, whom Marshal Johnson yesterday swore into office, was a gross insult to Cleveland, and is so considered by all the better portion of our citizens. They do not feel aggrieved that fifty-five men were appointed to preserve the peace, but that fifty-five men were appointed and invested with office, a majority of whom had no more idea of the duties pertaining to their post than to swing a club, and knock down every colored man they could find. If deputies were to be appointed, why, in the name of all that is decent, could not men be called who had some respect for themselves and for the honor of the city, as well as for the strict enforcement of the law? If the call had been made, fifty, or one hundred, or one hundred and fifty business men could have been found, who would guarantee to preserve the peace; and who would not have been themselves disturbers of the peace. 
”Instead of this, what was done yesterday? One of these deputies struck a negro, not two feet distant from him, not with his fist, but with a dung shot Another of these deputies knocked an unoffending negro down, and was in the act of striking him again with a club, when one of the city police stopped the blow. Others of the deputies, whose chief delight is to get into a fight, could not miss the” glorious opportunity;" they, therefore, would surround a quiet, unoffending negro, jeer, push and hustle him until he was forced to defend himself, when they would knock him down and arrest him! One party thus surrounded a colored man who was looking on the crowd, and hustled him until an officer arrested him, (not them,) and took him off to jail!”We saw, ourselves, a deputy knock a man down with a club; (the man was running, with the rest of the crowd, away from the officers,) and then bit him another heavy and cowardly blow alter he was down. A Democrat who was a witness of the scene tells us that a party surrounded a colored woman, and teased and pushed her. until she pulled a handful of snuff out of her pocket, and threw it at them; instantly, a score of deputies pounced upon her as if she was a wild beast, and bore her. off to jail.
"Such are some of the official actions of these officers. In Heaven's name, if we are to have a infamous law forced upon us, let it be done in a Christian manner, (!) and not by rogues who will cram it down our throats as they would a brother fighter's teeth!-Some of these men have been inmates of our jails and prisons.
COMMENT ON THE ABOVE.
So, it seems, the emissaries of slavery, appreciated their own work, and chose their tools; accordingly.
But why so indignant at the poor miscreants who were promoted to the honor of policemen for the occasion? It was very natural that the colored people, seeing what was done and doing to one of their own sisters, should show resentment, and even resistance. And it surely was not less natural that the newly commissioned officials should seek to magnify their honorable position, by knocking down colored men with their fists, with ”clubs and slung shot,” and ”knocking them after they were down,” and ”teasing and pushing colored women,” till they too resented, and then” pouncing upon them, and bearing them off to jail"! All this should have been expected.
But these ”appointments” were no ”insult to Cleveland!" No indeed! The presence of the kidnappers there at all would have been a horrible” insult to Cleveland," had not so many officials, high and low, and citizens of all classes and parties, accepted them as ”gentlement,” and worthy company for themselves, as well as Hotel guests. 
What was the knocking down of a few colored men, or temporarily imprisoning a few women, compared to the more awful outrage of consigning to dreary, interminable bondage, a poor, friendless, unfortunate young creature, under the paltry pretext of ”paying homage to constitutional law”? as witness the reported proceedings following.
JUDGE SPAULDING PROSTRATE.
Judge Spaulding said:-
"We are this day offering to the majesty of. Constitutional Law, a homage that takes with it a virtual surrender of the finest feelings of our nature; and is, I almost said, the contravention of a Christian's duty to his God!"
And at the close of the proceedings, the claim of the kidnapper having been allowed and his prey surrendered to him ,”William Slade, Esq., son of the late Governor Slade, of Vermont, offered resolutions, declaring that, however repugnant the Fugitive Slave Law may be, the people of Cleveland will never resist it by force, nor allow it to be resisted!
Judge Spaulding objected to the resolutions, but moved,
”That Marshal Johnson proceed to' Wheeling to morrow with the girl, accompanied by only two deputies; and that this meeting give unanimous assurance that he shall not be disturbed"!!
”The question was carried unanimously,"
Such is the result of out eighty years of Republican and Christian government. Judges and lawyers are to sacrifice” the finest feelings of their nature," and their”duty to their God,” to ”Constitutional Law,” and drag the people”unanimously” after them! Such are our Patriotism and Piety. 
But when was Judge Spaulding converted to the belief in the constitutionality of the Fugitive Slave Law? Or did he not rather simply lie, daringly to his God, unblushingly to his own soul, in such an intimation?
Or, suppose the law really constitutional. Is it therefore to be obeyed, ”against all the finer feelings of our nature,” and”our duty to God”? Better men than Judge Spaulding were hung in Revolutionary times for bowing to the ”majesty of Constitutional Law." Had he lived in those scenes, and inculcated: that sentiment, his Ms crime and guilt would have been for less than to-day; but is his fate might have been a Tory's halter, and a Tory's blot on the page of history. 
What rivers of martyr and patriotic blood might in all time have been spared, had men, and women too, only been willing to ”pay homage to the majesty of Constitutional Law"!
A Constitutional Law of the ancient Assyrians required every female, at least once in her life, to prostitute herself in the temple of Mylitta, in honor of that loathsome divinity. Had Judge: Spaulding lived then and there, would he have paid ”homage” to the law, or to its obscene goddess?" Would he have accepted it for his mother, sisters, wife, daughters, and daughters' daughters?
How coolly, how deliberately, Judge Spaulding and other Republican officials could lay the poor slave Lucy and her unborn babe on the altar of the American Union! And then to think that not one of them, though black as perdition with the guilt of the transaction, would even now dare be found in one of at least a dozen of the States composing our American Sodom! And yet to save such a Union, Judge Spaulding could lay such a sacrifice on its reeking altar, and be himself a ministering prices.
The United States Constitution is a <illegible> with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was over invested with much an odious and unjust privilage as that of the separte and exelusive representation of <illegible> than half a million owners of slaves, in the Half of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disscminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileges order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name to the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a orifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this commission."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
while the blood of the devoted victim is shed, and the fire kindled. Would he doom his own daughter to such a fate, for such a cause? Would he give her, body, spirit, beauty, chastity, health, culture, accomplishments, all, and her children after her-would he give such a price to save this Union? to save any Union, Constitution or Government, that ever blessed or cursed mankind? Let him look on his daughters in all their maiden loveliness, and answer! And if he decline the price, let him recall who it was that said, "WITH WHAT MEASURE YEMETE, IT SHALL BE MEASURED TO YOU AGAIN."

CONDUCTOR CLELAND.
It would hardly be necessary to speak of the attempted rescue, except for the action of one of the railroad officials. At Lima, two or three hundred men assembled for the purpose of demonstrating the spirit of '76; but the Conductor who had charge of the train which was conveying Lucy into slavery, with great presence of mind and admirable tact avoided a rescue by dashing past without the usual stop, regardless of the rights of passengers, except those who were from Virginia. It is said that he even volunteered to conduct this train out of his regular work! For this he was presented with what is alleged to be "a gold-headed cane," bearing the fowling inscription:-
"Honor to whom honor is due."
"Presented to W. C. Cleland, Esq., by the law abiding citizens of Alliance, Ohio, as a testimonial of their appreciation for the manner in which he conducted his train, January 24th, 1861, in passing Fort Lima, C. & P. R. R., with the fugitive 'Lucy,' thus avoiding bloodshed and disgrace, and securing the ends of justice (!) and law."-Ohio Anti-Slavery Bugle.

INAUGURAL ADDRESS OF PRES. LINCOLN.
DELIVERED MARCH 4, 1861.
Fellow-Citizens of the United States:
In compliance with a custom as old as the Government itself, I appear before you to address you briefly, and to take in your presence the oath prescribed by the Constitution of the United States to be taken by the President before he enters on the execution of the duties of his office.
I do not consider it necessary at present for me to discuss those matters of administration about which there is no special anxiety or excitement.

THE RIGHTS OF THE SOUTH NOT ENDANGERED.
Apprehension seems to exist among the people of the Southern States, that by the accession of a Republican administration their property and their permanent peace and security are to be endangered. There has never been any reasonable cause for such apprehension. Indeed, the most ample evidence to the contrary has all the while existed, and been open to their inspection. It is found in nearly all the published speeches of him who now addresses you. I do but quote from one of those speeches when I declare that I have no purpose, directly or indirectly, to interfere with the institution of slavery in the States where it exists. I believe I have no lawful right to do so, and I have no inclination to do so. Those who nominated and elected me did so with full knowledge that I had made this and many similar declarations, and had never recanted them; and, more than this, they placed in the platform for my acceptance, and as a law to themselves and to me, the clear and emphatic resolution which I now read:-
Resolved, That the maintenance inviolate of the rights of the States, and especially the right of each State to order and control its own domestic institutions according to its own judgment exclusively, is essential to that balance of power on which the perfection and endurance of our political fabric depend; and we denounce the lawless invasion, by an armed force, of any State or Territory, no matter under what pretext, as the greatest of crimes.
I now reiterate these sentiments, and, in doing so, I only press upon the public attention the most conclusive evidence of which the case is susceptible, that the property, peace and security of no section are to be in anywise endangered by the new incoming administration. Add to this, that all the protection which, consistently with the Constitution and the laws, can be given, will be cheerfully given to all States when lawfully demanded, for whatever cause, as cheerfully to one section as to another.

THE RENDITION OF FUGITIVE SLAVES A CONSTITUTIONAL OBLIGATION.
There is much controversy about the delivering up of fugitives from service or labor. The clause <illegible> now read is as plainly written in the Constitution as any other of its provisions:-
"No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due."
It is scarcely questioned that this provision was intended by those who made it for the reclaiming of what we call fugitive slaves, and the intention of the law-givers is the law. All members of Congress swear their support to the whole Constitution-to this provision as much as to any other. To the proposition, then, that slaves whose cases come within the terms of this clause, shall be delivered up, their oaths are unanimous. Now, if they would make the effort in good temper, could they not, with nearly equal unanimity, frame and pass a law by means of which to keep good that unanimous oath?
There is some difference of opinion whether this clause should be enforced by National or by State authority, but surely that difference is not a very material one. If the slave is to be surrendered, it can be of but little consequence to him or to others by which authority it is done; and should any one in any case be content that his oath should go unkept on a merely unsubstantial controversy as to how it shall be kept?

THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW SHOULD BE HUMANE.
Again, in any law upon this subject, ought not all the safeguards of liberty known in civilized and humane jurisprudence to be introduced, so that a free man be not in any case surrendered as a slave? and might it not be well at the same time to provide by law for the enforcement of that clause in the Constitution which guaranties that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States?
I take the official oath to-day with no mental reservations, and with no purpose to construe the Constitution or laws by any hypercritical rules; and while I do not choose now to specify particular acts of Congress as proper to be enforced, I do suggest that it will be much safer for all, both in official and private stations, to conform to and abide by all those, acts which stand unrepealed, than to violate any of them, trusting to find impunity in having them held to be unconstitutional.

THE UNION PERPETUAL.
It is seventy-two years since the first inauguration of a President under our national Constitution. During that period, fifteen different and greatly distinguished citizens have in succession administered the executive branch of the government. They have conducted it through many perils, and generally with great success. Yet, with all this scope for precedent, I now enter upon the same task, for the brief constitutional term of four years, under great and peculiar difficulty. A disruption of the Federal Union, heretofore only menaced, is now formidably attempted.
I hold that in contemplation of universal law and of the Constitution, the union of these States is perpetual. Perpetuity is implied, if not expressed, in the fundamental law of all national governments. It is safe to assert that no government proper ever had a provision in its organic law for its own termination. Continue to execute all the express provisions of our national Constitution, and the Union will endure forever, it being impossible to destroy it except by some action not provided for in the instrument itself.
Again, if the United States be not a government proper, but an association of States in the nature of a contract merely, can it as a contract be peaceably unmade by less than all the parties who made it? One party to a contract may violate or break it, so to speak, but does it not require all to lawfully rescind it?
Descending from these general principles, we find the proposition that, in legal contemplation, the Union is perpetual, confirmed by the history of the Union itself. The Union is much older than the Constitution. It was formed in fact by the Articles of Association in 1774. It was matured and continued by the Declaration of Independence in 1776. It was further matured, and the faith of all the then thirteen States expressly plighted and engaged that it should be perpetual, by the Articles of Confederation in 1778, and finally in 1787.
<cO2>
One of the declared objects for ordaining and establishing the Constitution was to form a more perfect Union; but if destruction of the Union by one or by a part only of the States be lawfully possible, the Union is less than before the Constitution, having lost the vital element of perpetuity.
SECESSION INSURRECTIONARY-THE UNION UNBROKEN-THE LAWS WILL BE EXECUTED.
It follows from these views that no State upon its own mere motion can lawfully get out of the Union -that resolves and ordinances to that effect are legally void, and that acts of violence within any State or States against the authority of the United States are insurrectionary or revolutionary, according to circumstances.
I therefore consider that in view of the Constitution and the laws, the Union is unbroken, and to the extent of my ability I shall take care, as the Constitution itself expressly enforces upon me, that the laws of the Union be faithfully executed in all the States. Doing this I deem to be only a simple duty on my part, and I shall perform it so far as practicable, unless my rightful masters, the American people, shall withhold the requisition, or in some authoritative manner direct the contrary.
BLOODSHED UNNECESSARY.
I trust this will not be regarded as a menace, but only as the declared purpose of the Union, that it will constitutionally defend and maintain itself. In doing this there needs to be no bloodshed or violence, and there shall be none unless it be forced upon the national authority.
THE FORTS TO BE HELD AND THE REVENUE COLLECTED, BUT NO INVASION.
The power confided to me will be used to hold, occupy and possess the property and places belonging to the government, and collect the duties on imports; but, beyond what may be necessary for these objects, there will be no invasion, no using of force against or among the people anywhere.
THE FEDERAL OFFICES IN THE DISTURBED STATES.
Where hostility to the United States in any interior territory shall be so great and so universal as to prevent competent resident citizens from holding the federal offices, there will be no attempt to force obnoxious strangers among people that object. While the strict legal right may exist for the government to enforce the exercise of these offices, the attempt to do so would be so irritating, and so nearly impracticable withal, that I deem it better to forego for the time the uses of such offices.
POSTAL FACILITIES TO BE CONTINUED.
The mails, unless repelled, will continue to be furnished in all parts of the Union so far as possible. The people everywhere shall have that sense of perfect security which is most favorable to calm thought and reflection.
The course here indicated will be followed, unless current events and experience shall show a modification or change to be proper, and in every case and exigency my best discretion will be exercised according to circumstances actually existing, and with a view and a hope to a peaceful solution of the national trouble and the restoration of fraternal sympathies and affections.
APPEAL FOR THE UNION.
That there are persons in one section or another who seek to destroy the Union at all events, and are glad of any pretext to do it, I will neither affirm nor deny, but if there should be such, I need address no word to them. To those, however, who really love the Union may I not speak? Before entering upon so grave a matter as the destruction of our national fabric, with all its benefits, its memories and its hopes, would it not be well to ascertain precisely why we do it? Will you hazard so desperate a step while there is any possibility that any portion of the ills you fly from have no real existences? Will you while the certain ills you fly to are greater than all the real ones you fly from? Will you risk the commission of so fearful a mistake?
All profess to be content in the Union, if all Constitutional rights can be maintained. Is it true, then, that any right plainly written in the Constitution has been denied? I think not. Happily the human mind is so constituted that no party can reach the audacity of doing this. Think, if you can, of a single instance in which a plainly written provision of the Constitution has ever been denied.
If by the mere force of numbers a majority should deprive a minority of any clearly written constitutional right, it might in a moral point of view justify revolution; it certainly would, if such right were a vital one. But such is not the case; all the vital rights of minorities and of individuals are so plainly assured to them by affirmations and negatives, guaranties and prohibitions in the Constitution, that controversies never arise concerning them. But no organic law can ever be framed with a provision specifically applicable to every question which may occur in practical administration; no foresight can anticipate, nor any document of reasonable length contain, express provisions for all possible questions.
Shall fugitives from labor be surrendered by National or by State authority? The Constitution does not expressly say. Must Congress protect slavery in the Territories? The Constitution does not expressly say.
From questions of this class spring all our constitutional controversies, and we divide upon them into majorities and minorities. If the minority will not acquiesce, the majority must, or the government must cease. There is no other alternative for continuing the government but acquiescence on one side or the other.
SECESSION A TWO-EDGED SWORD.
If a minority in such a case will secede, rather than acquiesce, they make a precedent which in turn will divide and ruin them, for a minority of their own will secede from them whenever a majority refuses to be controlled by such minority.
For instance, why may not any portion of a new confederacy a year or two hence arbitrarily secede again, precisely as a portion of the present Union now claims to secede from it? All who cherish disunion sentiments are now being educated to the exact temper of doing this. Is there such perfect identity of interests among the States to compose a new Union as to produce harmony only, and prevent renewed secession? Plainly the central idea of secession is the essence of anarchy.
A majority held in restraint by constitutional checks and limitations, and always changing easily with the deliberate changes of popular opinion and sentiment, is the only true sovereign of a free people. Whoever rejects it does of necessity fly to anarchy or to despotism. Unanimity is impossible. The rule of a minority, as a permanent arrangement, is wholly inadmissible; so that rejecting the majority principle, anarchy or despotism in some form is all that is left.
THE SPHERE OF THE SUPREME COURT.
I do not forget the position assumed by some, that constitutional questions are to be decided by the Supreme Court, nor do I deny that such decisions must be binding in any case upon the parties to a suit, as to the object of that suit; while they are also entitled to very high respect and consideration in all parallel cases by all other departments of the government. And while it is obviously possible that such decision may be erroneous in any given case, still the evil effect following it being limited to that particular case, with the chance that it may become a precedent for other cases, can better be borne than could the evils of a different practice.
At the same time, the candid citizen must confess that if the policy of the government upon vital questions affecting the whole people is to be irrevocably fixed by the decisions of the Supreme Court, the instant they are made in ordinary litigation between parties in personal actions, the people will have ceased to be their own rulers, having to that extent practically resigned their government into the hands of that eminent tribunal. Nor is there in this view any assault upon the Court or the Judges. It is a duty from which they may not shrink, to decide cases properly brought before them, and it is no fault of theirs if others seek to turn their decisions to political purposes.
THE REAL DISPUTE.
One section of our country believes slavery is right, and ought to be extended, while the other believes it is wrong, and ought not to be extended. This is the only substantial dispute. The fugitive slave clause of the Constitution, and the law for the suppression of the foreign slave trade, are each as well enforced, perhaps, as any laws can ever be in a community where the moral sense of the people imperfectly supports the law itself. The great body of the people abide by the dry, legal obligation in both cases, and a few break over in each. This, I think, cannot be perfectly cured; and it would be worse in both cases, after a separation of the sections, than before. The foreign slave trade, now imperfectly suppressed, would be ultimately revived
<c03>
without restriction in one section, while fugitive slaves, now only partially surrendered, would not be surrendered at all by the other.
SEPARATION IMPOSSIBLE.
Physically speaking, we cannot separate; we cannot remove our respective sections from each other, nor build an impassable wall between them. A husband and wife may be divorced, and go out of the presence and beyond the reach of each other, but the different parts of our country cannot do this; they cannot but remain face to face, and intercourse-either amicable or hostile relations-must continue between them.
Is it possible, then, to make that intercourse more advantageous or more satisfactory after separation than before? Can aliens make treaties easier than friends can make laws? Can treaties be more faithfully enforced between aliens than laws can among friends? Suppose you go to war, you cannot fight always; and when, after much loss on both, sides, and no gain on either, you cease fighting, the identical questions, as to terms of intercourse, are again upon you.
AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION.
This country, with its institutions, belongs to the people who inhabit it. Whenever they shall grow weary of the existing Government, they can exercise their constitutional right of amending or their revolutionary right to dismember or overthrow it. I cannot be ignorant of the fact that many worthy and patriotic citizens are desirous of having the National Constitution amended.
While I make no recommendation of amendment, I fully recognize the authority of the people over the whole subject, to be exercised in either of the modes prescribed in the instrument itself. And I should, under existing circumstances, favor, rather than oppose, a fair opportunity being afforded the people to act upon it. I will venture to add that to me the Convention mode seems preferable, in that it allows amendments to originate with the people themselves, instead of only permitting them to take a proposition originated by others not especially chosen for the purpose, and which might not be precisely such as they wish to either accept or refuse.
I understand a proposed amendment to the Constitution, which amendment I have not seen, has passed Congress, to the effect that the Federal Government shall never interfere with the domestic institutions of the States, including that of persons held to service. To avoid misconstruction of what I have said, I now depart from my purpose not to speak of particular amendments, so far as to say that, holding such a provision to now be implied Constitutional law, I have no objection to its being made express and irrevocable.
THE PEOPLE THE SOURCE OF POWER AND JUSTICE.
The Chief Magistrate derives all his authority from the people, and they have conferred none upon him to fix terms for the separation of the States. The people themselves can do this alone, if they choose, but the Executive, as such, has nothing to do with it. His duty is to administer the present government as it came to his hands, and to transmit it, unimpaired by him, to his successor. Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people? Is there any better or equal hope in the world, in our present differences? Is either party without faith of being in the right? If the Almighty Ruler of nations will, with his eternal truth and justice, be on your side of the North, or on yours of the South, that truth and that justice will surely prevail by the judgment of this great tribunal-the American people.
By the frame of the government under which we live, the same people have wisely given their public servants but little power for mischief, and have with equal wisdom provided for the return of that little to their own hands at very short intervals. While 
the people retain virtue and vigilance, no administration of any extreme of wickedness or folly can very seriously impair the government in the short space of four years.
REFLECTION INVOKED-THE ISSUE IN THE HANDS OF THE PEOPLE.
My countrymen, one and all, think calmly and well upon this whole subject. Nothing valuable can be lost by taking time. If there be an object to hurry any of you in hot haste to a step which you would never take deliberately, that object will be frustrated by taking time. But no good object can be frustrated by it. Such of you as are now dissatisfied, still have the old Constitution unimpaired, and on the sensitive point the laws of your own framing under it, while the new administration has no immediate power, if it would, to change either. If it were admitted that you, who are dissatisfied, hold the right side in the dispute, there still is no single good reason for precipitate action.
Intelligence, patriotism, Christianity, and a firm reliance on Him who has never yet forsaken this favored land, are still competent to adjust, in the best way, all our present difficulties.
In your hands, my dissatisfied fellow-countrymen, and not in mine, is the momentous issue of civil war. The Government will  assail you. You can have no conflict without yourselves being the aggressors. You have no oath registered in heaven to destroy the Government, while I shall have the most solemn one to preserve, protect and defend it.
I am loth to close. We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic call of memory, stretching from every battle-field and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone, all over this broad land, will yet swell the chords of Union when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1861.
MR. LINCOLN'S INAUGURAL ADDRESS.
Since the inauguration of the American government, in 1789, no fourth of March, in the extened line of the Presidency, has been crowded with such conflicting hopes and fears, on the part of the nation, as that of Monday last. Millions waited in almost breathless suspense to hear the first telegram from Washington, sent after the meridian of that day. It was problematical as to what might happen,-and many apprehended the worst,-whether the capital might not, after all, witness the commencement of that civil war which for weeks has hourly threatened, through the perfidy of Southern traitors, to deluge the land in blood; whether there would be a successful inauguration of the new President, or his life taken by the hands of assassins, notwithstanding all the military precautions of Gen. Scott; and what, in case of no attempt to interfere with the inaugural programme, would be the tone and purport of Pres. Lincoln's address, in relation to the new "Southern Confederacy," and its treasonable attitude and assumption. No such day of feverish anxiety was ever before passed by the American people. Fortunately, their suspense was not long continued. Before the sun went down, by the almost miraculous powers of the telegraphic system, they were put in possession of all the facts they so much desired to learn-namely, that no coup d'etat was attempted, no act of violence committed, but the inaugural ceremonies were performed with dignity and impressiveness in the presence of an approving multitude, drawn together from the remotest parts of the country, and the language of the President's address was marked by extreme moderation towards the  secessionists, and by a disposition at once to uphold the laws, and, as far as possible, to avoid the shedding of blood in civil strife. A night of profoundest satisfaction and repose followed that day of darkness and disquietude, as though not a cloud rested upon the future!
The relief to the mind of Mr. Lincoln must have been immense. Of his manly courage, no one can doubt. But where the danger of sudden destruction is imminent, and yet hidden-where the foe skulks in the assassin, and aims to strike the deadly blow, and yet conceal the hand-even the bravest most feel the pressure upon his nerves, far beyond that induced by the most sanguinary battle-field. It must be conceded, even by his bitterest opponents, that the new President has met the trying emergency with rare self-possession and equanimity.
<c04>
Presenting to our readers his inaugural address in preceding columns, they will make their own criticism upon it, leaving us a similar privilege.
In the first place, as a whole, it is commendable for its brevity. The state of the country would have warranted a much longer address; but  and deals in no circumlocution. His mind is clear and his style simple; so that he compresses into a single sentence what others would require much space to express.
Next-his argument against Southern secessionists is compact and conclusive; for as they have no wrongs to complain of under the Constitution, and as they pretend to no conscientious scruples in regard to any of its provisions, they find no justification for their course either on patriotic grounds, or in the martyr spirit which will not consent to unrighteous ness. All their treasonable acts have been consummated under the administration of their own choice! This is undeniable. Such was not the revolutionary  of 1776. It has not been possible for the Republican party to do any wrong against the South, even if it had any disposition to do so, because the reins of government have but just passed into its hands. To break up the Union on a pretence or a suspicion of foul play,-perfidiously seize fortifications, arsenals, and millions of other property belonging to the United States,-obstruct the collection of revenue, or use it for treasonable purposes,-fire upon a national steam-ship, and endeavor to sink it, while obeying legitimate orders,-strike down the American flag, and run up a State flag of defiance in its stead,- these are crimes of gigantic magnitude, which admit of no extenuation or atonement; and he who, intelligently conversant with them, does not brand them as the blackest treason, is himself a traitor at heart, and doubly to be detested if he pretends to have any concern for the preservation of the Union.
No party was ever more loyal to the Constitution, as interpreted for seventy years by the nation, than the Republican party. So far from attempting to meddle, by legislation or otherwise, with slavery in the Southern States, it has not sought even the repeal of the Fugitive Slave Law, (which Congress has the right to repeal, if it had the right to enact,) nor the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, (over which the jurisdiction of Congress is absolute,) but has confined itself to one issue-the non-territorial extension of slavery. In this struggle, the spirit of freedom has at last triumphed; but had it been otherwise-had Mr. Bell, or Mr. Douglas, or Mr. Breckinridge been elected, instead of Mr. Lincoln-there would have been no Northern secession-no factious resistance to the government-no plunder of public property-no trampling upon the national flag.
We volunteer this testimony in behalf of the Republican party as an act of justice, and not because we are in affiliation with it. Those who represent it as "Garrisonian" in its position or purpose, are guilty of a double calumny. Under the Constitution, it is willing to execute all the pro-slavery compromises of that instrument to the fullest extent; and here we take issue with it, as with the Democratic party. Our well-known motto is, "No Union with Slaveholders!"
The position of the Republican party, on this subject, is very truthfully and most explicitly defined by Mr. Lincoln in his inaugural address. Wherein does it differ from that of the old Whig or the old Democratic party, so far as non-intervention with slavery at the South, or the recapture of fugitives slaves, or the suppression of slave insurrections, or the three-fifths representation, is concerned? As if this were not enough, the party, in its Chicago platform,-after recognizing "the right of each State to order and control its own domestic institutions, according to its own judgment exclusively,"-goes out of its way to "denounce the lawless invasion by an armed force of any State or Territory, no matter under what pretext, as THE GREATEST OF CRIMES"! This is a cruel stigma cast upon the memory of John Brown and his martyr-associates at Harper's Ferry. What has the South to fear from such a party as this? And how can its triumph furnish a shadow of justification for the rebellious movement of the seven confederated States, now in open hostility to the Union?
See what Mr. Lincoln says in his address-an address, remember! to be read by all the civilized world -respecting that thoroughly inhuman and most revolting business, the surrendering of fugitive slaves by the people of the North! After quoting the constitutional clause, he says:-
"It is scarcely questioned that this provision was intended by those who made it for the reclaiming of what we call fugitive slaves, and the intention of the law-giver is the law. All members of Congress swear their support to the whole Constitution, to this provision, as much as to any other. To the proposition, then, that slaves, whose cases come within the terms of this clause, shall be delivered up, their oaths are unanimous."
Very true, but such oaths are impious, and of no validity. Whoever returns, or consents to return, a fugitive slave to the clutches of his master, is in the sight of God an accomplice in man-stealing. To this extent Mr. Lincoln and the Republican party are guilty. We are equally shocked and surprised that he should gratuitously parade this infamous pledge in his inaugural address. Nor is it any atonement when he says:-
"In any law upon this subject, ought not all the safe-guards of liberty known in civilized and humane jurisprudence to be introduced, so that a free man be  in any case surrendered as a slave? And might it not be well, at the same time, to provide by  for the enforcement of that clause in the Constitution which guarantees that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States?"
These safeguards of liberty ought indeed to be provided-not merely "that a free man be not in any case surrendered as a slave," but that no fugitive should ever be carried back to bondage. The right of one man to freedom is by creation and destiny the right of every other; and President Lincoln has no better claim to be protected than any of the hunted refugees in the Dismal Swamp. He seems to have no bowels of mercy, under the Constitution, for those who are seeking their liberty by flight, and who deserve to be specially commiserated and aided on their way. He would modify the Fugitive Slave Law, (so he said before his nomination,) but only to make its operation the more effectual! And yet he is the man-mirabile dictu!-whose election causes seven of the slaveholding States to revolt, and in hot haste withdraw from the Union! Surely, they must be desperately hard to "conciliate"! To Mr. Lincoln it is no objection that the Constitution enjoins the delivering up of the hunted fugitive; to us that obligation makes it "a covenant with death," to be given to the consuming fire. As if anxious to perpetuate the thraldom of the millions already in bondage, he admonishingly and fraternally tells the factious South that, in case of her withdrawal from the Union, "fugitives would not be surrendered at all" by the North! Then let such a Union be dissolved to-day, by mutual agreement! And when he further says-"All the protection which, consistently with the Constitution and the laws, can be given, will be cheerfully given to all the States when lawfully demanded, for whatever cause, as cheerfully to one section as another"-by those pregnant words, "for whatever cause," he means, beyond a peradventure, the suppression of any slave insurrection which promises to give freedom to the struggling insurgents! Another provision of the Constitution, making it "an agreement with hell," and therefore to be annulled and repudiated. What a mockery is his language, in this view, when he says-"Intelligence, patriotism, Christianity, and a firm reliance on Him who has never forsaken this favored land, are still competent to adjust in the best way all our present difficulties"! What moral confusion and darkness have we here!
Doubtless, some credit is due to Mr. Lincoln that he is anxious to have "the safeguards of liberty" provided for free colored persons; and, also, that he ventures to suggest, what no other President has yet done, (in view of, though he does not distinctly allude to, the numberless and most revolting outrages that have been inflicted by the Southern barbarians upon Northern citizens guiltless of any offence,) that "it might
<c05>
be well to provide by law for the enforcement of that clause in the Constitution which guarantees that the citizens of each States shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States." And does he expert to get such a law enacted? That is possible. But if enacted, does he expect it will be enforced? That is impossible! Nothing in the Constitution or the laws has ever been regarded by the slave-driving oligarchy in opposition to their satanic will; and while their terrible system of blood and cruelty is allowed to exist, Northern citizens will continue to be scourged, imprisoned, lynched; and driven out from the South, as hitherto, any law of Congress, any provision of the Constitution, to the contrary, notwithstanding!
Mr. Lincoln says-"A disruption of the Federal Union, heretofore only menaced, is now formidably attempted." Aside from arguing the illegality of secession, this is all he says of the treasonable and piratical conduct of the seceding States! A Southern confederacy of seven States; organized and in full operation, with a President, Vice; President, and other executive officers, and all the paraphernalia of independent government-with millions of stolen property in its hands-seizing upon nearly every fort, arsenal, mint and custom-house within its reach-and declaring an eternal separation-is simply described as "an attempted disruption of the Federal Union"-formidable indeed, but characterized by no fitting terms. How-ever, in one thing he is explicit-and less he could not say, in fidelity to his oath as President of the United States:-
"I consider that, in view of the Constitution and the laws, the Union is unbroken, and to the extent of my ability I shall take care, as the Constitution itself enjoins upon me, that the laws of the Union be faithfully executed in all the States. Doing this I deem to be only a simple duty on my part, and shall perform it so far as practicable, unless my rightful masters, the American people, shall withhold the requisition, or in some authoritative manner direct the contrary.
I trust this will not be regarded as a menace, but only as the declared purpose of the Union, that it will constitutionally defend and maintain itself; in doing this there need to be no bloodshed or violence, and there shall be none, unless it be forced upon the national authority. The power confided to me will be used to hold, occupy and possess the property and places belonging to the government, and collect the duties on imports; but, beyond what may be necessary for these objects, there will be no invasion, no using of force against or among the people anywhere."
Now, this is the nub of the whole controversy. On this depends whether there be a Union and a national government, as hitherto, or nothing but a dismembered confederacy. This is what the Southern traitors and their Northern accomplices impudently denounce as "coercion," and "a declaration of war"! Yes, the very party (Bell and Everett) that took for its motto, and ostentatiously flaunted it in the face of every one, before the election, "The Union, the Constitution, and the Enforcement of the Laws," now brands this doctrine as murderous in the extreme, and insists on allowing the traitors to have their own way, no matter what the consequences may be! Villainous party! Rotten with hypocrisy, and inspired by a murderous malignity unexampled in the history of party strife! It wants the North to "conciliate," down to the subterraneous level of Southern treason! But it does not want Mr. Lincoln to be the President of the United States; and it prefers the triumph of sedition and piracy at the South to "the Union, the Constitution, and the enforcement of the laws," under a Republican administration, after the pattern of Washington and Jefferson!
How is it possible that the President can be deluded into the belief that "there need to he no bloodshed or violence" in enforcing the laws "in all the States"? Does not the Southern confederacy stand ready to meet his first effort to execute those laws within its domains, by the bloody arbitrament of war on their part? And do not the border Slave States stand in a bullying attitude, threatening to make common cause with the seceding States, if any "coercion" is attempted by the new administration? Either blood must flow like water, or Mr. Lincoln and the North must back down, and confess that the American Union is dissolved beyond the power of restoration. In vain does he beseechingly say to the traitors-
"In your hands, my dissatisfied [dissatisfied!] fellow- countrymen, and not mine, is the momentous issue of civil war. The government will not assail yen. You can have no conflict, without being yourselves the aggressors. You have no oath registered in heaven to destroy the government, while I shall have the most solemn one to preserve, protect and defend it."
Will they give any heed to this? Will they not rather laugh his oath to scorn? Are they not hourly committing overt acts of treason? Are they not insolent and flagitious aggressors in stealing the property and firing upon the flag of the country, instituting a hostile government, and arming themselves for a deadly conflict which they are eager to wage? One party or the other must give way-which shall it be? In vain does the President tell them, " We are not enemies, but friends." Friends do not behave in this manner! The breach is natural, inevitable, and not to be repaired-it is the result of the "irrepressible conflict" between Justice and Oppression, Right and Wrong, which admits of no conciliation or compromise. Therefore, the time has come for decisive action! LET THERE BE NO CIVIL WAR, but A SEPARATION BETWEEN THE FREE AND SLAVE STATES, in the spirit of Abraham and Lot. The "covenant with death" must be annulled, the "agreement with hell" must no longer stand. (1) It is a sin, a snare, a delusion, a terrible curse, to attempt to perpetuate it. God wills its immediate and eternal overthrow: THE WILL OF GOD BE DONE! Let the free North be free indeed-fashion her own institutions, and dictate her own policy, leaving the South with all her dread responsibilities resting upon her own head. In that case, she cannot long uphold her tottering slave system-speedy emancipation will follow-and the final result will be the formation of a Union stretching from the Atlantic to the Pacific, one in spirit, in purpose, in glorious freedom, the bitter past forgotten, and the future full of richest promise!
(1) "For the Lord spake thus to me with a strong hand, and instructed me that I should not walk in the way of this people, saying, Say ye not, A CONFEDERACY, to all them to whom this people shall say, A CONFEDERACY; neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid. Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself; and he shall be for a sanctuary. * * * Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces; take counsel together, and it shall not stand: for GOD IS WITH US. * * * Thus saith the Holy One of Israel, Because ye despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and stay thereon: therefore THIS INIQUITY shall be to you as a breach ready to fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking Cometh suddenly at an instant. * * * Your covenant with death shall be annulled, and your agreement with hell shall not stand: when the overflowing scourge shall pass through, then ye shall be trodden down by it. Now therefore be yet not mockers, lest your bands be made strong.'-[See ISAIAH, viii., xxx., and xxviii. chapters.]
"THE HUMAN SACRIFICE." Several columns of our present number are occupied with a heart-moving but most humiliating account, from the Anti-Slavery Bugle, of the legal rendition of a fugitive slave girl in the city of Cleveland, and by Republican hands, as a peace-offering to the traitors and brigands of the South. This is one of the fruits of this unhallowed Union. Hear what Judge Spaulding, a high professing anti-slavery man of many years standing, said in his concluding speech at the trial:-
"While we do this in the city of Cleveland, in the Connecticut Western Reserve, and permit this poor piece of humanity to be taken, PEACEABLY, through our streets, and upon our railways, back to the land of bondage, will not the frantic South stay its parricidal arm? Will not our compromising legislators cry, 'Hold! enough!'"
O, sickening exhibition!
PERSONAL LIBERTY BILL. In the Massachusetts House of Representatives on Tuesday last, a very able and elaborate petition was presented of David Lee Child et als., against any change in the Personal Liberty Law, and ordered to be printed. The document covers 27 closely written pages.-equal to about 70 pages of ordinary manuscript.
<c06>
ROASTING A MAN ALIVE. Within a year or two, some Southern member of Congress has indignantly denied that any such brutality had ever been indulged in at the South as burning a negro alive. Many instances have been shown, and another is given in the Harris county Enterprise, in Georgia, as having recently occurred. It is as follows:-
"On the morning of the 14th instant, some two or three hours before day, during the absence of Mr. Isaac N. Middlebrook,-who resides some six or seven miles north of this place,-his house was forcibly entered by some person battening the door down with an axe, Mrs. Middlebrook and two or three small children being the only occupants of the house.
The noise awakening the lady, she hailed the intruder, and was answered, after hailing the second time, with the threat, that if she did not hush, he would kill her, and he immediately sprang to the bed-side grasped Mrs. M. by the throat lifted her from the bed, carried her across the yard, and threw her over the fence where he continued to abuse her in the most shameful manner, until a couple of negro women,-the only persons on the premises except Mr. M. and her children,-being aroused by her cries, came to her relief, and the fiend, being frightened, beat a hasty retreat. The alarm was immediately given in the neighborhood, and the lady being questioned as to the identity of the perpetrator of the deed, stated that she believed it to be a, negro man named George, the property of Mr. Abel Nelson, Sen., and who was hired to Mr. John Middlebrook. Dogs having been procured, the track was pursued to a neighboring house, where the boy George had a wife, and thence to the residence of Mr. John Middlebrook. Under the circumstances, it was thought advisable to arrest the negro, which was done, and after an investigation before a Justice of the Peace, he was duly committed, and placed in the jail in this place, as we thought, to await his trial at the April term of our Superior Court.
On Monday morning last, a crowd of men from the country assembled in our village, and made known their intention to forcibly take the negro George from the jail, and execute him in defiance of law or opposition. Our efficient Sheritf, Major Hargett, together with most of our citizens, remonstrated, persuaded, begged and entreated them to desist, and redact for a moment upon the consequences which might follow such a course; but without avail. Major Hargece promised to guarantee the sate-keeping of the prisoner by confining him in any manner they might suggest, and our citizens proposed to guard the jail might and day, but all to no purpose. There was no appearing them. They rushed to the jail, and, in despite of all remonstrance's, with axe, hammer and crowbar, violently broke through the doors, and took the prisoner out, carrying him about two miles from town, where they chained him to a tree, and burned him to death.
We understand that the negro protested his innocence with his last breath, though repeatedly urged to confess." 
Among the many reasons why the abolition of slavery is needful for the prosperity of our country, one is the fearful amount of falsehood which constantly appears in speeches and writings, prayers and sermons, in relation to that system. Northern people as well as Southern shut their eyes to the obvious concomitants of slavery, that they may excuse themselves from the duty of opposing it.
During the past year, we have had reported from Southern papers, instances of the burning alive of slaves, certainly averaging one a month, circulating in our Northern press. Like the one above mentioned-and like the eminently atrocious case which occurred in 1859, of a slave-woman, a member of Rev. Mr. Byington's mission church in the Choctaw nation, being burnt alive on Sunday, at the instigation of her mistress, also a member of the same church-most of the victims seem to have suffered these outrages merely on suspicion, no offence having been either confessed by them or proved against them. Yet a New England man, writing (in the New York Observer of last week) an article on "Cruel and Unusual Punishments," congratulates his readers on the existence of an article in the U. S. Constitution forbidding such, punishments, and thus, as he represents, securing the people of this country against them.
After describing punishments of this sort formerly inflicted in England, and candidly admitting that some such were formerly inflicted in this country "while the Salem witchcraft excitement was raging," and "during the early part of the last century," this writer piously concludes that-"There is occasion for gratitude that cruel and unusual punishments can no longer be inflicted, and that the death-penalty is only inflicted upon those criminals for whose punishment it was specially appointed by God himself."
The editorial columns of the Observer, in the same number, report and comment upon "Fresh Outrages in Syria," but have nothing to say against the holding and breeding, buying and selling, flogging and burning of slaves in our own country!-C. K. W.
THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW AND ITS VICTIMS. Revised and enlarged edition. New York: 1861-pp. 168.
This highly valuable tract, the first installment of which was issued some years ago, has been revised, with great care, by its author, Rev. Samuel May, Jr., and now appears enlarged to nearly four times its original size, and improved by the addition of an index, and of sundry comments and historical references.
It gives a synopsis and history of the Fugitive Slave Law, which was well called, by the New York Evening Post, "An Act for the Encouragement of Kidnapping." It gives a full analysis of the votes by which that act was passed in both houses of Congress, chronicling the names of the principal persons who framed and advocated, and of all who supported it, and naming also those members from the Northern States who evaded the vote by absence or silence, and thus made themselves responsible, equally with the voters, for this greatest disgrace of our country.
The tract then proceeds to record the cases of the victims under this infamous law, as far as these can be gathered from the newspapers, of all parties and all sections of the country. The names, dates, places and circumstances of these transactions are given, and the sources of the original records are carefully referred to, enabling those who wish to trace out the individual cases, to do so.
This carefully prepared record of ten years of the Fugitive Slave Law reveals the disgraceful facts, that the number of fugitives arrested and then set free, or rescued, is so insignificant as barely to form a feature in the case; while the number of ACTUALLY FREE persons stolen, kidnapped, and hurried into slavery from the Northern States, is to be counted by hundreds!
Now that a new President of the United States has commenced his reign by proclaiming his purpose to execute this atrocious law-announcing at the same time that he has "no inclination" to interfere with the oppression which now reigns in the slave States, and that he has "no objection" to a new enactment, making the Constitutional support of slavery "express and irrevocable"-it is highly desirable that a tract like this should be extensively circulated and carefully read.
It is for sale at the Anti-Slavery Offices, 5 Beckman St., New York: 107 North Fifth St., Philadelphia: 15 Steuben St., Albany: and 221 Washington St., Boston. Price, 121/2 cents single, %10 per hundred.-C. K. W.
MR. LINCOLN'S CABINET. The President nominated, and the Senate confirmed, on Tuesday, the following gentlemen as members of his Cabinet:-
Secretary of State-WILLIAM H. SEWARD, of New York.
Secretary of the Treasury-SALMON P. CHASE, of Ohio,
Secretary of the Navy-GIDEON WELLES, of Connecticut.
Postmaster General-MONTIGOMERY BLAIR, of Maryland.
Secretary of the Interior-CALEB B. SMITH, of Indiana.
Attorney General-EDWARD BATES, OF MISSOURI.
This is a strong Cabinet, and will doubtless prove generally acceptable to the country.
Rev. Charles Beecher of Georgetown, in his sermon at the Music Hall last Sunday, well said that now, even while God was dealing his retributive judgments for our national sin of slaveholding, some men were setting themselves to mould the golden calf of Compromise.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE CONFLICT BETWEEN FREEDOM AND SLAVERY.
Letter of C. Robinson to His Excellency Gov. Morgan.
RESPECTED SIR-Suffer a humble citizen, one of your supporters and constituents, to address you in relation to your late message, generally and especially, on the important national subject discussed in closing.
I had been looking with considerable anxiety to see what Governor Morgan would say on the revolutionary attitude of South Carolina and other Southern States, which, being parties in forming the Government, and having its administration in their own hands, are plotting to overthrow it-aping the Declaration of Independence with the same propriety that the King and Parliament of England would have done to subvert their own government, and then to publish a similar Declaration.
I was pained, if not mortified, in reading that part of the message, recommending the repeal of a dead law, defunct twenty years-to galvanize it into life, then kill it again-done only, it seems to me, to appease the wrath of the plantation bullies, from the fact of their being ejected from power in the Federal Government, without requiring them to respect the rights, lives, liberty and property of citizens of New York. It looks to me like a great stretch of conservatism, if not timidity. Like a petulant boy whipped just enough to madden him-then give sugar candy to quiet him!
We are constantly told by the papers, that Northern citizens are not safe in a Slave State, those of New York not excepted. I hoped to hear from the Governor of the "Empire State," backed with an army of 470,000 men, something emphatic on this vital question. Are not the liberties and lives of our citizens,-whose innocent blood, shed by brutal violence, and not yet dried on Southern soil, is crying for atonement,-of as much importance to us, at least, as the repeal of an old dead law is to them?
I hold that, if we have departed from our constitutional obligations, we should return; and they be required to do the same.
Is that statement true, as published in the weekly New York Tribune of Dec. 8,. 1860, and the brutalities committed on Northern citizens, recorded in the same paper? If so, it is a black line indeed, in a country professing to be governed by constitution and laws. 
Mr. Sinclair deposes and says:-
"Being in the city of Savannah, Georgia, a man decoyed me out of my hotel, when about thirty men surrounded me. Each man drew a revolver and bowie-knife; each man vehemently demanded my company; and each man made it his duty to see that I complied with their united demand. Powerless, I was dragged along the streets. On the way to a place of torture, I was constantly assailed by the most blasphemous and obscene epithets, the mob dwelling particularly on the fact that I was a New York Yankee! Quids of tobacco were thrown into my eyes, blinding my sight and causing intense pain. My efforts to relieve my eyes brought blows from the butt of a pistol and threats of instant death.
They took me through the streets, on and on, till we reached the City Park. There they ordered me to undress, and as I did not deem it desirable to obey, they forcibly removed my coat, pants, and even my under clothing. In vain did I [declare that I am an American citizen, he might have said] appeal to the police, both mounted and on foot; they dared not interfere. I then appealed, again and again, to the leaders of the gang, who were, to all external appearances, gentlemen, to know why they were thus dealing with me. And the only reply would be, that I had tampered with slaves -a charge utterly unfounded in truth. Having torn my clothes from my body, they compelled me, first to kneel, and then forced me to lie upon the ground, my face being turned downward: whereupon they lashed me with exceeding severity with a CAT-O-NINE-TAILS! bruising the skin, lacerating the flesh, and causing sensations, such as I never before experienced. This treatment was varied by an occasional kick in the face by a heavy foot, or a rap on the head with the butt end of a pistol. After they had finished their castigations, they permitted me to put on my tattered garments, and then told me to run for my life; that they would give me ten yards start, after which, they should fire upon me. I started-I run-they pointed their revolvers and shouted. I jumped a fence, and they yelled with rage."
The sequel was that, after many hazardous and painful experiences, he was hid away in the hold of the Alabama, ready to sail for New York, "till they got far out to sea"-Captain Shenck daring not to take him aboard publicly, lest his ship should be torn in pieces by the mob!
"In corroboration of the foregoing statement, Mr. Sinclair, by request, showed the yet unhealed sores made by the infliction of the cat-o'-nine-tails, the boots and pistols of the members of the vigilance committee of the city of Savannah."
"Another victim of these lawless outrages, who was arrested at the same time, and treated in the same manner also, escaped with his life, and reached the house of this widowed mother in this city, on Tuesday. He is so badly injured that he has been confined to his bed ever since. He was a weak and rather delicate man. When he is sufficiently recovered to do so, he will relate the particulars of the outrages he has suffered for having been a New Yorker."
Then follows "still another case," related by Mr. W. I. Reynolds, the son of a respectable New York merchant, who escaped from Savannah with great difficulty.
But, sir, the following caps the climax of plantation brutality inflicted on a free white man because he had once been a citizen of this State! It is related by Mr. R. I. Sherman, of this city, and recently clerk of the Pulaski House, and one of the "minute men" of Savannah-giving an account of the brutal treatment and subsequent death of a respectable grocer of that city, whose crime consisted of being a native of this State:-
“The vigilance committee, which is composed of wealthy and respectable members of society, having learned that Mr. John Byler, a grocer in West Broad street, was a native of New York, determined to get rid of him. An accusation of tampering with slaves, and of allowing them to sit at his table, was trumped up against him, and he was ordered to leave the city. He did not obey; consequently, on Saturday, the 17th, the committee called on him, took him at some little distance from the city, stripped him, then applied a coating of hot tar and cold cotton. They then started him on a run, and he, fearing that his life depended upon his legs, run to so good purpose that he had nearly reached a place of safety, when a brutal policeman overhauled him, and struck him heavily on the back of the head with his pistol, fracturing his skull, and forcing him upon the ground. This was on the 17th November, and on Saturday the 24th, he was buried."
Are not these atrocities committed upon New Yorkers worth noticing, as well as the repeal of obsolete laws? Ought they not to be examined into, and, if found substantially correct, reparation be immediately demanded, and indemnity for future security? Under the Constitution, the citizens of this State have just as good a right in Savannah as in New York-as good a right to protection; and what is government or a Union worth that does not so protect him? They are contemptible cobwebs, fit only to be trampled upon: nay, I was about to quote the caption of the Liberator, as a suitable epithet, "a covenant with death!"
How long, if the government fails to do it, ere the people contrive to protect themselves? Look out then for the explosion of the Southern magazine, if not before, and the overthrow of the "Bastile"!
It may be said, in truth, too, that these violent measures are a necessity to slavery; that it is a system of brute force, and requires such force to maintain it. Then it is fit only for the age of barbarism, and should be numbered with the things that were. Should a horde of Indians cut up like these Southern slavocrats, would our people bear it so meekly? I guess not. The red skins would catch it.
You say the Union must be preserved. That cannot be, with the antagonisms of freedom and slavery. They will no longer work together as yoke-fellows. Slavery must now go to the wall!-then we may have a Union.
This great national sore is constitutional. It has been festering in the vital forces of the body politic till, like volcanic eruptions, it has come to a head, and is belching forth its red-hot lava. Nor will it cool till the fountain is exhausted and the crater closed.
We can run the five-wheeled carriage no longer: there is too much wear and tear; the machinery will not work. The odd wheel must be removed, or given over to the seceding States, whereon to run their negro chariot; and let them steady the tottering ark as best they may.
If, in the operation of natural laws and in the course of human events, the time has not fully arrived for the safe "deliverance of the woman," and the birth of universal freedom, wait! But stand erect!
<c02>
I suppose when the message speaks of insurrection and its suppression, little else was meant but a servile insurrection among the slaves, who, by some means, begin to feel the native germ of liberty feebly unfolding, which finds a lodgment in every human soul, and the love of it springs eternal in every human breast; having obtained some vague notions of freedom, causing them to be restless, and the fireside of the master insecure.
May they not, too, find out that when New York and Pennsylvania, with their million men capable of bearing arms, with vast munitions, added to the martial force of all the States remaining in the Union, are no longer under any obligation to interfere to suppress an insurrection, a strike for wages and liberty would be much more hopeful, and far less perilous, and facilities for escape greatly increased?
Most respectfully yours,
C. ROBINSON.
Holley, (N. Y.) 1861.
P. S. I well remember when, in August, 1814, Gov. Daniel D. Tompkins sent up his proclamation to Western New York, then sparsely settled, for the militia to turn out, en masse, and ordered them to Buffalo, which had been burnt clean by the enemy the previous winter. We did go, as some of us had done before. Many of us volunteered under Gen. P. B. Porter, crossed to Fort Erie, joining the few surviving regulars there, whipped the British on their own ground, which closed the war on "Niagara's bloody frontier." And why the war? A British frigate had fired into one of ours, the Chesapeake, and killed a man. The outrage being subsequently justified by the British Cabinet, was among the chief causes of the war of 1812. Nor was Pierce first insulted, tormented, humiliated, and then killed. If Georgia refuses to make reparation, but justifies these offenders, and refuses to surrender them to justice on demand, I would take reprisals, and fight her till she would come to terms.

POLITICIANS-WILLIAM H. SEWARD.
ATHOL, Feb. 23, 1861.
Although in this hour of the nation's peril, it would be folly to look to any one man for deliverance; yet, in the midst of rumors of wars and the tumults <illegible> the people, there is no man to whose wisdom and sagacity they have more confidently looked, to lead them out of all their troubles, present or prospective, than to those of Hon. Wm. H. Seward; and, from his antecedents, they have had some reason to do so.
But, with all his wisdom, with all the generous sentiments of patriotism and philanthropy, (for he has a heart and brain prolific of such things,) which, through his lips, found graceful utterance, during the late Presidential campaign; I fear he will lack the courage, the promptness, the executive energy, the heroic deeds, which are so essential to constitute him a leader, such as the present crisis demands. Greatness in action is absolutely necessary to carry us successfully through the present struggle.
Intellectually, at least, he has ascended Mount Nebo, even to the top of Pisgah; and has deliberately survey ed this magnificent land of promise. Conscious of his position, he seems to shrink from the tremendous responsibility it imposes, and says to the nation, "Stand still, and see the salvation of God," unmindful of the voice which calls to him, saying, "Speak unto the children of freedom, that they go forward."
Aware, as he is, of the vast extent of the public domain, (sufficient, as he says, to be carved up into twenty-four such States as New York;) holding, as he does, that Congress is authorized "to make all needful rules and regulations in regard to it," and, of course, if it sees fit, to exclude slavery therefrom; realizing, as he must, the transcendant folly as well as wickedness of the slave system, whether viewed in an economical or moral light; knowing, too, that all this imperial domain lies open to its blighting and withering influence; I marvel that, in this hour of Freedom's triumph, he should falter; trusting, now that Kansas is won, to the laws of climate and population to secure the fruits of victory.
Consistency would require, that he should labor to secure by statute, that for which he has been so long contending, even by "reenacting the laws of God."
For years, he has inscribed upon his banner the rallying-cry of freedom for the territories. By this sign the friends of freedom have conquered; and why should they not go over and possess the land? There should they plant themselves, raise high their standard, and proclaim to the world that the soil, which is now free, shall be consecrated to freedom forever; consecrated as the home, only, of freemen, and the nursery of free States.
This done, in due time it shall be peopled and enjoyed by the multitudinous emigrants and refugees from the crowded despotisms of the old world, mingling with the hardy pioneers, who, with ceaseless and resistless tide, are setting Westward still, from the thronged and teeming regions of the vigorous North and West.
Thus peopled, the territories are to be organized, and society is to be regulated therein. And it behooves statesmen to look well to the models, and to the primitive laws, by which they are formed and guided; for they are the germs of future Commonwealths.
States grow: and it behooves the founders of States to look well to the fundamental principles which are to give direction to their growth. What statesmen sow, that must the people reap-that must they continue to reap, long after the sowers have quit the field, and the primitive seed is forgotten.
What constitutes a States? The men and women who dwell upon its soil. Let then the statesmen of our land set boldly forward, as if they had faith in justice, faith in humanity, faith in God. Let them provide for and secure those institutions, and only those, which in their judgment are best fitted to rear upon the nation's soil a race of "men, high-minded men." These constitute a State; and, by vigorously devoting themselves to the arts of peace, they will most successfully develop the natural resources of our land, and give to the nation its wealth, its dignity, its respect, its ability, its majesty and strength. "Peace has her victories, no less renowned than war "; and so it shall come to pass, that the most eminent philanthropist will prove himself to be the profoundest and wisest of statesmen, and shall earn for himself the title of a lover of his country and a benefactor of his race; for he will have labored not to annul, but to " reenact the laws of God." H. W. C.
WENDELL PHILLIPS. Extract of a letter from a devoted laborer in the Anti-Slavery field at the West:
"I cannot but use the present opportunity to send you a word of cheer. The time for the slave's and our country's deliverance is at hand, and I know we are all light-hearted in the prospect, though our salvation come through the fire and blood of civil war, as to me seems inevitable. The power and influence of Mr. Phillips are incalculable. The West sits in breathless silence to catch his words. The fact that he is the most hated and dreaded by the minions of slavery, North and South, and the most admired and respected by all in whose bosoms is a spark of the fire of freedom, put on him the seal of savior. May his vision be as clear as his heart is true!"
THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER-for March, 1861-contains the following papers:-I. Dr. Thompson's Plea for Eternal Punishment. II. Friedrich Wilhelm von Thierach. III. The Cause of Reason the Cause of Faith. IV. The Eliot Novels. V. Muller's History of Vedic Literature. VI. Emancipation in Russia. VII. Review of Current Literature. This able Quarterly is published by the Proprietor, at Walker, Wise & Co.'s Bookstore, 245 Washington Street, Boston. Terms $4 a year, payable in advance.
A number of letters and communications still on file for insertion. Our columns are always crowded: write briefly, if you would be heard.
<c03>
THE INAUGURATION OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN AT WASHINGTON.
At fifteen minutes to one o'clock, the Judges of the Supreme Court of the United States of America were announced by the Door-keeper of the Senate. On their entrance, all on the floor arose, and the venerable Judges, headed by the Chief Justice Taney, moved slowly to the seats assigned them, immediately to the right of the Vice President, each exchanging salutes with that officer in passing the chair.
At ten minutes after one o'clock, an unusual stir occurred in the chamber, and the rumor spread like wildfire that the President elect was in the building. At fifteen minutes past one o'clock, the Marshal and Chief Major, B. B. French, entered the chamber, ushering in the President and the President elect. They had entered together from the street through a private covered passage-way on the north side of the Capitol, police officers being in attendance to prevent outsiders from crowding after them.
The line of procession was then formed in the following order:-Marshal of the District of Columbia, Judges of Supreme Court and Sergeant-at-Arms, Senate Committee of Arrangements, President of the United States and President elect, Vice President, Secretary of the Senate, Senators, diplomatic corps, heads of the departments, Governors and others in the chamber.
When the word was given for members of the House to fall into the line of procession, a violent rush was made for the door, accompanied by loud outcries, violent pushing and great disturbance.
After the procession had reached the platform, Senator Baker, of Ohio, introduced Mr. Lincoln to the assembly. On Mr. Lincoln advancing to the stand, he was cheered, but not very loudly. Unfolding his manuscript, in a loud, clear voice he read his message.
During the delivery of the Inaugural, which commenced at half-past one o'clock, Mr. Lincoln was much cheered, especially at any allusion to the Union. President Buchanan and Chief Justice Taney listened with utmost attention to every word of the address, and at its conclusion the latter administered the usual oath, in answering to which Mr. Lincoln was vociferously cheered. The Chief Justice seemed very much agitated, and his hands shook very perceptibly with emotion.
The Inauguration of to-day makes the eighth ceremony of the kind at which Chief Justice Taney has officiated, having administered the oath of office successively to Presidents Van Buren, Tyler, Polk, Taylor, Fillmore, Pierce, Buchanan and Lincoln. The ceremony was exceedingly impressive.
At the conclusion of the Inauguration ceremonies, the President was escorted to the Senate Chamber, thence to his carriage, and the military forming as in the procession of this morning, accompanied him with the Committee of Arrangements to the White House.
On reaching the Executive mansion, the troops formed in double line on Maine avenue, and the barouche containing the Presidential party passed through to the White House. Mr. Buchanan accompanied Mr. Lincoln to the main hall, and there took a farewell leave of him, expressing a hope in cordial terms that his administration might prove a happy and prosperous one. The ex-President then retired to the residence of District Attorney Ould.
On the arrival of the procession at the White House, the marshals were successively introduced to Mr. Lincoln, and then, the line being formed, the people rushed in to congratulate the new President. The rush was exceedingly great. Thus ended, for the day time, the inauguration ceremonies.
Though the enthusiasm did not equal that manifested on former occasions, everything passed off quietly. The amplest civil and military preparations were made by the municipal authorities and General Scott, to provide for any emergency that might arise. The various bodies of United States troops now here were stationed in different parts of the city, the Sappers and Miners alone being in the procession. General Scott, it is said, was near the Capitol with Capt. Barry's Company of light artillery, and Major Harkin's Command, acting as infantry. Officers reported continually, passing to and fro, and it is said the General was heard to exclaim, “Everything is going on peaceably, thank God Almighty for it." During the day, military patrols were on duty all over the city, and the greatest vigilance was enjoined upon and observed by the Regulars.
The display of soldiery in the procession was very fine, but not equal to that of the 22d of February. The companies were quite numerous, but of small size. As a rule, the Republican Associations were placed in the order of march immediately after the ex-Presidents. These organizations had with them a sort of triumphal car, drawn by four white horses, each of which were covered with white cloth, on which was the word "Union" in large letters on one side, and the word "Constitution" on the other. The car was decorated with miniature flags, and white, red and blue drapery, and contained thirty-four little girls, representing the States, and two young ladies representing the North and the South. The whole affair was under the charge of ten Wide <illegible> in full uniform. Five hundred delegates from New York marched in the procession, four abreast. Several other large delegations also joined the line.
The scene from the east front was very fine. The avenue in front of the portico was thronged with people, the crowd extending a great distance on either side, and reaching far into the Capitol grounds. Every available spot was black with human beings, boys and men clinging to rails, and mounting on fences, and climbing trees until they bent beneath their weight. On the outer edge of the concourse the volunteer soldiery stood at rest during the delivery of the inaugural. A great number of flags were flying, and as the sun shone brightly on the gay dresses of the ladies and the uniforms and glittering weapons of the soldiery, the scene was exceedingly animated. Several photographers were on the ground taking impressions of the scene.

MORE ABOUT THE HORRID PLOT.
Something Definite about the Man with the Air Gun-The First Plan was to Use a Maynard's Rifle.
From the Cincinnati Commercial, (Rep.,) Feb. 26th.]
Since the agitation respecting the manner in which the President elect entered Washington City, we feel at liberty to publish the following reliable revelation of a conspiracy to take Mr. Lincoln's life. The writer resides in one of the Gulf States. We know his post-office address. He gives reference to business men of this city. Our motive in withholding his name and residence cannot be mistaken:-
MONDAY, December 17th, 1860.
EDITORS COMMERCIAL,-I enclose you a letter, which I hope you will mail to the Honorable A. Lincoln. I do this because I know he would never get it if I sent by the usual route. You know who I am by reference to-,or by application to-. [Giving a reference in this city.-Eds. Cam.] I am afraid to be more explicit, for you have no idea of the state of alarm we are in. No one knows who is his friend or enemy; we are afraid of each other. The negroes were all happy and quiet three weeks ago, but now they are not. We cannot sleep at nights. You have no idea of what it is to be perpetually in fear of something dreadful going to take place at the next tick of the clock. We sleep-go to bed, I should say- with pistols under our pillows and guns by our side. Let me know if you receive this unopened.
[THE LETTER INCLOSED TO THE EDITORS OF THE COMMERCIAL FOR MR. LINCOLN.] 
DECEMBER 17th, 1860.
Honorable A. Lincoln, Springfield, Ill:
RESPECTED SIR,-I send this under cover to the editor of the Cincinnati Commercial, with the request that he will forward it to you, not daring to risk it to you through the Southern mail.
It is in all truthfulness that I submit the following facts to your notice, knowing that your life will be in danger at your inauguration. Violent threats against your life are very common among street politicians and grocery rowdies, but these are beneath your notice. But it is far different with the person I have reference to. His threats are not openly made. He is a very courageous man - wealthy, and influential. He has a very good name for veracity among all his acquaintances, and is considered a very upright man. He is a man who will always do what he says he will. His name is-. [The writer gives his name in full.-Eds. Com.] If it had been any other man, I should have been silent But I would have been guilty before my God and my conscience, had I not informed you of the conspiracy against your life. I accidentally [Here the writer tells how he became acquainted with the plot-giving the name of the town and the date of the discovery of the plot, which was December 15th, two days before he wrote to Lincoln.-Eds. Com.] In answer to a question, “if he really intended to kill Lincoln,” he said, “Yes, so help me God, I will kill him, if a thousand muskets were pointing toward my heart."
In order to escape detection, it was agreed for him to be in the centre of three or four hundred friends, they to concentrate singly to one point, and at such a distance that a sight (as they called it) could be brought to bear upon you while speaking. More conversation was bad upon the probable result of your death, &c. The rifle to be used, which was exhibited, is made in such a manner as that it can be bent back on a joint where the stock and barrel meet, so that it can be doubled and carried in his inside coat-pocket. It is a breech-loading rifle-they call it a Sharp's rifle, but I think it was not. [It was probably a Maynard rifle, a very light, short, but powerful breech-loading gun. It is so light and short that it could very easily be carried under an overcoat.-Eds. Com.]
I could not rest until I had informed you of this conspiracy against your life, particularly as it is not merely <illegible> for Mr.- is not that kind of a man. My own life would be immediately taken if it were known that I had divulged their plans. Nothing but a desire to do good to my fellow man-to yourself and
<c04>
to Mr. [giving the name of the proposed assassin- Eds. Com.]-prompts me to address you on this subject.
I have neither given my name or place of residence, but the editor of the Cincinnati Commercial will do both upon application. Yours, in F. L. &T.
Two weeks later, the same man writes to us:-
“The item I furnished you in my last is getting to be a formidable element of opposition, and the only chance I see for him is not to stand up above others, but, if anything, stand below the immediately surrounding people when he makes a speech, for, of a certainty, a bead will be drawn upon him."
We are impressed that the writer of this correspondence is perfectly sincere, and is not mistaken. If we were at liberty to state all the circumstances within our knowledge that go to make up and confirm this impression, the conscientiousness of our correspondent would hardly be questioned by the most skeptical. The tone of the paragraph which we give from his last letter seems especially ominous.
The following is from the LaFayette (Indiana) Journal of the 18th ult.:-
“We were on Saturday night placed in possession of the astounding information that an attempt was made, on Monday last, to wreck the train bearing the President elect and suite, about one mile west of the State line. The particulars as given us by Mr. Rich, of the Toledo and Western Railroad, are, that a short time before the train was due at the State line, an engineer who was preparing to take out a train, found it necessary to run out to the wood yard for fuel. Running at a moderate speed, he noticed an obstruction on the track, and stopping his engine, found that a machine for putting cars on the track had been fastened upon the rails in such a manner that if a train at full speed had struck it, engine and cars must have been thrown off, and many persons killed. It is almost impossible to think that any one is so thoroughly depraved as to attempt so damnable a deed, but we are assured by our informant that his information comes from undoubted authority. The matter would have been made public before, but it was hoped that the perpetrators of the dastardly outrage could be detected and brought to justice. The whole thing was admirably planned-the obstruction so near a station, and on a straight track, when it would not be deemed necessary to exercise any great degree of caution." 
THE CONSPIRACY. The evidence accumulates that the courageous, manly and chivalric sons of the South concocted a dark and damnable scheme, the object of which was to assassinate Abraham Lincoln, the People's choice for President.
We have the testimony of Gen. Scott and of Gov. Hicks, that there was a plot to run the train off the track, raise a mob of plug-uglies-anything, no matter how dastardly, to destroy the life of Lincoln. Against his own will, and only by the entreaties of a citizen of Baltimore, who had learned the existence of this murderous plot, Mr. Lincoln was induced to deviate from his previously arranged journey, and travel in disguise from Harrisburg to Washington.
It remained for the magnanimous sons of the South to originate this hellish enterprise. After having been fairly beaten in a Presidential election, after having their accursed institution condemned by the unanimous verdict of the free States, they endeavor to nullify it by a nefarious attempt to murder the President.
Oh, loyal South! brave sons of brave sires! You get whipped in a fair fight, and secretly stab your conqueror in the back!
You have played the traitor in taking forts, in stealing arms, in taking books from Government libraries, in swindling on three cent postage stamps; but you were paupers who contracted debts only to repudiate them; you were blusterers who boasted of courage, and ran away when your antagonist appeared; you were Tories who had to have “blue-bellied Yankees" fight the Revolution for you-we knew you were all these things, and now we have learned that you were ASSASSINS.
Fort Sumter will not be attacked. Major Anderson will be bowied at a dinner party. That is the way the chivalry dispose of these questions. - Leavenworth (Kansas) Conservative.

AMENDMENT TO THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW.
The Fugitive Slave Law, passed by the House of Representatives, an abstract by telegraph of which was published on Saturday, is as follows:-
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled, That every person arrested under the laws of Congress for the delivery up of fugitives from labor shall be produced before a court, judge or commissioner, mentioned in the law approved 18th of September, 1850, for the State or Territory wherein the arrest may be made, and upon such production of the person, together with the proofs mentioned in the sixth or the tenth section of said act, such court, judge or commissioner shall proceed to hear and consider the same publicly, and if such court, judge or commissioner is of opinion that the person arrested owes labor or service to the claimant according to the laws of any other State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, and escaped therefrom, the court, judge or commissioner shall make out and deliver to the claimant or his agent, a certificate stating these facts; and if the said fugitive shall, upon the decision of the court, judge or commissioner being made known to him, aver that he is free, and does not owe service or labor according to the law of the State or Territory to which he is to be returned, such averment shall be entered upon the certificate, and the fugitive shall be delivered by the court, judge or commissioner to the marshal, to be by him taken and delivered to the marshal of the United States for the State or district from which the fugitive is ascertained to have fled who shall produce said fugitive before one of the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the last mentioned State or district, whose duty it shall be, if said alleged fugitive shall persist in his averment, forthwith, or at the next term of the Circuit Court, to cause a jury to be empanelled and sworn to try the issue whether such fugitive owes labor or service to the person by or on behalf of whom he is claimed, and a true verdict to give according to the evidence; on such trial the fugitive shall be entitled to the aid of counsel and to process for procuring evidence at the cost of the United States; and upon such finding the judge shall render judgment, and cause said fugitive to be delivered to the claimant, or returned to the place where he was arrested, at the expense of the United States, according to the finding of the jury; and if the judge or court be not satisfied with the verdict, he may cause another jury to be empanelled forthwith, whose verdict shall be final. And it shall be the duty of said marshal so delivering said alleged fugitive to take from the marshal of the State from which said fugitive is alleged to have escaped, a certificate acknowledging that said alleged fugitive had been delivered to him, giving a minute description of said alleged fugitive, which certificate shall be authenticated by the United States District Judge, or a Commissioner of a United States Court for said State from which said fugitive was alleged to have escaped, which certificate shall be filed in the office of the Clerk of the United States District Court for the State or District in which said alleged fugitive was seized, within sixty days from the date of the arrest of said fugitive; and should said marshal fail to comply with the provisions of this act, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a fine of $1000, and imprisonment for six months, and until his said fine is paid.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That no citizen of any State shall be compelled to aid the marshal or owner of any fugitive in the capture or detention of such fugitive, unless when force is employed or reasonably apprehended to prevent such capture or detention too powerful to be resisted by the marshal or owner, and the fees of the commissioners appointed under the act of 18th September, 1850, shall be $10 for every case heard and determined by such commissioner. 
The following was the vote on the passage of the bill:
YEAS-Messrs. Adams of Kentucky, Adrian, Aldrich, Anderson of Kentucky, Babbitt, Burr, Blair, Brayton, Briggs, Bristow, Burch, Burlingame, Burnham, Butterfield, Campbell, Carter, Case, Clemens, Coburn, John Cochrane, Colfax, Conkling, Corwin, Covode, Davis of Maryland, Davis of Indiana, Delano, Dimmick, Dunn, Edwards, Eli, Ferry, Fonke, French, Gurley, Hale, Hall, Harris of Maryland, Hatton, Helmick, Hoard, Howard of Ohio, Howard of Michigan, Humphrey, Junkin, Kellogg of Illinois, Kenyon, Kilgore, Killinger, Lee, Longnecker, Loomis, Marston, Martin of Ohio, McClernand, McKean, McKenty, McKnight, McPherson, Millward, Moorhead, Morrill, Morris of Pennsylvania, Morris of Illinois, Nixon, Olin, Palmer, Perry, Pettit, Porter, Pottle, J. H. Reynolds, Rice, Riggs, Robinson of Rhode Island, Robinson of Illinois. Scranton, Sickles, Spaulding, Spinner, Stanton, Stratton, Thayer, Theaker, Tompkins, Train, Trimble, Walton, Windom, Wood and Woodruff-92.
NAYS-Messrs. Ashler, Avery, Barrett, Beale, Bringham, Blake, Bocock, Boteler, Bouligny, Brabson, Branch, Brown, Buffinton, Burnett, Carey, H. F. Clarke, Clark of Missouri, Conway, Craig of North Carolina, Dawes, Duell, Edgerton, Edmunston, Elliot, Farnsworth, Fenton, Florence, Foster, Frank, Garnett, Gilmer, Gooch, Grow, Harris of Virginia, Hickman, Hindman, Hughes, Hutchins, Irvine, Jenkins, Kunkel, Leach of Michigan, Leach of North Carolina, Leake, Lovejoy, Maclay, Mallory, Martin of Virginia, Maynard, Millson, Nelson, Niblack, Noell, Pendleton, Peyton, Phelps, Potter, Quarles, Royce, Ruffin, Sedgwick, Simms, Somes, Stevenson, Stokes, Tappan, Thomas, Vallandigham, Vance, Van Wyck, Wade, Waldron, Washburn of Wisconsin, Washburne of Illinois, Wells, Whiteley, Wilson, Winslow, Woodson, Wright-82.
<c05>
ATTEMPT TO CAPTURE A FUGITIVE SLAVE IN NEW YORK.
NEW YORK, March 2. At half-past three o'clock this afternoon, just as the steamer Yorktown was about to depart for Norfolk, Va., a close carriage was driven rapidly up the pier; and, when opposite the gang plank of the vessel, two United States Deputy Marshals left the vehicle, having in custody a negro, whom they alleged was a fugitive slave. One of the Marshals was about to drag the negro on board, when he grasped, with almost savage tenacity, the rails of the plank, clinging to it, despite every effort to disengage his grasp. A large crowd soon gathered round the trio, and the negro, deeming he had friends or sympathy among them, begged them to rescue him, crying loudly and in piteous tones, "Oh, men, save me! save me! I'm not him! save me!”
Officer Armstrong, of the steamboat squad, on viewing the crowd, pressed forward and caught hold of the negro, who had then relieved himself from the grasp of the Marshal. The officer quickly asked if the marshals had the necessary legal documents to convey the fugitive away to Virginia; but the officers in charge of him seemed somewhat puzzled at the question, and after an instant's pause, replied that they had not the papers, but would go for them. One of the marshals then went for the warrants, leaving the negro in charge of the companion officer. In the meantime, the negro had become the centre of an excited crowd, who urged him to run, and completely protected him from the approach of the officer in charge. In an instant afterwards, the negro, led on by a large crowd, ran rapidly towards West street, pursued by the officer, who failed, after a vigorous chase, in arresting him.
The supposition is that he immediately, by the advice of his friends, made tracks for the Jersey shore, where another warrant would be required to capture him. There is said to be no doubt that he will take advantage of the recess, by proceeding to Canada. The U. S. Marshals allege that the negro's name was John Polhemus, and that he had escaped from the service of his master, Mr. Jameson, who resides at Louisburg, Va. It is said that Polhemus confessed before the marshals and his master, who is now in this city, that he was a fugitive, and that he offered to go back to the place from which he had escaped. After Polhemus escaped,, a large crowd of negroes, 'longshoremen and others, gathered on the pier, the former of whom threatened to inflict summary punishment on the marshals who had charge of the negro.
MEMORANDA. The Crittenden proposition was rejected by the U. S. House of Representatives, Feb. 27th-yeas 80, noes 113.
The first series of resolutions reported by the Committee of Thirty-three were adopted same day by a vote of 136 to 53.
The joint resolution to amend the Constitution was voted on and lost, same day,-yeas 120, nays 71, not two-thirds. This resolution, as amended on motion of Mr. Corwin, was as follows:-
Be it resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, (two-thirds of both Houses concurring,) That the following article be proposed to the Legislatures of the several States as an amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which, when ratified by three-fourths of said Legislatures, shall be valid, to all intents and purposes, as part of said Constitution, viz.:
"No amendment shall be made to the Constitution which will authorize or give to Congress the power to abolish or interfere, within any State, with the domestic institutions thereof, including that of persons held to labor or service by the laws of said State."
On the following day, Feb. 28th, the vote rejecting this resolution was reconsidered, yeas 128, noes 65; and then the resolution was adopted,-yeas 133, noes 65, three more than two-thirds.
WASHINGTON, March 3. There is considerable excitement in the city, to-night, consequent upon the report, the truth of which I have no doubt, that Colonel Lee, aid to General Scott, has this evening resigned his commission in the army. He is a Virginian, and it is said has acted upon assurances from his State that she will secede-rumors to which effect have reached here from Richmond.
The most alarming fact about this action of Colonel Lee's, is that he has been the confidential friend and adviser of General Scott, and is consequently in possession of all his secret military movements. A Cabinet meeting was held this evening.
It is held with special reference to the resignation of Col. Lee, and a reported discovery of a plot on the part of a gang of desperate men now here from Baltimore and different parts of Virginia, to surprise and take the battery on Judiciary Square, and spike the guns. That there is a large number of evil disposed persons in the city, there is no doubt; but troops are on the alert, and cannot be surprised nor taken by forty times the number of desperadoes now in the city. The feeling, to-night, in high official circles, is, that war will soon follow the inauguration of Mr. Lincoln, so sure is every one that Mr. Lincoln will not compromise with traitors. Besides, there is a strong belief that Virginia has been determined to secede, and has been playing a big game of bluff.
How THEY DID IT. We have the name of one lad, thirteen years old, who signed his name to the Crittenden petition seven times; another lad told us that he signed the name of Henry Ward Beecher to the petition, as though it was a very clever joke, and another individual boasts that he signed fourteen times. Hundreds of persons have called upon us, and told us that they signed because they were informed that it was simply a petition for the preservation of the Union. One canvasser tells us that he went to a large manufacturing establishment, and requested permission of the proprietor to solicit the signatures of his workmen; the proprietor was friendly to the project, but said he could not interrupt the men at that time, but if the solicitor would write down the names, he would read them off the pay roll, as he thought all his men were in favor of sustaining the Union. He accordingly did so, and four hundred and sixty-three names were added to the list. All that Mr. Sumner said in regard to the signatures is more than substantiated.-Atlas and Bee. 

From the Boston Pionier of Feb. 28th.
THE LIBERATOR,
in which Mr. Garrison has already by many translations called the attention of his readers to the Pionier, contained again last week a very appreciative commendation of our paper, and a call to German-reading Americans to subscribe to the same, in view of the losses it has sustained. We most heartily thank the Liberator, whose recognition has for us an especial value, for this attention and friendliness, and we shall be all the more rejoiced to have a number of freethinking Americans for readers, inasmuch as the independent radicalism of the Pionier will give them an opportunity to exercise or manifest the toleration of their free thought in every direction, especially religiouswise.
In connection with the foregoing, we must not omit to publish the following correspondence:-
BOSTON, February 24th, 1861. 
MR. KARL HEINZEN: 
DEAR SIR,-I see you are obliged to strike off some of your Southern subscribers. Let me congratulate you on this proof of your fidelity to truth and freedom. I should ask you to put my name on your list, if I read the German with any ease. But my ignorance in that direction does not blind me to the value of your labors, or lessen my interest in the success of your journal.
Let me testify it by asking you to accept the inclosed twenty dollars, which please use in any way to help the Pionier, and believe me,
Very cordially and respectfully yours,
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
BOSTON, February 25th, 1861.
MR. WENDELL PHILLIPS:
DEAR SIR,-Please receive my sincere thanks for the interest you express concerning the success and the usefulness of my paper. It gives me pleasure to accept the twenty dollars as a testimony from you, and in aid of the cause of freedom. To make the best use of the money,-which I suppose will meet your approval,-I shall distribute twelve numbers of the Pionier for half a year to those of my countrymen who are desirous to read the paper, but are not able to pay for it on account of the hard times, one of the blessings of slavery.
With sincere esteem, yours,
KARL HEINZEN.
In the spirit of what precedes, we entreat such of our fellow-countrymen as wish to read the Pionier, but are not able to pay the subscription price, to make known to us their address, and we will send them the paper for six months accordingly. And we request, too, our subscribers who know friends of the Pionier in the situation described, to call their attention to our proposal. We trust no one will see anything dishonorable in the fact that unfortunate circumstances or the rebellion of traitorous slaveholders have deprived them of the means of reading our paper.
Great fears of an insurrection of slaves are felt in the neighboring Virginian counties, and patrols about every plantation are established. Twenty-five kegs of powder have been found secreted in various places.
Some alarm is felt in Norfolk, in consequence of the Mayor receiving intelligence from the Mayor of Petersburg, that an outbreak will soon follow the inauguration of Lincoln. Volunteers have been ordered to patrol the city, and other measures have been taken to secure the preservation of the peace.
<c06>
THE FAMINE IN KANSAS.
NEOSMO FALLS, Woodson Co., Kansas, Feb. 21, 1861.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT:
DEAR SIR-Your favor of 1st inst., containing draft on New York for $108.78, came to hand to-day in good time to secure seed wheat for this township.
To you and those who have so generously contributed to relieve our wants and necessities, we return our sincere and heartfelt thanks for this munificent and timely remittance, and we shall ever hold in grateful remembrance the kind donors.
Yours, truly,
PETER STEVENS,
Chairman of Township Relief Committee.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-Please to insert, in connection with the above note, the following contributions for sufferers in Kansas, most of which came in response to the touching appeal from Neosho Falls, published in the Liberator of 7th Dec. last, and which together made up the amount transmitted to Peter Stevens, Esq., acknowledged by him as above:-
C. T. Beach, East Otto, N. Y., $10.00
Francis Jackson, Boston, Mass., 10.00
Mrs. E. F. Eddy, Mass., 5.00
A. M. Chase, Canton, Mass., 5.00
Richard Clap, Jr., Dorchester, Mass., 1.00
N. C. Rolfe, Mass., 1.00
Stephen Clapp, Mass., 1.00
Joshua Brinton, Gap, Lancaster Co., Pa., 5.00 
Mrs. Bradford, Dorchester, Mass., 10.00
Sund. Sch. 1st. Cong. Society, Concord, Mass., 11.16
Rufus Kenderick, Cambridge, Mass., 5.00
Misses J. and M. Thoreau, Boston, Mass., 5.00
Dr. H. O. Stone, Framingham, Mass., 1.00
Mrs. Mary J. Carlton, Dorchester, Mass., 1.00
Mrs. J. Thoreau, Concord, Mass., 5.00
Joshua Perry, Hanson, Mass., 5.00
Miss Sarah D. Harris, Fall River, Mass., 3.00
Otis Shepard, Harrison, Mass., 20.00
Samuel May, Jr., Leicester, Mass., 3.00
Levi Wyman, Hubbardston, Mass., 0.50
Ezekiel & Alice Thatcher, Yarmouthport, Ms., 2.00
$109.66
Deduct expenses of box and cartage of clothing, 0.88
$108.78
ROBERT F. WALLCUT.
Boston, March 4, 1861.
MRS. M. B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.-David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Mc.
Rooms No. 34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.
BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D., No. 34 Auburn Street, Boston. Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Diseases.
OFFICE HOURS from 11, A. M., till 2, P. M. Nov. 3-3m.
FREE DISPENSARY, for Women and Children, 274 Washington street, Boston. Open every day, from 12 to 1 o'clock.
The above institution (in connection with the LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY) is now open for the gratuitous treatment of Women and Children, and for Surgical Patients of both sexes. Difficult cases may have the benefit of a Consultation on Wednesdays, at 12 o'clock.
MIDWIFERY. Attendance by duly qualified female practitioners will be provided for the poor, at their own homes, free of charge.
ANDREW T. FOSS, Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak at
Nashua, N. H., Sunday, March 10.
Rochester, N.H., Sunday, March 17.
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Massachusetts A. S. Society, will speak at
Barre, Sunday, March 10.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak at
Fall River, Wednesday evening, March 13.
WM. WELLS BROWN will speak at Groveland, Sunday next, March 10, on Slavery and the Present Crisis.
MARRIED-In Salem, (Mass.) Feb. 28th, by Rev. Mr. Wilson, Dr. Samuel C. Watson, of Chatham, C. W., to Mrs. Sarah L. C. Smith, of Philadelphia.

$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 1861. 3m.
The British Reviews,
AND
Blackwood's Magazine.
1.
THE LONDON QUARTERLY, (Conservative.)
2.
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, (Whig.)
3.
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, (Free Church.)
4.
THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, (Liberal.)
5.
BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, (Tory.)
TERMS.
Per ann.
For any one of the four Reviews, $3 00
For any two of the four Reviews, 5 00
For any three of the four Reviews, 7 00
For all four of the Reviews, 8 00
For Blackwood's Magazine, 3 00
For Blackwood and one Reviews, 5 00
For Blackwood and two Reviews, 7 00
For Blackwood and three Reviews, 9 00
For Blackwood and the four Reviews, 10 00
N. B.-The price in Great Britain of the five Periodicals above-named is $31 per annum.
Republished by LEONARD SCOTT & CO.,
54 Gold Street, New York.
Dec. 28. 6m
SELF CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE
Fourth Edition.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR Propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture; embodying most of the palpable and striking self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Fourth Edition. Price 13 cents, post-paid. Eight for a dollar. Sold by all liberal booksellers, and by the publishers, A. J. DAVIS & CO.,
05 6m 274 Canal street, New York.
LINDA.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL. Seven Years concealed in Slavery; narrated by herself; with an Introduction by LYDIA MARIA CHILD, and a Letter by AMY POST. A handsome book of 306 pages, just issued, which is receiving highly commendatory notices from the press. Price, $1.00. Orders for mailing must include sixteen cents in postage stamps.
Address WM. C. NELL,
F8tf 321 Washington street.
A FEW Photographs of WENDELL PHILLIPS, by HORTON, are on sale at the Anti-Slavery Rooms for $1.00 each. They are much admired. F8 tf
TRANSIENT BOARDERS.
THE subscriber has just opened house No. 77 Myrtle street, for the accommodation of transient Boarders, The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes' walk of the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. Rooms furnished with or without board. Terms moderate.
Jan. 11. S. NEWELL.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
FORWARDING THE PAY.
dirty of the women of Ohio, feeling that those who did the work should receive the par, signed and forwarded to the Cleveland Leader, at almoner to the company, the following address, together with a sheet of paper upon Which were fastened thirty pieces of silver. These were covered with a sheet of tissue muslin, which, when raised, disclosed the blood-money, over which was the inscription,

"JUDAS'S REWARD."
" Inasmuch at ye did it not unto one of the least of that, my brethren, ye did it not to me."
To the Editors of the Cleveland Leader, Conductor Cleveland, the Republican officials and party members resident in Cleveland, who, without protect or hearty resistance, gave op to her claimant the clave girl Lacy, and, in fact, aided, abetted, apologized for, and defended the deed as a measure of commendable policy, necessary to propitiate the South, secure Northern rights, and preserve the Union:
The undersigned, freedom-loving women of Ohio, recognizing the fact that the "laborer is worthy of his hire, "do herewith tender you the long-established reward for the highest treachery-Thirty pieces of silver.
Others may give yon pay in gold, Commercial power, and party place;
And with the robes of State enfold
Your deep, indelible disgrace;
Write Patriotism's name upon
The shameless deed that ye have done.
If it such our pay. We send to yon
The fitting price-the just reward;
As Judas did, so have ye too,
For thirty piece, sold your Lord:
For when your fetters bound the limb
Of that slave girl, yon fettered Him!
Take them; and with them take the ban
Laid on your deed, base and inhuman;
Who thus disgrace the name of man,
Deserve the deepest scorn of woman-
A scorn that barns with holy zeal,
Whose scorching breath all caitiffs feel.
You offered to the fleeing slave
A home, a shelter, and defence,
And swore no negro-hunting knave
Should ever dare to drag him thence;
Boasted that you were brave and just,
Yet traitors proved to Freedom's trust.
One came-in woman's weakness came,
To shun the fate word: may not tell,
Fleeing from out a life of shame,
From out the jaws of Slavery's hell:
The bloodhounds followed on her track-
False to your trust, you gave her back!
Ay! gloried in the deed you did,
And begged the South to note it well,
How yon, obedient to her bid,
At Slavery's feet in homage fell;
And claimed that as her will yon do,
Your rights shall be secured to you.
Here, take the price! With the reward
Goes woman's scorn, intense and burning,
That, like the angel's Earning sword,
Will meet your path, wherever turning!
We brand you false to God and men,
And stamp you with the mark of Cain!

ADDRESS TO CONDUCTOR CLELAND.
BY ANN CLARK, OF DEERFIELD, OHIO.
Yes, servile tool, accept the cane
Oppression's minions have awarded!
Thy wily craft was not in vain-
Thy cringing zeal should be rewarded!
Ay! bear it proudly through the State,
And loudly boast to all abettors,
'T was thou that scaled poor Lucy's fate,
And clinched again her galling fetters!
Suspend aloft the childish toy,
To testify that despots claim thee;
Base hireling! sold to their employ,
While Freedom's friends abhor to name thee!
But, though thy worldly pelf increase,
And approbative smiles are beaming,
Yet Lucy's fate shall break thy peace,
And Lucy's shadow haunt thy dreaming!
Bow at the shrine of Slavery's god,
And pay thy homage at his altar,
Then kiss thy haughty master's rod,
And swear allegiance ne'er shall falter!
Pass onward, base, ignoble one-
Obey thy masters to the letter,
And keep the guerdon thou hast won-
(Though sure a whip had suited better!)
Then, when thou seek'st thy pleasant home,
And thy loved children round thee gather,
Remember, that the day may come
When they may blush to call thee father!
Say-can the paltry, gilded thing,
Which to requite thy sin was given,
From a roused conscience drive the sting?
Or aid thy foul in finding heaven?
When thou gav'st Lucy and her child
Back to revolting prostitution,
Was thy bewildered soul beguiled
With hopes to<illegible> due retribution?
Be Dot deceived! Jehovah reigns!
Truth yet shall break all laws abhorrent!
And such as thee, with Slavery's chains,
Be swept away before its torrent.
Though Cleveland lick the dust in shame,
Though Seward pander to oppression,
Though Adams stain his honored name
By weakly yielding to oppression;
The Law of Justice onward rolls-
The Great Supreme presiding o'er it;
And human laws, and cringing souls,
Shall to oblivion sink before it.
TO THE CLEVELAND UNION-SAVERS.
AN APPEAL FROM ONE OF THE FUGITIVE'S OWN RACE.
Men of Cleveland, had a vulture
Clutched a timid dove for prey,
Would ye not, with human pity,
Drive the gory bird away?
Bad you seen a feeble lambkin
Shrinking from a wolf so bold,
Would ye not, to shield the trembler,
In your arms have made its fold?
But when she, a bunted sister,
Stretched her hands that ye might save,
Colder far than Zembla's regions
Was the answer that ye gave.
On your Union's bloody altar
Was your helpless victim laid;
Merer, truth, and justice shuddered,
But your hands would give no aid.
And ye sent her back to torture,
Stripped of freedom, robbed of right,-
Thrust the wretched, captive stranger
Back to Slavery's gloomy night!
Sent her back where men may trample
On her honor and her fame,
And upon her lips so dusky
Press the cup of woe and shame.
There is blood upon your city,-
Dark and dismal is the stain;
And your hands would fail to clease it,
Though you should Lake Erie drain.
There's a curse upon your Union!
Fearful sounds are in the air;
As if thunderbolts were forging
Answers to the bondman's prayer.
To may bind your trembling victims,
Like the heathen priests of old;
And may barter manly honor
For the Union and for gold;-
But <illegible> cannot stay the whirlwind,
When the storm begins to break;
And our God <illegible> rise in judgment
For the poor and <illegible> sake.
And your guilty, <illegible> Union
Shall be shaken to its base,
Till ye learn that simple justice
Is the right of entry race.
FRANCES ELLEN WATKINS HARPER,
<c02>
The Liberator
SPEECH,
Intended to be. spoken at the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, Jan. 25th, 1861.
BY J.B.SWASEY, ESQ. or BOSTON.
I state the folio-wing proposition:-
The States are already separated. It remains for them to conform to the fact.
The Union of these States, in its very nature, implies concord. It was made in concord, and falls asunder in discord.
Originally, slavery was on all hands denounced as wrong. The first steps were taken to remove it. It was barely recognized as an existing, but anomalous, exceptional and regretted fact, soon to cease altogether. On this common agreement of its limited and exceptional nature, it was assented, as temporarily incidental and necessary to its present exigencies, that fugitive slaves might be retaken anywhere, and insurrections might, if actually important enough to require it, demand aid from the nation.
In all this, there was no disagreement upon the main subject. There being no difference of opinion about any great moral question, and there being, in fact, entire harmony upon the only subject obnoxious to the general conscience, respecting which, as was thought, bounds had been placed and processes for its final destruction-Union, in truth, existed-existed all the more perfectly, since all desired, or seemed to desire, the complete establishment of government, strong in the affections of the whole people, and recognizing the equal rights of all (the rights of negroes only being deferred) to freedom of speech, of opinion, of worship, and all the other declared inalienable rights of man.
Now, at this time, one half the country continues to hold to the ideas once common to the whole. The North remains unalterably attached to the doctrines of the "Declaration," and to its original conviction of the wrong of slavery. But one half, also,-the South,-has for some time past ceased to hold to its faith in that grand act of'76; and, so far from remaining in their constitutional-time opinion respecting slavery, they now declare that which they then excused and deplored, and took strong measures to abate, to be ordained and blessed of God, and so, at all hazards, to be maintained, strengthened and perpetuated. The South has radically changed its intellectual and moral judgment on a subject of vast importance, deeply touching the heart, and head, and conscience of every man; and along with this change, indeed necessarily incidental thereto, has also evolved, and set up as fundamental in government, principles wholly at war with those proclaimed in'76, and abhorrent to the people of the North, who in this, as in the matter of slavery, remain unalterably devoted to those early doctrines.
Thus concord-Union-is simply impossible. What remains? To recognize the fact, and act upon it. This is what is now demanded of the wisdom of the country.
But, no! As yet, few sec or will see this. What then? Why, the anarchical system keeps on frightfully and ever more frightfully threatening to burst in horrid wreck asunder-the hating and ever more hating parts keeping together, only to prolong their struggle for the mastery, the one over the other-seeking a peace in the subjugation of the one to the other, and not otherwise-a peace indeed impossible, unless we are to suppose men to be wholly insincere and false.
But, again, no!-"because men at the North do not care enough about slavery to object to the demands of the South, to those demands they will cheerfully yield, if, by so doing, the States can be kept together." No doubt such men are:-if all were such, then the subjugation of half the country to the other half would be complete; and the new revolution some while since begun, and at this moment in act, in the slave States, becomes accomplished. Were this even so, could peace continue to be? Surely not, unless our people are capable of a baseness scarcely paralleled in the history of civilized States.
Is it not too much to look for-this peace, the product of such baseness? Will statesmanship continue "to preserve the Union" by arrangements certain to be disregarded by the awakening conscience of the people? To secure the Union, nothing short of the removal of the grand cause of protest will avail-unless, indeed, the very nature of a brave and free people has become corrupted, and fit only to vile uses.
"But is it not possible to amend the fundamental law?" In the particular required, the section to which it would apply scouts all notion of the need. Amend a godlike and beneficent social system, so ennobling to one half, and so comforting, and cheering, and christianizing to the other! Amend, indeed!-it is at the North where the" mud-sills" need emendation, and raising into light and air!
The sections are divided. Practically, it is of little consequence why, unless, by knowing the cause, it may give a clue to some way to reunion. The most precise investigation into that cause only shows to him who will see, that the separation is a necessary result.
To restore a lasting peace to the continent, and to prevent the disasters of war, which, protracted however long, must end in treaty, those energies now wasted in futile efforts to keep formally together the present hostile States ought at once to be wholly exerted in the separation of the sections, and the adjustment, upon equitable grounds, of the various matters of boundaries, debt, public property and the like, and of future intercourse and neighborhood.
And, in this, if the dream, over-much indulged in, of a country so vast and so populous, fails of realization, that may be easily passed over. No man who feels rightly will be proud of a State for its magnificent extent, nor for its countless millions. China, in both these, may take the palm. That is the true glory of a State which is the true glory of a man-at least, of an enlightened, free State. Men brave, industrious, intelligent, free; incapable, any more in the mass than the individual, of violating the clearest law of right, largely and systematically, upon any consideration.
And to what good purpose procrastinate the entire separation? Procrastination is here, as elsewhere, dangerous. Firm decision, and a calm attitude founded on well-settled conviction, only looking to perfecting measures for the new order of things-these will command respect. Once, the two sections see in each other's eyes the steady look of men who have simply certain transactions of necessary business to do with each other-once, the cold courtesy and cool dispatch of affairs between men whose claims and rights are no longer in angry dispute, succeed the endless criminations of an endless quarrel-the quarrel ceases: nothing remains bat to arrange the necessary limitation and divisions of property, make their several bows and exits. There afterwards, both accountable only to the eternal rules of justice in their intercourse, "enemies in war, in peace," if not friends, at least civil acquaintances, with whom, if we do not care to! associate, at least we can trade, and carry on the usual business of life. For if anybody cares, in such a great matter, to be curious about his ship, or his shoe traffic, or his cotton, or his rice, let him be sure that, in the long run, we shall buy where we can buy cheapest, and where we can get what we want; and they will! do the very some. Cotton, and rice, and tobacco will be sold to them who can buy; and the ship and the carrier that can carry them swiftest and safest, will probably carry. New Orleans is as dependent upon the upper Mississippi States, as these are upon her; aye, much more dependent.
Oh, bills of New England, valleys, fields! Oh, hardy shores, heating hack the ever-recurring seas! Oh, brave men and dear women, children of those who felt noble emotions, and acted upon them!-how beloved!-beloved, because in ye are the witnesses of heroism-in ye, the promise of it Shall we fail here in the vindication of those principles which found,
<c03>
in feebler and poorer times, such steadfast and manly defence? No. The tide may ebb and-flow-there maybe flux and reflux-but the truth trill be maintained. Though all else succumb, let not New England. Large enough for an empire, when MEN are to be counted-too small for a State, if dastards avail!
Constitution-Union-what are they all but creations of man, designed to help him to grow into beauty and godlike power? When he finds, instead, they dwarf and bedevil, what shall he do but discard and renew?
Up, then, if need be, this our country's flag of freedom! Let it be everywhere a symbol of justice and liberty-seeking everywhere good neighborhood and peace-peace springing from the calm support and universal acknowledgment of those immutable laws which alike make the happiness of men and of nations!
"But is it not possible to amend-to bring about some settlement upon a permanent basis?" Let us see.
We, of course, think of an amendment looking to the removal of slavery; and, at this moment, they look to an amendment which shall perpetuate it S Can anything more strongly exhibit the utter impossibility of reaching a lasting peace?
" But, then, a majority of the people are determined to maintain the Union, though every 'nigger' should be tossed into the Gulf Stream." Not unlikely; but what sort of a Union is it which they will have maintained? A Union, smoldering like a huge, half-active volcano, ready, at any moment, to "break up" in more terrific explosions!
" Oh! but these abolitionists shall be put down!" One of the chief of those who make this declaration, a few years ago held to a very different opinion. Then, supporting the freedom of speech and the right of petition, standing in Congress with the venerable Adams, he made long sentences intended to be eloquent," that you might raze the cities of the North to their foundations; you might pass the plowshare over their sites; you might strew their very places with salt, and turn the smiling fields of happy industry into desolation; but the love of liberty you could never extinguish in their hearts. Never! no, no!"-or to that effect. Does the Hon. Caleb Cushing think those Northern hearts will beat differently now? Now, not when" desolation broods over our fair cities," but only when the slave-master threatens that he will certainly part from us, and leave us to the unspeakable wretchedness of the loss of his society! What stupid infidelity! Was that ambitious and restless man honest then? Is he honest now? Did he then have any faith in the professions and manliness of his Northern neighbors-in the children of the Puritans 1 If he did, what right has he to suppose that they have lost the very nature which he extolled? Has his own "change of heart" destroyed his moral sight, and even obliterated his memory? If he forget, the North does not, nor is its great heart a political weathervane.
" But, the Union is in danger, and that is enough to justify any change." False and fatal statement! The Union in danger! Is it to be preserved by violating the principles of freedom for which our fathers, and our fathers' fathers, for several ages, have struggled; destroying the chief object for which the Union was made? Succeed, and we preserve no Union; and yet, at what cost! We only take a master, and all become slaves! Docs Mr. Cushing think that we will pay such a price for his Union? To suffer it is to enter anew upon the old quarrel, and do over again, on the tremendous theatre of the New World, what our ancestors suffered and struggled for upon a narrower stage!
Run the dividing line-arrange the limitations and the division of the common property. Go ye to the South-hold up your heads in the light of this our day, and, in the sight of the world, flaunt your barbaric banner as best ye may! Why should we assist you in maintaining a system which we detest? Stand in the face of Christendom upon your own feet, and exhibit your power in its own lineaments! Let it no longer borrow renown from our fleets, glory from our arts and armies, respect from our civilization, and freedom and prestige from our imperial power! How grand, then, our position! Vast, free, honest; covering all the seas with our commerce, all the earth with the light of our name; cherishing in our" heaven-kissing" Temple of Liberty the oppressed of every land, and of every race!
Run the dividing line. Let peace thus be invoked, before war shall take the start, and after its horrors, make a truce-called peace-resting upon the hot lava of extinguished hate. Will you have peace now, or will you have, after war, only an enforced cessation of fight? Let statesmanship see to this! Unless we are mad, we shall recognize the fact: THE OLD PAETNERSHIP IS DISSOLVED.
The States are divided-and nothing remains but to establish the boundaries, and settle the common accounts.
"But, could we arrange for separate nations, war is sure soon to follow." Suppose so-shall we fight at once, for fear we may fight some other day? Place on record, in Congress, that the separation is a fact. The present government can be recognized for convenience, and its machinery go on as usual, until the two sections shall have adjusted the final treaty: meantime, both sections forbearing all warlike measure. Statesmanship should perceive facts, and mould its action to them. Give that energy to a solution of the present question of the hour-to wit, peaceful separation-which has been wasted on vain attempts to realize the unattainable peaceful Union; and who can doubt that war would be avoided, and a powerful and free republic established? Or, if war must come, let it only come from the folly of those, who, demanding, as of right they may, separation from us on equitable terms, become unreasonable enough, in the final arrangements, to require of us what in conscience we cannot yield." Enough for the day is the evil thereof." In our strength, we can be magnanimous. We have nothing to fear, nor of fear are we to take counsel. Making no objection to the retiring States, impregnable in our position, demanding nothing unjust, granting nothing wrong, vindicating the principles which have given us an honorable name, and one which we mean now and ever to be vindicated, we seek no quarrel, and we look for none.
The slave empire establishes itself-so, also, the empire of the free! God is over all! TRAITORS-PRIESTS-MOBS.
Well may the American patriot weep as he casts his eye over his distracted country; the parting of political ties; the derangement of commerce and finance; the prostration of national pride; to have fallen back into the category of nations which lack self-sustaining power; to have exhausted the vocabulary in vain-boastings of greatness till our audacious heights of wickedness and impudence have made us dizzy with success; to have failed in the experiment of the Union; to have cast a doubt over our boasted capacity of self-government, are all humiliating enough, though they only be attributed to that lack of wisdom which flows from inexperience. But when the representatives of the people, high in power and responsibility, either from the dullness of their moral perceptions, or from the inherent complication of their position and surroundings, know not, perhaps care not, which way to turn to find the path of official duty, melancholy indeed is it; and would to God the blame could rest alone on them, and not travel on to those they represent! "Like representatives, like people."
How sad a spectacle that a President of these United States, and high officers of his Cabinet, should render themselves liable to the charge of complicity with desperate adventurers, who seek to overturn the government, after having solemnly to administer that government in conformity with the Constitution! Both branches of the national legislature infested with traitors claiming the privileges of honored representatives, and usurping rights which the rebellious States they represent have forfeited by their
<c04>
treasonable acts, and then, with unblushing effrontery and dishonesty, claim pay from the United States treasury for their treasonable deeds; voting on matters of business as members of Congress, while they despatch advice to their constituents to rob and plunder the property of the country they so abominably misrepresent! Governors of seceding States doing the work of robbers and pirates, not only without compunction, bat imagining themselves to be heroes; and no visible power in God's world to impose a solitary check! So much for State officials, the embodiment of the wisdom of the people!
What of the Church? With the same identical Bible for authority, clergymen North and South, hailing from the same school of theology, the one by an electric chain of logic draws down the slave system from the skies, the other with a text fishes it up from the "vasty deep." Both representing large masses of Christians, North and South; this" infallible" Bible, so plain that a" a wayfaring man, though a fool," need not mistake its meaning, gathers over its pages gifted and eloquent priests to interpret its contents,-the same blessed God ruling over all,-and, with a similar theological training, they set themselves in opposition; and this sacred authority is made by them to declare that American slavery is at once both an angel from heaven and a fiend from hell! Well may such Scripture literalists hesitate to treat this subject in the pulpit. Thus Church and State, priests and representatives, religionists and citizens, like driftwood in mid-ocean, float hither and thither at the bidding of wind and wave. Under such uncertain moral and religious training, the people set up compromises to-day, and break them to-morrow. We prate of heroic deeds, and then turn cowards. In high-sounding phrase we proclaim to the world our own sufficiency, our honor, our love of freedom, and then meanly trample out the rights of weaker nations. We boast of our love of civil and religious liberty, of free pulpits, free presses, and free speech, and then we strike down the exercise of this freedom by aid of a censorship no less than Austrian in its nature.
Citizens of the United States, sober, honest-hearted, intelligent citizens, assemble to-discuss a great social question; and because, forsooth, in the estimation of a few special business interests, the discussion is unseasonable, a despicable mob collects, and hoots it down. This mob goes unwhipt of justice, because officials, whose duty it is to suppress it, are but the thing of its own creation. Not true and honorable merchants, but cotton, rum and money hucksters, seek to give the tone to morality and religion. Such as these would grasp the purse-strings in the great commercial cities: they would erect monopolies, dam up the currents of legitimate commerce, and divert wealth by artificial means to their own coffers, and call it business. They would own, if they could, the courts and lawyers, churches and jails, and compel these instrumentalities to do their bidding. Of priests, they would make Sabbath-day constables; of lawyers, pettifoggers. Sacred and statute books they would suffer to be opened only in the dim light of their materialized understandings. The discussion of great moral and social questions by the good and gifted must fee suppressed; the follies of the time, all about us, winked at; while far-off nations in the East, with their dim history and tradition, must furnish the staple for the pulpit; and all great principles, which alone regenerate and lift the world, and make us new, must be held subordinate to case-hardened expediency.
Is this the stock from which are to proceed the future citizens of these United States? Are these the men to inspire their age with lofty ideas, or infuse into coming generations the spirit of literature or the genius of art? Are such as these the moulders of the destinies of millions yet unborn-the founders of systems of ethics, or the defenders of American liberty? Shall such as these dictate terms of speech to men who are to them as "Hyperion to a Satyr"?. If so, then roll back the tide of time! Let the dark ages close over us, and suffer humanity to shed its last bitter tears over the grave of departed hopes! Let American Liberty, all beautiful as she is, fold her arms to a sleep that knows no waking, sound her death-knell, and lay her in the silent grave!
But this cannot be. A few days more of sorrow and tribulation, her fair form shall rise in beauty, and wave her wand gracefully, its in times past, over a nation which shall be purified by fire. Liberty-liberty to think, to speak, to print, to grow and develop, to look upward and onward, to raise up the oppressed, and to set the captive free-this is the liberty we need and claim. It must and shall be preserved. If we cannot have these, then let despotism come in its worst form-not in the shape of a disorderly and disorganizing mob, but at least in the decent form of law. If the eye and ear are to be closed, and the lips sealed, let it be done, while the warm life-blood flows from the reeking bayonet, decently and by law. We enter an eternal protest against the power or right of the mob. W.
THE MOB IN BOSTON.
HAVERHILL, Mass., Feb. 26, 1861.
FRIEND GARRISON: I wish to thank you for the " first rate notice" appended to an extract of a letter of mine dated at Cambridge, (in the last Liberator,) and which was originally printed in the Tri-Weekly Publisher here, an independent and lively little sheet which is to be commended for being less travelled than the newspaper press generally in these troublous times. But my chief object in writing this letter is to indicate that when the letter from Cambridge was written, I had not seen the Boston Atlas and Dee, which I think spoke out manfully and nobly in opposition to both of the atrocious mobs in Boston, of which I was an eye-witness in both cases. If ever I felt utterly ashamed and disgusted, it was on both of these occasions, and I could not but feel the force of the remarks of that able and noble minister of the New Testament Rev. James Freeman Clarke, that the man who tram pled upon free speech spit upon the mother who bore him, or words to that effect. I wish to inquire of you my worthy friend, whether it has ever happened before in this country, that peaceable meetings for a high moral purpose, composed chiefly of intelligent and humane men and women, in good part well-known non-resistants-in the latter case, at least-have ever been broken up within the short period of less than two months, and at both times by the connivance ant instigation of the Mayors? I think not It seems to me Boston has earned an infamy in this matter which she cannot very soon erase. The honest people in the country towns,-of which this, as you are aware, is one of the largest,-loathe and abhor the Satanic spirit which is so rife in that city; we cannot but feel that your flunkey" city of notions," for the time being, has this noble old Commonwealth completely at bay! Yes, to borrow the expressive language of that noble and true woman, MARIA WESTON CHAPMAN,"A thousand or two of ill-bred and ignorant traders and manufacturers of slave products, who are rich enough to hire about an equal number of day-laborers no less ignorant and selfish," have put the public sentiment of the Bay State, political, moral and otherwise, at the most complete and rascally defiance. Look at the ignoble and unblushing effrontery of those mendacious and filthy 'characters, Fay, Howe, and last, though not least, Slade, the Senator! Notice their villanous ribaldry, buffoonery, and brazen audacity, before a Committee of the Legislature of Massachusetts, and tell us if it is not high time that these wretched men and their more wretched tools were made to bite the dust Had the Legislature of Massachusetts a spirit akin to that of their fathers, these wretched flunkeys would have been drummed out of the State, and sent where the Boston tea went, long ago. God forgive me if I ever would, at any board, whether Senate or cup-board, sit in conclave with such wretches as Slade and his Beacon street and Brookline nabobs, broken and bankers. I never yet saw a dog bat these apologies of humanity would disgrace in the comparison.,
I hope and pray and trust the Legislature will put Boston upon her good behavior in the future; and if
<c05>
they have not the pluck to do it, let the people of the country towns arise in their might, and see to it that either Mayors nor mobs, whether ill or well dressed, shall succeed in gagging down free speech, no matter from what source it may come, hereafter. Allow me to add, in conclusion, that we have had series of Union meetings in the Town Hall here, on the matter of the hard times, or present stagnation of business, at which the slavery question has been discussed, pro and con. Rev. Mr. Hassall has sustained your position admirably on all these occasions. At one of these meetings, the writer of this read the series of capital resolutions the Executive Committee of the Anti-Slavery Society have printed in a circular form, and moved their adoption by this town; but, I am sorry to say, no one bad gumption enough to second them. On presenting them to the meeting," a few feeble remarks" were made like this: "That they were prepared by the most eminent man in this State-a man, to use the language of our noble Senator Sumner, " of the purest life and perfect integrity," and the mover wished the town might have pluck enough to adopt them. But the presenter of these excellent resolutions did not press the point, because he would have been utterly ashamed to have had his native town reject them, even at a mongrel meeting like the one in question.
Messrs. Wright and Foss had very instructive and peaceable meetings here recently, which were respectably attended, day and evening.
I was at Dover, N. H., last Sunday, and in the evening went to a meeting at the City Hall, which was fully attended, and at which speeches were made by the citizens generally. These meetings, I was told, were held the last Sunday in every month, and had been continued for twenty years. Among others who spoke were Dr. Hill and 'Squire Hamlin, whose remarks were thoroughly anti-slavery and anti-compromising, sensible and emphatic, I assure you. But the speech of the evening was by Rev. Mr. Clark, of the Unitarian Church of Haverhill, Mass., which was exceedingly timely and eloquent. I wish such meetings could be held all over our State; it seems to me now would be the very time to inaugurate them-anti-slavery conference meetings they are, in fact and I call your attention to this one, hoping other <illegible> all over the free Slates may be stirred up in this way. What say you?
Wishing you vigorous health and long life, I sign myself, With much respect,
A NORTHERN LABORER.
OONVENTION FOR THE INDIANS.
In accordance with a general call, the friends of the Indians met in Allston Hall, Boston, on the 26th of February. Father Beeson was chosen Chairman, and Richard Thayer, Secretary.
The Chairman opened the meeting by offering of consideration the following resolutions:-
1st Resolve. There is no law of nature or of necessity by which the Indians perish before the march of civilization.
2d Resolve. That the Indians are capable of attaining the arts of civilized life.
3d Resolve. That the interest and honor of the American people are deeply involved in the civilization and protection of the Indian race.
4th Resolve. That peace commissioners, of well selected persons, should be sent to every tribe in our States and Territories, to ascertain the nature and extent of existing difficulties, with a view to a final settlement in accordance with equity and <illegible>.
5th Resolve. That a committee be appointed to apply to the proper department at Washington for authority and means to carry out the foregoing.
He remarked that it is commonly said that, with the disappearance of the forest and the buffalo, the Indian fades away from the land, and that so common is this idea that it seems stereotyped in the minds of all classes of society. We are told that there is a fixed law of nature, established by God himself, that the Indian shall perish before the march of civilization, and that the strong will overpower the weak, the big fish devour the smaller, and that we see this law in force throughout all nature.
The Chairman admitted that all this is true, as applied to brute law, but not applicable to the true and higher nature of man. The strong brute may brutishly push away his fellow from the comforts provided alike for both; and men in all ages and nations, who are under the animal instead of the true human law, do the same towards their brother man.
But the legitimate effect of a true civilization and religion is to reverse this sentiment and practice, by inspiring sympathy for the sufferer, and causing the strong to bear the burdens of the weak," AND SO FULFILL THE LAW OF CHRIST." Webster defines civilization to consist in being AFFABLE, COURTEOUS, CENTLE and KIND. Now, although it is compatible with these qualities that, so far as use requires, the forests may be cleared away, and the buffaloes may be destroyed, yet it is utterly impossible that the exercise of these qualities should destroy, or even hurt, any human being. Hence, those who speak of Indians "perishing" before" civilization," misapply the term; and for Christians, and especially Christian pastors, to do so, seems to me incomprehensible.
They tell us to look at facts. "Have not the Indians faded away," say they," from the landing of our Pilgrim Fathers to the present time?" Let us look at PRINCIPLES. A Christian civilization, for the promotion of which there are fifty thousand pastors in the United States, besides authors and professors, and organizations almost without number, works no ill to its neighbor; it is gentle, easy to be entreated, thinketh no evil, suffereth long, is kind, and is full of mercy and good works. It is certain, absolutely certain, that the outworking of these principles will clothe the naked, feed the hungry, and ensure homes for the homeless. Nothing less than this is the gospel of glad tidings which Christ intended should be preached to "the poor" throughout all the world; and could it be offered to the Indians in sincerity and good faith, instead of the creeds and curses which they get, there is not one among the race but would receive it gladly.
But the fact that, instead of this, the Indians upon our frontiers ore robbed, and poisoned, and starved, and massacred, and made savage by the savageness of their treatment, is a demonstrative proof that the principles of Christianity are not applied or sustained; and it is obvious to every candid mind that they never can be, so long as those who are high in authority are continually harping about the Indian's destiny to perish before "civilization," and at the same time seem satisfied (for aught they do) with the spread of such a civilization.
The Reports of the Methodist Conference, in Oregon, published in 1856, tell that the Indians in that Territory were still in their nakedness, their pollution and misery, as when the first missionaries get their feet upon those shores. We also learn that, at that very time, the Church had schools and colleges from the extreme North to the extreme South, with sufficient educational facilities to, instruct all the people.
It is to find out the causes of failure and of grievances that this Committee is proposed to go to the seat of government, for means and authority to investigate the entire Indian relations.
The speaker said he had been among many of the tribes, both savage and civilized, and had seen abundant evidence of their capacity for high attainments in the arts of the highest social life; and that it is morally certain that, as soon as a mild and Christian policy is observed towards them, our settlers on the frontier may live in peace, and the millions constantly wasted in Indian wars may in future be saved to the country.
Father Beeson was heard with deep attention, after which the resolutions were ably discussed. Short addresses were made by Rev. Sylvanus Cobb, Dr. P. B. Randolph, and R. Thayer. Each dwelt very properly upon the great injustice which has been done to the original proprietors of the American soil, and demanded for them that partial redress which, only, we are now able to make.
Mr. Cobb thought he could see a reason for the indifference of the people to this subject in the fact that the Indians are a great way off.
Mr. Thayer assigned, as the more obvious cause of
<c06>
it, the feet that we and our father have done <illegible> injustice to the "natives," and it is not pleasant to sinner, to meet for the purpose of listening to those who will be sure to rebuke them for their sins. He showed how easily the largest churches can be filled when it is proposed to do something for the salvation of the heathen, who are much farther off, and whom we do not know, and have never wronged.
Both these gentlemen showed how the American Church and people have lost sight in their treatment of the Indian and the negro, of the genius of the Gospel, which teaches that "the greatest should serve the least," quoting," The Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister," and " He that is greatest among you shall be your servant." Our treatment of the two proscribed races has been a perpetual violation of the spirit of these beautiful and divine teachings." Shall I not visit for these things! saith the Lord."
The 3d resolution was warmly supported by Dr. H. S. Gardner and Horace Seaver, Esq.
A delegation of three gentlemen, with power to fill vacancies, was chosen to visit Washington with an appeal to the General Government in behalf of the Indians remaining in our country.
The meeting then adjourned.
Boston, Feb. 27,1861.

NO SABBATH.
In a "Prize Essay on the Sabbath" written by a journeyman printer in Scotland, occurs the following passage:-
"Yoke-fellows! think how the abstraction of the Sabbath would hopelessly enslave the working classes with whom we are identified! Think of labor thus going on in one monotonous, and continuous, and eternal cycle-limbs for ever on the rack, the fingers for ever playing, the eye balls for ever straining, the brow for ever sweating, the feet for ever plodding, the brain for ever throbbing, the shoulders forever drooping, the loins for ever aching, and the restless mind for ever scheming!"
The above is a specimen of the deceptive insinuations with which Sabbatical literature, particularly that of the Tract Society, abounds. It is assumed as a matter of course, in this statement of the journey man printer, that the periodical remission of labor, so precious to all workers, whether with hand or head, is necessarily connected with the thing that he means by the Sabbath, (namely, a recognizing and using of Sunday as peculiarly holy time,) so that the two must stand or fall together. Yet, not only is the difference, and the separableness, of these two things very plain, but you may immediately compel him to acknowledge it, and forever close this refuge of lies against him, thus:
If you spend your Sunday on a conch, or with an interesting book in the parlor, or reclining, with or without a friend, in the summer's shade in the open air, yon will have got far more rest than our journeyman printer, with his Sabbath school class and his two or three church services. He has been urging upon you the importance of remission from labor, of rest. You acknowledge the justice of the idea, you leave off labor, and devote yourself to rest; and you get this rest even more thoroughly than he does. But he is no better satisfied with you than before. He calls you a Sabbath-breaker, just as much is if you had been working; and by and by it appears that he has been using the plea of rest merely as a pretence to get something else.
The whole argument by which it is represented that the Bible requires Christians to observe Sunday as a Sabbath is a tissue of misrepresentation and deception; and a little discriminating study of the Bible itself upon this point will enable any one to confute and put to shame those who are seeking to fix again the Jewish yoke upon our necks, and to destroy the liberty with which Christ has made us free.-C. K. W.
The Charlestown Advertiser has the following which it very justly characterizes as
A BRUTAL TRANSACTION. On Wednesday evening, the 23d of January, at 10 1/2 o'clock, loud noises were heard in a house on Belmont street, occupied by a colored man, about 30 years of age, named Caesar Boston. The neighbors did not venture to enter, but Watchman S. M. Merrill was found, and, in company with John McCarty and another Irishman, went into the house. There was no light, but they obtained one, and found Boston badly inflamed with delirium tremens, with nothing on but his shirt and drawers. When they attempted to arrest him, he fought desperately, but was finally pinioned, and in that condition taken to the watch-house. A little way from his house his drawers fell about his heels, so that the man actually had nothing on but his shirt. In this condition, Boston was obliged to walk, bare-foot, on the snow and ice all the way from the ton of Bunker Hill to Charleston Square, which is more than a milt, with the mercury standing at 18 degrees abort zero! Those who saw Boston, say that he walked as though treading on coals of fire!
When arrived at the watch-house, Boston was placed in a bare cell, till near morning. His clothes were then sent for, but the house was locked up, and they were not obtained. Before morning, Boston became quiet, and he was then removed to a cell in which were a bunk and bed-clothes. In the morning, it was found that his feet were badly frozen. He was then arraigned before Justice Robinson, and fined five dollars and costs for assaulting Watchman Merrill, (?) and sentenced to the House of Correction for sixty days for assault on John McCarty. (?) Monstrous!
HUMBLE PIE. Jeff. Davis's speech at Montgomery was moderately cool and impudent. It must be a gratifying morsel for the compromisers to chew. The question is, how often are we to be kicked without making some slight return? The Southern Confederacy is not on its knees, it is not eating dirt. Their candidate, Mr. Breckinridge, was unmercifully beaten in the late canvass. The slave aristocracy, however, were not beaten. They have stood up straighter than ever since their defeat. They have lashed the triumphant freemen of the North into cowardly submission. Jeff. says he wants no concessions, no compromises. "We will maintain our rights at ail hazard." If the exponent and defender of slavery says this, what, in the name of heaven, ought the representative of freedom to say? Who is Jeff. Daw, and what does he represent? Davis is the supposed President6 of six States now at war with the General Government-stealing its money, occupying its torts, appropriating its arms, trampling upon its flag, and cursing its name. Six States that are known principally for their crimes, their barbarism, and their love of the most nefarious institution that ever disgraced the earth, or shocked high heaven. States that are pecuniary paupers, too poor to pay their postage, too despotic to tolerate fire speech, too ignorant to establish free schools. States that are losing their representation in Congress, because the laws of material prosperity are against them; States that young Iowa, Minnesota and Kansas surpass in population, in wealth and intelligence.
That is the constituency before whom we must how desert our principles, yield our triumph, and sell our souls.
Do pass a compromise! We tremble at the thought of" Southern powder and Southern steel," (both paid for by us, and chivalrously stolen from us.) and on out bended knees we ask for peace.-Leavenworth (Kansas) Conservative.
THE EXPRESS AND THE POOR OF NEW YORK-The Express of Monday stated in a leading editorial that" workmen from the great establishment of Connell, in Centre street, are now in the Alms House, subsisting on the bounty to the community," to which Messrs. Cornell reply as follows:-
A copy of the Express has just been shown to as containing a statement total at variance with the truth. Allow us to state that we have now one hundred and twenty-four more men than we had in 1852. and if there are any men who have worked for us a present subsisting on the bounty of the city, it is unknown to us. Orders on hand, Feb. 1, 1861, exceed those on hand Feb. 1, 1858, by $80,000.
Yours respectfully,
No. 139 Centre street, Feb. 8, 1861.
SHORT-LIVED HONEYMOON.-A Miss White says the Harrisburg Telegraph, of M' Kean, who was married to a gentleman from Mississippi, a few weeks ago, and accompanied her husband to that State, which she intended making her future residence, returned to Pillsburg on Tuesday afternoon, having been ordered is leave the Southern domain at a certain date, before the expiration of ten hours. It seems that she much a free use of her Northern sentiments. What are done with husband, we do not learn.
MASSACHUSETTS ON PEACE PROPOSITIONS. The members of the House from this State all voted against the Crittenden propositions, as was of course is it expected. On the resolutions of the Committee of Thirty-three, the vote was five to six. Those in <illegible> were Adams, Delano, Rice, Thayer, train; in opposition, Alley, Buffington, Burlngame, Dawes, King and Gooch.
