<Co1>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6. ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars not fifty cents per annum, advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEX DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating
to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are anthorised to receive subscriptions for THIS LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, AND WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor. 
VOL. XXXI. NO. 22. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 31, 1861.
Refuge of Oppression.
TREASONABLE SOUTHERN PIETY.
The Southern Presbyterian is edited by a Presbyterian minister, and is published at Columbia, S. C., the seat of the State College, and of the Presbyterian Theological Seminary. Its editorial columns bristle (May 11) with lying paragraphs like these:
"The phrensy of the North, demoniac in its wrath and its purposes against the South, seems to be unabated, and troops for our subjugation continue to be collected in larger numbers at Washington and central points in the Northern States. The fanatical leaders of the North are impatient at a moment’s delay in the march of their legions into our borders, and their most prominent papers openly threaten Lincoln, if he falter and instant, that he will be deposed from his office, and the reins of power put into more faithful hands. To this length has the disorganization of the Northern mind already gone. Law and order, reason and commonsense, have fled from the presence of the reign of terror which seems about to overthrow every vestige of free and constitutional government.
The most brutal and blood-thirsty spirit towards the South prevails at the North. The purpose is openly avowed to plunder, devastate and destroy our country. Placards are put up in New York, calling for volunteers for the invasion of the South, with the heading ‘Booty and Beauty.’
The battle-cry through the North is, ‘Overrun the South; raise a servile insurrection; proclaim freedom to the salves; arm them against the whites; and wipe the accursed slaveocracy from the face of the earth!’"
A correspondent of the same paper says:-
"Hordes of Northern Goths and Vandals, savage as the barbarians of old, inspired not with a mere lust of rapine, but with vindictive hate and fury, threaten to invade our land, to desecrate the temples of religion, to lay waste our peaceful homes, to murder and destroy our people, to summon our slaves to insurrection, and to make our country a desolation. And among those who encourage and applaud these ruthless designs of the infuriated North are our own ecclesiastical brethren, the venerable, pious, calm, moderate patriarchs of the Old School Presbyterian Church! Surely madness is in their hearts. Surely this is the time foretold when it is said, ‘Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea, for the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time!’
The South desired peace, sought it, asked for it, sent repeated commissioners to obtain it, offered patiently, and even importunately, an amicable adjustment, proposed compromises, called a ‘Peace Congress’-but met only with persistent refusal of all and every one of these propositions. All the South has insisted on has been the right peaceably to govern itself. But nothing would satisfy the North but our implicit submission to be governed by it on its own terms and in its own way. And now they unanimously proclaim their purpose to compel us at the point of the sword to yield that submission; to make our land a desert, and our homes a desolation, if we will not. They will slaughter us at the cannon’s mouth, or hang us on the gallows; they will burn us, and drown us, and sweep us from the face of the earth. But they will not allow us to be ‘free and independent.’
But, God help us, and we will! We desire not war. We have done everything possible to be done to avert it, expect submit. And, if it must come, we can only meet it as it has often been met before by a brave and a Christian people. The threats of the North do not terrify us, fearful as they are. Their ferocious clamor for vengeance only nerves the Southern heart for resistance to the last extremity, and will convert every Southern man into a martyr."

RAVINGS OF A VIRGINIA EDITOR.
The Richmond (Va.) Examiner indulges in this highly amusing view of the North and its soldiers:
"The North has no officers to command or drill the cowardly, motley crowd of starving foreigners and operatives that it proposes to send South to fill ditches and as food for cannon, because it has no room in its penitentiaries and poor-houses to receive or sustain them. The regular troops of the Union, since the resignation of the Southerners, is deficient in officers; and who are to drill and command the 75,000 sheep?
If we except Benedict Arnold, there never was a Northern man who was fitted to command, if you would give him a chance to run! Like cowardly boys, when pent up on ship-board, without a chance of escape, they gather courage from despair, and fight desperately. But with ninety-nine Northern men in a hundred, on all occasions, duty, honor, patriotism, has ever been considered a mere matter of profit and loss. Since the days of Washington, they have ever deemed that course of conduct by which most money is made and least risk incurred, the most virtuous and honorable.
They will not come to Washington, they cannot be handcuffed and driven to Washington, if we only precede them, and let them see that they will have to fight for glory, and not for spoils and plunder. They never did fight, and never will fight, except for pay for pillage and plunder. Once satisfy them that no money is to be made, no plunder to be gotten by invading the South, and no power on earth can lash and kick them south of Mason and Dixon’s line." 
A WELCOME WITH BLOODY HANDS.
A correspondent of the Charleston Courier, writing 
from Richmond, anticipates an attack upon that, "the gem of the State, the Koh-i-noor upon which Lincoln and that twin-hearted brother of his, the recreant Scott, are feasting their gaze as the richest prize of the South." "Possibly," he says, the "glorious Seventh," that orchestra of military virtues, will lead the vanguard-"glorious" in their clean faces, languishing side whiskers, good clothes, white kids and patent leather boots; and possibly they may be received, but not as before. It will be a "welcome with bloody hands to hospitable graves." Zouaves, rowdies, New York thieves and cut-throats, mingled with a hodge-podge of Jerseymen, Rhode Islanders. Massachusetts men, wooden nutmeg Yankees and Down Easters may also come-a solid, gaping phalanx; but they will be met by a wall of Southern hearts, who will turn them in their tracks, or annihilate them from their soil. There is a great difference between fighting for wages or for an abstract idea, and fighting for mothers, wives and sisters. "Beauty and booty" may be a tempting motto with which to invade your neighbor’s fireside, but it is one which wipes out all the landmarks of civilized warfare, and will secure for its follower the fate of the brute." 
<c02>
"WEEPING WARRIORS."
Under this caption, the New Orleans Bulletin indulges in the following effusion:-
"If we can credit the Northern journals, there must be in Old Abe’s officers very little of that sterner stuff soldiers are supposed to possess. Whenever or wherever they make their appearance, it is, like Niobe, all in tears. They weep when they surrender; weep when reinforced at some invested post; weep when ordered into service, and weep even when the recipients of a great popular ovation. By the Rood, these Northern Paladins are o’er given to the melting mood. From the Lieutenant-General down to Lieut. Jones, who, in one night, ran all the way from Harper’s Ferry to Carlisle Barracks, Pa., there rains such a flood of tears,
‘That, were the world on fire, 
They might have drowned the wrath of Heaven,
And quenched the mighty ruin.’ 
But the latest and most affecting of all these exhibitions, is the following, from the Providence Journal:—‘We learn that when the Massachusetts troops arrived at Fort Monroe, the commander of the fort was moved to tears. He exclaimed, seizing the hand of their Colonel. ‘In Heaven’s name, where did you get such noble-looking fellows as these?’ He shook every man by the hand.’
Well! if the greasy operatives of Lowell and Lawrence, and the smutty shoemakers of Lynn, be ‘noble-looking fellows,’ then language has lost its meaning. Probably the weeping commander, being a kind-hearted man, used the language attributed to him. in the sense that Wordsworth somewhere says, ‘The meanest things can call up thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears..’"

GATHER THE HARVEST.
Let patriotic citizens, then, go forth upon the trackless war paths of the ocean to fight for their country in the most effective manner. Hundreds and hundreds of millions of the property of the enemy invite them to spoil him-to "spoil these Egyptians" of the North, who would coerce us to staying when we strove peaceably to make our exodus to independence of their oppressive thrall; to go forth from degrading fellowship with them. The richly-laden ships of the enemy swarm on every sea, and are absolutely unprotected. The harvest is ripe; let it be gathered, and we will strike the enemy to the heart-for we hit his pocket, his most sensitive part. His treasure ships, laden with California wealth, traverse Southern waters. Let them be the prize of the bravest and most enterprising.
His commerce is the very life of the enemy’s solvency and financial vitality. Strike it, and you lay the axe to the root of his power-you rend away the sinews of war. Let the flags of privateers show themselves on the seas, and the blockade will be raised. Lincoln’s fleet will scatter over the world to protect the commerce of his citizens. But they cannot protect it, though they try. They are, numerous enough for the blockade, but not to guard the ocean. The risk of the privateer will still be trifling, and he will continue to reap the harvest, laughing at the few scarecrows which would fright him from his profitable employment.
It is easy to put privateers afloat. There are an abundance of brave men among us ready to volunteer to fight anywhere. There are many among us ready to give money to the cause of their country, not looking for return. In this privateering, the most enormous returns are promised, with but trifling risk. Let the men of means fit out privateers, if they would best serve their country and advance their own interests. Let companies be formed to embark capital in privateering. If they can’t get the craft here, they can get them somewhere. It is a pursuit of honor, patriotism, profit. Let us scour the seas, and sweep their commerce from it with the besom of destruction-Montgomery Advertiser.
PROCLAMATION OF GOV. PICKENS.
On the 26th of April, the Governor of South Carolina issued his Proclamation "to the volunteer regiments of the State," which concludes with the following flourish:-
Soldiers of South Carolina! hold yourselves in readiness to march at the word to the tomb of Washington, and swear that no Northern Goths and Vandals shall ever desecrate its sacred precincts, and that you will make of it an American Mecca, to which the votaries of freedom and independence, from the South, shall make their pilgrimage through all time to come. Let the sons of South Carolina answer to the call from the sons of Col. Howard, who led the Maryland line in triumph over the bloody battle-field of Cowpens. Let them know that we will return that blood with full interest, and let them feel that they are now, as they were then, our brothers. March to Virginia, and lay your heads upon the bosom of this mother of States, and hear her great heart beat with new impulses for a renewed and glorious independence. 
Surely the good and the virtuous of the Northern States cannot sanction the lawless and brutal despotism now inaugurated at Washington.
Be ready! Stand by your arms-mark time to the tap of independence, and at the word, march forward and onward to the Borders. Our glorious old sister, North Carolina, is with you, and her freemen are in arms. Join them in the struggle for defence; and let tyrants know that there are men who can make them hear the ring and feel the weight of Southern steel. I shall endeavor not to expose our own State, and shall only march you beyond our borders under pressing emergency; but wherever the Confederate flag floats, there too is our country, now and forever.
F. F. PICKENS.
WHAT THE WAR IS, SOUTH.
That our readers may see a little of the spirit of the South, we publish an extract from the Richmond Dispatch, and we could fill our paper every 
day with similar extracts from the Southern press:
"It is not a war of punctilio between sovereigns; nor of conflicting interests beween rival nations—admitting of adjustment and compromise. It is a war of fanaticism and subjugation on the part of a the North; of scorn and contemptuous hatred on the part of the South.
These angry passions are uncontrollable, transporting and irrepressible. The South would sacrifice everything it holds dear, before it would succumb to the authority of the despised North; and of the North will forget all schemes of gain, and throw its ledgers into the fire, to indulge its fanatical hatred of slavery, to ‘crush out’ the slaveholder. * *
We cannot build conclusions in regard to the duration of this war upon considerations of interests. The foes we have to fight are madmen. The madness which we combat is the same madness which has for thirty years been abusing and villifying the best customers of the people it possessed, which has spread discord and hatred throughout
<c03>
the land, which has diabolically cut the bonds of Union, pulled down the pillars of the fairest government that ever blessed mankind.
It has done all this, not in the wanton spirit of vicious destructiveness, but in the spirit of a sort of perverted piety, in the zeal of God-service, and the furore of a blind and sublimated fanaticism. Is it to be supposed that the same reckless spirit will stop to Calculate the cost and consequences of a war to which it has been educating its devotees for thirty years?
The probabilities are very unfavorable to a speedy termination of hostilities. The safest policy for the South is to prepare for a long-continued war. Her preparations ought to be on a thorough and permanent scale."
SOUTHERN HUMANITY AND REFINEMENT.
The following is one specimen only of a class of letters which are almost daily received by Governor Andrew from "chivalrous" gentlemen (?) in the Southern States:-
"UNION SPRINGS, Alabama, Confederate States, May 6, 1861.
GOV. Andrew: Sir,—We see in a New York paper that you have requested the authorities of Baltimore to send the bodies of the soldiers of your regiment that were killed at Baltimore, back to Boston packed in ice, at the expense of the Commonwealth. We also sec that you anticipate sending 200,000 men to coerce the South, to march from Washington city to Pensacola. Now, as it is very probable that some of these soldiers will be killed, we propose to take a contract for sending back their dead bodies, so as to be much cheaper to your people, and give general satisfaction to their kindred, the following is our proposition:-
For the first thousand, $50.00 per head.
For Ten thousand $37.50, per head.
For Thirty thousand, $25.00 per head.
For One hundred $15.00 per head.
We pledge ourselves to have them packed as quick as possible after they are shot, so that the corpse will retain as much of his native bloom as possible.
In all instances, commissioned officers will be charged double the above rates.
Should your Excellency be pleased to give us the contract, we will thank you to notify us immediately, or as soon as the Northern army crosses Mason & Dixon’s
line; for it will be necessary for whoever takes the contract to begin at that point, as Lee, and Beauregard, and Ben. McCullock, and Jefferson Davis will be there to receive them, and will be very apt to kill a few-and we would regard it a great calamity for the Northern soldier to spoil; besides, we Southerners, in our hot climate, dislike offensive smells. After due reflection, and some little Christian consideration, we will be pleased to hear from you.
Very respectfully,
TONEY & WAUGH."

DEPRAVED SPIRIT OF THE SOUTH.
The Memphis Avalanche says:—"It is painful to see the Chair at Washington disgraced by such a degraded, drunken wretch as Abe Lincoln. Our reverence for the Father of his Country makes us anxious to see the city, bearing his honored name, rid of such a caricature of a President."
The same print persistently accuses "Old Abe" as honest an old teetotaller as ever lived-of habitual drunkenness, and says the President became addicted to the vice in this way:-"The cares of place affected his nervous system so much that he could not sleep. His physician administered to him large quantities of opium and brandy each evening until stupidity would ensue, and then he would fall into profound slumber. In the morning, his prostration would become so great that liquor would be resorted to; and thus, by a frequent repetition of this treatment, he has become so demoralized by the use of liquors as to be perfectly imbecile, and thoroughly indifferent to what is passing around him."
The Tallahassee Sentinel has just learned how Mr. Lincoln lives. It says:—"Lincoln keeps five men in his room to guard him by night, and Mrs. Lincoln two to guard her! Old Abe, in order to keep his spirits and courage up, ‘pours the spirits down,’ and is half drunk all the time. For fear of being poisoned, Mrs. Lincoln has turned cook, and prepares all the food they eat. Some ministers of the Gospel recently called to see him to entreat him to desist from his mad policy of coercion, when the indignant Abe cursed them away, swearing that the Southerners should wade knee-deep in blood, before entering Washington city."
The Savannah Republican, a Bell and Everett organ in the last campaign, and always regarded as one of the most conservative journals of the South, says:-If one-half the Northern people feel and think as we infer from their papers-and they represent vast majority in every State-we would as soon confederate with the cannibals of the South Sea or the Thugs of India, as with them. They have forced us to the separation, and now, we say, let it be forever-and even beyond that time, should God in his providence permit. We want nothing to do with such a people, either, in Time or Eternity."
The Nashville Patriot learns that the two Kentucky regiments which have enlisted for the Union are composed of a "set of wharf rats, scoundrels, jail birds and loafers, with a few German Turners and vagabonds."
THE POISONING POLICY. A letter from Pensacola to a Mobile paper gives an account of an interview between a U. S. officer on board of the Powhatan, and a Capt. Thompson, whose craft has been overhauled, wherein the officer expressed a desire to purchase fresh butter, eggs, vegetables, &c. The writer adds:—"Here’s a chance now to play old Greeley’s game-strychnine the last rascal of an officer; rat soup the marines, and drench the sailors with chain-lightning whiskey. Anything, anything to get rid of these hateful ships and their crews."
The Richmond Whig, once a respectable paper, thus alludes to the gallant Col. Anderson:—"Col. Anderson, who seems disposed to make the most he can of having been smoked out of Fort Sumter, was at last dates lionizing in the Den of Thieves, known as the Board of Brokers of New York."
Let Lincoln send his forces here!
We’ll lick’em like blue blazes; 
And send them yelping back to where
They sung their nigger praises. We whaled the hungry cusses out
At Charleston like the Dickens; 
And not content with Sumter-ous fare,
They shan’t e’en have the Pickens-!
-New Orleans Delta.
<c04>
Selections.
THE PRESENT CRISIS IN AMERICA.
[From the Caledonian (Edinburgh) Mercury of May 10.]
Last night, a meeting was held in Nicolson Street U. P. Church, for the purpose of hearing an address by the Rev. Dr. Cheever on the present crisis in America. There was a large attendance, all parts of the church being quite full. The Rev. Dr. Guthrie presided; and amongst those present on the platform were the Rev. Dr. Johnston, Rev. Mr. Gemmell, Rev. Mr. Gillespie, Rev. Mr. Cochrane, Rev. Jonathan Watson, Rev. Mr. Swan, Dr. Lawrie, Councillor Pearson, and Messrs. William Leckie, John Boyd, Thomas Knox, John Wigham, James Middlemass, David Hay, H. D. Dickie, William Duncan, Edward Huie, William Lillie, William Gillan, John Weir. 
The Rev. JONATHAN WATSON having engaged in prayer,
Dr. GUTHRIE, who was received with loud cheers, after thanking the meeting for the honor they had conferred upon him, said:-
Since we had last the pleasure of meeting Dr. Cheever, things, as you are aware, have come to a crisis in America. Were Macaulay alive-Lord Macaulay-he would not now have to speak of the unpunished wickedness of’ slavery. I took the liberty some two years ago, when unfairly attacked by friends in America, under misrepresentations sent from this country, to warn them in a letter which I wrote and compelled them to publish, that, unless they washed their hands of this iniquity, the time, in God’s providence, could not’ be far distant when a righteous judgment would come down upon their land. This judgment has come in a war which, unless God interfere to stop it, will fill one of the bloodiest pages in history. I am old enough to remember of the French war, and to remember of the news of the battle of Waterloo. I remember how our cities were illuminated for the victory obtained there; and the first year I was at College in Edinburgh, I saw the 42d-a small and broken band-come in, bearing 
the wounds they got there; and a great ovation they had in this city. Since then, Great Britain unfortunately has been engaged in wars. I am not here to defend them or approve of them. We bombarded Algiers; we also destroyed the Turkish fleet, we fought battles in India, in Burmah, in the Crimea, and in China; but no man living ever saw a war, and I do not know that history has on record a war, that will prove so dreadful and disastrous as this war, the cannon of which we now hear booming across the Atlantic. There have been wars in that country before. We had a struggle with the Americans, but a very different struggle from what this will prove to be. This is a struggle, not between different nations-aliens in blood, in faith, in source, in interests-not a struggle between two different races, like that when, in the days of old, the red Indian flourished his tomahawk, and with his war-whoop, burst into the smoking ruins of villages, murdering and massacreing the children. These were encounters with hereditary enemies; but here, in America, we have a house divided against itself- brothers in mortal combat over the graves of their common parent. The world has never seen such a horrid strife; and if the dead walked this earth, I could fancy the spirits of the Red Indian saying that the hour of their revenge had come, when the sons of those men that had exterminated them were now exterminating each other; and I could fancy the negro, if he dared not express it, chuckling in his own heart at the sight America now presents-when the man that hunted him and the man who assisted in the hunt are in the death-grapple, have each other by the throat, burying their swords in each other’s bosoms; and if he knows our proverb, I can fancy him saying to himself-When rogues fall out, honest men will get their own." (Cheers.) May it be so. 
Nevertheless, my dear friends, this is a most frightful calamity. There is not a Christian in this house, who has not lifted his voice in prayer to God to stop this bloodshed, and clear away this dreadful crime of slavery. I will relate one incident as an illustration of what will be the result of the present state of matters there. There is an Episcopal clergyman in New York, or one of the other large towns, who has four sons. Two of them are in the South in the ranks of the Southerners, and the other two-his Joseph and his Benjamin-armed to the teeth, are gone to fight the Southerners; and perchance these brothers meet foot to foot, and sword to sword, in the shocking battle. What can be said of that father? What is he to pray? For which side is he to ask victory? Whichever side may gain, that father loses. A civil war is, of all calamities that can befall a country, the most dreadful; and what aggravates matters in regard to this wretched case is the terrible spirit of vengeance which men are carrying into it. How does the haughty pride of both parties glare out in the answer I read this morning, given by Seward, Lincoln’s Secretary, to the Governor, I think, of Maryland, who, deprecating this ‘dreadful bloodshed, and anxious to have a peaceful settlement, proposed to the President of the United States that the matter should be referred to our Ambassador Lord Lyons; and that he should be asked to mediate between the contending parties. This was a most Christian-like proposal; but what is the answer it received? It is resented, with a fling at monarchy, forsooth! The president’s Secretary writes back, wondering that any man should propose that this matter should be referred to the arbitrament of a foreign country, and especially the arbitrament of a European monarchy. A monarchy! (Laughter.) And what is this monarchy, to which the Governor of Maryland proposes to refer the matter? It is not the monarchy of Russia, not the monarchy of Napoleon, not the monarchy of King Bomba, or of King Bomba’s son. (Laughter.) It is the monarchy of their own mother—(loud cheers)-and, surely, it is the mother’s part to step in between her sons when, knife in hand, they are ruthlessly aiming at each other’s breast. (Cheers.) A European monarchy, forsooth! (Laughter.) I am very much mistaken if many in the United States, at this moment, would not be glad to be under a European monarchy-(laughter and cheers)-and if they would not be thankful for the motherly protection of our good Queen Victoria. (Loud cheers.) I am much mistaken if they would not like to be living under a monarchy where there is a Sovereign, but no slave-(cheers) where every honest man can sell his work to the highest bidder, and work where he likes, and strike where he likes, if he has a mind to—(laughter and cheers)-where we have markets for the sale of cattle, but not of men and women—(cheers)—and where(cheers)-and where no man ever saw, and by God's messing no man ever shall see, a human being put up at an auction-block, and knocked down to the highest bidder. (cheers) Monarchy, forsooth! I must say to Dr. Cheever, that the pride of his people seems to be inextinguishable–(laughter)-sneering at monarchy when their own Republic. Like an old house, is tumbling about their own ears-the dry rot in its timbers being slavery. (cheers.).
<c05>
Now, my dear friends, what is to be the issue of this state of affairs? What is to be the end of this contest and struggle, I cannot fancy. Abuse the South as men may, I say that, in some respects, the North is guiltier than the South. (Hear.) They had the truth—(hear, hear)-they were free, and they should have sympathised, therefore, more with the cause of freedom. They were not brought up with slavery; and, for myself, I sometimes think there is six of the one, and half a dozen of the other. (Cheers.) I do not say our own country is free from blame. I should not be surprised if we suffered part of that shower of judgments. Our merchants and manufacturers were long guilty in neglecting, in our own colonies, to rase cotton, and thereby cut the foundations out below slavery. But just look at New York! It is a notorious fact that the merchants of New York, in the reverence they have for the "dollar," have been the mainstays of slavery. It is New York dollars that have built every slave ship-it is by New York merchants that these slave ships are owned, that, at this moment, are carrying on that infamous traffic. Let us remember that, in judging between North and South. Look at the pulpits of the North! Look at their preachers and ministers! They have employed their pens, and prostituted their pulpits, in defending this atrocious system. They have gone to the pulpit-one minister did it in New York in 1850-and, instead of lifting up his hand before God in heaven, and denouncing the Fugitive Slave Law, hounded on his people to give effect to it. One of them, in the same place, declared his belief that God converted Onesimus for the very purpose of proving that Christianity was compatible with slavery. (Hear, hear.) In regard to slavery, he says, "It was instituted by Divine authority at the creation of man." That’s news. (Cheers.) I wonder where he got that. (Laughter.) Why, it is certainly not in our Bible. They must have another edition of the Bible. The fact is, I will undertake to prove, before that man can prove that it be true, that Adam and Eve were both black. (Laughter and cheers.) Well, that is not all. He says in regard to slavery, that it was instituted by Divine authority at the creation of man- that the negroes are not the children of Adam- ("Oh, oh,")-that their state is that of an inferior race, which God had made subject to the Adamic race, and are so to continue throughout all generations; and that God subsequently cursed all produce of the mixture of the seed of the two races to the same subjection as the sable race. Now, I don’t say that has been said by all ministers, but things as bad have been said by ministers, and I charge these men with having rivetted the fetters of the slave. That is not the worst; but with the same hands they have loosed the bonds that bound men to the Gospel, and have made infidels and sceptics by thousands and tens of thousands. ("Hear, hear," and applause.) I hold in my hand a paper, which I got this morning, which will give you an idea of how faithless the clergy are; and I think it is far better that I should deal with the clergy than that any other body should deal with them. (Cheers.) In Scotland, they say it is a good thing to take the first word of "fiyting." Now, I am going to speak against the clergy, that no other body may do it. (Laughter.) The Congregationalist, a religious paper, states that "of the sermons preached by the 1300 orthodox Congregationalists ministers of the six New England States during the last ten years, in all probability not more than one-tenth of per cent."-what a small number that is, I leave the bankers here to calculate—"have made any allusion whatever to the subject of slavery." There is the faithlessness of the pulpit; but the worst of the matter is this, that, so far as I can judge, their very public prints and private correspondence are hardened and hardening in iniquity. I see by a paper to-day, for instance, that since Lincoln was made President-since the storm-cloud gathered, and since it began to burst and roar-the slave-hunters are more active than ever in Chicago-a free town in a free State-(hear, hear)-and that the slave-hounds are scouring the town at this moment, and three hundred colored people have fled that city in order that they may not be carried back to chains and slavery, and have found protection within the territories of a European monarchy. (Cheers.) I remember the case of a mother, with four children, flying from the slave-hunter in a town in another free State, and she hid four or five hours beneath a rotting dung-heap, out of which she crawled to cross to Canada, to find protection under a European monarchy. (Laughter and cheers.) But a European monarchy. (Laughter and cheers.) But nothing I have read in the newspapers is so bad as what I heard yesterday from a private and unquestionable source.
My dear friends, I have no pleasure in speaking thus against our kinsmen in America-I had hoped better things of that country. We heard that there was a revival—(hear)-or what seemed to be a revival, poured out on that land—(hear)-and that merchants left their desks, and workmen their shops, to spend hours in prayer during mid-day in New York; and never did the prophet’s servant climb Mount Carmel more anxious to see the cloud than I watched and prayed for a sign of repentance in that country. I wanted to see the evidence of a revival in the fast of God. I heard God calling from heaven—"Is not this the fast that I have chosen, that ye undo the heavy burdens, and let the oppressed go free?" I listened for the response. It did not come in the shout of four millions of liberated men-it did not come in the shape of earnest men going to the pulpit, and confessing their sins of the past, and saying, "We have been verily guilty concerning our brother; we saw his anguish of soul, and when he besought us, we would not hear; therefore this has come upon us." No, there was no response. The crack of the whip and the groan of the negro went up to heaven as before, and drowned all the prayers that these men had offered. (Hear, hear.)
Well, then, they did not improve the time of revival; and if men do not improve the time of revival, God will next try them with judgment; and there has come a judgment upon them in a civil war-a plague worse than the ten plagues of Egypt. In Egypt, the first-born fell by the hand of God; yonder, Abel falls by a brother’s stroke. The judgment is on them, and what is the result? I am sorry to say that I am reminded of Egypt, how Pharaoh hardened his heart, and would not let the people go. Here are the terms of a letter I beard of yesterday, written by a man that I believe to be a Christian: "New York," he says, "is all in a ferment. Troops are marching by hundreds southwards; business is at a dead-stand; 1200 volunteers have passed my counting-room away to the South. The ladies have formed committees to provide beds, and bandages, and linen for the wounded. Lincoln is now popular-we opposed him before; but we will stand by him now." Then comes the shocking passage:—"But remember," he says, "that, notwithstanding all this, and our support of Lincoln, our opinions in regard to slavery are not changed. We will go and lick the South, and keep the negroes in their slavery." Now, there is the state of matters. There is no hope for the poor negro in this struggle, so far as the intentions of many of these men are concerned. They talk of liberty, and would cement their Union not
<c06>
only with the with the tears of the negro, but with the blood of their brethren; but what are they going to do for the oppressed man? Nothing. The power of God will overrule events, so that, in the course of time, the chains of the slave will be broken.
But the state of feeling on the part of many of these Northern men is the darkest phase in the whole of this question. I know not what to think of it. I cannot see what is to be the issue of this struggle. I believe that, in the end, God will overrule it for good; but I hope that, when fathers in America are washing the blood from the dead bodies of their sons, they will come to abhor the cause of all this turmoil and ruin in that country, and, like the man now lying in Dundee jail under sentence of death, who said, bending his head in misery, and covering his face with his hands—"Oh, curse that drink!"-that when America stands over the bleeding bodies of her own sons, fallen in this fratricidal war, I hope she too will cover her face with her hands, and say—"Curse that slavery!" and that fathers, mothers, sisters, and brothers, ministers of State, and ministers of the Gospel, will rise up as one man to say-"Undo the heavy burden, and let the oppressed go free." (Loud applause,)
Dr. GUTHRIE then said-I have now the pleasure of introducing our highly esteemed friend-our beloved, our noble friend-of whom I will say that had there been a thousand Dr. Cheevers in America, things would never have come to this pass—(cheers)-if from the pulpit men had beard the truth as boldly and fearlessly preached as he has done, slavery, if not dead, would have been dying before now. Dr. Cheever will now address you, it may be for the last time; but I hope we will see him again when slavery is done and dead, and we will be happy to be invited to the funeral.(Laughter and cheers.)
[On taking the platform, Dr. Cheever was enthusiastically 
received by the audience, and proceeded to make a very energetic and telling speech, which elicited frequent bursts of applause. On account of its length, we cannot find room for it this week.]-Ed. Lib.
Mr. W. Duncan said it was impossible to listen to the touching and most impressive address of Dr. Cheever, without feeling that the idea of recognition by the Government of this country of the Southern States, simply because these States had chosen to erect themselves into a nation, was not for one moment to be thought of (Hear, hear.) He took it for granted that all who had heard the exposition which had now been submitted to them, were prepared to go along with him in saying that no recognition of the States by the Government of this country should take place which was in opposition to the policy that has for a coarse of years governed this nation in respect to slavery. (Applause.) He concluded by moving the following resolutions:
"1. That the avowed object of the secession of the Southern States from the Union being to uphold and perpetuate slavery in its most unmitigated form, places these States in a position unexampled in the history of nations.
2. That, in the opinion of this meeting, no recognition of the Southern States, by the Government of this country, which may be in opposition to the policy that has heretofore governed the councils of this nation, in relation to slavery and the slave trade, ought to take place; and that no considerations of commercial advantage should induce the Government to reverse that policy.
3. That it is the earnest hope and expectation of this meeting that the separation of the Southern States from the Northern will be overruled for the speedy overthrow and complete extinction of slavery; and that a memorial founded on these resolutions be prepared, signed by the Chairman, in the name of the meeting, and presented to Government."
Mr. Thomas Knox, in seconding the resolutions, said he felt very strongly on this idea that England should be expected to take any interest in the Southern Confederacy, or to recognize this infernal system now proposed to be perpetuated through the Southern States. (Cheers.) It was an extraordinary thing that, at this time of day, any such Confederacy should attempt to live by perpetuating those horrors which Dr. Cheever had enumerated-sleuth-hounds, auction-blocks, torture, and all the other monstrosities which could not be named in an assembly like this. No sooner did a man attempt to be the missionary of the great doctrine of human brotherhood, than all they had for him was a gallows to strangle out of him the very dawnings of true liberty. (Cheers.) Seeing that this was the kind of Confederacy that sought association with, England, he hoped that the spirit of these resolutions would be emphatically carried out, and that the nation would follow the advice of Lord John Russell, who was reported to have said, "We are out of it, and for God’s sake let us keep out of it." (Loud applause.) 
The resolutions were unanimously adopted.
Mr. H. D. Dickie then announced the result of the subscriptions. He had received, as treasurer, from the Ladies’-Society, of which Miss Wigham is secretary, (cheers.) the sum of £165, collected by the ladies belonging to that Society; from the Ladies’ Society, of which Miss Leishman is secretary, £73 18s. (applause); and from church collections and private subscriptions, £21212s. (Applause.) The total sum, therefore, amounted to £481, 1s. 1d., but they were anxious to increase this sum to the amount they originally contemplated—namely, £500. 
On the motion of Mr. Leckie, a vote of thanks was then given to Dr. Cheerer, for his address, and to Dr. Guthrie for presiding.
Dr. Guthrie said that when he saw that the contributions did not amount to £500, he told Miss Wigham that he would undertake to raise the difference himself. ("Hear, hear," and applause.) He therefore begged to announce to his excellent and generous friends, the public, that he would be delighted to receive £1 from this person and another from that, (laughter,) till the whole sum was made up. (Applause.)
Dr. Johnston then pronounced the benediction; and the meeting separated. 
ALL TO BE BUTCHERED. The leading papers of the Lincoln party at the North, declare that the people of the South shall be butchered like dogs, and their property divided out among the soldiers who fight for Lincoln. They threaten our wives and our little ones with the most inhuman butchery, and talk of setting fire to our dwellings and wiping us from the very face of the earth!
If the war goes on, the Southern people will not always remain on the defensive; and we tell them a solemn truth, that New York and Boston are as likely to be sacked before it closes, as Charleston or Savannah.-Southern (Geo.) Federal Union.
The time for taking the old seat of Government without a desperate battle has evidently gone by; yet its doom is sealed. The fixed and unalterable determination to capture Washington, is the prevailing sentiment of our people, and satisfaction gleams from the eyes of every soldier whose destination is Washington.-Montgomery paper.
The United States Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the mort absolute of monarchies, or the moat aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such an odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of less than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy la to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is so name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it-no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a merifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession-"-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
PROFITS OF SLAVERY IS THE UNITED STATES. 
To the Editor of the Jamaica Guardian:
SIR,-It has been the habit of the Cotton and Sugar States of America to allude continually to the very large amount of exports of cotton to Old England and other parts of Europe. These exports are truly enormous, and, if taken without the expenses at home, would soon prove that the States were growing rich rapidly. They need a little investigation, which seems to settle an apparent contradiction, and put-things in a true light.
EXPENSES JUSTLY CHARGEABLE TO THE INSTITUION. If fifty dollars be a fair estimate for feeding and clothing each slave. 200 millions are thus demanded. If the value of each slave be averaged at 500 dollars, the total would be 2000 millions for the entire American slaves. At 7 per cent, interest, this would amount to 140 millions per annum. "The institution" is then to be charged with the support of eight millions of white people, who find it disgraceful to work by the side of slaves, and we have one more item, which, on the low estimate of 100 dollars for each white person's expense per annum, of 800 millions, making in this simple estimate eleven hundred and forty millions of dollars annual expense for the institution to pay. Then is to be charged to this divine institution the effect and living curse of degrading the present eight millions, and the unnumbered millions who have in all nations fallen under its curse. Like the apple of Sodom, it deludes and deceives its supporters by seeming to show rich rewards and great profits. When some of the more enterprising have great returns from their crops, the height of their ambition is, as I have often been told by close observers, ï¿½to sell a little more cotton, to buy a little more land, and work a few more slaves." What is the result of this? Evidently to delude; for, as at present, by the secession panic, land and slaves are so reduced as to be scarcely property at all. An institution, so liable to disaster at any time, destroys the fond hopes of years, and a violation of God's laws brings its sure punishment.
All praise to old England for its generous sacrifice of twenty millions sterling! Let no one despair. Cuba uses up the lives of 50,000 annually, by keeping the island stocked with forced labor. An avenging God will demand the blood of these at the hands of the transgressors. I have been told, by men in Havana, that the average life of slaves was less than eight years. The question, why the Southern States are always so much indebted to the merchants of New York city, is thus answered by the fact, that slave labor is not able to compete with free. I have been told by men of slave States, that they were more slaves themselves than their laborers, and would gladly escape where they could accumulate SAFE property, as do the men of the free States.
Let the men of Jamaica be of good heart. Soon the line of mail steamers will bring many of our free black men to enjoy the noble rights of her own people. Thirty thousand of the Canada fugitives should find a way to this pleasant island. I am sure they would set a noble example of persevering industry. The rich products of Jamaica will reward them, and they will infuse new life into this Colony. Thus a new effort to grow cotton will soon prove a death-blow to the arrogance of Carolina, and, with the noble effort of the men of Africa and India, will do more to end the cause of slavery in America than all the wisdom of modern philosophers. God speed the right!
Yours truly,
AMERICAN TRAVELLER.
January 16, 1861.

LETTER FROM A CHAPLAIN.
The Rev. Mr. Havens of the M. E. Church, who has accompanied one of the Massachusetts Regiments as Chaplain, in a recent letter published in Zion's Herald, gives some interesting incidents that have come under his observation since he has reached the South, and others that have been narrated to him. In speaking of Annapolis, he says:-
ï¿½It was my first acquaintance with a slaveholding city, and of persons held in slavery. The place looked as if cursed by the crime it hugged to its breast. With admirable opportunities for growth, with a harbor and shores that would be filled with enterprise and taste, were it not for this curse, the Capital of this freest of the slave States is as shabby and mean and crowded as the dirtiest quarters of the North End. I had quite a long conversation with some of ï¿½the white trash.' They had evidently experienced a new sensation. They have learned well the lesson of submission to slaveocrats; and as one who was with me, a Unionist from Kentucky, boasted of the number of slaves that he owned, they seemed to revere him as a superior being. But Gen. Butler had given them a new idol to fear and to worship; and they responded as meekly to my Massachusetts brag as they did to that of the Kentucky slaveholder. They listened almost reverently as I spoke of those terrible bugbears, Wendell Phillips and Lloyd Garrison, and would have probably endorsed my 'pet heresy' of John Brown's heroism and right dealing, had I ventilated it. Don't imagine that there was any especial courage in me. I had on a sub-military rig, and they knew that five to seven thousand men were less than a mile off, eager to avenge so much as the mere nose-pulling of a Northern soldier. They had learned that there was a North, and that she had strength enough to do as she pleased, even under the eaves of the Maryland Capitol. As I marched out with the New York 12th Regiment, a very fine body of troops, I could but notice the effect on the inhabitants. The whites looked mad or scared, according to their social position, chiefly scared, and the blacks looked glad out of the eyes, though their lips were discreetly sealed. As we left the city, they began to be more free in the expression of their feelings. About two miles out, a colored family on a lonely plantation waved their handkerchiefs and cheered vociferously. The soldiers, in response, cheered lustily for the Union, and even kissed their hands to them in their enthusiasm.
One old colored woman was in the Senate Chamber, a day or two ago, selling cakes and pies. One of the officers of the famous Sixth Regiment asked her what she thought of these times. 'Why,' she said, ï¿½you seem to us just like our Lord Jesus. He came down of his own accord to suffer and die to save us, and you have also come to suffer and to die to deliver us.' I don't think the piety of the old sister was very much shocked by the analogy: I doubt if yours will be. Tears stood in the eyes of the officer, as he told me her remark. He thought of those who had already died for this cause in Baltimore."

PUTTING DOWN SLAVE INSURRECTIONS.
Soon after Gen. Butler and the Massachusetts troops arrived at Annapolis, Maryland, there was a report of a slave insurrection. Gen. Butler immediately offered to send his troops to put it down, which made many of the people of the old Bay State very indignant. Maryland was in a state of incipient rebellion, Massachusetts soldiers had been murdered in the streets of Baltimore but a day or two before, as they were hastening to Washington to save the Capital. Massachusetts had sent her citizens, not to put down slave insurrections among a rebellious people, but to put down rebellion against the Government.
Governor Andrew immediately wrote a kind and gentlemanly letter of inquiry to Gen. Butler. The General replied, and attempted to justify his course; the document characterized by the special pleadings of an able and ingenious lawyer. But this was not all; for, without waiting to learn whether Governor Andrew would answer his letter, he sent them both in hot haste to the Boston Journal, which he had no right to do, as it was a private correspondence.
Gen. Butler, in his letter, expatiates at some length on the horrors of a servile insurrection. But it must be remembered that Maryland has five or six whites to one colored, and is, therefore, abundantly able to put down all servile insurrections within her borders, and does not require interference from abroad. We doubt whether Gen. Butler will add to his laurels in showing such alacrity in offering to put down an insurrection which was wholly imaginary.
We always did dislike cheap manifestations of courage and cheap patriotism.
The horrors of insurrections? Undoubtedly they are fearful. The innocent suffer with the guilty. Women find no protection. But it should be remembered that these horrors cannot continue long, while the subject race suffer them always. What protection have colored women at the South? None at all What protection does the law give them? None at all. Even in the Church, where they are members, they cannot testify against the whites.
<c02>
But, while we Christian men and women, humane men and women, shrink with horror at the thought of white women and children being placed in such a condition, even for a brief period-even though the end shall be crowned with a mighty good-yet the blacks may be placed thus always, and we little care, because, like the old woman's eels, they have got used to it. But it is none the less a heinous sin because suffered long, and must yet be atoned for. Jefferson said: God has no attribute which will take sides with the slaveholder in such a contest.
This one-sided business, with wrong on both sides, will not always continue, we hope. It may be worth the while to give a brief glance at the policy of the South and our own. At the South, our people have been mobbed repeatedly, and no Northern man, who is worth killing, is safe a moment after his identity is discovered. Letters of marque and reprisal are granted to every cut-throat who applies,-American or Foreign,-and twenty dollars are offered for every man killed engaged on our merchant vessels, and twenty-five for every one taken alive. When the Star of the West was captured by the rebels, there were three colored men on board, in the employ of the United States, and they were sold at auction into slavery. The blacks are being armed to fight against the North, and if unwilling, are to be compelled. Southerners refuse to pay debts due to Northerners, even to those who have always been their fast friends, and Governors have forbidden such payments, ordering the sums to be paid into the treasury of the rebel States.
Now look at the policy of the North. Southerners arc perfectly safe among us, if they don't play the spy; debts are paid honorably, and the rights of property are respected. All this is well, and we have no desire to witness a change; all we wish is to have wrongs righted. It was wrong in General Butler to offer to put down an insurrection, especially in Maryland at that time; and then he knew it would be a most distasteful work to his troops.
While the South is arming the blacks, the North refuses to allow a colored man to enter the service. Slaves have repeatedly fled from their rebel masters to our troops, and, in every case, sent back. We saw an account in the New York World of slaves fleeing from Virginia they marched sixty weary miles, thinking they were to find friends. A New York Regiment sent them back, or the officers. The soldiers, Democrats and Republicans, were indignant that they were compelled to do the infamous work of catching slaves for rebels. Returning fugitive slaves is always a fearful sin, but many think the Constitution requires it; but, in the case cited, there is no excuse for it whatever.
We are satisfied that our policy must change, or we shall look in vain for the smiles of Heaven. Let the rebel States be their own blood-hounds, and not thus debase our own brave soldiers. For Heaven's sake, let them retain their self-respect. If there is an insurrection, it is an affair of the rebels, and not ours; and as they have invited it, they may entertain it as best they can. If we can interfere to protect the innocent, by all means let it be done, but refrain from striking down those who strike for their own freedom, and at the same time strike home to the rebels. In this way, the South will learn to respect the North, and in this way we may conquer a peace.
General Butler will make an efficient officer, we doubt not, but as he has played into the hands of the South all his life, he should cease now. Every wrong will work to his injury.
He has written a second letter to Governor Andrew, attempting to justify himself for his violation of the confidences of private military correspondence. The Boston Transcript, a very conservative sheet, calls it a very unfortunate attempt at justification. The truth is, that he was guilty of a breach of military decorum, and there is no justification for it-The Vermonter

WE DON'T LIKE IT.
We don't in any way like Gen. Butler's super serviceable zeal in offering Massachusetts troops as slave-catchers for the Maryland slaveholders. We think those gallant men were sent there for a very different purpose. Let slavery take care of itself. We think Gen. Butler has overacted his part, and that his reply to Gov. Andrew is as strange a document as could have been written. Think of volunteering to make Massachusetts men mere slave-catchers, after the stones of Baltimore had drank Massachusetts blood! Boston bayonets proffered to keep Maryland slaves in chains! We had innocently supposed that it was a war to put down traitors, but its machinery is here invoked to put down those who could materially aid us, if we did but keep our hands off. If black men are loyal, why not protect them as effectually as white men? Is the old sin of persecution to be made part of the military code?-for if so, the country will cry out against it as a monstrous sham. I tell you that we don't like the looks of this thing. It was not a military blunder of Gen. Butler, because he has justified his action in his letter to the Governor, telling him that if he wanted a different course adopted hereafter, he must find another person to do it: and on the heels of this he has been promoted to be Major-General. At Pensacola, Slemmer did even more, putting fugitives in irons who fled to him for protection, and returning them to their masters to be scourged to death. Col. Dimmick, at Fort Monroe, told the rebel Virginians that he had not an Abolitionist in his command, and that no molestation of their slave system would be suffered. We don't like these things at all. Yet while this worse than velvet-footed handling of slavery is going on, it is notorious that slaves are working by hundreds at making fortresses, digging ditches, mounting cannon, and even subscribing money to aid rebellion. They piled up the sand-bags and raised the batteries which drove Anderson out of Sumter. At Montgomery they are being drilled and armed; but if one of them leaves this forced employment, and seeks protection under the Stars and Stripes, he is put in irons and sent back to his master. Let this course be continued, and the blacks will curse the national flag as heartily as do the rebels. The words of the poet will be literally true-
ï¿½The white man's liberty, in types,
Stands blazoned by your stars;
But what's the meaning of your stripes?
They mean your negro's sears.ï¿½
The honest truth is, we are getting to be Abolitionists, and want to see this national leprosy wiped out. It has ruined all of us; now let us prevent that ruin from being repeated. This is all mock tenderness about the sanctity of slave property. What description of ours do these rebels respect? Have they not stolen all they could? It is our duty to assail them in every way-capture ships and cargoes, confiscate property, quarter troops upon them, batter down cities, if need be, and if their slaves choose to walk off, the American army will disgrace humanity if it refuses to protect them. Emancipate ourselves from the reign of barbarism, but compel them to remain under it! I can assure you that if this is to be the mission of the fifty-five Pennsylvania regiments, they have been grossly deceived by somebody.-Philadelphia correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune.

SLAVERY IS AT THE BOTTOM OF IT.
This war is not a war with slavery, per se, but slavery is manifestly at the bottom of it-the moving cause, without which the United States might have continued in undisturbed peace and prosperity for ages. This is too well understood to need proof. And that there is no argument worthy the name that can be made, from either a political or moral stand-point, in defence of a rebellion to extend the worst of despotism, all men at the North, and with Northern principles in their hearts, will readily admit. But such, most certainly, is this Southern war-a rebellion to extend despotism-despotism over white men's minds as well as over black men's bodies and minds. Surely, none but slaveholders could, in this 19th century, be guilty of such perfidy and iniquity.
We are confident, then, that as slavery has dragged the nation into this war, if not entirely destroyed, it will at least have its back broken before we get through with it; broken so badly that it will never be able to stand on its feet, under the protection of the Government. Our motto should henceforth be, "LIBERTY and Union, one and inseparable, now and forever"; and the stars and stripes should henceforth float protectively only over free soil, free men, and free institutions. Slavery and Barbarism are twin sisters, as are also Freedom and Civilization; and now that we are plunged so deeply into the war, the North should never come out of it till its citizens can proudly say:-Slaves cannot breathe on our soil, and the moment they touch it their chains fall, and they stand up disenthralled and free.-Cortland Republican Banner.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MAY 31, 1861.
DR. GUTHRIE ON AMERICAN SLAVERY.
Among the most popular and most eloquent platform speakers and pulpit occupants, on the other side of the Atlantic, is the Rev. Dr. Guthrie, of Edinburgh, Scotland. All his efforts are marked by "great plainness of speech," great power of statement, and thorough earnestness of purpose. He is versatile, humorous, racy, and ever a dealer in ponderous blows. We know not enough of his character or career to form a settled opinion of his moral courage or independence of action. On the subject of American slavery, he is, perhaps, the most outspoken of all the clergy of England or Scotland; but this is no certain evidence of heroism, inasmuch as his denunciations find an echo in the prevailing sentiment of Great Britain. He reveals the stuff that he is made of better when he boldly and sternly deals with the American church and clergy for their fearful complicity with this odious iniquity; for his theological affinities with them, on a general evangelical basis, certainly offer temptations (but in vain) to induce him to moderate the tone of his rebuke, and to weaken the strength of his impeachment. The manner in which he has welcomed and sustained Rev. Dr. Cheever-so hearty, so timely, and so energetic-is also satisfactory evidence that his love of justice and right is very strong. 
On our first page, we give his last reported speech in reference to slavery in this country, made at a public meeting held in Edinburgh on the 9th inst., for the purpose of hearing an address by the Rev. Dr. Cheever on "The Present Crisis in America." It is in his usual direct and vigorous strain, and we wish it could be read in every part of the land; but we have no expectation of seeing it copied into any religious journal, even in theological agreement with him. It is too thorough in its arraignment of the church, too faithful in its censure of the clergy, too scathing in its rebuke of both North and South, to secure its publication through any such medium. Nevertheless, we thank him for his testimonies, and will do what we can to make them known to the public.
We have a criticism, however, to offer. Like many others abroad, and even at our own doors, Dr. Guthrie does not seem to understand the precise relation of the present struggle of the American Government with the Slave Power to the cause of universal freedom. His tone is lugubrious, rather than hopeful; he regards the conflict as "six of the one, and half a dozen of the other"; if any thing, he leans a little to the South! His language is:-
ï¿½What is to be the end of this contest and struggle, I cannot fancy. Abuse the South as men may, I say that, in some respects, the North is guiltier than the South. They had the truth-they were free-and they should have sympathized, therefore, more with the cause of freedom."
Now, thirty years of faithful and untiring reproof of the North, for its religious, political and governmental affiliation with the South in the matter of negro slavery, sufficiently demonstrate that we can have no wish or desire to screen it from just condemnation. Still, we feel bound to say, there is wanting a clear discrimination between the parties, as delineated in this extract. That the North "should have sympathized more with the cause of freedom" than it has done, is undeniable; yet it is equally true, that it has so far sympathized with it, at last, as to make the old Union,-pro-slavery as it was in some of its features,-intolerable to the Southern secessionists; hence their treasonable revolt; hence the war, which, on the one side, rallies (if not in martial array, at least instinctively, sympathetically and peacefully) every lover of civil and religious liberty; and on the other, all that is despotic, depraved, and inimical to the true democratic theory of government. For what but the growth of the Anti-Slavery movement, gradually strengthening the moral and humane sentiments of the North, and controlling more and more the religious and political action of the people, has compelled those traitorous dissemblers at the South to throw aside their masks, raise the standard of rebellion, institute an oligarchic confederacy independently of the popular vote within its own limits, and seek the overthrow of free institutions universally? Is not this a cheering sign of progress? Does it not show that the North is rising, while the South is sinking, in the scale of civilization? Granted that, even at this hour, neither the Cabinet at Washington, nor the people of the Free States generally, contemplate any thing more, in the prosecution of the war, than the restoration of things to the exact meaning and shape of the Constitution of the United States, as from the beginning; still, it is none the less certain that such a restoration is next to impossible, in the nature of events, and, therefore, the entire overthrow of slavery, as the ultimate consequence of the war, is even more than probable. Granted that, since the formation of the Southern Confederacy, fugitive slaves have been compelled to flee from Illinois to Canada-Gen. Butler has volunteered to aid Gov. Hicks in suppressing a slave revolt in Maryland-and Northern pro-slavery men are saying, "We will go and lick the South, and keep the negroes in their slaveryï¿½-still, all these events and pledges, and many others of a similar character, are as flax in the flame, compared to the one great colossal fact, full of hope and cheer, that the breach between the North and the South admits of no healing, except by the extinction of every vestige of Northern liberty, or the emancipation of the Southern slave population. It will not be very difficult for the government to decree that emancipation, on its own terms, whenever it choose to assume that sublime responsibility, under the war power; and events are rapidly shaping themselves to make such an act as necessary as it will be glorious. But as for the South overturning the free institutions of the North, or obtaining its former despotic mastery over the nation, the idea is utterly preposterous.
Our transatlantic friends can see, at their distance, only the surface of things: here, we are daily cognizant of numerous incidents, in the wide range of society,-especially in that portion of it which has hitherto been most hostile to the Anti-Slavery agitation,-all going to prove that the war is effecting a radical change in Northern feeling and sentiment respecting the longer continuance of that dreadful system which has brought this heavy judgment upon the land. When, as between the two sections of the republic, all religious ties are sundered-all political clanship and cooperation ended-all amicable feelings turned into wrathful emotions-who is so blind as not to see that this unparalleled state of things, distressing as it is in many of its aspects, is, nevertheless, indicative of the growing supremacy of freedom on the one hand, and of the waning power of slavery on the other? In all directions, the most conservative men are heard freely uttering the severest denunciations of the Southern secessionists as the most unscrupulous of thieves and bandits; and this estimation of them is deepening in intensity as spoliations are made upon Northern property, piratically captured on the high seas, or knavishly confiscated on Southern soil. There is nothing so promotive of clearness of vision and correct judgment as to be subjected to wrongs and insults in oar our own persons. So long as those traitors confined their outrages and atrocities to their helpless, friendless slaves, it was all well enough, and not at all derogatory to their character as gentlemen, patriots and Christians. They might deprive their victims of every human right, work them under the lash without wages, buy and sell them "in lots to suit purchasers," and subject them to every species of brutal violence as passion or cupidity prompted; and still not forfeit their claim to be honest, upright, high-minded men! Nay, for Abolitionists to brand them as robbers of God's poor and needy, and the basest of oppressors, was to deal in abusive language, and to manifest a most unchristian spirit! For were they
<c04>
not exemplary and beloved Episcopalian, Presbyterian, Baptist, and Methodist brethren, whose piety was unquestionable, whose zeal for the Lord was worthy of all praise, whose revivals of religion were preeminently owned and blessed of Heaven? Were they not the very pinks of Democracy, and the most courtly and chivalrous of gentlemen? But as soon as they began to seize forts, arsenals, custom-houses and mints belonging to the general government, to lay their piratical hands upon Northern property, to repudiate their entire Northern indebtedness, and to trample upon the "stars and stripesï¿½-then, indeed, another view of their character is taken, and they are suddenly transformed from the most estimable Christian brethren and the staunchest Democratic allies into the meanest of scoundrels and the vilest of robbers!
Truly, "Wisdom is justified of her children." It will yet be seen and acknowledged throughout the North, in view of the shocking developments of the slaveholding spirit in this terrible conflict, that the Abolitionists have correctly delineated the nature of slavery-its disregard of all the rules of morality, all the claims of a common humanity, all the principles of justice-its wolfish greed, its savage ferocity, its fiendish malignity-its utter contempt and murderous hatred of whoever or whatever interferes with the extension of its domains, or attempts to limit its power-its embodiment of the blackest perfidy, the most revolting licentiousness, the most unscrupulous villany, and the most barbarous cruelty; and as there is no sin without a sinner, no oppression without an oppressor, so the Abolitionists have exaggerated nothing, but have used language guardedly, justly, and with all possible truthfulness in their exposition of the Southern character, spirit and purposes, whether in relation to their miserable victims, or to free institutions and the cause of freedom generally. Our Northern soldiers will find that they are not in conflict with men who are governed by the laws of civilized warfare, or by any rules of honor, but with thoroughly demonized spirits, capable of perpetrating deeds of horror, such as have never been surpassed in the annals of savage barbarity. Particularly have the Massachusetts volunteers reason to apprehend no mercy at their hands, should they be so unfortunate as to be captured by them; for their fury towards Massachusetts "burns to the lowest hell."
"Abuse the South as men may," says Dr. Guthrie. To whom does he apply this language? The charge is a singular one from such lips.
Dr. Guthrie is shocked at the tone of a letter written by a New York resident, to this effect:-ï¿½We will go and lick the South, and keep the negroes in their slavery.ï¿½ Well he may be; but when he adds, in reference to the author of that brutal and nefarious declaration, "I believe him to be a Christian," he evinces a most licentious charity of judgment, and greatly impairs the force of his testimony against the iniquity of slaveholding. If such a man is a Christian, what upright man would not be an "infidel"?
Dr. Guthrie is severe upon Secretary Seward for his reply to Janus-faced Governor Hicks, of Maryland, "who, deprecating this dreadful bloodshed, and anxious to have a peaceful settlement," proposed that Lord Lyons should mediate between the contending parties! Of course, as a sensible man, understanding the utter absurdity of such a proposition, Mr. Seward refused to entertain it. Dr. Guthrie says he [Mr. S.] "resented it with a fling at monarchyï¿½-and to offset this, the Doctor proceeds to glorify the British government, and to make his "fling" as follows:-Monarchy, forsooth! I must say to Dr. Cheever, that the pride of his people seems to be inextinguishable-sneering at monachy, when their own Republic, like an old house, is tumbling about their own ears!" It is a smart retort: but how does it disprove the superiority of republican institutions over the forms of monarchical government? England did not abolish West India slavery because she is monarchical; America does not perpetuate the same system because she is democratic. Slavery is in violation of every principle of democracy, and its enormous growth and expansion here only prove how recreant are the people to their own theory of liberty and equal rights. We have very little doubt that the hope so kindly expressed by Dr. Guthrie will be realized, ï¿½that, who fathers in America are washing the blood from the dead bodies of their sons, they will come to regard THE CAUSE of all this turmoil and ruin-that America will cover her face with her hands, and say, 'Curse that slavery!'-and that fathers, mothers, sisters, and brothers, ministers of State, and ministers of the Gospel, will rise up as one man to say-'Undo the heavy burden, and let the oppressed go free.'ï¿½ So may it be!

COLORED PATRIOTISM.
The following Resolutions were adopted at a recent meeting of the colored citizens of Boston:-
Whereas, the traitors of the South have assailed the United States Government, with the intention of overthrowing it for the purpose of perpetuating slavery; and,
Whereas, in such a contest between the North and South-believing, as we do, that it is a contest between liberty and despotism-it is as important for each class of citizens to declare, as it is for the rulers of the Government to know, their sentiments and position; therefore,
Resolved, That our feelings urge us to say to our countrymen that we are ready to stand by and defend the Government as the equals of its white defenders-to do so with "our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor," for the sake of freedom and as good citizens; and we ask you to modify your laws, that we may enlist-that full scope may be given to the patriotic feelings burning in the colored man's breast-and we pledge ourselves to raise an army in the country of fifty thousand colored men.
Resolved, That more than half of the army which we could raise, being natives of the South, knowing its geography, and being acquainted with the character of the enemy, would be of incalculable service to the Government.
Resolved, That the colored women would go as nurses, seamstresses, and warriors, if need be, to crush rebellion and uphold the Government.
Resolved, That the colored people, almost without an exception, "have their souls in arms, and all eager for the fray," and are ready to go at a moment's warning, if they are allowed to go as soldiers.
Resolved, That we do immediately organize ourselves into drilling companies, to the end of becoming better skilled in the use of fire-arms; so that when we shall be called upon by the country, we shall be better prepared to make a ready and fitting response.
The patriotism of our colored fellow-citizens is certainly remarkable, in view of their military proscription by the State and nation. They state the case too broadly when they style the present war a "contest between liberty and despotism," as they will be satisfied on reading the following extract from a proclamation of Major-General McClellan, of Ohio, "To the Union Men of Western Virginia," on entering that portion of the State with his troops:-
ï¿½The General Government cannot close its ears to the demands you have made for assistance. I have ordered troops to cross the river. They come as your friends and brothers-as enemies only to the armed rebels who are preying upon you. Your homes, your families, your property are safe under our protection. All your rights shall be religiously respected. Notwithstanding all that has been said by the traitors to induce you to believe our advent among you will be signaled by an interference with your slaves, understand one thing clearly: not only will we abstain from all such interference, but we will, on the contrary, WITH AN IRON HAND, crash any attempt at insurrection on their part.ï¿½
Well, thank God, the prophecy still remains sure-the "covenant with death shall be annulled, and the agreement with hell shall not stand," let the Government do what it may to perpetuate them, and Northern soldiers try as they may to prop up the slave system with their bayonets.
<c05>
THEODORE TILTON AT MUSIC HALL.
[The following brief abstract of the speech of Mr. TILTON, at Music Hall, on Sunday, May 19, was reported at the time by a young lady, who has kindly sent it to us for publication. In the course of the present war, we shall be called upon, as a matter of record, and also of free discussion, to publish many speeches, documents and articles, more or less pregnant with the Bunker Hill spirit; but we still believe in the superiority of the process of Calvary in overcoming every form of iniquity.]
MY FRIENDS,-If ever a speech needed an apology, it is when a young man, in good health and able-bodied, comes two hundred miles towards the North to speak, while his comrades are going two hundred miles toward the South to act; but I speak honest words to you, to-day, when I say, that, notwithstanding the pressure of many important duties which keep me behind while others go before, there has not been a day in the last four weeks when I would not hare given all I possess for the privilege of holding a regulation musket, and occupying a place in the ranks.
It was my privilege, the other day, to take the key, and unlock the door of an artist's studio to see one of the most beautiful landscapes of our American art. You know our Gifford, of New York, who went with the Seventh. Was there any nobler work which those cunning hands could do than to seize the colors of forest, hill and sky, and imprint on canvas a scene which Nature might mistake for her own? Yes; to break the crust of bread with a Massachusetts soldier!
I come to you, to-day, with no sermon and no text. You know quaint old Andrew Fuller's rule for a popular discourage:-First, What is it? Second, Why is it? Third, What then? Now, What is it? It is war! Why is it? It is slavery! What then? Exterminate it!
We are passing through the sublimest revolution in history; yet many men, even though glowing with the enthusiasm of the hour, fail to see its true meaning. Some do not see it; others, seeing it, scarcely confess it even to themselves; while others, seeing it fully, dare not speak of it aloud in the streets, lest some indiscreet speech may disunite the common friends of the common cause.
This war means-what? You say it is to defend the flag. It is to defend that flag from dishonor, in such a way that it shall never receive such dishonor again. This nation has undertaken the war, not merely to avenge an insult in such a way that it shall be insulted and struck again; not merely for the collection of its revenues in the Southern ports; not for any mere nice adjustment of the balance of power between two sections, whose equilibrium, poised today, may be unpoised to-morrow. This is all you may find in the printed text, but it is not all that is stirring in the hearts of the people. This nation has undertaken the war for the sake, first, of conquering and then of maintaining an honest, honorable and permanent peace; not a compromise or fictitious settlement, in which the elements of war may break out again, but a peace which will secure to us a lasting prosperity. Not a peace made by mutual concessions of two parties, while the victim lies groaning under the feet of both; but only such peace as can come through the extermination of all the great causes of war. In the simplest statement of the case, the nation has undertaken the war for the absolute extermination of the Slave Power. This is the meaning of this enthusiasm.
I do not base this conviction on the general theory, that truth and justice, being mighty, must finally triumph. It will come before that long, slow process. The people have found a reason at last-not a noble one, perhaps, but satisfactory to themselves-why the institution that has vexed the land for a hundred years shall vex it no longer. The Slave Power, beginning by injuring the slave, ends by threatening the nation; and the nation, not for the slave's sake, but for its own, has risen to put down the common enemy of both. For forty years, we have thrown the whole dead weight of government on the negro-have buried him under the corner-stone of the Republic; but he has upheaved the government, and to-day he moves two Presidents, two Cabinets, and two armies, and to-morrow means to hoist the ï¿½stars and stripes" to the top of the beautiful palmetto trees in Carolina!
We are in the war; it will be prosecuted to the end, and the end will be victory; otherwise, we are slaves ourselves. When the flag fell from the wall of Sumter, the nation's honor fell with it; and wherever in all the land a free people have run up the flag again, they have meant to raise their fallen honor. I believe it is the determination of the people that, wherever the flag has been pulled down with derision, it shall be hoisted up with cheers. Victory must, of course, come out of this war. The Slave Power will be broken, and we shall have the type of Massachusetts civilization all over the land. The Slave Power will find itself a routed and dismayed party, and a new party, springing up in the South, will seek its way to power by trampling on the remnants of that power. All this I read in the horoscope of the war. It seems to me we have made an end of all compromise. I think when General Benjamin Butler says that, we ought to believe it.
The slaves can say to us now, as never before, "My enemy is yoursï¿½-and I think there are in the Massachusetts regiments, men, born of noble fathers and mothers, with the blood of freedom in their veins, who, if Gen. Butler should command them to march to put down a slave insurrection, would step to the van, throw down their muskets, and say, " Fire your guns at me! I will never fire mine at them!ï¿½
I do not believe it is possible to have any dissolution of the Union. You may break the Constitution in pieces, but that does not break the Union. The Constitution is but the girdle which we bind around the body of the Union. I have seen a spider weave his web from one tree to another, till he held two great monarchs of the forest together; but if you broke the thread, would they fly apart? It is said that, when a Sabine girl was to become a bride, her hair was parted with a spear in token of her heroic blood. To-day, the line of division has been traced with bayonets; but every bayonet is pointing with its spear to the coming marriage-day. The plain duty of the hour is to lift up your spear, and march to the war; to put down rebellion with a strong hand, so that it shall be kept down; to make victory so sure that there shall be no possibility of defeat.
Let no man be afraid to speak his thought Let principles have fair play. Let there be no more mobs in your streets. Peace shall come out of the storm and commotion of this day. Out of the angry foam and froth of the sea sprang the goddess Venus, erect and beautiful; and when her feet trod the soil, instantly the whole land blossomed into flowers. So, out of the anger, and storm, and contentions of this time, will spring up the Goddess of Liberty, and all the land shall burst and blossom into flowers.

NON-RESISTANCE AND THE WAR.
WORCESTER, May 16, 1861.
DEAR GARRISON:
The times are so pregnant with thought and events, that it seems as if we lived a generation in a day. We may write an article on present affairs, and before it can be published, we are carried onward so fast that it seems more like dating back to a past age than relating to the living present We may utter a prediction, and before the sound has died away upon our lips, we are startled by its more than fulfillment. Just now, the slavery question seems to be taken out of our hands, and absorbed by another power; but there is another topic that will not be taken from us during the present generation, and that is Non-Resistance. This is the last time I should choose, of all others, to discuss this question, but for the general blindness that seems to pervade all classes, construing the admission, on our part, that this war is inevitable, as a disproval of the practical nature of this theory. Of course, no one could fail to perceive that if Non-Resistance had prevailed at the formation of this government, that infernal system which is the legitimate
<c06>
fruit of the war spirit, and could be upheld only by its influence on the part of the North, would never have found an existence to precipitate this crisis upon us.
But having admitted it, and legislated sin into a law, I know of no law, human or divine, that could avert its terrible consequences. It may be permitted, for a while, to ï¿½steal the livery of the court of heaven to serve the devil in,ï¿½ but it is pretty sure to be called up before the devil's work is half done, as is it the case now, when the nation has made concession after concession to buy peace, and is now put to the terrible scourge of war to learn that ï¿½first pure, and then peaceable,ï¿½ is the true path to righteousness. For a nation, recognizing the rightfulness of an appeal to arms in times of emergency, and based on that policy, suddenly to turn non-resistant when the hour of trial comes, and their rights are invaded, would be the basest cowardice, because it would not be founded on principle. But because the nation has started wrong, and is following out the legitimate conclusions of its own logic, am I also to sacrifice my principles, and follow chase on the same track by compromising with another sin to help get rid of that? Not so do I understand true loyalty. Freedom of speech is the true ground-work of all reform, as it is the corner-stone of all liberty; and its suppression the foundation of all despotism.
Then, as a reformer, I can have no part or lot in a system, one of the first results of which is to strike this down. Even here, in the quiet old city of Worcester, which has tolerated everything, never having had but one disturbance since I have known it, for which our friend Mr. Foster takes all the credit, the Batman riot-it is not safe to utter secession sentiments. This is consistent; for were it otherwise, she would be lacking in patriotism. But, of course, I have no more sympathy with it than with the mob element of last winter. As an expression of public sentiment on a momentous question, I regard it, as I do the present war, a hopeful symptom. I believe in a war of ideas, but not in a war of bullets. We are all imperfect, fallible human beings, and the most that we can do is to live out our own honest convictions. Much of error we must necessarily endorse and teach in our progress to perfection, but this must be met and refuted by the truth, not by the sword. To me it is no more marvelous for the Southern fire cater, surrounded by the circumstances of his birth and education, to worship the fiery serpent as his god of justice and truth, than for Theodore Parker, with a spiritual insight into the grand and comprehensive scale of infinite and universal love that is permitted to few mortals, to recognize the spirit of war as consistent with his teachings. To me, Jefferson Davis, black as he is, is of angel whiteness, compared with Rev. Nehemiah Adams, who, breathing the air of our free institutions, professing to be a teacher of the blessed gospel of Jesus, defends a system that repeals all the commands of the Decalogue and the precepts of the New Testament. Now they are arrayed against each other, with whom shall I fight? But even he is not so depraved, that when slavery shall be abolished, he will not be ready to come out with his North-side view of slavery; and I want him to live till the force of circumstances shall compel him to be a decent man, worthy to live in a civilized community.
The Non-Resistant theory is not so visionary as to recognize the practicability of an impossibility, or to expect that natural laws will be suspended that it may perform a miracle. The stream cannot rise higher than its source.
When the Church has reached no higher moral standard, it is absurd to look for it in the people. Never but once did I hear an attempt to defend war from the evangel of Jesus, and that was made by one of our Baptist ministers on that famous war Sunday. He said that the passage, ï¿½My kingdom is not of this world; if it were, then would my servants fight,ï¿½ implied that if it had been of this world, he would have approved of it; but his kingdom meant the Church, whose business it was to save men from their sins, and therefore was not to be confounded with the State.
That was the abstract principle of an abstraction founded on a negative, but it showed that he began to feel, unconsciously, the inconsistency of the task he had undertaken. He forgot to explain his own position as a representative of that kingdom.
Rev. Mr. Richardson, in speaking of the noble example of William Penn, said that the ignorant savages of the wilderness were not to be compared with the enlightened rebels of our time. He forgot that within two years he had admitted one of that class of persons into his own pulpit as a brother in the church. He is a perfect representative of the people, governed by his feelings and the impulse of the moment. His heart is right. But he does not stop to follow out logic, neither do the people. Hence the strong sympathy between him and them, which gives him a great influence in the right direction, though not always consistent.
It is said Christ had nothing to do with politics. He was a moral reformer, and had just as much to do with politics as Luther, or you, Mr. Garrison. It was his mission to expound the divine law, to which all other law must conform. Even according to the principles laid down by Blackstone, all laws that conflict with the divine are no law at all. So long as the doctrine is preached that a belief in him is the only mediation through which we can receive remission of sins, it is strangely inconsistent for him to be ignored when a crisis comes: which is a virtual denial of his omniscience.
All slaveholders are not rebels to the government, but they are all rebels to the divine law, and therefore unfit to sit at the communion-table, or in legislative halls. The very nature of the case makes it a moral impossibility for them to be loyal to human law. Their system was founded in plunder, and could be expected to survive only by obtaining additional guaranties of the same article. The attempt to seize Washington is the fitting sequel to the expulsion of Judge Hoar from Charleston.
This is no time for logic. Facts are omnipotent. The abolitionists have labored from the commencement of their enterprise to avert the impending doom, but they could not make the people see it; and now that its accomplishment is about to be effected by other means than they would have chosen, they are still to abide by the conviction that events and the present are ours, results and the future are God's. Through the darkness of the present hour there is a gleam of light, bearing witness even to the principle we are advocating. It was the horror of war, a conviction of its evils, and its utter violation of all the sentiments of humanity and the doctrines of Christianity, that has deterred the people so long; and, though short-sighted the policy, it deserves a certain degree of reverence. We cannot expect them to be consistent. Let us rejoice that there is a limit beyond which slavery cannot go, that even at this late hour there is enough virtue left to grapple with it; for if the issue presented is not one in which abolitionists can consistently join, so long as the government ignores slave, yet, by the ordering of Heaven, his cause is so bound up with ours as to be impossible henceforth to separate them.
There is something ominous in the care with which the leaders abstain from all mention of this subject. It shows the explosive nature of the compound. Deep in the heart of the people is burning an intense hatred of slavery, and with them the defence Union means freedom for the slave as well as for them selves, which they will eventually compel their leaders to acknowledge.
They will labor under a disadvantage for a while for having allowed the South to prepare themselves beforehand; and, whether or not abolition be the direct result, the system is writhing in its last convulsions, and thought it may gasp a few times more, it can never come to life again. 
Would that Massachusetts would do herself the honor to place the colored man on a level with the white, without which she can scarcely expect the God of Justice to be with her. S. E. W.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
MAY 31 THE LIBERATOR 87
EXTRACT FROM A LETTER OF REV. SAMUEL JOHNSON.
FLORENCE, Italy, February 10,1861.
We hear afar off, with deepest interest, the gathering thunders of that second Revolution, which shall abolish American slavery, and make it possible for an American citizen to defend republican institutions without a blush, before the absolutisms and monarchies of Europe. Surely the first of these results is at hand. Call it what we may, the will of God, the logic of the moral laws, the spirit of the age, that which is stronger than individuals, parties, states, sections, and uses their wisdom and their madness to the same end, has brought the day of reckoning for a century of colossal crime against humanity. The South has gone over the precipice, and slavery must perish in the Reign of Terror that is succeeding the plunge. No Abolitionist can think without sorrow of such a phrenzy accompanying the abolition of slavery. Yet there is nothing new in this state of things at the South. It is only that we see in a more terribly real manner what slavery is and has been for more than half a century.
But whether republican freedom shall come out of the horrible clinging embrace of such a system, purified and regenerated, able to cope with the stupendous questions which are coming, and to answer them in the just, humane, and holy spirit they require,-or turn and rend itself in the rage of faction or the blindness of fear,-depends on the character of the North as this day of judgment reveals it. The hour has struck. It is too late to begin reforming. Are we prepared? Or are we without principle and without faith? 
“Like a thief in the night!” I suppose this swift coming on of the crisis was unexpected, even by Abolitionists, who watch so closely the signs of the times. But this is not strange. The eternal law that forbids Slavery and Freedom to coexist in one government is too broad and deep and high for us to comprehend all its processes, or to know its times and seasons. This it is which to-day steps out from within the shadow, and stands revealed as omnipotent. Nothing could be more shallow than to suppose that the mere disappointment of politicians at the result of an election, or anger at the Personal Liberty Laws of a few Northern States, or even the desire of the lawless and impoverished classes at the South to obtain by revolution a share in the profits of slavery, has enabled a mob of “mean whites” to carry off whole States into an outer darkness, in which all their institutions must go to wreck. They do but obey, in the only way possible for them, the moral necessity that Slavery and Liberty should put themselves asunder, because Satan and not God has joined them. The North would not insist on the divorce in the interest of Peace and Liberty. And so the South seeks to effect it by mob violence, and in the interest of slavery. That which we would not end righteously, must unrighteously, and in some deplorable manner, end itself. I cannot be persuaded that union and the moral power of a universal sentiment and holy conscience, speaking from the legislatures and the pulpits of the free States, could not have peaceably controlled and conquered the slave system fiften, ten, even five years ago. This, neither people nor politicians have chosen to bring to bear on the South. “Let us have any corner-stone but the Abolitionist. Let us trust in any power but moral power. Let us take our stand on anything but a religious sentiment and an absolute principle in dealing with slavery.” It is no comfort now to rake up the black depths of American politics. We can but trust that the natural instincts of manhood yet survive under the thick ashes, and will now be startled into life. It is not easy to abolish them in a people. No Northern man can mistake the import of this crisis. The free States know that if they yield now, they enthrone the armed Slave Power over the whole land. And they cannot and will not yield.
But the politicians at Washington, who have sown compromise, are reaping confusion. Their position is certainly a hard one, between the difficulty of coercion, and the greater difficulty of submission. Undoubtedly there are perplexities and obstacles of a very grave character in the way of peaceable separation, now it has been deferred so long. But such lamentations as Mr. Seward’s over the mischief the South can do us, if they insist on secession, are certainly not suited to help matters to an honorable solution. Could anything be more fitted to encourage the enemy-to throw dismay and discouragement into the Northern camp? What a spectacle it is! The leading statesman of the North forced by this armed outbreak of slavery to recede from his noble watchword of the “irrepressible conflict,” and to declare that “if slavery were not perverted to purposes of political ambition, the different systems of labor need not constitute an element of strife in the Confederacy” forced to declare that he “would not alter the Constitution so as to give it power to abolish slavery, if he could”, and that “Republicanism and everything else ought to be subordinate to Union!” And this to conciliate rebels who are threatening to seize Washington, and change the Government by force! Would it have been so very unwise, under such circumstances, to affirm that we can do better without this wicked leaven in our Constitution and our Councils than with it-to affirm, in the name of eighteen free States, that we can be at least as bold to stand alone upon our basis of free labor, as the little State of South Carolina is to stand alone amidst her slaves? It seems strangely enough to be taken for granted, that the withdrawal of half a dozen States annihilates the Federal Government and Union. Surely the Union stands with the States that do not leave it, and if it needs or desires closer ties, it can form them. Are these intelligent Free States, united by every interest and every duty which civilization can create, nothing but a potsherd which a slave-driver can dash in pieces with one blow of the butt of his whip? Is that the confidence of the North in its institutions? Will the people endorse and justify such panic terror? If we were in the condition of the French people at the opening of their Revolution, there might be reason for such forebodings. But have we not in New England experience and capacity enough even to create our institutions afresh, if need be, to-morrow, out of our local town meetings and our State autonomy? Are we to be giving Europe to understand that our existence as a free people depends on the willingness of the Cotton States to remain our rulers? What amazement is already beginning to strike these older nations at such a revelation of the condition of the young, proud republic which has assumed the place of censor and teacher, and flaunted in their faces its own heroism in daring to trust the whole people with self-government! Mr. Seward’s lamentation cannot and must not be allowed to stand as the voice of the North in this crisis.
Cotton ought not to rule our hopes and fears more than it does those of England. The North consumes one million bales of Southern cotton a year. England more than two millions. Two hundred millions of pounds sterling are added to the value of the raw material by English manufacture, while five millions of persons are employed in the various trades connected with the business. One half the total exports of England come of it. In case of the interruption of the American supply, she could procure but a fraction of the needed amount by great exertions, from Egypt, India and elsewhere. Yet England has no unmanly appeals to the rampant beast of slavery, to spare her factories and cities-no bribes nor concessions to hold out to its ravenous maw. Even the Times with every day’s issue grows more anti-slavery: and most of the English journals echo the universal public sentiment in wishing the North success. The English economists are busily hunting up new sources of cotton supply, and preparing to meet the crisis, which will certainly have the effect of diminishing the dependence of England on the South. The French journals are still more strongly, if possible, on the right side. The treasuries of France and England derive five millions sterling annually from duties on tobacco, and the tax on that product this year is one tenth of the revenue of France. Yet no word of praise for Northern concessions either has or will come from any influential quarter in France.
<c02>
The fears expressed by so many, of the insignificance of the North in the eyes of foreign nations in case of the formation of separate Confederacies, are idle to the last degree. What Europe would honor most would be some manly stand for liberty, some wholesome recognition of the real question of republicanism which is at issue. What Europe finds most strange and shameful, is the almost total absence in these stormy debates and warlike preparations, of all recognition of the rights and interests of the slaves, which lie at the root of the whole revolution, and which will before long make themselves felt. This is what Europe cannot comprehend. What if it should see the whole power of the government and the country, North and South, uniting to crush an effort of these oppressed ones,—abandoned by men, yet trusting to the vague sense of help approaching through all this revolutionary uproar,—to throw off their chains! May God spare us such scenes as this, their horror, their shame! If there is one trust, hope, prayer, to which in this doubtful moment we ought to cling, it is that the North may feel the power and accept the duty to surround the perilous crisis of emancipation with benignant and saving influences upon the oppressor and the oppressed.
It seems to me that upon the North, after all, the burden of settling this ultimate question, what is to become of the colored population of the Southern States, will have to rest The whites there are plainly enough unable to settle anything. Their poverty, their helplessness, the mob violence, the extortion of money from those who have it, the outrages on property, the business stagnation, the utter blindness and brutality of the class into whose bands everything is drifting, the chronic state of insurrection and civil war, will make their experiment of self-government a very short one. Very soon the question for us to manage will be one not of forts and territories, but of social ruin and social re-organization in, it may be, thirteen States! So grand and so solemn a function was never appointed to a people before. And we cannot escape it. Can it be that the guilt has struck too deep even in us? That in face of such a command, the whole head will be found sick, and the whole heart faint,—and the “task unaccepted ” prove—
"One more devil's triumph and sorrow to angels,
One wrong more to man, one more insult to God"? 
Things move so fast that, by the time this reaches you, the date it is founded on will have been perhaps forgotten. But I think the principles will stand.

WHAT OF THE WAR?
DEAR GARRISON,— Within the last six months, many events have occurred to show that we may be witnessing "the beginning of the end" in the overthrow of slavery in the land. Hence the hopeful tone in the speeches of Wendell Phillips, Gerrit Smith and others, and the congratulations of many Abolitionists as they meet for consultation. But is the exodus of the slave from his bondage near at hand? Are we soon to be permitted to join the recorded song of Abolitionists, thousands of years ago, when the oppressors of their day were buried in the sea? "Jehovah hath triumphed, his people are free." I fear not. The war is waged simply to put down rebellion in the Government. True, they may get a great deal more than they bargain for, and emancipation may be the result. But it may not be the result, too. The cry for the Union means, with three-fourths of all who shout for it, the same old Union that has been cemented by the blood of the slave for nearly three generations.
Wm. H. Seward, the leading spirit of the Administration, will probably submit to and will inaugurate, even, any plan of compromise, however degrading to the North, that may hold the Government together till four years more shall roll around, hoping that it may roll him into the Presidential chair. Mr. Lincoln has never expressed any intention or desire for the emancipation of the four millions of slaves. Many leading Republicans, in Congress and out of it, for the last six months, have expressed their willingness to enact and execute a Constitutional Fugitive Slave Law. Gen. Butler, who leads the entire soldiery of the old Bay State into the conflict, has offered his entire command to put down an insurrection of the miserable slaves, held by the same scoundrels whose rebellion to the Union he is sent to quell. And other officers have refused protection, and sent back to their rebel masters a number of slaves, who imploringly sought aid to escape from a bondage, "one hour of which is fraught with more misery than ages of that which our fathers rose in rebellion to oppose."
I had hoped with Gerrit Smith, that “the first gun fired at Fort Sumter had announced the fact, that the last slave had been returned to slavery." But not three days had elapsed after Gerrit Smith's prediction, before military officers from the free States, not only offered to put cold lead through the heart of the slave, if he rises for his freedom, but actually have, without even the forms of the infernal Fugitive Slave Law, sent back the miserable victims to the clutches of their masters again! Can this be a war for emancipation, when the very army, sent to prosecute it, turn kidnappers? I fear not. O! in the name of all that is glorious and God-like in liberty, and all that is infernal and hellish in slavery, when will the North cease its guilty connection with slavery? I fear not till tens of thousands of our Northern citizens are slain in battle, and every neighborhood has lost some father, son, or brother, and the entire North shall have been maddened into the adoption of the motto, "No Union with Slaveholders!” Still, I am hopeful; for nothing can be more calamitous to the nation than the continued enslavement of four millions of men.
I have some sympathy, however, with the friend at Yale College, in his letter in Liberator, May 10, in his view of the position of leading Abolitionists in this crisis. It will be a good time for Wendell Phillips to glorify the "Stars and Stripes" when no slaveholders pay to it the same tribute.
I am not discussing the rightfulness of the war principle. But I ask, can Abolitionists take part in a war, the sole object of which is the maintenance of a Union in which the slaveholder is protected in his property in man?
It will be time for us to fight, (if we hold to fighting in any war,) when all the combatants on one side are for freedom, and when all on the other side are for slavery. The heart of every Abolitionist is exercised with longings unutterable for the day of emancipation; and if God ordains the overthrow of slavery by blood, so be it. If he is about to bring deliverance to his oppressed people, blessed be his holy name, we will all shout, "Jehovah hath triumphed, his people are free!" Thine forever for freedom,
J. T. EVERETT.
East Princeton, May 19, 1861.

HENRY C. WRIGHT IN WEYMOUTH.
WETMOUTH, (Mass.) May 2d, 1861.
DEAR MR. GARRISON:
Henry C. Wright has lately been with us in Weymouth, and given two of his strong, convincing and efficient talks on the condition of our country, and the duty of the hour.
His lectures, entitled "Compromise," and the "Star-Spangled Banner as the Symbol of Liberty," were given to large congregations; and under these heads, for two services, an hour each, he advocated the two principles that underlie, at once, the cause of the slave and universal humanity. The evening lecture contained also a somewhat extended and exhaustive statement of the concessions and favors, not to say servility of the North, and the bold and brutal usurpations and insults of the South. Bitter truth, but wholesome.
Henry C. is one of God's ploughshares. He strikes boldly down into those granitic under strata of moral principles, without whose acceptance and translation into the vegetation and fruitage, and even atmosphere of all social and institutional life, there is no health or beauty or enduring vitality. Of course, we look forward to higher unities, and reconstruction upon broader and more catholic bases. We are not
<c03>
to stop with mere self-assertive individualities, or the achievement of physical and political freedom. There are courtesy and vital gravitation, functional independence, and a composite humanity. But, first of all, down with the great grannies of body and soul!—and so we welcome—though hard and strange to many— the words of the iconoclast. These are the words for the times. Let us still continue to kindle and increase that moral fire of utterest devotion, which, whether it runs down intermediately into the arms and passions of men on great battle-fields of blood, or outworks the more gradual victories of faith over falsity, and love and justice over cruelty and wrong, shall at length burn up all the hay and stubble of iniquity, and give us true manhood, united nations, and ultimately a literal planetary redemption. D.F.G.

ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING AT WORCESTER.
A Quarterly Meeting of the Worcester County (South Division) Anti-Slavery Society was held at Brinley Hall, in Worcester, on Sunday, May 26th, forenoon, afternoon, and evening.
The President, Josiah Henshaw, of West Brookfield, occupied the chair during the sessions.
The discussions were sustained by the President, Aaron M. Powell, of Ghent, N. Y., Samuel May, Jr., Abby K. Foster, Parker Pillsbury, Joseph A. Howland, and Stephen S. Foster; and although with the usual freedom and boldness of anti-slavery meetings, the present war, the position of the people and the Administration thereto, with all the hopes and fears that the slave and his friends might have in the war itself, as well as in its results and contingent incidents and outgrowths, was discussed before large and respectable audiences. No one appeared to oppose the views of the speakers, and hardly a sign of disapprobation was manifested.
All the speakers were hopeful of much good to the slave, as the direct or contingent result of the war, and all expressed their feeling that now was a peculiar time for hopeful anti-slavery work, and in opposition to a standstill, or waiting policy, or silent testimony.
The afternoon address of Mr. Pillsbury was one of great eloquence and power, to which no sketch could do the least justice, worthy as it was of a verbatim report and publication; and still his own presence would be needed to carry the full force of its graphic periods, and the prophetic thunder of its sublime utterance.
Samuel May, Jr., Aaron M. Powell, Parker Pillsbury, and Stephen S. Foster, being chosen a committee on business, reported the following resolutions, which were adopted without dissent,—viz.:—
Resolved, That still believing the United States Constitution is "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell," we cannot but rejoice that, while we have failed to arouse the moral sense of the Northern States sufficiently to secede from the unholy alliance, the South, in their insane madness, have broken the bond; and we will continue earnestly to labor and hope that the Federal Government may not succeed in repairing the breach and restoring the Union, until Liberty shall be proclaimed throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.
Resolved, That the present conflict between the South and the National Government is but the necessary outgrowth of the " irrepressible conflict " divinely ordained between Slavery and Freedom;—an unavoidable result of the futile attempt to reconcile the two in harmonious union;—in it is fully portrayed all the diabolism of the monster iniquity, as hitherto but feebly set forth to unwilling ears by the Abolitionists;—by it, their prophecies are come to fulfillment, and their philosophy is found sound and unanswerable;—and the bread by them cast upon the waters is now, after many days, returned to them in the almost unanimous recognition, by the people of the Free States, of the fact that slavery is the underlying cause of all our political evils, and the sole danger to the permanency of our republican institutions; that by its continued existence, our national prosperity and very being are put in peril, and in its speedy death is our only safety. And the present seems to be the hopeful moment for Abolitionists to press this point, so that this war shall not end without the entire abolition of slavery.
A. P. Brown and Adeline H. Howland, the committee on finance, reported a respectable collection towards the expenses of the meeting.
The meeting was of so hopeful, and apparently useful a character, that arrangements were made for another on the succeeding Sunday, at the same place. JOSIAH HENSHAW, President.
JOSEPH A. HOWLAND, Secretary.
EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR,—In the National Intelligencer of April 29th is an article, eulogizing the Massachusetts troops for their efficiency in various respects, and closing with the following words:—
"It will be remembered, also, that the Massachusetts troops restored to their masters some slaves who had fled to them for protection."
Now, what occasion have we, as Abolitionists, to be jubilant over this war?
GEORGE W. SIMONDS. 
REMARKS. "Jubilant" is not the right word. The war is a retributive judgment upon the nation for its sin of oppression, and the severity of that judgment will surely not be lessened by obdurate national persistence in the iniquity, but made heavier.
But here are two incidents which present a more agreeable aspect:—
"FORTRESS MONROE, Saturday, May 25th, 5 P. M. —Three fugitive slaves, the property of Col. Mallory, commander of the rebel forces near Hampton, were brought in by our picket guard yesterday. They represented that they were about to be sent South, and hence sought protection. Major Corry came with a flag of truce, and claimed their rendition under the Fugitive Slave Law, but was informed by Gen. Butler that, under the peculiar circumstances, he considered the fugitives contraband of war, and had set them to work inside the Fortress, and Col. Mallory was politely informed that so soon as he should visit the Fortress and take a solemn oath to obey the laws of the United States, his property would promptly be restored. Another party came in this morning with a flag of truce, but with no better success. On their return, it is supposed they set fire to Hampton bridge, an immense volume of smoke being now visible in that direction."
It is reported that large numbers of slaves continue to arrive at Fortress Monroe, desiring to be set at work. On Tuesday over forty arrived, and are held as contraband of war.

ANOTHER VICTIM OF SOUTHERN OUTRAGE. The New York Post states that Mrs. McDonald, wife of Wm. McDonald, formerly a resident of Brooklyn, arrived in New York on Thursday evening, with her family, consisting of five children, in a totally destitute condition, having been robbed and driven out of the State by the authorities of Norfolk, Va., where she, with her husband, resided during the last two years. Her husband, who is a ship-joiner, was employed in the Norfolk Navy Yard, but having declared his attachment to the Union, was ordered to leave the State within twenty-four hours. The next morning he went out for the purpose of making the necessary arrangements to bring his family North. He did not return to his residence, and his wife, after the most diligent inquiry, could learn nothing of him. She is fully convinced that he has been foully dealt with by the rebels.
Last Sunday evening a party of men came to her residence and ordered her to leave the State, threatening that if she did not, she would be thrown into prison. On Monday morning she went to the Savings Bank to get $500 which she had deposited there, but could obtain nothing but worthless Virginia bank bills for the amount. Having a small sum of money in her possession, she succeeded in securing a passage to New York in a sailing vessel.
A MILWAUKEE MAN HUNG. We are informed that a couple of Germans who escaped from New Orleans lately, and arrived in this city on Monday last, report that, at the time of their leaving New Orleans, they were informed that two men from the North were taken out of the city to be hung for expressing Union sentiments; that one of the two was Mr. H. Bennett, formerly in the employ of H. Niedecken & Co., of this city, and the other a Swiss physician.
Mr. Bennett belonged to the Turner Society here, and will be recollected by a large number of our citizens as a very pleasant, social and respectable gentleman. Our informant, who is a friend of Mr. Bennett, desires to find out the names of the two men from New Orleans, to obtain more particulars.—Milwaukee Democrat, May 18th.
<c04>

ASSASSINATION OF COL. ELLSWORTH,
The gallant Commander of the New York Fire Zouaves.
On Friday morning last, 13,000 troops left Washington, crossed the Potomac, and invested Alexandria, without resistance. Seeing a secessions flag waving defiantly over the Man-hall House, Col. Ellsworth pulled it down, and was shot dead on the spot by the landlord, who, in turn, was instantly shot and bayonetted by one of the Zouaves 
A special dispatch to the Tribune gives the following additional particulars of the affair at Alexandria: "Col. Ellsworth was shot dead while descending the stairs of the Marshall House with the secession flag in his hands, which he had torn down from the staff on the roof. The murderer was instantly dispatched by Francis E. Brownell, a private in Company A of Colonel Ellsworth's Regiment. The Colonel was shot between the third and fifth ribs, shattering the fourth rib, the slugs entering the left auricle of the heart, and destroying all the integuments with which they came in contact. The other charge of the gun (a double-barreled one) entered the wainscoting near him.
The Colonel fell on his face, only exclaiming, 'My God!’ The blood gushed from his wound in such profusion as to drench the entire passage. A few seconds afterwards, he uttered a low moan, but his eyes were instantly fixed, and he ceased to breathe. He was laid upon a bed in a room near at hand, and with the rebel flag stained with his blood, and now a trophy to his glory, about his feet.
The man who killed him was James W. Jackson, keeper of the Marshall House. He must have died as suddenly, as he was shot through the head, and afterwards run through the body by the sabre bayonet of some private. His wife presently discovered the fatality, and approaching his body, uttered the most agonizing cries, and although treated with the utmost consideration that could be offered to her in her misery, she remained a long time in the wildest state of frenzy."
WASHINGTON, May 25. Owing to the immense throng of anxious gazers to see the deceased, (Colonel Ellsworth,) the funeral cortege was delayed till one o'clock. All along the line of the procession, flags were flying at half mast. All the windows and balconies were draped in mourning and thronged with people, the bells tolling, and the heads of the soldiers and citizens uncovered. The City Corps, N. Y. Regiments, the marines and the local cavalry corps formed the military escort, with arms reversed.
The remains of Col. Ellsworth were conveyed to the east room of the President's house, where they lay in state several hours. The coffin was draped with the American flag, and adorned with choice flowers. The face was exposed to public view. Many persons, principally soldiers, visited the White House.
NEW YORK, May 26. Col. Ellsworth's remains arrived early this morning. They were received by a deputation of the Fund Committee and two members of each company of the Fire Department, who escorted them to the Astor House, where they were placed in charge of the family of the deceased. Private funeral services were performed there, this forenoon, after which the body lay in state for two hours in the Governor's room, City Hall.
The procession which escorted the remains to the steamer Francis Skiddy, on which they left for Troy, was large and imposing. The 11th, 25th, 1st and 3d regiments—the two latter dismounted cavalry—formed the escort, while the firemen turned out in great numbers.
The streets through which the procession passed were lined with people, who, by uncovered heads and other demonstrations of respect, paid heartfelt tribute to the deceased. In the midst of the procession was the banner of the New York Fire Department, shrouded in mourning. The flags over the city were at half-mast, and many of them draped in black.
ALBANY, May 27. The remains of Col. Ellsworth arrived this morning, and were escorted to the Capitol by two regiments of volunteers, the whole Fire Department, and others. Minute guns were fired and the bells tolled. The remains were laid in state in the Assembly Chamber, and were viewed by large numbers. They will be sent to Troy in the half-past nine boat.
MECHANICSVILLE, N. Y. May 27. Minute guns were fired on the arrival of the train conveying Col. Ellsworth's remains. The entire population of the surrounding country assembled, and the sorrow evinced was deep and universal. Many buildings were shrouded in black, and flags were hung at half-mast. The funeral procession embraced a number of military and fire companies. After the services at the grave, which were performed by several clergymen, the face was uncovered, and the people passed in procession to take a last look. The body was then lowered into the grave. The men of the regiment formerly drilled by him fired a volley over the grave, then grounding their arms, took shovels and filled up the grave. Three volleys were subsequently fired.
A correspondent of the N. Y. Herald, who visited the White House Saturday morning, with Senator Wilson, of Massachusetts, gives the following description of the President's grief at the death of his friend, Col. Ellsworth:—
"As we entered the library, we remarked the President standing before a window, looking out across the Potomac, running at the foot of Presidential grounds. He did not move till we approached very closely, when he turned round abruptly, and advanced towards us, extending his hand. 'Excuse me,’ he said, ‘but I cannot talk.’ We supposed that his voice had probably given way from some cause or other, and we were just about to inquire, when to our surprise the President burst into tears, and concealed his face in his handkerchief. He walked up and down the room for some moments, and we stepped aside in silence, not a little moved at such an unusual spectacle, in such a man, in such a place.
After composing himself somewhat, the President took his seat, and desired us to approach.’ ‘I will make no apology, gentlemen,’ said the President, ‘for my weakness; but I knew poor Ellsworth well, and held him in great regard. Just as you entered the room, Captain Fox left me, after giving me the painful details of Ellsworth's unfortunate death. The event was so unexpected and the recital so touching, that it quite unmanned me.’ The President here made a violent effort to restrain his emotions, and after a pause proceeded, with a tremulous voice, to give us the incidents of the tragedy that had occurred. ‘Poor fellow,’ repeated the President, as he closed his relation, ‘it was undoubtedly an act of rashness, but it only shows the heroic spirit that animates our soldiers, from high to low, in this righteous cause of ours. Yet who can restrain their grief to see them fall in such a way as this, not by the fortunes of war, but by the hand of an assassin?’ Towards the close of his remarks he added, ‘There is one fact that has reached me, which is a great consolation to my heart, and quite a relief after this melancholy affair. I learn from several persons, that when the stars and stripes were raised again in Alexandria, many of the people of the town actually wept for joy, and manifested the liveliest gratification at seeing this familiar and loved emblem once more floating above them. This is another proof that all the South is not secessionist; and it is my earnest hope that, as we advance, we shall find as many friends as foes.'"
Col. Ellsworth was a native of New York, having been born in Saratoga county, in the year 1837. He was consequently but 24 years of age at the time of his death. Several years since, he removed to New York city, but after a short stay determined to cast his lot among the people of the Great West. He therefore settled in Chicago, Illinois, and procured a situation.
When about 21 years of age, he conceived the idea of forming a company of Zouaves, whose drill and discipline should be superior to those of any other organization in existence. Carrying his plan into execution, the Chicago Zouave Cadets were organized, and in about a year they were the admiration of the people of Chicago. Last summer, they paid the principal cities of the Union a visit, and their march was one continual ovation. Returning to Chicago, Col. Ellsworth was received with great enthusiasm, and immediately became one of the lions of the town.
Determining to pursue a profitable occupation, he entered the law office of President Lincoln, and after that gentleman's nomination, stumped the State in favor of his election. After the contest, he returned to his books, and left them again to accompany the President to Washington. He was very popular with Mr. Lincoln, who appointed him a second lieutenant in the Army. This, however, he declined to accept, and he was then commissioned to raise a regiment of firemen, and succeeding, was the first to fall.
It is stated that when Col. Ellsworth received the fatal shot, he dropped his sword, and seizing hold of his clothing over his breast, tore it entirely off, and looking down upon the wound, closed his eyes, and fell down dead without uttering a word.
Before hauling down the secession flag himself, he politely but vainly requested his murderer to remove the odious emblem.
The last thing Col. Ellsworth did, before leaving Washington, was to write a letter to his father, E. D. Ellsworth, of Mechanicsville, N. Y., and another to Miss Carrie Spafford, Ill., to whom he was engaged to be married. His last act, as he left the tent to embark on the steamer, was to look at her portrait, and to place it in his bosom.
Jackson, the murderer of Col. Ellsworth, was entreated on Thursday night to make no resistance, but swore he would die in defence of his flag. He is the same man who headed the gang who attacked the Republican liberty pole at Occaquon, Fairfax county, before the Presidential election. He cut down the pole with his own hand. He appears to have been a very desperate character.
<c05>
Loyal American residents in England are making important donations to our Government at the present time. A number of gentlemen in London have notified the Secretary of War that they are about to ship three batteries of Armstrong rifled cannon, six, twelve, and twenty-four pounders, with all equipments complete, of which they beg the acceptance of the Government. This princely gift could not have cost the donors less than $200,000. Other Americans, living in Manchester, have forwarded a battery of Whitworth guns—twenty pounders—each of which bears the following inscription:-
"From loyal Americans in Europe to the United States Government, 1861."
A large commercial house in New York have also offered to furnish, at their own expense, a battery of four cannon, six, twelve, twenty-four, and forty-two pounders.
CONSIGNED TO OLD ABE. There passed through this city yesterday, in the care of the Adams’ Express Company, an emissary of Lincoln's, who had been forced to leave Augusta, Georgia. Deeming his presence offensive, the good people of that patriotic city shaved one half of the rascal’s head, labelled him to Old Abe, Washington, D. C., and then paid the Express Company to transport him through. The delicate tonsical operation which had been performed gave to the poor creature a strikingly novel appearance, that attracted universal attention. He says he has seen enough of Dixie.
The above we clip from the Petersburg (Va.) Daily Express. It is a fine sample of the conduct and decency of the people who only want to be "let alone."
STRAWS SHOW WHICH WAY THE WIND BLOWS.—Recent accounts from the South, especially the Sugar Estates of Louisiana, where slaves are never supposed to work for the fun of the thing, state that great surveillance is exercised over the blacks, no communication being allowed between those living on different plantations, correspondence by mail between them being interrupted and the letters destroyed, no matter how innocent the contents. All persons holding converse with slaves are narrowly watched; and the laws, which have heretofore been a dead letter, requiring a certain number of whites to each hundred blacks on every plantation, are now rigidly enforced.
A slave insurrection has broken out near Baton Rouge. On one plantation all the whites were murdered, and the houses burnt down.
Orders have been given in St. Louis to close all places of public worship where slaves or mulatto people congregate.
A dispatch to the Times from Washington says that the inhabitants of Alexandria are sullen and disaffected, and the only smiling faces to be seen are those of the darkies.
HOW THE ELECTION WILL BE CONDUCTED IN TENNESSEE. A Nashville paper publishes this admonition to voters of Tennessee:—
"Vote Open Tickets.—Every loyal son of the South will vote an open ticket. Such a man is not ashamed to slow his hand. His posterity will be proud of his vote and his children will rise up and call him blessed.
Every man who is for passing under the yoke of Lincoln will fold his ticket, and vote secretly, lest his children curse him, and his mother, wife and sisters disown him forever."
The Louisville (Ky.) Journal tells a good story of Vice President Breckinridge. He was making a speech at Bowling Green, the other day, in which he assailed the Republicans, and drew a glowing picture of the evils of the country. Pausing a moment, he then exclaimed, “And who is guilty of bringing about this terrible condition of affairs?" This interrogatory was answered by three of the most respectable citizens present, who rose and said:—“Warren county charges you with it!” Whether Mr. Breckinridge continued his speech, we are not informed.
IMPUDENCE UNPARALLELED. John Mitchell, the apostate from freedom, has written a letter to a Southern paper, giving, as his opinion, in which he thinks European powers will concur, that the North is in rebellion against the South. We suppose the next proposition will be to hang the President and his Cabinet for treason.
MAILS STOPPED. We believe we are, at last, relieved of the duty of paying the postage expenses of the Seceded States, which have been costing the government at the rate of $600,000 per year. The mails to those States have been discontinued, and the rebels must hereafter disseminate their treasonable writings at their own expense, if they consider them worth the tax.
A NEW USE FOR CRINOLINE. A Southern lady, on her way home from Philadelphia, passed through Harper's Ferry last week, with no less than a dozen revolvers stowed away under her crinoline, while any quantity of devices have been adopted by different parties for supplying the Southern army in quantities, large and small, with articles required.
THE LOYAL NORTH MEN. Gen. Thomas informs the National Intelligencer that out of 15,000 Northern troops who have been offered the oath of allegiance by him, only about 30 have refused to take it, and this for family reasons in every case. This readiness is really remarkable.
Our affectionate "Southern brethren," the Secessionists, are arming the slaves as well as the free negroes to help destroy the Northern troops. Our people refuse to accept the aid of colored men for fear the South won't like it! We are to be permitted to be shot down by negroes, but not to be aided and protected by them.-Salem Observer.
Gov. Randall, in his message to the Wisconsin Legislature, says—"The war began where Charleston is— it should end where Charleston was.” Rather pithy and plucky, and good reading for the meridian of South Carolina.
The public schools in St. Louis have been closed, as the secessionists have stolen the public school fund to pay the expenses of the Great Rebellion. Ignorance and criminality are twin brothers.
After the Vermont regiment started for fortress Monroe, two ladies were found in the cars, resolved to go as nurses, a Miss Dorsey of Cornwall, and a Miss Grace of Middlebury, who has a mother in the regiment. They were voted in, and each member took an oath to shoot any man that offers them an insult.
AN AMERICAN VIVANDIERE. A pretty and modest young girl has attached herself to Wilson's Zouave regiment, in New York, as a hospital nurse. She refuses to give her name, and says she is an orphan. The rough fellows treat her as though she were an angel.
Albert Pike, it is said, is raising a large force of Choctaw and Cherokee Indians for the Confederate States. Pike is a native of Newburyport. A pike might prove a somewhat dangerous weapon in the hands of an Indian, but any number of Indians would prove quite harmless in the hands of a Pike.
The First Michigan Regiment entered Alexandria about 6 o'clock, an hour after the appearance of the Zouaves, and captured a body of cavalry, who at first demanded time to consider whether they should surrender; but they were forced to yield up their arms without delay.
The report throughout Virginia is, that Jeff. Davis says he will yet take Washington, and that he will dine there on the 4th of July; and also, that if Gen. Scott is caught, his head would be severed from his body, and a piece of his heart sent to South Carolina.
The only occupant of the Alexandria slave pen was an old negro, who, when told that he might find his master, said he could not see the necessity of so doing, and attached himself as cook to the Michigan Regiment.
The troops at Harper's Ferry have fallen back to Baliver, a suburb. About 60 negroes are engaged in making the road up the mountain on the Maryland side, to accelerate the passage of troops and heavy field pieces.
The bridges on the Leesburg, Va., railroad have been destroyed by the government forces, in order to prevent the march of the rebel forces from Harper's Ferry in the direction of Washington.
A despatch from Charleston to the Savannah Republican says: "Wagner's improved rifle cannon has been tested, and found to throw a shell seven miles. Preparations are on foot to compliment the Niagara with a few."
Almost every man that visits Alexandria brings away some memento of the place. The oil cloth on the hall where Ellsworth fell has been cut up and divided. On some pieces the blood is as thick as a knife blade. Pieces of the stairs, covered with his blood, are also cut off and brought away.
Young Brownell, who so summarily executed justice upon the assassin of Ellsworth, is evidently a man of deeds, and not of words. Here is his brief announcement to his father of his act:-
"WASHINGTON, May 24,1861. Father: Col. Ellsworth was shot dead this morning. I killed the murderer. FRANK."
DEATH OF PRESIDENT BALLOU. Rev. Hosea Ballou, President of Tufts College, died Monday afternoon, at the age of 64 years. He was a high-minded gentleman, and much respected by the whole community as well as by his Universalist brethren, of which denomination he was one of the ablest and most scholarly members.
<c06>
MASSACHUSETTS A. S. SOCIETY.
DONATIONS.
Thos. Haskell, $2.61
Ambrose Merrill, 20.00
Mrs. Mary Brigham, 2.00
Mrs. E. N. Paine, 0.30
Rev. C. Nightingale, 1.00
Mrs. S. A. Nowell, pledge, Jan., 1861, 10.00
Francis Jackson, to redeem pledge, 1861, 200.00
EDMUND JACKSON, Treasurer.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will hold meetings in
South Ware, N. H., Sunday, June 2.
Milford, Mass., Sunday, June 9.
Evening lecture, subject: “The Star-Spangled Banner as the Symbol of Liberty.”
FRIENDS OF HUMAN PROGRESS.—The thirteenth Annual Meeting of the Friends of Human Progress will take place at the Friends’ Meeting-House, near Waterloo, Seneca County, New York, on Friday, the 31st day of May,1861, at 10 o’clock, A. M., and continue through Saturday and Sunday, the 1st and 2d days of June.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Weymouth, Sunday, June 9, at half-past 10, A.M., and half-past 5, P.M.
ANOTHER ANTI-SLAVERY MEETING AT WORCESTER.—An Anti-Slavery Meeting will be held at Brinly Hall, in Worcester, on Sunday next, June 2, forenoon, afternoon and evening; to be addressed by Parker Pillsbury, Aaron M. Powell and other speakers.
R. W. EMERSON, by special request, will repeat his lecture on “Boston,” at the Music Hall, Sunday morning, June 2.
WANTED—By a young man, 22 years of ago, a situation as Book-keeper, Secretary, or Amanuensis. Understands book-keeping both by double and single entry, is a good penman, correct in figures, and can furnish good references as to character and ability. Would prefer to work for an Abolitionist or a Republican. Address D. W. D., Box 2702, P.O. 3t April 12-
SITUATION WANTED.—A very worthy and trusty man desires a situation as a gardener, and to take care of horses, cows, &c. He can give the most satisfactory recommendations. Application can be made to ROBERT F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston.
PLEASANT BOARDING, ON FAVORABLE TERMS.—Mrs. H. S. DENHAM can accommodate a gentleman and wife, or two or three single gentlemen, with pleasant rooms, on favorable terms, at 75 (formerly 33) Beach street, near the Worcester Depot, Boston.
A few transient boarders can also be accommodated.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years’ experience in the Homoeopathic treatment of diseases, offers her professional services to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.—David Thayer, M. D.; Luther Clark, M. D.; John M. Tarball, M. D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No. 20 Bulfinch street. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
MARRIED—In this city, on Monday forenoon, May 27, by Rev. Edward E. Hale, WILLIAM H. SEAVEY, Esq., to Miss MARY LOUISA MUNRO.
DIED—In the city of Worcester, Mass., May 19, of consumption, KATY M. PROVAN, daughter of Thomas and Rebecca Provan, aged 18 years and 7 months.

OBITUARY.
A great loss has been sustained, not only by a large circle of relatives and friends, but by the whole city of Newburyport, in the death of MARGARET H. ANDREWS. Her widely expansive benevolence not only aided the charitable operations ordinarily going forward in every town, but devised new channels of benefit to the needy, and never forgot the most needy, the slave in the South, and the colored people in the North. In her, a fervent religious spirit was seen absolutely free from bigotry and from sectarianism. With a very large measure of that charity which feeds and clothes the body, she had the rarer gift of that comprehensive charity which can place itself in the point of view occupied by others, and thus can give a construction of their actions at once just and favorable. Her sympathy was large and generous, and her intelligence sought to direct such help as she could give in the channel of the greatest ultimate and permanent benefit. Faith in a superintending Providence led her to expect the best, and an active love, that seemed without limit, led her to work for it, enlisting the sympathy of others by her own forwardness in activity. Largely hospitable to new ideas, she was also discreet and deliberate. With intelligence and culture to value the highest and best literature, she curtailed her indulgences in this direction that she might have more time and money for the help of the sick, the ignorant, the poor and the outcast. And, if an unfaltering trust in the upward tendencies of human nature has power to encourage the depressed and to stimulate the penitent to new exertion, her efforts in this kind must often have taken root and borne fruit. In her removal to a higher sphere, our poorest have lost an efficient friend, our wisest and best a highly valued associate.
The letter of a friend reporting her departure spoke most justly as follows:-
“COME UP HIGHER was the message sent by one of the shining ones to our dear friend Margaret H. Andrews, on the 11th instant. If we follow her in thought, we can hear the blessed words addressed to her—‘Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: for I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me in; naked, and ye clothed me; sick, and in prison, and ye visited me. ’Let us, who must be sad that we shall no more listen to the words fitly spoken which made our intercourse with her one of our choicest pleasures, take comfort in the trust that, in the plane of life at which she is now arrived, the din and discord of our times are more clearly understood, and that the future, which seems to us to be full of the ‘sorrow’ which aye ‘tracketh wrong,’ may show, in the clearer light in which she stands, a rainbow of promise. Seldom has a long life been so filled with high aims and worthy deeds.” C.K.KW.

P S
PERUVIAN SYRUP,
THE GREAT CURATIVE OF THE AGE.
TRY IT.
IT will entirely cure, or greatly relieve, the following distressing complaints: Dyspepsia, Dropsy, Diarrhea General Debility, Nervousness, Ulcers, Piles, Bronchitis, Jaundice, Dysentery, Neuralgia, Liver Complaint, Erysipelas, and the endless catalogue of Female Difficulties, most of which originate in a low state of the blood. 
Get our new Pamphlet, and read it.
JEWETT & COMPANY,
No.39 Summer st., Boston.
For sale by all Druggists.
April 19. 3mis.
$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Silver Medal at the last Fair of the <illegible>’ Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice.
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
For the Liberator.
OUR ARMIES AND SLAVERY.
A slave, who lived in Maryland,
Saw BUTLER passing by; 
He thought the time was now at hand 
When he his freedom could command, 
And take his chance to fly.
So, off he fled; he thought to light
Among a noble band; 
He thought the armies were to fight 
For God, our Country, and the Right- 
For freedom through the land! 
He thought he had his freedom gained; 
But ”No!" says General Ben.; 
”It is by law you are enchained— 
That law must ever be sustained
By Massachusetts men."
May God forbid that I should lend
To such a war a word! 
I never will, till life shall end, 
By word or deed, that law defend— 
So help me, mighty God! 
Providence, R. I., May 23, 1861. 

LINES,
SUGGESTED BY THE EMANCIPATION OF TWENTY MILLION SERFS IN RUSSIA.
The morning breaks-a morn of joy to millions now made free,
A morn to be remembered long by millions yet to be; 
The Russian serf has doffed his chains, and stands erect, a man! 
In Freedom's cause the work goes on, and Russia leads the van!
On manly cheeks are tears of joy, new light on manhood's brow, 
While woman's thoughts of grateful praise and prayer are offered now;
The laughter-loving little ones, the innocents are free- 
The brand of serfdom on their brow is never more to be! 
Those hardy sons, inured to toil, if formed in triple line, 
Would show a phalanx of the free, from Moscow to the Rhine! 
Taught Freedom's birthright to improve, to win its noblest aims, 
What influence may their future give, to Russia's moral claims? 
The world beholds, applauds, admires-philanthropy grows strong; 
And seers proclaim that “Freedom's reign shall fill the earth ere long”; 
Britannia's shores repeat the song; Italia's the refrain, 
And angels, in their home of love, lend voices to the strain! 
On Russia's plains no deadly strife, no weapons stained with blood, 
No sund'ring of fraternal ties have wrought this social good; 
Justice and right have won the day alone by moral power-
Right reason has the triumph scaled, and mind has ruled the hour! 
And shall ten million souls twice told by Russia's voice be free, 
While this blest land the chains reforge for millions yet to be?
America, amid whose stars the eagle proudly waves, 
Shall she remain the only land to be the home of slaves? 
Four millions slaves, within whose veins pure Afric blood alone
Has ceased to flow, as all may know, who seek a Southern zone-
Are these to spread o'er virgin soil? the slave ship speed its way,
With middle passage horrors rife, and none its course to stay?
And dare abettors to this wrong, with fixed and steady will, 
United, drilled, with sword in hand, while they extend it still, 
Cherish the hope that, through the strife, God will their cause maintain? 
Like Pharaoh's host amid the flood, shall they not find it vain? 
Let prayer ascend from Christian hearts, wherever such may be,
That men may turn to peaceful means, to ”let th' oppressed go free”! 
That in this goodly land of ours, so blest, so loved, so bright,
The Upas Tree, so long its bane, no more may spread its blight!

From the Boston Pilot.
THE RETURN OF THE SPRING.
Young buds on her bosom, bright flowers on her brow, 
Fresh sprays of green leaves all her sunny hair wreathing;
A light in her eyes
That just trembles and flies,
And fragrance divine from her parted lips breathing: 
With a thrill of new life like the sunbeams that break 
In a strange web of light on the breast of a lake: 
With the fluttering plumage of birds on the wing,-
Up from the South floats the beautiful Spring! 
She' II touch the bare trees, and the sunshine will weave 
From its shimmering rays a new robe to fling 'round them; 
She' II wrap them awhile 
In the light of her smile, 
Nor pause till a wealth of white blossoms has crowned them: 
The grey-bearded hills, when her bright wings are seen, 
Fling over their faces a vailing of green: 
And the snow-wreaths that still 'round their bald temples cling, 
Ripple down in sweet laughter to welcome the Spring!
You can trace her light step on the mountain's bold crest,
By her emerald robes from its battlements streaming: 
You can follow her flight 
Through the day and the night, 
By the violets' eyes in her sunny path gleaming! 
The dead flowers wake at the kiss of her mouth,  
The breezes grow sweet as the winds of the South, 
And the songs of the birds through the forest aisles ring, 
Hailing their mistress-the beautiful Spring! 
Like an angel who comes from the Father above, 
With a whisper of strength to some spirit despairing; 
Like a star glowing bright
On the brow of the night,
A message of love through the dark shadows bearing, 
So gently and soft-while her green banners wave, 
And the snow-shroud falls off from the dead Winter's grave:-
With a gladness as great as the angels could bring, 
Comes the blessing she breathes, from the lips of the Spring! 
When life-once as bright as the Spring's sunny smile-
Grows dark and fades out in the Autumn's chill hours; 
When it sinks through the gloom, 
To its rest in the tomb,
And the death-angel gathers it home with the flowers;- 
May it rest like -a dove on the bosom of Peace,
Where hoping, and fearing, and longing shall cease; 
Till the voice of its God through the silence shall ring, 
And it wakes in the sunshine eternal of Spring! 
South Quincy, April, 1861. MARIE.

From the Waterford Mail.
To the Flag of the Southern American Secessionists, flying in a British Port 
In the place of thy pride, from the mast's topmast height, 
Thou art bathing thy folds in the sky's azure light; 
The winds are at play 'midst thy red-flowing bars, 
And the sunbeams repose on thy circlet of stars. 
With the sunshine around thee-the blue heaven above, 
‘Midst things that are telling of freedom and love
Flag of slave-dealers, thou should'st not wave here! 
But where tempests in clouds and in darkness career, 
Where the chain and the fetter with clanging resound, 
Where the slave-curse hath blasted the fruits of the ground- 
His there, and there only, thy waving should be; 
How com'st thou to darken the Isles of the Free? 
Herald of ruin, and banner of doom!- 
For the day of thy triumph may finish in gloom,
<c02>
And thou from the place of thy pride may’st be reft, 
And in blood and in ashes thy trail may be left.
Ensign of Tyranny! emblem of woe! 
Type to the nations of honor's o'erthrow! 
Standard of Mammon, and Might leagued with Wrong- 
Down from our sight!-thou hast <illegible> us too long! 
April 18, 1861.

The Liberator.
"BE NOT DECEIVED"-BE NOT”MOCKED."
BROTHER GARRISON: Will you allow me space for a brief record of views and convictions at this juncture? I have at no time had any faith in this war. When brother Phillips and others have manifested faith in it from time to time, it has staggered me; and I have had to stop and pause and wait, hoping (might see cause for distrusting my own discernment-hoping something might appear, giving me encouragement to hope for humanity's benefit out of it. But the more I have waited, and wanted encouragement to hope, the more I have been discouraged and disheartened, as to any good to come from it. True, my philosophy requires me to be as much as possible in reconciliation to necessity. But in our natures and our education, we are in affinities with some things and antipathies with others. Here is the foundation in fact, for what are called love and hatred-right and wrong. What we love and what we hate, what to us is right and what wrong, depends on our organization and education. To a Catholic, it is wrong to eat flesh on Friday. To a Protestant, it is wrong to plant corn on Sunday. Let those who can point us out the good from the Florida war and the Mexican war, ”show us any good" to be derived or expected from the present war. As those were, so is this, utterly for slavery. This more shamefully, more ruinously so, than either of the others. This will demoralize and degrade the North as the others could not do. The North is united in this as it was not in those, and is to be prostituted by this as it has never before been prostituted.
We are told there can be worse things than war. And what are these worse things? I do not now remember to have seen the specifications very plainly made in connection with this grave assumption, in justification of the present war. Probably the enumeration of specifications might as well begin with setting down at the head of the list, misrule and anarchy. Then the statement in words should be, that war against misrule and anarchy is preferable to misrule and anarchy. Well, if misrule and anarchy are the worst of all things, it must follow that war to promote misrule and anarchy is promotive of the worst of all things.
Now, I allege that the present war is promotive of misrule and anarchy. The war is for perpetuating the Government as it has been and is, under the Constitution as it has been and is-only that the Constitution is to be altered for the worse, and, of course, the Government under it to be worse. All will agree-all the intelligent, candid, honest, do agree—that the Government has been getting worse continually under the existing Constitution, made up of compromise, until it has ended in this misrule and anarchy legitimately resulting. All know and confess that this state of things has resulted from Constitutional concessions to slavery, commenced with the formation of the Constitution, and continued throughout its existence. And it is equally notorious, that the remedy now proposed is the alteration of the Constitution, conceding still more to slavery. This is the leading measure in the administration of the Government, carring on this war to sustain itself in this position. I do not say that this particular measure was the beginning of the mischief. It began, as before stated, in the original Constitutional compromise. This measure is the ending, the consummation of the misrule; and the Government does not propose anything better, or more to be done, by this war, than to sustain itself in this position-chronic misrule agonizing itself into chronic anarchy. 
It should be added, here, that to this atrocious additional Constitutional compromise measure, there is already added, under this infamous administration, the organization of all the remaining United States territory into territories open to slavery:-an utter abandonment of the pretension on which the campaign for election was fought.
No war is justifiable, except for freedom. This war has no word, no act, for freedom. It is all for slavery. The Government is for slavery. The war is for the Government. The Union is the guarantee for slavery-according to Senator Seward, now the principal man in the administration of the Government,-as also according to the Republican press, in its pandering to slavery at the closing up of the campaign. And the war is for the Union. So that, in every aspect, the war is for slavery.
Everywhere the insane clamor is-"The North is a unit" For what is the North a unit? For sustaining and perpetuating that accursed old Compromise, called a Constitution, which has always been life to slavery, and death to liberty; and the North is to be made and held a unit, if possible, to add strength and perpetuity to that Compromise. Tell me, is Harney, whose record-of which he is proud, and in which he delights-is the record of a bloody butcherer of innocent women and children, the man to be relied on, or looked to, to do service against slavery? Is he committed to any such thing? “I tell you nay” "“Be not deceived." Be not ”mocked." The New York Tribune exclaims; ”Do you wish to see loyalty, common sense and frankness combined? Read Gen. Harney's letter to his friend, Col. Fallon, of St. Louis." The Tribune cannot say a word for his humanity— -his devotion to freedom-not one word." No. It is his ”loyalty"-his fidelity to that propagator and perpetuator of slavery, the Union. The Tribune has had occasion to make record of Harney's inhumanity and brutality; and has no faith that he would not do the same thing over again if he had the like opportunity; has no faith that he would not cut slaves' heads off sooner than cut their chains off. So of Butler; so of Slemmer; et hoc genus omne. Butler has already volunteered the service of the Massachusetts volunteers under his command, to Gov. Hicks of Maryland, to keep the slaves from asserting their liberty. Slemmer, in command at Fort Pickens, has put in irons, and sent back to be whipped to death, slaves who escaped and went to help him, having subjected themselves to hunger and all manner of hardships, wading through bogs, bayous and swamps. The free colored people of Cincinnati lately wanted to make up a company, and join in the war. The most pretending Republican paper in that city and in the West snubbed them at once with the assurance that ”No interference of theirs in the fight now on hand will be tolerated." It would look too much like fighting for freedom-like hostility to slavery-like awakening and endangering the Compromise which it is the business of the war to strengthen and perpetuate. 
It is pompously paraded and displayed as ominous of good to come out of this war, that such men as Douglas, Cushing, Hallett, Pugh, Pierce, Fillmore, and that genus all, are joining in it. To me, this is but a consistent piece and part of the work of compromise, and presents one of the worst features and most unfavorable aspects of the case. I pronounce it a most treasonable combination and conspiracy against humanity. Is it to be believed that Douglas, any more to-day than six months ago, ”cares whether slavery is voted up or voted down"-cares whether the producing classes are made to sink or allowed to swim-provided all such consumers as he can be provided for? 
Tell me not we are always to take every man at his word. It is impossible?. We have to take men as we find them. Some men are always to be taken at their word; others are sometimes to be taken at their word; others still forfeit their word— make their own words to contradict their own words?, back and forth—so often that they are unreliable for any
<c03>
truthfulness. The mercenary political sheet that has a wider circulation than any other published in the West, in connection with the last Democratic administration and previous canvas, was both sides of Douglass, and all around him; and had Douglas on both sides and all around. Yesterday, Douglas was a desperate demagogue, self-seeking at every body's expense, and to be believed in nothing he ever said or ever could say. To-day, he is a fine fellow-the people's man-to be taken at his word, and credited for all he said. The same paper has gone the same back and forth, and forth and back, course with Douglas over again, in connection with the Republican canvas and administration. This paper supported Lincoln, and showed conclusively, indisputably, that Douglas was, had been, and is, one of the most unreliable of all pretenders-unworthy the confidence of the people for any thing he had been or could possibly be.
Thus much to show how much it means when these presses tell us we must take these men at their word. It means that the people are bound to follow their leaders, whether forward or backward, hither or thither. But, in the present case, take these men and these presses at their word at their words. And what shall we find? What single word for freedom? Not a whisper, from beginning to end, among the whole, of them. Not a lisp. Not an intimation. If the word freedom gets in anywhere-it means just as much North as it does South, and no more, among these politicians. Here, and there, it means freedom to slavers to have their own way in strengthening and perpetuating slavery. The new Confederacy fights for freedom to take slavery out of the Union. The old Confederacy fights for freedom to keep slavery in the Union. This is the utmost that can be pretended for the meaning of. the word freedom as used and abused in connection with this war. It was only because Douglas found Lincoln, in Seward's hands, ahead of all the Democrats in service to slavery, that he is constrained to cry, ”Great is Lincoln's administration!" In response to this, the Republican papers shout, ”Great is Douglas! Douglas must now be taken at his word, and be credited for all he says "; because he is loyal to an administration that is more loyal to slavery than any Democratic administration ever dared to be. 
Herein is the secret of this most wonderful ”unification" of the North. We use the word from Caleb Cushing's improved vocabulary. Lincoln, in the midst of his inaugural, stopped, “departed from his purpose," and, before making oath to the old Compromise, swore paramountly, exclusively, inclusively, and irrevocably to slavery, as no Democrat had ever had the audacity and temerity to do. He had heard of the success of Seward's compromise measure; but he had not seen it as completed by Corwin's help in the House. The infant imp of the last night's orgies was so late born, and yet in its swaddling clothes, that it had not been brought to his sight; but he had been told of its loveliness, so that he had affection for it, and was more than ready and willing to cherish and nourish it. This was what ”unified" the North. This is the platform-the parade ground-on to which the New York Herald, Journal of Commerce, Boston Courier, and all that Northern army for slavery have wheeled and paraded. The fight is to be for the renewal of the league, the strengthening of the covenant, and the increase of the security. They are committed to no other step, upward or onward. As many as have sympathy for the slave, and go into these ranks on this ground, will find they have lowered themselves and lost-have sold themselves out for no valuable consideration.
Wm. Howard Russell, correspondent of the London Times, now furnishing reports for that paper concerning the American Crisis, writes from Washington, April 9:
"Never before, under any administration, was so little of the 'counsels' of the Cabinet known to the public, or to those who are supposed to be acquainted with the opinions of the statesmen in office. Mr. Seward has issued the most stringent orders to the officers and clerks in his department to observe the rules which have been heretofore disregarded in reference to the confidential character of State papers in their charge. The sources of the fountains of knowledge from which friendly journalists drew so freely are stopped."
This secret plotting at Washington is but the correlative of what is going on at Montgomery. The viewing is to see who shall come out the approved champion of slavery. The result will be that the ”cunning and insincere," both ways pretenders, will get ahead of those who speak directly and act straight-forwardly, preach and practise consistently. Davis says sincerely that he wants slavery separated from the dangerous proximity and contamination. Seward says no-that will never do. He protests that Davis don't know the true interests of slavery-that the danger to slavery is the other way. He would convince the more considerate conservators of slavery, South and North, that he is a better friend of slavery, more trustworthy for the interests of that institution, than Davis-that the only safety for slavery is in the Union; declares-"It is the Union that restricts the opposition to slavery in this country. It is the Union that is the 'guarantee against the full development here of the fearful and uncompromising hostility to slavery which elsewhere pervades the world."' [See his 12th of January speech in the Senate.] If Davis persists in a course so ruinous to slavery, he must be hung, and slavery be better cared for. Herein is the secret of Seward's success with the border States, with the Unionists in the secession States, and with the pro-slavery Democrats and pro-slavery Republicans of the North.
If this war is to be made to work out any good to the interests of humanity—anything for human freedom-it will be in spite of Wm. H. Seward and the rest of this administration-[including what goes on at Washington, and what by the papers, the merchants, the bankers, the speculators, the gamblers, the capitalists generally]-just as the Whig party went to pieces in spite of  Wm. H. Seward & Co.; just as Thurlow Weed, Wm. H. Seward and Horace Greeley are to have credit for destroying the Whig party; just as Stephen A. Douglas, Caleb Cushing, Benj. F. Hallett, Benj. F. Butler and Geo. E. Pugh are to have credit for destroying the Democratic party, just so may Wm. H. Seward, Thurlow Weed & Co., including the representatives of the interests before designated, be credited for making this war to be destructive of slavery-if it can result in any such accomplishment. It will never do any such thing, if they can prevent it. 
Wm. H. Seward says John Brown was ”justly hung." What has he said or done, in the Senate or in the Cabinet, that we are not to suppose he would say the same thing over again on those same floors where are concocted and projected all manner of villany and inhumanity? Give him what credit you please for the good things spoken to the people to induce them to invest him with power over their lives, liberties and enjoyments', it is the use he makes of that power he is to be valued for and held accountable for. If Wm. H. Seward and John Brown could have been made to exchange places on the 2d of Dec., 1859, and other things have been made equal, it would have been the salvation of this nation.
The traitors against the United States are bad enough. Their treason is because they cannot keep the Government in their own hands, and manage it to suit themselves in the service of their peculiar institution. A worse treason than theirs-unutterably worse-is perpetrated by those who, to glorify and gratify themselves in serving that institution better than other traitors can serve it, denounce the institution, unofficially, to the people who hate- it, until the people, will give them the power to act officially in regard to it, and as soon as they get this power will betray the people, and add strength to, the institution which it could not have obtained elsewhere nor otherwise than at their treacherous hands polluted with bribes. These hide their own aggravated treason-their treason against the rights and liberties of the masses-by decrying and warring upon the 'smaller, more puerile and contemptible traitors.
<c04>
John Brown was a true man, an honest man, a reliable man-no traitor. Even Henry A. Wise was constrained to give him credit for as much as all this. John Brown was the same in words and in deeds-all the while and every where for liberty and humanity. William H. Seward, unofficially, before the people, to gain their confidence and persuade them to trust him with power, declares in words that:-
"Every man ought to be and should be a free man. Society can have but two forms by which the individual can defend himself from oppression. One is that which puts the musket into his hand, and tells him at the last resort to defend himself and his liberty. The other is that which puts into his hand the ballot, and tells him in every exigency to defend his rights with the ballot. I do maintain that in founding a new State, we have the perfect liberty as well at the perfect right to establish a government which shall secure every man in his rights; or rather, I do say that you must put into every man's hand-not into the hands of one-the ballot; or put into every man's hand, and not into the hands of a few, the bullet, so that every man shall be equal before the law as a citizen. All men shall have the ballot, or none; all men shall have the bullet, or none."
The emphasizing is his own. At least, it stands in italics, as reported by Thurlow Weed. This was said in Kansas. He was standing then on soil consecrated to freedom by John Brown's battles. It was because John Brown's deeds had preceded these words that this hypocrite felt called on there for their utterance. In pronouncing him a hypocrite, I don't pretend to decide whether he was true to his own cherished sentiments in what he then said before the people, or in what he afterward did in the Senate. Either way, he was equally a hypocrite. Either way, he was equally a traitor. These words of his, uttered on John Brown's battle-field, more than justify every act for freedom in John Brown's life. What I now say, no man will pretend to gainsay. Out of his own mouth, then, this hypocrite and traitor shall be judged and condemned to execration and execution, when he says officially-thus-making his words into deeds-that John Brown ”was justly hung."
Turn we now from the words for freedom to the deeds for slavery, in this work of hypocrisy and treachery. This sham show for freedom was made in Kansas on the 28th of September. Not a hundred days afterward, in the United States Senate, he instituted proceedings-inaugurated a course of action-for slavery, based on the following proposition:-
"An amendment to the Constitution, providing it shall not hereafter be amended, so as to give power to the Federal Government to interfere with slavery in the States; and this provision to be made perpetual."
This he carried through the Senate, and with Corwin's help through the House; and Abraham Lincoln, in his inaugural address, ”departed from his purpose," in obedience to- his superior, to give it his endorsement in advance-thus using his official influence in his high station to corrupt and pervert the people, and seduce them into ratification of this iniquity. Was it a legitimate act in him? If it was, then the foulest corruption flows legitimately from the highest place, and in the use of the most exalted power in our boasted Government that fools are now fighting for. The iniquitous measure is now before the Legislatures of the States; and some of them, elected without this issue before their constituents, have already commenced action for its adoption. The war is to frighten and befool the people till they will make it their own suicidal act.
The majorities are carried by their leaders, this way or that. This is true at the North as well as at the South. The popular press and the popular pulpit exert the most pernicious and overwhelming influence. They are fanning the war spirit to a flame, burning up the wheat with the chaff. Power, revenge, triumph over all opposition, and glory to the gods of the battles, are everything. Reason and righteousness, nothing. It is to see who shall rule and reign-not so much what the rule and reign shall be-least of all, that it shall be reason and righteousness. The leading journals of the North tell us and assure us that  ”the Union has loyal citizens in every slave State"; but that ”while the weight of numbers has been on the right side, the preponderance of activity, of audacity and effrontery in lying by telegraph has been immensely on the side of the secessionists “The forty-million-lie-power of so many traitorous journals, which say whatever they would wish to have believed secure against contradiction, has doubtless shaken thousands." The forty-million-lie power of the press is as predominant at the North as at the South. It will not be pretended that the actual voters who go to the polls are, more at the South than the North, under the control of the press. The Northern press is just as ”secure against contradiction" as the Southern. There is not a political nor a religious press in the North that has the self-respect, honesty, fidelity to conviction of truth, magnanimity, virtue and courage, to let a philanthropist write in it over his own responsible signature, with guarantee for decorousness and perspicuity of language Not one.
Now, just as the Union spirit among the people of the South cannot withstand the lying press and the lying pulpit that will carry them over to secession, so the spirit of freedom among the people of the North an not withstand the lying press and the lying pulpit here, that will carry them over to compromise, and to war for its accomplishment. Just as the cupidity and rapacity of the South, in the use of the press, the pulpit and the forum, will carry the people for secession, to secure slavery; so the cupidity and rapacity of the North, in the use of the press, the pulpit and the forum, will carry the people for Union and compromise, in slavery to Southern slavery.
ORSON S. MURRAY.
Foster's Crossings, Warren Co., Ohio, May 15.
P S. Since this, article was principally written, I have been made glad in seeing that you have a correspondent at Yale College, entertaining some of the same views and convictions with myself, on this matter. Glad also to hear that thunder from John Quincy Adams. Let Lincoln hear it. Let Scott hear it.  Let Seward hear it. From it, let all these learn their responsibility. Will they heed it?  We shall see. As long as they disregard it, my positions now taken against them stand maintained. O. S. M.

Selected Articles.
THE REIGN OF TERROR IN THE SOUTH.
Northerners Flogged, Shot and Hung in Mississippi-Mustering and Movement of Rebel Troops. 
Nearly every day, some fresh arrivals of refugees from the violence and ferocity of the New Dahomey bring to this city fresh and corroborative proofs of the condition of affairs in the rebel States. Many of these have come hence at the peril of their lives, and to avoid threatened death have taken a hurried journey surrounded by thick dangers from the madmen who now fill the South with deeds of violence and bloodshed.
The people in that section seem to have been given up to a madness that is without parallel in the history of civilization-we had almost written barbarism. They are cut off from the news from the North, purposely blinded by their leaders as to the movements and real power of the government, and in their local presses receive, and swallow the most outrageous falsehoods and misstatements. 
Yesterday, one William Silliman, a person of intelligence and reliability, reached this city, returning from a year's residence in Southern Mississippi. He was one of a party who, in 1860, went from this city, and engaged in the construction of the Mobile and Ohio Railroad. 
Mr. Silliman, for several months past, has lived in Cupola, Itawamba county, one of the lower tier of counties, two hundred and sixty miles from Mobile. He says a more blood-thirsty community it would be difficult to conceive. Perfect terrorism prevails, and the wildest outrages are, enacted openly by the rebels, who -visit with their violence all suspected of loyalty, or withholding full adherence to the kingdom of Jeff. Davis. Could the full history of these outrages be written, and that truthfully, many and
<c05>
most of its features would be deemed incredible and monstrous, belonging to another age, and certainly to another country than our own. 
The party who is suspected of hostility, or even light sympathy, with the rebellion, is at once seized. He is fortunate, if he is allowed to leave in a given time, without flogging. He is still fortunate, if only a <illegible> is added to the order to depart. Many have" been hung or shot on the spot. Mr. Silliman details five instances of the latter as having occurred among the amiable people of Itawamba county, within the last ten weeks, of several of which he was the eye-witness, a mob wreaking their vengeance upon their victims under the approval of local authorities. These five men were Northerners, at different times assailed by the rebels. Three of them were strangers to all about them.
On Sunday of last week a man was hung at Gun-town, who refused to join the rebel army, and also refused to leave. He was taken to a tree in the outskirts of the village, and left hanging to a limb. He had a family in the place. Guntown is ten miles from Cupola. The same day, at Saltillo, a man was hung under very similar circumstances, and still another at Vonono, where a traveller was seized in passing through the place. All these towns are within twenty miles circuit of Cupola, where Mr. Silliman resided.
He says that he can recall twelve instances of killing, whipping, and other outrages thus visited upon the victims of the rebels in that vicinity, within the past two months. Many have been waiting, in the hope that, the storm would ”blow over," but have one after the other been forced to submit, or seek safety in flight-Cincinnati Gazette, May 18th.
A gentleman of high standing, who has been driven out from Memphis, gives an account of the deplorable state of affairs in that place, as detailed by a correspondent of the Tribune. He says:— 
"Memphis aspires to become the great commercial metropolis of the Mississippi Valley; and by way of preparation, with unexampled ferocity, is driving out the Abolitionists, as every’ man who advocates the Union is now called, whether of Northern or Southern birth. More than five thousand worthy and peaceable citizens have already been forced away; and as they could not, even when permitted, settle up their business during the present depression, their property is virtually confiscated. At the .February election, Memphis gave a majority of eight hundred votes for the Union; but after this reign of ruffianism, what a wretched farce will be the vote upon the secession question on the 8th of June!
A 'Committee of Safety (?)'headed by a wealthy grocer named Titus, and composed of those who style themselves the first citizens, is ruling with despotic sway. It is constantly in session, in 'Titus Block'; and for the last two weeks the number of persons brought before it has averaged more than one hundred per day! Here is an illustration of its inquisitorial character:
Last Friday, a quiet, young citizen, a native of southern Illinois, was arrested in his place of business by a policeman, and taken before the Committee. This was at 10 o'clock, A. M.
'A charge against you has been lodged before us,' said the presiding functionary.
'What is it, sir?’ 
'You are charged with saying that you have many acquaintances about Cairo, and will not willingly take up arms against them.'
The young man admitted the truth of the allegation. He was and always had been pro-slavery in sentiments; but had expressed unwillingness to fight against the community in which he was born and bred. For this sole offence he was ordered to leave town at four o'clock that evening, and placed in the custody of a policeman until his departure. Through the neglect of the officer, he missed the cars that night; and was locked up, as a criminal, in the police station-house until four o'clock the next morning, when he took a Northern train. He is now safe in Cairo. 
Within the knowledge of my friend, eight men, after having their heads half shaved, have been started North by the Committee within a few days, and three were under sentence of death when he left. One of these, named Horton, was originally from New York State, but more recently from Chicago. He had been trading in horses through the South for the last eight years; and it was said that he would be hung last Saturday night. It was also currently reported that Mr. Samuel Kennedy, publisher of the West Point (Ark.) Times, had been hung as an Abolitionist. He was a printer by trade, a young man of twenty-two, who went from Chicago only a year or two ago. His friends still reside here; and his father and brother have filled honorable positions in the city government.
On Friday, a Union man who had enlisted in the secession army for personal safety, called on my friend, and implored him to aid his escape. His face was blanched with terror, and he declared that he would give all the property he had in the world to be once more in the North. He was particularly obnoxious to a party of secession ruffians, having been an out-spoken and earnest Union man, and had little hope that he would be permitted to depart alive, even if he could procure his discharge.
The people of Memphis do not pretend to pay Northern indebtedness; the usual course, when a bill is presented by express, is to endorse upon it: Will settle, when the war is over,' and return it. Even the newspaper and job printing establishments are repudiating their debts for paper and ink in Cincinnati and other Northern cities. They now procure news and book paper from Nashville and Baltimore;: letter and cap paper, and the other finer qualities are not attainable. They are at a loss to know where they will obtain printing ink when the present supplies are exhausted, as it is not made in the South, and very few persons are acquainted with the secret of its manufacture. One Memphis printing house has just issued an edition of ten thousand copies of Hardee’s Tactics, but refused to honor the bill for the paper upon which they were printed (from Messrs. Nixon & Goodman, of Cincinnati,) when it was presented. I send you herewith an envelope issued from the same office, stamped with the seven-starred and three-striped flag of what Mr. Everett so happily styles 'the mushroom Confederacy.' The Memphis printers were obliged to send to Cincinnati to get it engraved."
The gentleman gives an account of his passage up the Mississippi from Memphis;-
"The steamer was stopped by a shot across her bows at Fort Harris, fourteen miles above Memphis, where the revolutionists have planted a battery. A party of soldiers came on board in search of a passenger alleged to be an Abolitionist, but did not find him. After they had left, he made his appearance, and went through safely to Cairo.
A man fifty years of age, named Daniel Hoard, formerly of Rochester, N. Y., was on board. The Memphis Committee of Safety had found him guilty of tampering with slaves, on the testimony "of a notoriously lewd negro girl, that he had promised her liberty if she would grant him her favors; and after having his head shaved, had sent him North. But a party of soldiers on the boat placed him under guard, tied his hands together, and exhibited him to the passengers with the most profane and insulting epithets. They assured him that he would never live to see the North again, and took him off with them at Randolph. My informant had formerly known him in the North, but dared not hold any communication with him.
At Osceola, Ark., on Sunday, when the Perry passed, the body of a man was hanging by the heels in full view of the river. A citizen of the place, who came on board, stated that it had been there for eight days; that the victim was from the North, though he had resided there, two or three years. He had been suspected, merely, of attempting to aid slaves in escaping; and without any decided proof, hung, head downward. According to the statement of the Arkansasian, he was suspended an hour and a half in this position before death ended his sufferings. The fact is especially commended to those who were shocked last winter by Senator Sumner's prosposition that slavery is barbarism, and produces a race of barbarians.
When the boat came in sight of Cairo, there were very few Secessionists left on board; and as the passengers saw the stars and stripes again floating, first one and then another began to huzza, until at last nearly all, some with tearful eyes, burst forth in a prolonged, spontaneous, tumultuous cheer for the old flag of the free! Then, for the first time, scores of persons who had been wearing the secession mask discovered their real sentiments to each other; and it proved that of the 150 passengers on board, nearly every man was for the Union, and was flying from the iron despotism which rules the South"-Chicago Tribune 
<c06>
REMARKABLE CONVERSATION WITH JOHN C. CALHOUN. 
LETTER FROM COMMODORE STEWART.
BORDENTOWN, MAY 4, 1861, 
MY DEAR SIR,-Agreeably to your request, I now furnish you with the reminiscences of a conversation which passed between Mr. John C. Calhoun and myself, in the latter part of December, 1812, after the Declaration of war by the Congress of the United States against Great Britain, on the 18th of June previous.
On the assembling of Congress, in the early part of December, I found that an important portion of the leading Democratic members of Congress had taken up their quarters at Mrs. Bushby’s boarding-house; amongst whom was Mr. Calhoun, a new member from South Carolina-and, I believe, this was his first appearances in the House of Representatives. In consequence of this, I and Lieutenant Ridgley-my confidential officer, and the First Lieutenant of the frigate Constellation, of which vessel I then held command, and was preparing for sea at the Washington Navy Yard-left our lodgings at Strothers, and obtained board at Mrs. Bushby's with them. Ridgley was a witty and able talker, who could aid me in demonstrating the necessity for, and the high policy of, a formidable naval force where- with to carry on the war with England , which I considered could only he done with effect through her being victoriously struck at on an element over which she deemed herself sole mistress.  This appeared to me to constitute her most tender point.
By this movement, I found myself judiciously located to enable me to urge upon Congress any patriotic measures which seemed best calculated to meet and discomfit the self-sufficiency and arrogance of our oppressive enemy.
Mr. Calhoun's age, I thought, approximated my own, which was then thirty-four, and he being a man of the highest order of talent, and representing a State in our Union which Scarcely ever permitted themselves to be represented by inferior ability in the National Councils, I could not have commenced my object with one more fitted for the purpose I had in view.  He was also a high-minded and honorable man, kind and friendly, as well as open and confiding, to those he deemed worthy. We soon formed an intimacy, and I frequently had long conversations with him on the war, the subjects relating thereto, and matters growing out of its existence the navy being the most prominent, the gun-boats, the merchants' bonds then on the tapis in Congress, and others of political or minor interest. One evening, I struck on the divided views of our sectional interests, of the war: stated to him that the opposite feelings on this subject had puzzled me exceedingly, and asked how it was that the planting States were so strongly and so decidedly in favor of the war, while the commercial States were so much opposed to it?  With this latter section of our country, it seemed to me that the punishment of England, through the medium of war, ought to meet with their highest approbation, and call for their greatest efforts, as they were the greatest sufferers, through her instrumentality and power over our commercial affairs since 1792, which were so arrogantly urged by plunder and impressments on the highway of nations, while the Southern portion of the Union had felt but little in comparison. I observed with great simplicity:-"You in the South and South-west are decidedly the aristocratic portion of this Union; you are so in holding persons in perpetuity in slavery-you are so in every domestic quality; so in every habit of your lives, living and actions; so in habits, customs, intercourse, and manners: you neither work with your hands, head, or any machinery, but live and have your living, not in accordance with the will of your Creator, but by the sweat of slavery, and yet you assume all the attributes, professions and advantages of Democracy." Mr. Calhoun replied:-I see you speak through the head of a young statesman, and from the heart of a patriot, but you lose sight of the politician and the sectional policy of the people. I admit your conclusion in respect to us Southrons: that we are essentially aristocratic I cannot deny, but we can and do yield much to Democracy.  This is our sectional policy; we are, from necessity, thrown upon and solemnly wedded to that party, however it may occasionally clash with our feelings for the conservation of our interests. It is through our affiliation with that party in the Middle and Western States we control, under the Constitution, the governing of these United States; but when we cease thus to control this nation through a disjointed Democracy, or any material obstacle in that party which shall tend to throw us out of that rule and control, we shall then resort to the dissolution of the Union. The compromises in the Constitution, under the then circumstances, were sufficient for our fathers, but under the altered condition of our country from that period, leave to the South no resource but dissolution; for no amendments to the Constitution could be reached, through a convention of the people and their three-fourths rule." 
I laughed incredulously, and said: “Well, Mr. Calhoun, ere such can take place, you and I will have been so long non est that we can now laugh at its possibility, and leave it with complacency to our children's children, who will then have the watch on deck." 
Alas! my dear sir, how entirely were the views of that ”young-headed statesman" circumscribed by the patriot feelings of his heart!  What he then thought an impossibility for human hands to effect, for ages and ages to come, he now sees verified to the letter, as predicted by that far-seeing statesman, John C. Calhoun. Even this noble Republic is disrupted-its Constitution rent into shreds and tatters by party follies and the wickedness of its people's selfishness. Had they but inherited a moiety of the virtues of their fathers, who bled and impoverished themselves through a long and bloody war to establish the independence and liberty, welfare and happiness of their posterity for all time to come-had they worshipped the true and living God, instead of the ”almighty dollar"-they would not now have beheld the millions of  patriots arming for the strife against traitors to their country, to the Constitution and the laws-once more to baptize in blood, for Liberty's sake, the blessings which rational liberty accords under our Union. Had a prophet arisen in 1812, and predicted as John C. Calhoun did, nothing short of Divine inspiration could have given evidence of his foreshadowings. Alas! I have lived to see its accomplishment.  He has gone to the tomb of his fathers, the pride of his section, honored for his talents and for his efforts in council, while your humble servant still lingers on the brink, under the national anathema of degradation, as a reward for many years of faithful services, which degradation was accorded him simultaneously with his reaching the head of the service, to which his whole life had been devoted.  You will see, my dear sir, I have no disposition to “bury my light under a bushel," but will ever be ready to accord justice where justice is due. Thus in death we show the ruling passion stronger than in life; and as it is with individuals, so it is with nations-the blackest spot found in the heart is ingratitude. 
Accept my assurances of regard and respect, 
CHAS. STEWART.
GEO. W. CHILDS, Philadelphia.

THE SOUTH AND ITS FOREIGN RELATIONS.
We were not mistaken in supposing that the new Southern Heptarchy, resting on negro slavery as its corner-stone, would heartily welcome the threatened seizure of St. Domingo by Spain The Charleston Mercury thus characteristically expresses its sentiments on this point:- 
"In this state of things, Spain takes possession of Hayti. Let her take it. If her power is wisely used, she will bring the negro again to his natural condition of slavery. She will make him useful to himself, and useful to the world. In contact with the white man, he may again he lifted up to that degree of civilization his nature will enable him to attain.  Under the control of the white man, he may again possess a coerced morality, a coerced civilization, a coerced knowledge of true religion; and thus, happier himself, contribute to the world's happiness. We wish Spain all success in her enterprise.” 
The Mercury's idea of religion and morality, we fear, is somewhat peculiar.  It certainly is a new doctrine that can be ”coerced." But what the Mercury means by a moral, a civilized and a religious negro is, one who is a slave. Slavery comprehends morality and Christianity; it embraces and includes them both, in the secession creed.  The slave code is the secession bible-the auction-block its altar-the slave-mart its assembly of saints. Whatever promises to make slaves of negroes, is the gospel of secession-the glad tidings of great joy to the followers of Jeff.-Davis and the secession flag. New York Times.
