THE LIBERATOR 
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING 
-AT-
IN WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No.6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
FOUR copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusettes, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, EDITOR.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
VOL. XXXIV. NO.11 BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1727.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
GEORGE THOMPSON IN AMERICA AGAIN
When the rebellion broke out, and for a long time after, the British Abolitionists sympathized openly with the rebels. We were astonished at this, and thought it a wicked inconsistency in them to wish success to a rebellion made in behalf of slavery. But these was really nothing strange or inconsistent in it. They had been educated to it. The apostles of abolition that we had for years been sending to England-Garrison, Pillsbury, Wright, and the rest —had earnestly and consistently preached the doctrine, “the only deliverance for the slave is over the ruins of the American Church and the American Union.” Their British converts believed this, and when they saw the Union endangered by a great rebellion, they thought it the sure means of deliverance to the slave, and therefore wished it success. It took long time and effort to dispel these old prejudices, and bring them to see that in the success of the government and the perpetuation of the Union lies the best hope for the removal of slavery.
George Thompson, the leading English advocate of abolition, now on his third visit to this country, in a speech in Boston the other night, claimed credit for helping to set British opinion right towards this country. He has undoubtedly contributed to that end, and it was hut an act of justice and due reparation for past injuries on his part; for hitherto he has as associated and labored with those who created that false opinion. While in this country before, he affiliated entirely with the Abolitionists who openly sought the destruction of both Church and State as the necessary means of removing slavery, and was as vehement in his attacks upon the religious as upon the political institutions of the country. It was then the custom of our Abolitionists to denounce as friends and supporters of slavery all who did not join their ranks, and, being a stranger, Mr. Thompson accepted that as true, or professed to do so, and made himself obnoxious by stigmatizing American citizens of character and position, quite as sincerely opposed to slavery as himself, but not ready to destroy the government and the Church in order to remove it. It was not their hostility to slavery that made the Garrison Abolitionists odious, so much as the anarchical and destructive measures they proposed and their gross injustice to all who did not approve those measures. Their fanaticism and madness repelled the best men from the cause they advocated, and made it next to impossible for a patriotic or Christian man to confess himself an Abolitionist.
Mr. Thompson finds a different condition of things now. The Church stands firmer than ever, though the Garrison Abolitionists are not yet reconciled to it, and the people of the North have shown their real feeling towards slavery by welcoming gladly the opportunity offered by the war to seek its utter destruction. They could not be persuaded by the Abolitionists to violate the fundamental law in order to kill slavery; but they are ready to kill slavery in order to maintain that law. Facts have corrected Mr. Thompson's former notion that it was necessary to destroy the American Church and Union in order to destroy slavery; he should also correct his false notion that there is any attachment to slavery among the people of our free States. And if he also corrects himself,. and avoids that looseness of personal invective, indecorous even in a citizen and disgusting in a stranger, which formerly marked his public his public efforts in this, country, Mr. Thompson’s third visit to the United States may neither be unpleasant nor unprofitable to himself. He will not find the American people,. however, in a mood to be patronized by himself or any other Englishman; for after such treatment as we have had from the British government and people, their approval or disapproval is a matter to which we are not in the least degree sensitive. —Springfield Republican.

MONSIEUR TONSON COME AGAIN.

George Thompson, of England, has come to our shores again, and is being glorified in Boston. When he was here before, he was followed and fawned upon by a certain uneasy and conceited class, and he has been in correspondence with them, more or less, ever since, and has been quite a big gun, in his popgun way, of that foolish and functionless abolitionism wherewith it has been the practice of our British cousins to pelt us the last for the last twenty years. And now there is a likelihood that he and his admirers will as much overrate themselves as they did before. He sounded a note before he started, to the effect that having been among the first exposers of the sin of slavery in this country, he hoped to be in time to see it wiped out.
Men of Mr. Thompson’s quality—and the charge strikes at a good many self-sufficient folks here at strikes at a good many self-sufficient folks here at home—have not been the important movers in emancipation that they suppose themselves. Emancipation has thriven in spite of them. They always advocated a policy that would have made slavery a permanency in this country; and nothing saved the North from the disgrace and dishonor which the South has heaped upon itself, except the fact that these men were in a small minority. – N.Y. Examiner (Baptist).

GEORGE THOMPSON AT THE COOPER INSTITUTE.
That pioneer English abolitionist, George Thompson, has had his public reception at the Cooper Institute, and seems to have been very proud of it, in contrasting it with his rough treatment here on his first missionary visit, thirty years ago, and his second, fifteen years later. But the contrast between the Thompson of 1834 and 1850, and the Thompson of 1864, will explain why, in our days of sectional peace and harmony, he was regarded as an unwelcome interloper; and why, in these days of sectional peace and harmony, he was regarded as an unwelcome interloper; and why, in these days of our terrible civil war, he is received without any signs of a hostile public opinion. In 1834 he came as the missionary of a sanguinary abolition agitation. He came to sow the seeds of discord and civil war amongst us, and was rejected and hooted out of the country, but not, however, until, as an abolition disorganizer, and as a secret emissary from the British aristocracy, he had done much mischief. He came again in 1850, when, in spite of the political strength which had been gained by the abolition faction, the compromise measures, worked through Congress by Henry Clay, promised a long term of peace between the two sections. Under such circumstances it was not surprising that “New York was too busy with compromises and Union saving meetings to listen to George Thompson;” for he was naturally regarded by every friend of peace, and by every true philanthropist, as a public enemy, a public disturber, and a public nuisance.
But he comes again in 1864, and is received by his friends in New York as a hero. And wherefore? Because the dragon’s teeth which he assisted in sow-
<c02>
ing broadcast over the land have sprung up into legions of armed men, engaged in the dreadful work of slaughtering each other. The labor of his hands as an abolition pioneer missionary having ripened into a plentiful harvest of blood, he returns to claim his reward. He comes to rejoice over our misfortunes and to glory in his work. He comes as a philanthropist, when at best his whole career has been that of a reckless fanatic. Having wasted his time, talents and money in the pernicious business of inflaming the two sections of this country to the arbitrament of fire and sword, and when we are taxing all our resources to the uttermost to save the life of the nation, he returns from England as a distressed philanthropist and a money beggar. We only hope that his modesty will not cause him to limit his labors in this character to the charities of his Northern abolition friends; for in the matter of bringing about this terrible war, he has been of equal service to the disunion faction of the South.—New York Herald.

DISLOYAL UNIONISM.
George W. Thompson, the intermeddling British Abolitionist, who, several years ago, visited this country, and boldly advocated disunion, had a reception at Cooper Institute, New York, last night. General John C. Fremont was to preside, and, we presume, did so. The New York Tribune, speaking on the subject, says:—
"There are prejudices against Mr. Thompson among our people, growing out of the fact that he was among us thirty years ago, when ‘Liberty and Union’ were not ‘ one and inseparable;’ and he stood sternly for Liberty. ‘The Union’ being a Shibboleth of oppression, he repudiated the giant wrong and all its hiding-places. But, from the hour when slavery sought the life of our country, he has been that country’s untiring and most efficient champion.”
The Tribune’s sneer at the Union “as having been a Shibboleth of oppression" is one in which that paper does not indulge alone. Every rebel in the; South—every pro-slavery man in the land utters the same sneer almost every day of his life. South Carolina attempted to justify her act of secession by declaring “the Union a Shibboleth of oppression.” The expression is the language of a traitor, whether used in Charleston or New York—whether coming from the lips of Governor Pickens or Horace Greeley. Both these men have used it. Pickens avowed it and acted on it, in 1861; Greeley and Thompson avowed and desired to act upon it, in 1850. Greeley calls Pickens a “rebel;” yet Pickens has done nothing more than adopt and practise Greeley's own axioms.
Mr. Greeley claims to be a Union man in 1864, and we are forced to admit that he is a Union man. But we certainly do not owe his Unionism to his loyalty. He derided and sneered at the Union as a ”shibboleth of oppression” in 1850, and, with Wendell Phillips, wished to see it destroyed; and, if he has espoused the Union cause since then, it is for some other, reason than patriotic affection for it.—St. Louis Union.
The Liberator.
LETTERS FROM ENGLAND. NO. V.
BIOGRAPHY OF GEO. THOMPSON, ESQ.
BY WILLIAM FARMER, ESQ.
Mr. Thompson’s connection with the Anti-Corn Law League, which was in fact a society for the abolition of the slavery which the landocracy of this country bad imposed upon its industry, commenced soon after his rejection of the tempting offer made to him by the Protectionists; but in 1841 he rendered that organization—and through it the country at large—a service, which, if not the proximate, was the remote cause of the abolition of the bread tax, and other imposts upon the necessaries of life, shortly afterwards. His continued travels throughout the United Kingdom bad brought him into contact with most of the leading ministers of religion of all denominations, with the greater portion of whom he had entered into relationships of warm personal friendship. He was thus enabled to gather together, from every part of the country, six hundred and forty-five ministers of religion of ' every communion, in addition to twenty-two letters of sympathy from others who were unable to be present, and one characteristic snubbing epistle from the present canon McNeile of Liverpool, and a second of a like nature from the Rev. W. M. Bunting, son of the Rev. Jabez Bunting, D. D., then the great head of the Wesleyan body. I purpose referring somewhat at length to this Convention, for two reasons; first, because I regard it as one of the most important services which Mr. Thompson ever rendered to his country and the world; and secondly, because of the catholic spirit then breathed by its speakers, which strikingly contrasts with the narrow, pharisaical exclusiveness with which these same gentlemen excommunicated the American Abolitionists on account of the alleged heterodoxy of a portion of their members. Happily, this social proscription has become an event of the past; but it teaches a lesson which may be very useful in preventing our high-class Brahmins from falling into similar inconsistency in future. As Mr. Thompson has been gravely censured by them for associating with such theological pariahs as William Lloyd Garrison and his colleagues, a reference to the inconsistency between speech and action of his accusers may be a sufficient answer to their reproaches, and form a not inappropriate portion of his biography. The Rev. Dr. Massie stated that “It was his honor to have been associated, from the first conception of this measure, with his distinguished friend, Mr. Thompson, the honorary secretary of the preliminary committee, whose name had become the common property of philanthropy, benevolence and patriotism” This is the very reason assigned by Mr. Thompson for deeming it an honor to be associated with the American Abolitionists. The Doctor then proceeds-” It was to avoid the appearance of any tinge of sectarianism that the invitations to this meeting had been issued in his name.” Mr. Thompson was appointed as the convener of the meeting, because he was wholly unsectarian. The Rev. T. Smith, A. M., Theological Tutor of Rotherham College spoke of Mr. Thompson's name as "the common property of the church and the public.” Mr. Thompson was called upon to deliver the farewell address, which was one of the most eloquent speeches he ever delivered. He thus described the catholic spirit of the assembly, united only upon one point, the philanthropic object for which they had assembled:-“ The sublime spectacle has, for the first time in the annals of the world, been presented of seven hundred ministers of religion, of widely varying theological opinions, assembling together; not only without 
discord, contention and animosity, but with a degree of brotherly love and delicate courtesy
<c03>
and consideration one towards another, deserving the highest admiration, and furnishing the demonstration that, where the good of our common humanity is sought, men can merge the differences which divide them out of doors, in a generous and combined effort for the rescue of their suffering brethren. (Loud applause.) Your conference has been distinguished by catholicity without compromise; by a stern maintenance of the cardinal principles of Christian morality, without the slightest abatement of your attachment to those peculiarities by which, as sects and religious parties, you are known.” What language could more aptly or eloquently describe the platform of the American Anti-Slavery Society? And yet many of the men who joined in the loud applause of this liberal sentiment have subsequently censured Mr. Thompson for his philanthropic association with American Abolitionists, because some of them did not exactly pronounce their own theological shibboleth! The same anti-slavery application may also be made of the following passage:—" Prompted by a feeling of humanity, inspired by the genius of the gospel, and touched with pity for the miseries of those around them, a noble army of seven hundred men—the soldiers of Christ, the preachers of righteousness, the friends of the poor and the perishing—have left their homes, and the altars at which they minister, and have come up to the help of the Lord, to the help of the Lord against the mighty. (Hear, hear, and applause.) There have not been wanting those who, by anticipation, have poured contempt on the noble effort. Predictions of failure, charges of incompetency, the imputation of low and sordid motives, have been plentiful. But your numbers, your demeanor, the spirit you have displayed, the wisdom you have brought to the task, the absence of every petty and party feeling, by which all your doings have been characterized, these have scattered the fears of the timid and the hopes of the wicked to the winds, and have given the friends of perishing humanity assurance that the ministers of religion in Great Britain, from Caithness to Cornwall, and from Cape Clear to Holyhead, are men who can, when necessary, bury in one grave their polemical animosities and their partizan predilections, and, as brethren, unite to assert the rights of the poor, and justify the ways of God toward the children of men.” And yet, many of the men who thus cheered the noble sentiments of Mr. Thompson, have since turned out the most ultra sectarian purists, wearing the broadest of phylacteries, and pouring their ecclesiastical anathemas upon him, because he united with some men of a different faith to his own; because, in his language of 1841, he consented to “ bury in one grave their polemical animosities and their partizan predilections, and as brethren unite to assert the rights of the poor slave, and justify the ways of God toward the children of men.” Nor was the expression of this catholic spirit by any means confined to Mr. Thompson. The first day's chairman, the Rev. Thomas Adkins, in opening the proceedings, asked for what the conference was commenced; and then gave the following reply to the question:—" Not to place themselves in hostile array, sect against sect, and party against party, (applause,) within the narrow lines of sectarian denomination; not to hurl at each other the brutem fulmen of excommunication, placing the unhappy delinquent under the ban of exclusion in this world, and consigning him to final perdition in the world to come; not to harmonize the jarring shibboleths of conflicting creeds; but men, brethren and fathers, occupied and interested by an object greater than which can hardly enter into the minds of the most eminent Christians, but less than which cannot satisfy ours. (Loud applause.) We are met together, then, brethren and fathers, at the call of suffering humanity, (applause,) and that call reaches us, not across the briny ocean, but through the green valleys and populous streets of our own native land. We are, I admit, met at the very outset of our procedure by a query, ‘What have Christians, and, more than all, Christian ministers, to do with temporal politics?’ But I have yet to learn that, when we become denizens of that kingdom which is not of this world, we are to forego the immunities, and forget the duties that relate to the present life. I have yet to learn how, when we begin to be Christians, we cease to be men." Is it not a lamentable fact that many of these Orthodox ministers did subsequently most grievously apostatize from this truly catholic faith? that they hurled their brulem fulmen of excommunication against the American Abolitionists; that they placed them under the ban of the odium theologicum, although professing perfect agreement with their anti-slavery principles? Dr. Pye Smith said, "We have come together in no capacity, assumed or implied, expressed or imagined, of authority. We are not a conclave, nor a synod, nor a convocation. We disclaim any pretensions of a right to make laws or regulations, or any desire to bind the consciences of our fellow Christians, or to command their practice." They were willing then to suspend for the time, for the sake of the common cause and the broadest possible platform, their own denominational peculiarities, however fundamental they might regard them in themselves. Dr. Halley, for example, objected to vocal prayer, not for himself, but because there were Roman Catholic priests in the conference, to whom it would not be agreeable; surely, in an Evangelical Congregationalist, that was going a long way in concession for the sake of philanthropic union; much more than would be needed on the anti-slavery platform. "Why should those who agreed with him arrogate to themselves any right to conduct the religious services? Was it because they constituted a majority? He trusted the meeting would not be influenced by any such reason. They had to consider the wants of the poor; and he hoped the apple of religious discord would not be thrown in to mar their efforts at removing them." The Rev. Mr. Sioree, of Coventry, said, "We have agreed to sheathe the sword of theological controversy, and to unite in promoting an object worthy of our best energies, and dear to every Briton, especially to every British Christian—the welfare of our country, and the happiness of our fellow-men. Let the priest and Levite, the selfish and the inhuman, pass by on the other side; but let us, as good Samaritans, gather round the wounded, woe-begone traveller, and poor in oil and wine, and thus illustrate and answer the inquiry, ‘Who is my neighbor?' In many points of theology we may differ; but there is one doctrine we all believe, one principle we all support, one creed to which we all subscribe; it is that contained in the golden rule, 'Whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so to them.’ The subject which has called us together is of no sectarian character. The groan and lament of starving millions is not the cry of a sect or party. Catholic and Protestant, Churchman, Dissenter and Wesleyan, feel alike the iron band of the oppressive bread tax, which in the infliction of its tortures is at least no respecter of persons. The cry of the widow and fatherless is not the cry of a sect, unless it be of that sect which among the oppressors has always been spoken against, that of the injured and oppressed.” The Rev. Mr. Hearne, a catholic
<c04>
priest of Manchester, said, “It gave him infinite pleasure to see this assembly; for it was a proof that though they might differ about modes of faith, charity, the soul and essence of religion, was there." The Rev. Thomas Spencer, an Episcopalian, Rector of Hinton Charterhouse, said, “" It was because of their great zeal for a great object, which made them overlook all minor differences, and not allow themselves to be disturbed or diverted from the great object for which they had assembled. (Loud applause.) I have such a bias in my mind in favor of liberty, that I prefer being where there is a variety of sentiment, to being with those who are all of one mind. I like this approximation and tendency to one common center; it is the best sign in our day. (Applause.) And if this object for which we are met will not draw men together, and cause them to lose all party spirit, all bitter hatred and malice towards one another, I don’t know what will” The Rev. S. J. Phillips, Catholic priest of Liverpool, "expressed his gratification to see gentle men of such various theological opinions, uniting so harmoniously in the cause of the poor." Would it not have been equally gratifying to see them uniting in the cause of the poor slave? The Rev. F. A. Cox, D. D., who had shunned the American Abolitionists as dangerous lepers solely on account of a certain amount of alleged heterodoxy existing among them, said to this assembly of Episcopalians and Presbyterians, Papists and Protestants, Trinitarians and Unitarians, Baptists and Swedenborgians, Inghamites, Calvinists and Armenians-“Gentlemen, why should we be here?? I ask why we should not be here?? (Loud cheers.) Is any principle sacrificed? (Cries of “No!”) Is any duty neglected? (No!) Are the mere interests of a party, theological or political, subserved? (No!) Our principle is to love God supremely, and our neighbor as ourselves. Our duty is to do good, by whatever means we can accomplish it.” Why not then, professing to long for the freedom of the slave, unite with his best and truest friend, Mr. Garrison, for the accomplishment of that object? What kept the Doctor away from such a righteous association in America? Nothing, but those very theological differences which he trod under foot with indignant contempt in Manchester. Had he been converted to his new and catholic views after he returned home from America? Then he was, as a Christian and a man, bound to have made the amende honorable to the American Abolitionists for his former fault. It was his duty to have left his gift upon the altar, and to have sought reconciliation with his injured brother, before he presented it. Quotations of catholic expressions, similar to the above, might be greatly multiplied from the speeches then delivered. I have cited them, somewhat at length, to show that these reverend gentlemen, and not Mr. Thompson, have subsequently apostatized from the great fundamental principle of liberality, by which the conference of 1841 was united, and upon which alone it could have acted. If the imposition of a theological test, as a term of communion, was wrong on the subject of the bread tax, what makes it right on the question of slavery?
Those who know the history of the Anti-Slavery movement will understand the relevancy of these observations in a sketch of the public career of Mr. Thompson. I know, from many years of observation, that the frowns, the cold-shoulders, the drawing-room whisperings and systematic detraction which he had to endure, solely on account of his faithfulness to the American Abolitionists, and his fearless rebukes of British churches for their unfaithfulness to the cause of the slave, have amounted to absolute persecutions. They are by no means the least of the great sacrifices which he has been called upon to make for the cause of emancipation. The reticence of the churches upon the subject, with few exceptions, cannot be regarded as an immaterial sin of omission. By fellowshipping the leading divines of the apostate American churches, they gave vitality and power to the pro-slavery influences which they were exerting in Great Britain as well as America. It may be a grave charge, but it is nevertheless true, that this pro-slavery action, positive as well as negative, of British churches, has been the cause of the fearful loss of life and treasure in the American civil war, and of the all but state of starvation of our operatives in the North. There can be no question that the South would never have attempted to secede, nor have fired a shot at Fort Sumter, had it not been for her full reliance upon recognition by Great Britain, and the consequent breaking up of the blockade by our ships of war. Upon what was that confident anticipation founded?? Partly upon the power of Mammon; but, mainly, upon the pro-slavery leaven which she knew had been infused into the churches. The break age of the blockade would have led to a war with England, which would have had a double action. It would have weakened the North, by dividing its power against two enemies instead of one; and it would have doubled or trebled the material resources of the South. Had the data reasoned upon been well-founded, we doubt rebeldom would have succeeded in achieving her independence. The great miscalculation of the South was that her Defilahs had effectually shorn the locks of public opinion in Great Britain; she did not imagine that there was strength enough left in it to pull down the house about the ears of the uncircumcised Philistines. Lord Stanley, upon introducing the Emancipation Bill into the House of Commons in 1833, said truly that “when the Christian public of this country spoke out in the deep conviction of their religious principle, it was with a power which no Parliament nor cabinet could neglect nor despise.” Had the high-toned anti-slavery principle which prevailed in Great Britain in 1833 been maintained in reference to American slavery, and had the same catholic basis of union existed amongst Abolitionists which was adopted by the Manchester Conference in 1841, American slavery would, ere this, have been under a process of gradual, if not total and speedy abolition. It is true that the evils of the past cannot now be remedied, and, therefore, that no good purpose can be subserved by now expatiating upon the sins of the churches; but, nevertheless, they may serve as beacons to warn them from future dangers, and point out the rocks upon which they may make shipwreck, if they neglect the chart of righteous principle.
That there was some cause besides the alleged heterodoxy for this prejudice against the American Abolitionists is demonstrated by the following facts: —no such scruples were exhibited in our own anti-slavery societies by the Orthodox ministers. It mattered not whether he was or was not a Galilean; provided be was ready to join in the destruction of the Philistine, the hand of brotherhood was extended to him. Again, the British and Foreign Bible Society, composed almost entirely of the members of Evangelical Protestant denominations, deliberately voted at a crowded meeting at Exeter Hall, that Unitarians were Christians, and as such entitled to membership. That catholic principle was supported by Daniel Wilson, the late Bishop of Calcutta, the Vice Chancellor of England, and the most prominent members of the Orthodox Evangelical
<c05>
party, whose throats contracted so wonderfully in reference to the American Abolitionists. Again, in the Anti-Corn Law league, the Orthodox and the heterodox stood side by side on the same plat form, and any questions asked about a man’s religious faith would have been deemed simple impertinence. Finally, the question of Parliamentary reform was taken up by a large number of Evangelical pastors as a ministerial question. They, moreover, joined in a Conference held at Crosby Hall, at which they stood in association with William Johnson Fox, whom they regard as a Pantheist, George Dawson, a Unitarian and something more, and, to crown all, one of the Honorary Secretaries was George Jacob Holyoake, a well-known and avowed preacher of Atheism, and editor of the infidel publication, The Reasoner. What then was the something else which made all the difference with the American Abolitionists? Simply the pro-slavery slanders of American divines in this country. These remarks may appear to have a posthumous birth; “but for practical purposes they are, nevertheless, pertinent in a history of George Thompson.

THE WELCOME TO GEORGE THOMPSON.
A man who has laid his hands upon two nations, helping to break chains in each, deserves the reward of generous praise. So on Monday night, at the Cooper institute, we all clapped our hands into a heat, at the public reception of George Thompson. We have heard of "English cheers” and a “Soctch welcome," but, after all, what is heartier than an American greeting?
The enthusiastic multitude on that occasion did equal honor to their guest and to themselves; for they gave him cause to forgive their old injuries done to a stranger; and showed how fitting it was that the city which once east him out with cursings, should welcome him back with acclamations. “whom we injure, we hate,” says the proverb; and having injured this man too greatly, we hated him too long. Coming to us as a prophet, we stoned him as a prophet; but, at last, the very stones once cast at him are now made into his monument. It is thus that foolish multitudes, from the beginning of Christianity, have always cheated themselves out of their victims—villifying good men into better fame, and persecuting them into final coronation.
At the meeting on Monday night, one of the audience, and one who cheered loudly, was a New York politician, who, years ago, was a hound of the pack that howled Mr. Thompson out of the. city. Is there not hope for the world when a man who begins as a dog, and passes into a politician, may yet come out right at last?
When the times change, bow quickly men change with them! And bow sincerely the men of the new opinions think they have never held any other! Out of our window, this frosty morning, is a weather-cock pointing due North—looking, like many others at the Monday night’ meeting, as having always pointed that way. Of course, the altered and improved sentiment of the country is a cause for joy and thanks giving; yet we could not help thinking, while sitting at that festival, that if the popular opinion had only changed at an earlier day—when it was appealed to solely on the ground of moral principle, instead of by the exigency of war— how many tears might have been saved, bow many graves been kept unfilled, bow many hearts remained unbroken! The eloquent man who, many years ago, came to speak to a free people concerning their freedom—and whose single and constant speech was the same then as now—ought to have been heeded then, as he is applauded now. Had this been so, the orator, instead of having lately helped to save us from a war with England, would have earlier saved us from the war with Ourselves. George Thompson, advocating in England in 1864 the cause of the Union, was not more our friend than while advocating in America in 1834 the cause of freedom.
We scorn the littleness of speech which still comes from a few pens and tongues, decrying an Englishman, who opens his mouth in this country, as an intermeddler with our affairs. The cause of liberty is as universal as Human Nature; and no man who serves among her knight-errantry, come from what ever land or clime he will, is a foreigner or an alien. If liberty in Italy may ask the sympathy of an American for Garibaldi in prison, so liberty in America may ask the eloquence of an Englishman for the negro in chains. John Bright is an Englishman: but if he were to come to this country, would we not give him a hearing? But John Bright has publicly said that British Emancipation owes to George Thompson more than to any other man. American Emancipation owes him something as well. He is part of the salt that gives savor to the proclamation of Abraham Lincoln. To George Thompson, therefore, who comes for the third time to our shores, expecting now to spend the remainder of his days here, we give a hearty welcome—not as an Englishman, nor as to be an American—but as a brave and true man who, proudly claiming both countries, is proudly claimed of both.—N. Y. Independent.

GEORGE THOMPSON.
This most eloquent of modern Englishmen is again in this country. When he visited as last, in 1850, it was as an abolitionist. His eloquence, his logic could be answered only in one way, and that the method common at the Sonth. He was mobbed in Faneuil Hall. He was burned in effigy at Springfield.. All ignorant and brutal prejudice was stirred up against him. His philanthropy was made to appear officious interference; and his honest desire to see this country truly prosper by ridding itself of slavery was interpreted into a desire to meddle with our institutions and involve us in trouble.
Time has shown who were our true and who our false friends. The men in England we regarded as our best friends in the days of our compromising degradation, were prompt to take sides with the rebels when our troubles came. Those who had sided with us in fair weather, wished us a speedy wreck when the storm came. But George Thompson was among the noble men who early and constantly espoused the cause of the North. He gave good for evil. Before the war, we knew him only as an abolitionist. Since the strife began, he has been an ardent and devoted friend of President Lincoln, the administration, and the Northern cause.
Mr. Thompson was bred in a mercantile house in London, and it was not till 1830 that he became known to the public. At that time he read the great speech of Dr. Thompson of Edinburgh in favor of immediate emancipation, embraced its views, and was soon after employed by the Anti Slavery Society of London to travel and lecture. His success was complete, astonishing. No antagonist could stand before him. The West India body, taking alarm, put forward Mr. Peter Borthwick to 
present the slaveholding view of the question, and though he was a foeman worthy of Thompson’s steel, yet the advocate of slavery could not stand
<c06>
before the champion of Freedom. The wit, eloquence, sarcasm, logic, facts of the latter always gained him the victory.
After the passage of the West India abolition bill, Mr. Thompson came to this country, but was driven away. Returning, he turned his attention to the affairs of British India, advocating the rights of the natives against the rapacity and oppression of the East India Company. In 1842 he visited India, and was received like a conqueror, greeted with long processions of richly caprisoned elephants and camels, with cymbals and trampets, and escorted with all the gorgeous pomp of the orient. He, however, busied himself with investigations, and on his return made his attack on the East India House, in defence of the dethroned Rajah. He made a great sensation, and a scene ensued that recalled the days of Lord Clive and Warren Hastings. It was an era in the history of the Court of Proprietors, and his eloquent pleas for justice and honor were not in 
vain. 
In the Corn Law struggle, he fought side by side with Cobden and Bright, and swung the keenest blade in the Free Trade contest. In 1847, he was elected by a majority unprecedentedly large to the House of Commons. He was an advocate of universal suffrage, of the dissolution of the union of Church and State, and free education.
Mr. Thompson’s oratory we have never heard equalled. His compass is greater than that of any speaker we know. Others may excel him in certain things, but he is remarkable in everything. In lofty flights he is irresistible, full of passion and the fire of genius; his sarcasm is terrible; and yet his pathos is more moving, his wit is very keen, and his humor is so taking that, at times, you think he would have made the best comedian in the world; and, withal, he is the most grateful, polished and elegant of speakers. He recalled to us, when we heard him in 1850, what we had read of the greatest orators of the English parliament, when such men as Burke and Fox and Sheridan were its ornaments. Upon an occasion when Mr. Thompson had been speaking on the formation of the British India Society, Lord Brougham arose and said: "I have always pleasure in listening to Mr. Thompson, who is the most accomplished orator whom I know." There could not be higher praise; but those who hear him will be likely to endorse it.—Hartford Press.

PORT ROYAL LANDS.
On the 9th day of March last, the United States Tax Commissioners for the District of South Carolina offered for public sale at Beaufort, in pursuance of a law of Congress, for the collection of taxes, 76,775 acres of land.
Of this amount, 60,296 acres were purchased by the United States, and 16,479 acres, or about 4648 plantations, including small islands, were sold to private parties. All the lands were situated on St. Helena, Ladies, Port Royal and Parry’s Islands.
On the 16th day of September last, the President of the United States issued instructions to said Tax Commissioners. On the 12th of December, these instructions were published in the “Free South," and occupied two and a quarter columns in fine print, and contemplate the disposal of the balance of the lands bid in and now absolutely owned by the United States, viz.: 60,296 acres. These instructions reserve 6,081 acres for school purposes, and 13,370 acres for "war, military, naval, revenue and police” purposes, leaving 40,845 acres to be sold. 24,316 of these acres are to be put into lots not exceeding 320 acres each, to be sold at public sale; the balance, or 16,529 acres, are to be sold at private sale “to the heads of families of the African race.”
On the 5th of December, the Commissioners, in their advertisement of the public sale to take place on February 18th, 1864, say that “the land to be sold comprehend in all about 23,000 acres” or, according to the above estimate, 24,316 acres. Here is a slight inaccuracy, but it is not material for this purpose.
If we add the 24,316 acres to the 16,479 acres sold in March last, we shall have 40,795 acres in large tracts which will have been sold when the sale closes in February, only to the capitalist; and 16,529 acres to be divided into lots not to exceed 20 acres, “at such sum, not less than $1.25 per acre, as the said Commissioners shall designate and determine as proper to be charged for said lands” to the negroes.
For the capitalist, then, we have 40,795 acres.
For the negro, we have 16,479 acres.
In 40,795 acres, there are 127 1/2 lots, containing 320 acres. If we put a white family of five persons on each of these lots, it will make an aggregate population of 637, or 64 acres per head.
If we reckon the colored population on St. Helena, Port Royal, Ladies and Parry’s Islands at 8,000, and divide 16,497 acres among them, it will be 206 acres per head; or,
The white man gets 32 chances at the land, while the negro gets 1 chance.
Here in Port Royal, where the eyes of all thoughtful and humane men, not only in our country but abroad, are hopefully turned, what do such facts and figures prove? The truth is, that, so far as the purchaser is concerned, the United States Tax Commissioners, for the District of South Carolina sold, in March last, the fairest, best located, and most fertile portion of these lands, including the best of the buildings, for, on the average, about 93 cents per acre, being 25 per cent below government price for the lands alone, under the late instructions of the President, dated December 31, 1863. Now they propose by their advertisement which appears this, the 6th day of February, 1864,—thirty-seven days after the President’s instructions of Dec. 31,—to sell in twelve days from tab date 24,316 acres, in 320 acre lots, to only such as can afford to buy. And who are these? “The negro,” does any one say., singly or in combination? No, emphatically no! But to the capitalist, who, tempted by the fabulous prices of cotton, comes here to run these lands and laborers at the exhaustive point, to make the greatest amount of money in the shortest possible time, and then be off.
If hundreds of thousands of dollars can be made here at cotton growing, is it not the part of good economy and statesmanship in this case to allow the loyal freedmen, now merging from cimmerian darkness to earn this money, and spend it here upon himself, and to build up the interests of his section? Is it wise to allow the absentee and adventurer to make this money at the expense of the down-trodden, and spend it elsewhere? If this practice is to be pursued, the liberties of these people are not worth a straw. It is mockery.
The next conclusion to which we are driven is this: that when the Commissioners set apart 16,529 acres for the negro, giving only 2 acres per head, whether they designed it or not, they annulled his power to become a party to the contract of wages, and made the holder of the large tract the only party to the contract. Did the Commissioners mean this? Did the Government which they represent
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
mean this? Do the People mean it? Is this, here’ within our military lines, with not the shadow of a rebel near, with everything our own way, with the greatest opportunity to do justice to the oppressed, and to bring in full play the nobilities of our best nature-is it here, and now, that the American People mean to stake their reputation on the inauguraration of such a land monopoly as this? Are we going to re-enact the British West Indian drama by long years of injustice after emancipation? Do we mean feudalism? Are we going to take away the slave from the Southern oligarch, who has made for us this rebellion, and bind him over to another system of servitude, only modified in form, and then add hypocrisy to injustice as often as we pronounce in his presence the sacred name of freedom?
The white man and capitalist, then, with all his intelligence, with the advantage of almost a century of republican liberty, the spirit of which streamed down to him through the ages of the proudest nation on earth, is to start in the race with the poor uninstructed negro, crushed by 240 years of unrequited toil and degradation. Three hundred and twenty acres with the white man on one side, and two acres with the negro on the other, and this to be the basis of Southern life and the future policy of the American people! Do we seriously mean this?? If we do, then God save the mark! 
Not the stubbornest rebel in rebeldom, when humbled in the dust before the Union flag, could desire a better gain for his losses than this. He would, verily, have occasion to thank these Commissioners for carving out for him a system of oppression so much better than he could do it for himself.
Bear in mind, that this little formula of 32 to 1 is, in the estimation of these learned Commissioners, to be the expression, throughout all future time, of the measure of justice to be imparted by our common country to the colored man.
On the 16th day of January, or thereabout, the Commissioners received another order from the President, inaugurating justice to the negro, and equal rights to all. When it was announced in that little church on St. Helena Island, the many moistened eyes, more eloquent than words, told us how acceptable it was, and filled us with hope, for once, for the temporal salvation of the colored race.
Shall we, who owe the race so heavy a debt, dash this hope to the earth, and leave the debt unpaid?
-The Free South. F. J. W.
THE OLD FREEMEN OF L0UISIANA.
NEW YORK, March 1, 1864. 
To the Editors of the Evening Post:
GENTLEMEN: The public journals have announced the arrival in this city, on their way to Washington, of a delegation from the free colored people of Louisiana, to present to the government their claims to be invested with all the rights, civil and political, of free native citizens of the United States.
My recent visit to the Department of the Gulf afforded me the opportunity of becoming acquainted with many important facts with regard to these people, that I think cannot fail to be. of interest to your readers, and I therefore take the liberty of sending to you the following brief statements: 
The free colored people of Louisiana, previous to the rebellion, constituted about one-tenth of her whole free population. According to the State Register for the year 1855, there were but one thousand adult males out of a population of from twenty-five thousand to thirty thousand of these free colored people who could not read and write. And in the year 1860 they were assessed for State and other taxes, upon real and personal estate, to the amount of nearly fifteen millions of dollars. By a comparison of these statistics with those of the white population relative to the same subjects, it will be found that they are a body of people not only as well educated, but richer than any other equal portion of the inhabitants of the State.
It is true that, while they have been compelled to pay the school tax upon the large amount above stated, they have been rigidly excluded from any participation in the benefits of the very schools they were compelled to support. But they have amply provided for the instruction of their children in private institutions. Many of the most wealthy of them have been accustomed to send their children abroad, and especially to France, for their education. 
Many, indeed the greater portion of these people, are the descendants of the first Spanish and French settlers, while Louisiana was still "a colony or province of France," and at the period of the treaty of cession to the United States were as free as any other portion of its inhabitants. The French republic, mindful of the rights of all its citizens, and fully trusting in the good faith of its sister republic, believed it had provided for a complete recognition of these rights in the third article of the treaty of cession, which was in these words, viz.:
"The inhabitants of the ceded territory shall be incorporated into the Union of the United States, and admitted, as soon as possible, according to the principles of the Federal Constitution, to the enjoyment of all the rights, advantages and immunities of citizens of the United States."
That treaty was concluded and signed at Paris on the 30th day of April, 1803, the first Napoleon being then First Consul.
After a lapse of more than sixty years, may not the children of the "inhabitants" whose rights, privileges and immunities were guarantied by this treaty, reasonably ask for its fulfillment on the part of the United States?
But these people do by no means found their claim to recognition upon this ancient pledge of good faith of the national government, solemn as it was, alone., In themselves, and in their own intrinsic qualifications to discharge all the duties of citizenship, they claim to stand upon a level with any other portion of the people of Louisiana. And certainly, as far as my knowledge goes, after no inconsiderable inquiry from those having the most intimate knowledge of their affairs, in regard to intelligence, good character, industry and property, I have never beard their claim disputed, even by their most prejudiced opponents. The one single objection is, the iota, more or less considerable (for many of them are even of fairer complexion than you or I), of colored pigment in their cuticle.
But just now, Mr. Editor, the question of loyalty to the national government is of the deepest interest in Louisiana. The rehabilitation of the State with a truly loyal constituency is the one great need there as well as elsewhere. And in this regard, how do these free colored people of Louisiana stand? Let facts speak for them. 
In June last, while General Banks was laying siege to Port Hudson, leaving the city of New Orleans with few troops for its defence, a report came to Governor Shepley that Magruder, with a force of fifteen thousand men, was advancing on the city, and was already not far in the rear of Algiers, the little village on the opposite bank of the river. Governor Shepley immediately issued a call to the loyal white inhabitants of the city to rally in its defence, and provided for their organization into regiments. After waiting several days, and after ascertaining that many of the police and other patriotic officials of the city had resigned and retired into private life, and that there was little help to be hoped for from that quarter, Governor Shepley called for volunteers from the free colored people. This call was made on the morning of the 2d of July, and before night more than a hundred of the stores and workshops of the city were closed by the occupants, and on the 4th of July the first regiment was already organized, armed and ready for service, and in seventy-two hours afterwards a second regiment was in the field. Arnold Bertonneau, one of the delegation now in this city, was a captain in the first of these regiments.
Magruder did not make his appearance, and some six weeks afterwards the loyal white men began to volunteer, and a part of a regiment was, I believe, subsequently raised under the call of Governor Shepley.
At this present moment, New Orleans is not agitated by a threatened attack of the public enemy, but by the question as to who of the inhabitants of the State are entitled to the high privilege of aiding in, the restoration to the Union. In this exigency these free colored men of Louisiana, who were free in the blood of their fathers at the time of the treaty above mentioned, who, besides, indisputably posses all the qualifications of character, intelligence and property of any other portion of the inhabitants of the State, and whose loyalty has been proved by a test at least as stringent as any oath that Jacob Barker might conclude to take under protest (besides being willing to take that oath in their hearts as well as upon their lips), are, under the recent proclamation of General Banks, excluded from all political rights, and so from what they conceive the great privilege of aiding in the restoration 
<c02>
of the State to the Union as a loyal State. Under these circumstances they have very properly taken an appeal to the paramount jurisdiction of the national authorities. Their case is a peculiar one, and is to be judged on its own grounds. There is no other such body of people in the United States. The question of granting them political rights has nothing to do with the propriety or justice of conferring these rights at once upon the whole body of emancipated slaves. There is no parallel between them. The very grounds upon which they are claimed by the one, might be set up as excluding for the present the other.
Besides, permit me to suggest that there are civil necessities arising at the present moment in Louisiana quite as urgent, perhaps, as the military ones last July, under which these people were called to take up arms. The government cannot afford to to lose, there or elsewhere in the rebel States, the civil support of any of its truly loyal citizens. 
Respectfully yours, 
JAMES McKAYE.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 1864.
GEORGE THOMPSON INVITED TO THE NATIONAL CAPITAL.
We do not know whether this distinguished advocate of universal freedom has cause to feel more flattered by the approbation of the wise and good, than by the revilings of the ignorant and wicked. For the latter, see the "Refuge" on our first page. As an offset to these, we are highly gratified to be able to publish the following very honorable invitation, to which, in addition to those of the officers of the Washington Lecture Association, are appended the names of the Vice President of the United States, and of prominent Senators and Representatives:-
WASHINGTON CITY, (D. C.) Feb. 22, 1864.
HONORABLE GEORGE THOMPSON:
DEAR SIR-The undersigned, constituting the Board of Managers of the "Washington Lecture Association," assured that your zeal in the cause of human liberty has not abated,-and entertaining, as we do, the highest estimate of those labors which have marked your career as a statesman and teacher,-labors which we feel persuaded have wrought an important influence for public good in both hemispheres,-avail ourselves of this opportunity to tender you an invitation to visit the Federal Metropolis at an early day, and lecture before our body and the citizens generally upon the great issues of the time.
We are, Sir, with high regards, your friends,
JNO. PIERPONT, President.
LEWIS CLEPHANE, Vice President.
W. A. CROFFAT, Vice President.
C. STORRS, Vice President.
JOHN R. FRENCH, Executive Committee.
N. BROUGHTON DEVEREUX, Executive Committee.
CHAS. ROESER, Executive Committee.
Z. RICHARDS, Treasurer.
The undersigned, members of both Houses of Congress of the United States, concur in the above invitation, and express the hope that the Honorable gentleman will afford us the pleasure of listening to his voice in the Capital of the nation.
H. HAMLIN, B. F. WADE,
CHARLES SUMNER, JOHN B. ALLEY,
H. WILSON, GEO. W. JULIAN,
JAS. HARLAN, THADDEUS STEVENS,
WM.SPRAGUE, I.S.MORRILL
ALEX. RAMSEY, ROBT. C. SCHENCK,
JOHN CONNESS, HENRY T. BLOW,
TIM. O. HOWE, WM. D. KELLEY,
M. S. WILKINSON, WM. B. ALLISON,
L. F. S. FOSTER, J. W. PATTERSON,
DAN’L CLARK, A.MYERS, 
J. W. GRIMES, P. BAXTER,
E. D. MORGAN, OAKES AMES,
JAMES DIXON, S. H. BOYD,
Z. CHANDLER, T. B. SHANNON,
H. S. LANE, Ind., C. COLE,
S. C. POMEROT, Kansas, WM. WINDOM,
J. H. LANE, Kansas, J. M. ASHLEY,
W. P. FESSENDEN, J. W. ARNOLD,
SOLOMON FOOT, WM. G. BROWNE,
H. B. ANTHONY, JNO. F. FARNSWORTH,
JNO. C. TEN EYCK, J. B. GRINNELL,
JOHN SHERMAN, W. HIGBY.
Mr. Thompson’s engagements are such that he will not be able to comply with the flattering invitation thus extended to him to visit Washington until the last of the month.
George Thompson will deliver an address before the Central Union Club of Brooklyn, in Plymouth Church, on Friday evening, March 11th. Subject: "The Popular Sympathy in England with the Efforts in the United States for the Suppression of the Rebellion and the Liberty of the Slave." The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher will welcome the speaker. Mr. John Zundel will perform a voluntary on the organ.

HENRY CLAY AND MR. GARRISON.
John G. Whittier, the poet, states, that while Wm. Lloyd Garrison was in prison in Baltimore, in 1830, Henry Clay wrote from Lexington, Ky., to a friend in Baltimore, "directing him to pay the fine and costs, and liberate Mr. Garrison." This fact has not been publicly known until very recently.-Exchange papers.
The statement is not entirely correct. Mr. Clay related to us the facts in July, 1830. A few months before, Mr. Garrison, editor of an emancipation paper in Baltimore, was prosecuted, imprisoned, and fined for a libel on Woolfolk. Not being able to pay the fine, his imprisonment was prolonged on that account. Mr. Whittier, an entire stranger to Mr. Clay, wrote to him as a philanthropist, begging him to pay the fine, and thus procure Mr. Garrison’s release. Mr. Clay wrote to his old friend Hezekiah Niles, of Niles’s Register, asking whether Mr. Garrison was a worthy man, and saying that, if he was so, he would pay one half the fine, provided Mr. Niles or others would pay the other half. Mr. Niles wrote back, stating that, on the whole, he thought Mr. Garrison worthy. Mr. Clay at once remitted the money for half of the fine, the other half was paid, and Garrison was discharged.
It is not pleasant to have to add, that, some time afterwards, both Whittier and Garrison wrote bitter things against Mr. Clay.-Louisville Journal.
The Louisville Journal, in attempting to correct the reliable statement of Mr. Whittier, falls into several blunders. It is not true that we were "prosecuted, imprisoned and fined for a libel on Woolfolk," (an infamous slave-dealer,) but on Francis Todd, of Newburyport, whom we denounced in the Genius of Universal Emancipation for participating in the domestic slave trade. Nor is it true that we were discharged from prison in consequence of Henry Clay and Hezekiah Niles contributing towards the payment of our fine. The fine was paid by Arthur Tappan, Esq., of New York, to whom alone we were indebted for our liberation from prison. It is doubtless true, as Mr. Whittier states, that Mr. Clay would have paid the fine, if he had not been anticipated by Mr. Tappan. But this presents no reason why we should have allowed Mr. Clay to go unrebuked for his subsequent efforts to crush the anti-slavery movement, and thus to perpetuate "the sum of all villanies." "Faithful are the wounds of a friend." In what manner Mr. Whittier wrote to Mr. Clay, or what was the motive which induced the latter to give heed to his request, we do not know.
EQUAL HUMAN RIGHTS. In reply to the inquiry of our correspondent "B." we have simply to say, that abhorrence of chattel slavery does not necessarily beget a uniformity of views in regard to other questions, whether theological or political. But we are quite sure the readers of the Liberator need not a word from us, to satisfy them where we stand as to the right of woman to fill any position, or occupy any sphere, to which she can attain by her fitness and talents; and if "B." knows of any "Garrisonian Abolitionists," technically speaking, who are not in agreement with us on this subject, we are ignorant of their locality. Our motto is, "The tools to those who can use them." As for preaching the gospel, we recognize no monopoly of sex in so doing.
<c03>
BANKS’S LABOR SYSTEM.
General Butler learned, from his residence and administration in the regions of secession, that the way to provide for permanent peace in this country is not only to be severe with rebels, but to be just and kind to the four millions of human beings whom those rebels held in bondage. The more firmly our Government secures the hearty good-will and alliance of the last named class, the stronger will be its position in the immediate future (as well as in the ultimate future) against the common enemy. Only by uniting the interests of white and black loyalists against all attempts of the rebel slaveholders to regain their ascendency, can we pass in complete security through the hazardous period of reconstruction.
General Banks, with the same opportunities, seems not to have learned this important lesson. His recent elaborate "General Order No. 28," ordaining, in twenty-five specifications, "A Labor System for Louisiana," substitutes serfdom for slavery, and seems merely a modification of that intermediate state which Great Britain found to work so ill, and was ultimately forced to cut short and abandon, in her West India Colonies. I will give the substance of some of its provisions.
Starting with the ideas that continuous cultivation of the land is of very great importance, and that idleness and vagrancy, crimes in everybody, are to be severely repressed and punished in the cases of colored people, he gives the following directions:-
V. Plantation hands must not pass from one place to another, except as permitted by the Provost Marshal
X. The unauthorized purchase of clothing or other property from laborers will be punished by fine and imprisonment.
XII. The payment of half the [very small] monthly wages of labor shall be reserved until the end of the year.
XIII. Laborers will be permitted to choose their employers, but having chosen, they will be held to their agreement for the year.
XVI. It is advised to discourage monthly payments so far as it can be done without discontent, and to reserve the yearly wages to the full harvest.
No. XX., starting with the truism that "labor is a public duty, and idleness and vagrancy a crime," proposes to enforce this duty upon "that portion of the people identified with the cultivation of the soil," and alleges, in justification of this course, that "every enlightened community has enforced it upon all classes of people by the severest of penalties." That is to say, he selects the poor and the weak for the oppressive exercise of his military power, and asserts in excuse for it the ridiculous falsehood last quoted. I am aware that the government exercised by Gen. Banks is a pure despotism, and that necessity at present requires the adoption of despotic methods in Louisiana. If that functionary should choose to order that no class of men in that State shall change their occupation, whatever advantage such change might promise them, this would be an ordinary exercise of despotic power, and would be agreed to by the community on the assignment of sufficient reasons. But to enforce the rule upon the poorest and weakest class only, and at the very moment when an opportunity offers to improve their condition by change, is a "cruel and unusual " exercise even of despotic power. To state something utterly false, as the justifying reason for this act, is a baseness unworthy alike of an officer and a gentleman. And to use falsehood and cruelty as the means of securing agricultural labor and production, when that purpose might be better secured by just and friendly conduct towards the laboring population, shows a radical unfitness in General Banks to bear rule anywhere. But the Order has yet another objectionable feature.
No. XXII., commencing with the statement that successful industry and an increase of the products of the soil are especially necessary at the present time, proceeds to say-"It is upon such consideration only that the planter is entitled to favor." The argument immediately following these words shows that they refer to the rebel planter; to that great majority of the planters who favored the rebellion until they found it was a losing game. What can be more monstrously absurd than the allegation that the enforcement of industry requires favor to the lazy planter and restriction upon the toiling laborer? Yet there is another feature still, more preposterous in the same case. It is that a United States General, sent there to serve the Government by suppressing the rebellion, selects the rebel landholder for favor, and selects the loyal laborer for oppressive restriction. Nevertheless, if Mr. Lincoln’s conduct is an indication of his wishes, this policy of Banks is preferred by him to the course formerly pursued by Butler!
General Banks is called a Republican, and a portion of the Republican party are still blind and <illegible> warm enough to favor him. But he has never helped that party forward, only used its help for his own advancement. He has never helped the movement against slavery in any manner or degree. He has never been trusted by the real opponents of slavery as an ally or friend to their cause. And the whole tone of "General Order No. 23" shows that he wishes to avoid all recognition of the negro as a man, a citizen, a landholder or a voter. In specification No. XIV. of this General Order, he gives his idea of the ultimate destiny of the black laborers of the South, and of the condition in which a reconstruction of our nation is to leave them. He proposes by the provisions of this General Order to "enable the laborer to take care of himself, and prepare for the time when he can render so much labor for so much money, which is the great end to be attained." Is it to such hands, and such a heart, that the care of our national interests in this momentous crisis should be confided?-c. K. W.

100,000 PETITIONERS!
On the 1st of April, the second instalment of the Emancipation Petition will be sent to Washington; and so on, the 1st of every month, during the session of Congress.
Ten thousand petitions have been mailed within a few days from the office of the Women’s League Room, 20 Cooper Institute, to the North, the South, the East, the West; thus giving loyal men and women everywhere another opportunity to register their names for freedom.
We ask all loyal editors to print copies of our petition, and circulate them through every school district in the country.
We ask the clergy of the land to circulate it in their congregations-to lay it on their communion tables, bidding their people remember that the only sacrifice the God of love demands is that they "do justice, and love mercy "-that they "break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free."
We ask every woman to give her name for freedom, and thus let the moral power of the nation be felt on the right side.
We ask those men who believe in republican institutions to build, now, the platform for the next Presidential campaign in immediate emancipation.
To this end, let one and all sign and circulate the petition, and return it without delay to the Women’s League Room, 20 Cooper Institute, New York. In this connection we must entirely dissent from the opinion of our esteemed friend Gerrit Smith, that the friends of freedom should not give need to any proposition-at least, until the rebellion is put down- to amend the Constitution of the United States, so as to make slaveholding an unlawful act in every part of the country. On the contrary, we regard this as a most opportune period to effect such a change in that instrument; and, therefore, we give our warmest approval to the efforts of the loyal women who are so zealously engaged in this good work. Besides, after more than seventy years’ concurrent action of all the courts, legislative assemblies, and PEOPLE, in recognition and sanction of the pro-slavery provisions of the Constitution, it is quite too late in the day to assume anti-slavery character of that instrument.
<c04>
MR. MASON JONES ON THE AMERICAN WAR.
MASON JONES, the eloquent and popular Irish orator, is doing good service to the American cause in England by a series of lectures on the Rebellion and its Cause. We have already given our readers the substance of one of these, and now present the following synopsis of another, as we find it in the Manchester Examiner of the 15th ult. It shows a thorough understanding of the American question.
Notwithstanding the violent storm which prevailed on Saturday evening, a very large audience assembled in the Free-trade Hall to hear Mr. Mason Jones’s second and concluding oration on the American war. The previous oration treated of the great national and moral principles involved in the contest, and some secessionist objections were answered. On Saturday last, Mr. Jones resumed his arguments on behalf of the North, interspersing his address with laughable and interesting anecdotes of his personal experiences in the United States. Mr. Jones has remarkable powers in engaging the attention of vast and miscellaneous audiences. On this occasion the people, many of whom were hostile to the North, paid the speaker that tribute of admiration which is evinced by almost painful silence, relieved by bursts of applause or laughter. In addition to this, Mr. Mason Jones has gifts of memory, language, imagination, and that keen perception of the ludicrous which is a characteristic of his countrymen. For two hours he spoke with unhesitating eloquence and earnestness.
After a passing allusion to "The Southern Whitewashing Association," and Mr.Spence’s non-acceptance of his challenge, Mr. Jones urged that it was impossible for the North to let the South go, because the preservation of the Union was a national and geographical necessity. Where could the boundary line be drawn, if the country were divided? The very rivers ran, not east or west, but south and north. The disunion would involve the erection of forts and custom-houses for 1,500 miles, and also the maintenance of a large standing army. There could be no more any boundary line between freedom and slavery; the country must be all free or all slave. The slave-owning oligarchy were the enemies of the laborer, whether black or white, and, if able, would monopolise political power. Such an oligarchy must eventuate in a military despotism. There could be no peace between these opposing powers; one or the other must go down now and for ever. Without doubt the North would prevail, not only because their cause was just, but because they were the descendants of the English Puritans, and with bull-dog courage having taken the South by the throat, they would hold on like grim death until they had flung it strangled at their feet. (Loud cheers.)
Mr. Mason Jones then proceeded to mention numerous reasons for the indivisibility of the United States, maintaining that the Northern people owed a stern duty to liberty, to religion, to posterity, to civilization, and to mankind at large; and that they were now fighting no less than the battle of labor and liberty for the whole world. The monarchies, the aristocracies, the plutocracies, and the snobocracies of the old world exulted at the prospect of the overthrow of the great republic. The flunkies of Belgravia were wild with delight; the loungers in the Pall Mall clubs sang "Te Deums;" all the organs of the slave-owning Confederacy in Europe uttered cries of joy; the political Lord Dundrearys, like Mr. Beresford Hope and Lord Robert Montagu-(great cheering)-men with more money than brains, and more titles than common sense-(loud laughter and renewed cheers)- shouted with indecent exultation, because, as they said, "The American bubble has burst, and we always knew it would burst; republicanism has failed, and we always knew it would fail." The American war brought to light all the sham Liberalism of England- and there never was so much sham Liberalism in England as at the present moment-from Lord Brougham, who was in his dotage, down to the renegade Roebuck. The whole theory of representative institutions was at stake in this American war-namely, that the people shall be governed by the voice of the majority. If the American failed, representative government would fail everywhere, and the chain of despotism would be riveted upon the people of Europe for the next thousand years. The mouths of all reformers would be shut up by the phrase, "Look at the disunited States!" As to the everlasting cry about the "balance of power," the Americans were resolved to have nothing to do with this "mysterious beast" on their continent; and, in his opinion, the sooner the balance of power was broken up in Europe, the better for the people. (Cheers.)
Mr. Mason Jones’s interview with Mr. Lincoln, and their conversation upon the emancipation proclamation, and other topics, were then sketched; and this portion of the oration proved intensely interesting, abounding as it did with repeated evidences of the President’s statesmanship, shrewdness, honesty, common sense, and humor. In touching upon the sincerity of the North, many important measures in favor of local and world-wide freedom and friendship were referred to; and the speaker’s testimony to the kind treatment of the negroes by the natives of the North was most emphatic. Personal experience, he said, convinced him that their ill-treatment came invariably from the foreign population. The disgraceful Irish riots in New York were a proof of this, although a happy revolution of opinion had taken place. The Irish regiments having marched through some of the slave States, and witnessed the working of "the institution," had entirely changed their ideas, and there were no soldiers in the army more loyal and anti-slavery.
In the remaining portion of the address, the atrocious immorality he had witnessed in the South was related; the allegations of the secession press in Europe were considered in terms of sarcasm and scorn, and many questions were replied to that had been addressed to Mr. Jones by persons who acknowledged themselves converts. Justice was done by the lecturer to General Butler, who, it is was urged, was not the monster he has been depicted, but one of the most popular men in the United States. Without approving of the New Orleans proclamation, he said General Butler deserved every honor for having tamed the wild beasts of that city. As to the charges of cruelty brought against the North, it was hardly for us to speak of Greek fire, and the suspension of the habeas corpus act, when the bombardment of Canton, the blowing of Sepoy from our guns, and the destruction of Kagosima might be urged against us. (Loud cheers.) 
Mr. Jones said the interests of America and England were identical, and that it would be to our advantage that the Union should be restored. The Northern people were friendly towards England; it was the fillibustering Southerners who abused this country, and threatened to annex Canada. Respecting the damage done by the Alabama, if our lawyers decided that the claim was not good, the nations need not fight-let them arbitrate the difficulty. The confidence of the North was shown by the gigantic loans of the people, of the repayment of which he had no doubt, because the land was pledged for its redemption. The people themselves even did not know the extent of their magnificent resources, for they were really inexhaustible; their proportion of the fighting population was greater than that of old countries, because emigrants left behind many of their young, aged, and infirm; and the Americans had four millions of fighting men. Noticing the war cloud in Europe, Mr. Jones concluded a-powerful and comprehensive address, of which the foregoing is the merest outline, with a peroration which excited applause seldom equalled even in the Free-trade Hall. On being recalled by the audience, he said he should adopt an unusual plan, and ask for a show of hands-first, in favor of the South, and then for the North. Two or three hands were held up for the South amidst derisive laughter, against an overwhelming demonstration for the North; and the assemblage renewed their applause as Mr. Mason Jones left the platform.
<c05>
GERRIT SMITH TO HIS NEIGHBORS.
War goes beyond Constitutional restrictions.
Down with the Rebellion at whatever cost to the Constitution.
"The body is more than raiment!" The country is more than the Constitution.
Time now for nothing but to crush the rebellion.
"Damn the Constitution!" said one in the hearing of myself and several others. I had always disliked profanity, and I had always honored the Constitution-welcoming every part of it. Nevertheless, this exclamation was music in my ears. Why was it? It was the cause of the connection and spirit in which it burst from the speaker. He was arguing, with rapid and fervid eloquence, thus the Government' should ply every possible means for the speediest crushing of the Rebellion, when a listening Conservative threw in the qualification, "But all according to the Constitution." No wonder that the speaker could not brook this interpretation! No wonder that an oath should leap forth to attest the indignation of his patriotic soul! It was not contempt for the Constitution, but displeasure at the thrusting, of it in his way, which prompted the profanity. Had it been the Bible itself, that was thus impertinently cited, an oath might still have been the consequence.
In a past century, a New England puritan, in order to reconcile his black boy to the periodical whippings he gave him, said: "I whip you for the good of your soul." To which the sufferer very naturally replied: "I wish I hadn’t a soul!" Often during this war has the excessively tender and untimely care for the Constitution tempted me to wish that we hadn’t a Constitution. Thus was I tempted when, July 22, 1861, the House of Representatives, instead of manfully resolving that the war was for putting down the Rebellion, and for nothing else, meanly resolved that it was for maintaining the supremacy of the Constitution. Thus was I tempted when Congress, a year or two ago, was ridiculously employed looking into the Constitution to learn how far it might confiscate the possessions of the millions who were striking at the life of she nation. I notice that, now again, Congress is, in this same connection, twattling about the Constitution. Thus was I tempted when President left it to the Judges, or in other words to the Constitution, to say whether Proclamations, which he had issued as Head of the Army, should be allowed to stand. Unhappiest and most contemptible of all nations are we if, whilst every other nation can carry on war with all the latitude of the law of war-of the law of necessity and of self-preservation-we are to be "cabined, cribbed, confined," by a mere paper! Infinitely better that we had no Constitution, than that we should have one which is allowed to fetter our freedom, and restrict our choice of means in the time of war.
By the way, the most cheering instance of resistance to this practice of supplanting the law of war with the Constitution is the recent disclaimer of the Supreme Court, in Vallandigham’s case, of authority to review the proceedings of a Military Commission.
Never yet have we carried on an unconditional and square fight with the rebels; and never can we, until we shall have the political and moral courage to resent and rise above the endeavors of demagogues and sympathizers with the rebels to embarrass our conduct of the war by these impertinent Constitutional questions. But these questions are not the only hindrance in the way of the only proper mode of warfare. Another and not less serious hindrance has sprung up in the untimely agitation of the question: "Who shall be the next President?" It is fearful to think how mighty are the electioneering influences which will now be set at work by office-holders, office-seekers, army contractors, and many other classes. It is fearful to think how wide-spread and deep a concern there will be to conduct the war, not so as to end the Rebellion and save the country, but so as to promote party and individual interests. It is fearful to think of the possible extent and character of the divisions that may now be wrought amongst ourselves-divisions that may do more than the enemy can do to destroy our beloved country. Who shall be the next President should not have been spoken of before midsummer. The New York Independent says it should only have been thought of. But it should not even have been thought of before that time. In the judgment of this journal, to be thinking from this early day of the Presidential Election-" to be prudently considering "-to "ponder" it-would be the people’s best preparation for acting wisely in it. But their unspeakably better preparation would be to forget the whole subject for the coming four or five months, and to be, during all that time, united as one man in wiping out the last remains of the accursed Rebellion. Such a perfect union for such a righteous end would be their best possible education for selecting none but a fit man for the Presidency.
Quite a natural fruit of this premature agitation of the Presidential question is, that there are already, on the one hand, Union men who are slandering and villifying Abraham Lincoln; and on the other hand, Union men who will not tolerate even the most generous and friendly criticism on any of his views and measures.
And still another hindrance has been thrown in our way. The proposition to amend the Constitution tends to produce divisions amongst ourselves, and to divert us from that one work which should absorb us -the work of crushing the Rebellion. It is said that, for the sake of posterity and to prevent the recurrence of the Rebellion, we must have a Constitutional prohibition of slavery. I reply that we cannot afford to attend to posterity now-that our own case needs all our present attention. It will be time enough to amend the Constitution after we shall have ended the Rebellion. The leisure which peace affords is necessary to devise and adopt amendments of that precious paper. I do not object to the abolishing of slavery. No sooner had slavery fired at Sumter than Emancipation should have fired at slavery; and this, too, Constitution or no Constitution for it. It was our right, because our necessity, to kill that which aimed to kill the nation. At no time since the war began should Congress have delayed to abolish by force of its War Power every remnant of slavery-dealing generously at the same time with loyal slaveholders.
Moreover, as to guarding posterity from slavery, and therefore from a war for slavery, I would say that the land once cleared of it, slavery will never again be set up in it. Slavery is an abomination which the people, who have once got rid of it, are never disposed to recall. It is a disease which no people take a second time. The French learned this lesson in their mad attempt to re-enslave the Haytiens. When, a few years ago, Spain grasped San Domingo, she promised the Dominicans not to introduce slavery. The promise was superfluous. The Dominicans will take care to protect themselves from slavery, and from Spain also. Constitutional provisions against slavery will not avail to keep out slavery from the Southern States; but the freedom and the arms we are giving to their slaves will. Where a people want slavery, they will have it, whatever the Constitution. Our Constitution is against slavery. But the people wanted slavery. To say the least, they felt interested in consenting to it. Hence they fell in with the pro-slavery interpretation of the Constitution. Good-men fell in with it because it was the prevailing interpretation. I said that our Constitution is against slavery. Certainly it is-for it says, "No person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law": and "No State shall pass any bill of attainder." But slavery is the most emphatic and abominable attainder. And it says, too, "The United States shall guarantee to every State in the Union a Republican form of Government." Has South Caroline, where a handful of tyrants own three-fifths of all the people, a Republican form of Government? Surely, we cannot admit it without being ashamed that our nation has a Republican name.
I will close with the remark, that now is not the time either to improve the Constitution or to be solicitous to save it; that now is not the time, much as
<c06>
they are needed, to be building roads to the pacific or indeed to be making any expenditures or embarking in any projects whose results will not be early enough to help us in this war; and that not only now is not the time for President-making, but not the time to maintain the Democratic Party, nor to revive the Republican Party, and seek thereby to harness to a platform built four years ago, and in far other circumstances, a nation which is solving, through seas of tears and blood, the question of her life or death. I thought that the Republican Party was disbanded. The assurances that it was-were they mistake or deceitful? Tens of thousands of men, not Republicans have worked with Republicans to put down the Rebellion; but they cannot turn away from that work to any other, nor can they consent to couple with it the building up of the Republican or any other party.
Peterboro’, February 24, 1864.

LETTER TO HON. J. H. LANE.
SPRINGFIELD, (Vt.) Feb. 29, 1864.
Hon.J.H.LANE,M.C.,Washington,D.C.:-
MY DEAR SIR-I have read your speech of the 16th inst. with the deepest interest, and can give you credit for benevolent intentions, though I cannot endorse it. No man as far removed from the scene of action as myself has ever felt a deeper interest in the fate of Kansas, and all her eminent men, (of whom you are one,) in their efforts to make it a free State; and I may add, with some show of truth, few have cherished a deeper sympathy for her suffering, in her day of famine, as your honored coadjutor, S. C. Pomeroy, can testify. But, sir, if Solomon was right when he said, "Open rebuke is better than secret love," I may be permitted, humble in position as I am, to call in question the wisdom or the policy of removing the colored people from the land of their birth, which you advocate, principally upon the score of prejudice existing, or which would exist, between them and their former master when they are made free; taking it for granted that the latter are to occupy their old ground, felons as they are, and guilty of the highest crime known to the law. All our national calamities are the legitimate fruit of our own doings,-national injustice and national inhumanity,-in which the Church, the State, and the rabble are equally guilty; the last being only the tool in the hands of the two former. No government, State or national, has ever afforded them any protection, or lost an opportunity to oppress them; and punishment of the rebels, not justice to the slave, is the only motive that has induced "the povers that be" to unlock the prison doors. I said the "only motive." I take that back, and say, the only choice of giving them (the slaves) their liberty, or losing their own. And God be thanked for so much, though dearly bought!
I lament to see all the action of the government and the party political journals pointing to the restorations of the rebels to their former status, without any provision for the safety or future welfare of the colored man. "Reconstruction,"-only another name for compromise,-is sung from the Gulf to latitude forty-five, while yet the enemy is in full force and fixed resolution to fight it on! Better far to stock the old plantations with felons and the scum of the world's prisons, than with slaveholders, rebel or loyal, if Kentucky Davis is a fair sample of the latter. The government has now an opportunity to do justice to the colored man, without doing a wrong to any one, and redeeming the nation from the odium of sacrificing its friends to please its implacable enemies. Will they do it? Better, a thousand times, let our cause go against us by default in the court of Heavens, if we have no better plea for our own injustice than our prejudice, and risk the verdict with no chance of appeal. I, for one, should have some pride in not being the meanest culprit in the lower regions.
I assure you, sir, I have written with no unkind feelings. I believe you are right in motive, but greatly err in your scheme of disposing of the colored man. No people are more sensitive to any wrong done to themselves than the Yankees; and none more ready to avenge a wrong done to others, provided they are white. I do not believe the nation has been humbled enough yet to do justice to the colored man. "Do justice to all, though the heavens fall," is a maxim with which statesmen and politicians have little to do, when it should be their only aim and end. The nation that does so will live forever. My greatest fear is, not that we shall fail to conquer the rebels, but fail to conquer our prejudices, and make suitable provision for this most oppressed race.
Please accept my best wishes for yourself personally, the State you represent, and the nation at large.
JESSE STEDMAN.
P. S. It is painful, indeed, and enough to wring tears from anything that has a heart, to witness the Senate of a great nation cavilling for a month about fulfilling an express contract to pay colored troops wages and bounty as the white; and, finally, repudiating the past, and only coming up to the mark in the future. There is not a regiment of white men in the service-no, not even from New England-that would not mutiny at once under such flagrant injustice. But the colored troops, having no rights which Congress or anybody else is bound to respect,-O, if they mutiny, they can be put down with an "iron hand"! Injustice and oppression are the theme of denunciation in every page of Holy Writ, from Genesis to Revelation, and the only cause of the destruction of every nation that ever rose, or reigned, or reigned, or fell. God grant that ours, by timely repentance, may escape the doom that awaits us by a perseverance in crime! J. S.

RECONSTRUCTION
MR. EDITOR-Without any decisive battle, during the lull and inactivity of our winter quarters, it seems to be assumed, on all hands, that the Rebellion is dead, beyond the possibility of resuscitation; and that the all-important question before the nation is, how the revolted States shall be brought again into active participation in the affairs of the nation, and the enjoyment of its blessings.
The newspapers are all discussing Reconstruction; orators are lecturing on the same subject; and the country generally seems to be occupied in a similar manner.
Now, although a soldier’s duty is done when the enemy is wholly crushed, and the honor of the nation vindicated; yet, having caught the infection of reconstructionism, I wish to present a few of my views on this same subject. Being simply a private in the ranks, you cannot object that I am making a bid for the Presidency.
It requires, no prophet’s vision to see that, when the rebels can no longer hope for success in their mad scheme for the destruction of the Union, their next move will be to ascertain on what terms a reconstruction can be effected. Indeed, from the beginning they have,-through their attorneys, Wood, Vallandigham & Co.,-endeavored to keep themselves informed with regard to the Northern feeling on that subject. Now, if the "powers that be" determine that the State is still a State, notwithstanding its treason; that when the traitors in arms are drives over its borders, the State can gravitate back to its original position; the door is left wide open for 
compromise.
If individuals only are accountable for treason, then we cannot touch institutions or statutes; for individuals do not enact laws, or mould institutions. The community, in its congregated capacity, adjusts all the curbs and checks of society; and this constitutes the State. If the authorities can catch a rebel, they can punish him; or if they seize twenty, they can punish them; but, so long as the State in its corporate capacity is inviolable, all our correctives and punishments do not go skin deep-do not touch the heart of the disease; hence there is an opportunity for the Copperheads to insert wedges here and there in the rifts. This latter class stand ready to take advantage of every circumstance to assist their "Southern brethren"; and if unscrupulous cunning can devise any means of reinstating the rebellious oligareby in<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
even more than its former power, we may be sure of its being done. 
On the other hand, if the Government decides that, in the acts of secession and resistance to authority, the state committed suicide; that in Secession the States abnegated their right of equal participation in the government of the nation; that collective, corporate rights, as well as personal, may be forfeited; then the vexed question is rendered vastly easier of solution. In any case, the struggle will doubtless be bitter and violent. The Copperheads have too many sympathies, hopes and interests in common with the traitors, to look quietly on, and see them receive their just deserts.
But assuming that, on either hypothesis, the friends of the Union are safely in the majority, what then? Has not the fearful lesson of the past three years taught the nation and its representatives, that to compromise with the cause of the rebellion-SLAVERY-is only restoring peace for a time, to be followed by another attempt to overthrow the Union whenever the supporters of slavery think they can succeed?
The interests of Humanity imperatively demand of the legislators of these times a guaranty of lasting peace in the total annihilation of Slavery. Nothing less will save their names from future execration.
We who are giving our best days to the service of the country, we who must go halting the rest of our lives because we loved the Union, ask immunity for our children from the horrors of civil war. We claim the right to demand a reconstruction of the Union on the basis of perfect freedom and justice. We shall be content with nothing less. If peace is made on any other basis, though our former prosperity should return to us, increased a hundred fold,-though our national debt could be paid in a generation,-thought every stream should turn a factory wheel,-though every hilltop and valley grow green, and whiten again yearly, with the products of the husbandman’s industry,-yet the nation cannot escape the punishment of the everlasting law, so beautifully expressed by Lowell:-
“They enslave their children’s children,
Who make compromise with sin.”
M.L. WHITTEN.
Camp 16th Regt. Me. Vols.,
Mitchell’s Station, Va., Feb.22, 1864.

THE COLORED SCHOOL QUESTION IN PROVIDENCE.
In the course of the last seven years, the readers of the Liberator may have seen in its columns an occasional article in reference to the above subject. The question of equal school privileges in this city is again brought before the State Assembly by a petition signed by over three hundred colored citizens of Providence. The petition was referred to the House ”Committee On Education,” some six weeks ago, and the committee has held five sessions to hear the arguments of the petitioners, and the objections of remonstrants.
The colored people of this State are, by the laws thereof and the Constitution thereof, citizens in as full a sense of that term as the whitest native-born inhabitants. They hold property by the same tenure, vote under the same franchise, are taxed by the same assessments and are eligible to the same offices. But in the city of Providence, (also in Newport and Bristol,) their children are forbidden to enter the high school solely on the ground of their dark complexion; they are also excluded from the primary, intermediate and grammar schools for the same reason; while two colored schools located schools, located at long distances from the residences of many of the pupils, are maintained for their exclusive education. The colored citizens affirm that this arrangement, besides burdening them with an additional tax, and imposing upon their children unnecessary inconveniences, makes a distinction anti-Christian in its spirit anti-republican in its effect, and odious to every intelligent lover of democratic equality. They therefore pray that the State Legislature will so modify the city charter, or so amend State law, that this caste feature in the Providence school system may be done away.
The request of the petitioners so clearly consistent with the fundamental principles of Republicanism, and follows so legitimately from other rights already guaranteed to them by the Constitution of the State, that the wonder is that any intelligent man should seriously oppose it. And, indeed, we began to hope that all the objections hitherto advanced had been withdrawn; for at the first, second and third sessions of the committee, no remonstrants appeared.
At length, however, it being noised abroad that the committee would probably report to the House in favor of granting the prayer of the petitioners, all colorphobium aroused itself for a vigorous resistance to the audacious innovation. The city solicitor, our school superintendent, and five of the most venerable of the school committee, appeared at a meeting specially appointed to hear objections. The city solicitor managed the case for these remonstrants; and James Jefferson, a colored hair-dresser of this city, did the same for the petitioners. The proceedings were confined to questions from the solicitor, and answers from the aforesaid school committee men, with now and then a cross question form Mr. Jefferson. The Spectators expected to hear from one or more of the solicitor’s witnesses, or from the solicitor himself, some arguments in answer to the petition. But neither of them made the lease attempt to reach the reason and conscience of the committee by this usual method of Influencing human judgment. Some of the spectators were uncharitable enough to whisper that they were deterred from the undertaking by their fears of being replied to by Mr. Waugh, a colored Providence orator of remarkable power, or by Mr. Jefferson, whose clear sense and directness of expression are great annoyances to sophists and muddlers. Be this surmise however groundless or otherwise the objections to the prayer of the petitioners were slowly and bunglingly made visible by questions and answers. The objections were in number three; in force zero, as you will see when I name them. Here they are, the product of a fortnight’s cogitation-the joint result of six mature brains:-
Objection No.1. “To grant the prayer of the petitioners would take away from the city of Providence the control of its schools.” This objection was withdrawn upon hearing Mr. Jefferson’s concise statement of the contents of the petition-there being not a syllable in it which even implied such a purpose, or could lead to such a result.
Objection No.2, is substantially this, Viz.: To grant the change asked for would injure, and in many cases prevent, the education of the colored children; for they stood in such dread of the abuse they would be likely to receive from their white school-mates, that many of them would not go to school at all; while those who did venture to attend would be so hazed about that they could learn but very little, and therefore they will be better educated as they are. I was delighted to witness how deeply solicitous these gentlemen were that negroes should be well educated-delighted because I had always known them, heretofore, as unfriendly to the black race; and this evidence of repentance was at least gratifying. But what fact or facts, think you, this objection was based upon? Not. Surely, upon the quarrelsome character of the colored children, for their constitutional peaceableness is universally conceded; not upon the rowdy character of the white pupils in our schools, for that would be libel upon all the churches and other good institutions in Providence; and, besides, the committee bad in their possession a series of resolutions adopted unanimously by the boys of the high school-and adopted, too, against the peremptory order of the superintend -which repelled as slander the charge that they were so prejudiced against colored boys, that the latter could not be at peace among them; and stating, further, that they would heartily and fraternally welcome all who were qualified to enter their school. So-the objection was based on the historical fact, or pretended fact, that so the change worked in your good city of Boston-such were its effects there; and
<c02> 
so the inference Was reached that the result would be similar here.
The 3d and last objection was evidently suggested by the early proceedings of the leaders in the slaveholders' rebellion. It is, in both essence and form, a threat. If, said these remonstrants, the prayer of the colored people be granted, there is danger that our white school system will be broken up. For, said they, some of the rich men of Providence have determined not to pay any more school taxes, if the contemplated change should be made (I am unable to give you the names of any of these rich men, although the solicitor said he had some of them in his pocket) How these men of wealth are to get clear of paying taxes was a point not considered in open meeting, however much it might have previously been discussed in secret conclave.
Now, what are plain people to think of an institution, or system, or policy, or anything else of any consequence to human society, which does not even pretend to base itself on one solitary positive principle, and offers nothing in its support except these flinty and shameless negations? The answer is ready. They think the end thereof is near.
Providence, R. I. D. B. H.

THE MAMMOTH PETITION.
The Women's National League sent out through the mails, last July, six thousand petition packages, each containing two copies of the petition, a circular letter, and an eight page tract, entitled “EMANCIPATION IB PEACE.” In return, they received ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY THOUSAND signatures, one hundred thousand of which were, a few days ago, presented in the Senate by Hon. Charles Sumner.
It is now proposed to make a vastly larger planting, that the desired MILLION harvest may be gathered. The League is despatching new thousands of packages all over the country-to every school district, it is hoped-accompanied by a tract containing the following appeal, and Mr. Sumner's admirable speech on the presentation of the PRATER OF THE MILLION.
In order that ALL the signatures for immediate and universal emancipation, both by law of Congress and amendment of the Constitution, may be counted together, the Women's League have added the Constitutional amendment to their prayer; and now ask all persons who circulate the Petition for one or both these methods, to send their lists of names direct to the Office of the League, Room 20, Cooper Institute, New York, where they will be counted and registered, and forwarded to Washington, in one hundred thousand installments-as often, we hope, as once a month.
NEW YORK, March 7, 1864.
DEAR FRIEND-With this yon will receive a form of a Petition to Congress, the object of which you cannot mistake, nor regard with indifference.
To procure on it the largest possible number of adult names, at the earliest practicable moment, it is hoped you will regard less as a duty than a pleasure. Already we have sent one instalment of our Petition forward, signed by one hundred thousand persons; the presentation of which, by Senator Sumner, produced a marked effect on both Congress and the country. We hope to send at least an equal number by the first of April. We shall easily do even more, if you and others will co-operate with us.
For nearly three years has the scourge of war desolated us; sweeping away at least three hundred thousand of the strength, bloom and beauty of our nation. And the war-chariot still rolls onward its iron wheels deep in human blood!
The God, at whose justice Jefferson long ago trembled, has-awakened to the woes of the bondmen. “For the sighing of the oppressed, and for the crying of the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord God.”
The redemption of that pledge we now behold in this dread Apocalypse of War. Nor should we expect or hope the calamity will cease, while the fearful cause of it remains.
Slavery has long been our national sin. War is its natural and just retribution.
But the war has made it the Constitutional right of the Government, as it always has been the moral duty of the people, to abolish slavery. We are, therefore, without excuse if the solemn duty is not now performed. With us, THE PEOPLE are the power to achieve the work, by our agents in Congress. On us, therefore, rests the momentous responsibility. Shall we not all join, then, in one loud, earnest, EFFECTUAL prayer to Congress, which will swell on its ear like the voice of many waters, that this bloody, desolating war shall be arrested, and ended, by the immediate and final removal, by Statute Law and an amended Constitution, of the crime and cause which alone has brought it upon us?
Now, surely, is the accepted time. On our own heads will be the blood of our thousands slain, if with the power in our own hands, we do not end that system forever, which is so plainly autographed all over with the Divine displeasure.
In the name of Justice and of Freedom, then, let us rise, and decree the destruction of our destroyer. Let us with myriad voice compel Congress to
“Consign it to remorseless fire;
Watch till the last, faint spark expire;
Then strew its ashes on the wind,
Nor leave one atom wreck behind.”
In behalf of the Women's National League,
SUSAN B. ANTHONY, Secretary.
Form of Petition now sent out by the Women's League:-
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, in Congress assembled:
The undersigned, citizens of-believing Slavery the great cause of the present rebellion, and an institution fatal to the life of Republican government, earnestly pray your honorable bodies to immediately abolish it throughout the United States; and to adopt measures for so amending the Constitution as forever to prohibit its existence in any portion of our common country.

EQUAL HUMAN RIGHTS.
MR. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,-I have been for some time a reader of the Liberator. I have always understood that, while you made the abolition of slavery your immediate aim, you at the same time acknowledged that those great principles upon which you base the right of the negro to his liberty, apply equally well to other men and women; giving them the right to pursue any avocation for which they might be fitted, and receive just compensation for their labor.
The conversation and conduct of some persons, claiming to be Garrisonian abolitionists, has led me, of late, to suppose that yon do not apply those principles to women.
For instance: there are clergymen in various parts of the country who profess to be abolitionists; who discourse eloquently of liberty-talk long and loud about equal rights for the negro-arguing very justly that he should be admitted to our schools, that the professions should be open to him, and that all those prejudices which now banish him from our social circles should be done away. But those liberty-loving clergymen assert that educated, earnest white women have no right to preach that gospel which makes Jew and Greek, bond and free, male and female, all one in Christ Jesus. They seek to cast obstacles in the way of those whom they may know to be making the attempt; and they denounce all women who seek any sphere of usefulness outside of the domestic relations.
These cases, and some others of a similar nature, lead me to ask you if you regard that principle which declares that all human beings have a God-given right to “life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,” upon which you base the rights of the negro, as also being applicable to white women? If so, is it your opinion that an abolitionist can, consistently, object to a woman doing any work which she can do well, or filling any position to which she may deem herself called? In short, is man a Garrisonian who says that women
have no right to preach? B.
<c03>
REBEL TREATMENT OF UNION PRISONERS.
NARRATIVE OF COLONEL STREIGHT.
In a letter to the Military Committee of Congress, Col. Streight gives the following account of the treatment of Union prisoners in the rebel prisons at Richmond:-
“My officers, together with something near one thousand other United States officers, are confined in a large warehouse building, with an average space of about twenty-five square feet to each man. This includes all room for washing, cooking, eating, sleeping and exercising. They hare no bunks, chairs or seats of any kind furnished them, consequently they both sit and sleep on the floor. The windows of the building were entirely open until about the middle of December last, when pieces of canvas were furnished for the purpose of closing them to keep the cold out; but as this would leave us in the dark, we were compelled to leave a portion of them open, and endure the cold. Many of the officers were entirely destitute of blankets until our government sent a supply to us in the forepart of the winter. The supply of blankets is now exhausted, and officers who have been captured during the last six weeks have none furnished them. The rations furnished both officers and men by the rebels consists of about one pound of corn bread made from unbolted meal, and one-fourth of a pound of poor fresh meat per day. The meat has been issued to the prisoners but about half of the time since the 1st of December last In addition to the ration of bread and meat, as above stated, the prisoners draw about two quarts of rice to one hundred men. There is a sufficient quantity of salt furnished, and a very small quantity of vinegar. I will here remark, that in a few instances, say six or eight times at most, a small quantity of sweet potatoes has been issued instead of the rations of meat. The above is the sum total of the rations issued to our officers and men now prisoners of war. The condition of our unfortunate enlisted men now in the hands of the enemy is much worse than that of the officers. From early in May last, when I arrived at Richmond, to about the 1st of December, all the enlisted men were taken to what is called Belle Isle, and turned into an enclosure like so many cattle into a slaughter pen. Very few of them had tents or shelter of any kind, and the few tents famished were so poor and leaky as to render them but little better than none.
All the prisoners are taken to the Libby when they first arrive fn Richmond, for the purpose of counting them and enrolling their names, consequently I had a fair chance to see their condition when they arrived. Fully one-half of the prisoners taken since May last were robbed by their captors of their shoes, and nearly all were robbed of their overcoats, blankets and haversacks. At least one-third of them had been compelled to trade their pants and blouses for mere rags that would scarcely hide their nakedness; very many of them were entirely bareheaded, and not a few, as late as the middle of December, were brought in who had nothing on but an aid pair of ragged pants and a shirt, being bareheaded, barefooted, and without a blouse, overcoat or blanket. I have seen hundreds of our men taken to the hospital thus clad, and in a dying condition. I have frequently visited the hospital, and have converged with large numbers of dying men brought there from the island, who assured me that they had been compelled in lie out in the open air without any medical attendance, though for several days they had been unable to walk. Though destitute of anything like quarters, and nearly naked during the cold, stormy and chilly fall season, the first and chief complaint of all those I saw and talked with was on account of an insufficient quantity of food. I will here remark, that in no instance have the rebel authorities furnished clothing or blankets to our men.
During the winter, large numbers of our men were frozen. I heard one of the rebel surgeons in charge say that there were over twenty of our men who would have to suffer amputation from the effects of the frost. This was before the coldest weather commenced. Some time in the fore part of December, a portion of our men were removed from the island to some large buildings, where they were more comfortably quartered, but there has been no time since May last but that more or less of our men have been kept in the open air, and without blankets or overcoats It is a common thing for the rebels to keep our men for several days entirely without food. This. was particularly the case with a portion of the Gettysburg prisoners. Some went as long as six days without food, and were compelled to march during the time. The officers captured at Chickamauga assure me that they and their men were robbed of everything. Many of them lost their coats, hats and boots as soon as captured, and then were nearly starved and frozen. I trust you will pardon me for the tedious length of this communication. If you will bear with me, I will only call your attention to a few of the outrages practised on our officers and men in the prison discipline. Under the building known as Libby Prison is a large ‘cellar, in which they have several cells partitioned off. Several of them are without any light, but some of them have windows below the pavement. These cells are used for the purpose of confining securely such of the prisoners as the authorities may fear will attempt to escape, as well as such as may chance to offend some one of the many prison officers and attaches. Some of our unfortunate men are continually confined in these filthy holes, on one pretext or another. It is the uniform practice to feed any and all persons sent to these cells on bread and water only. Lieut. Reed, of the 3d Ohio Volunteers, was thrown into one of these cells, and kept there for forty-eight hours, without anything to eat or drink during the time. He was not allowed any blankets nor his overcoat. The weather was very damp and cold, and he at the time was suffering from a most severe wound in the hip. On the night of the 19th of December, I received a communication purporting to come from one in authority, stating that for $100 in greenbacks and two silver watches, myself and friend would be permitted to pass the guard.
Some days previous to tins, one of my officers succeeded in making his escape in this way; and although I was not without -apprehension that it was a trap, 1 resolved to try the experiment. Accordingly, Captain B. C. G. 3d Ohio Volunteers, and myself, went to the designated place at the appointed hour, where we were assured that it was all right. We complied with the terms and passed out, but no sooner were we outside the guard lines than Major Latrouche, the Adjutant of the prison, and seven men sprang out from a concealed place, and commenced firing upon us before ‘halting’ us. We were unarmed, and could do nothing but surrender. We were taken back to the prison, put in irons, and thrown into one of those filthy holes called cells, where we were kept three weeks on bread and water. The weather was very cold during the time, and we nearly perished. There was a large amount of filth in the cell which I could not induce them to remove, nor could I get them to permit me to remove it. I asked for paper, pen and ink to write the rebel authorities; I also asked for a box to sit on, of which there was a large number in the cellar, but everything was denied me. At the time I was taken to the cell, there were six of our men confined in one of the cells for attempting to escape. They had been there for six days without blankets, and two of them were very sick. They were released at the end of seven days of their confinement. I might continue to enumerate instances of a similar character, but these will answer to give you an idea of what is daily taking place. I cannot describe to you the loathsome filthiness of these cells. They are infested with a great number of rats and mice, and they have no marks of having been cleansed since they were first built. It is needless for me to say that no man can survive a long confinement in a place of this kind, and although I am acquainted with several persons who have been confined there, I do not know one who can be called a well man.
As I have before remarked, it is impossible for me to enumerate, in this communication, but a few of the many acts of barbarity which have come under my notice, though I have endeavored to give yon a sample of such as will enable you to form a correct conclusion relative to the treatment our unfortunate men are receiving at the hands of the inhuman people with whom we are at war. They seem lost to every principle of humanity, and it is my candid conviction that their brutality to our prisoners is only measured by their fears.”
It is slavery that has demonized the rebels, and no mercy is to be expected at their hands. It is manifestly their purpose to break down and kill off as many of our unfortunate Northern officers and soldiers, captives in their hands, as they can by starvation, exposure, and other murderous devices.
Here is another illustration of the fiendish barbarity of the rebels:-
While the steamer Pringle was on a foraging expedition to Johnson’s plantation at Tecumseh Landing, five miles, above Grand Lake, Miss., on the 14th of February, band of sixty well mounted and well armed guerillas, dressed in Federal uniforms, surprised a company of the 1st Mississippi (Union) Colored Infantry, who were standing guard about a mile and a half from the main body of the foraging party, capturing and disarming them, and before assistance could be rendered, all were killed or mortally wounded except two, who feigned death, Lieut. Cox and Sergeant Spencer.
Some of the negroes were pinned to the ground with bayonets; other had their brains knocked out, and others were shot through the head while on their knees begging for quarter.
The rebel prisoners at Point Lookout, Maryland, are guarded by a North Carolina colored regiment. Gen. Butler, it is said, means to keep all prisoners in his department under the guard of colored troops.
<c04>
THE HITCH IN THE EXCHANGE OF PRISONERS 
We finally have the authoritative statement from the rebel side, of the difficulty in regard to prisoners. It confirms what has been said by our commissioners as to the real stone of offence over which the Confederacy stumbles. They cannot recognize escaped slaves as soldiers entitled to the treatment of ordinary prisoners of war and to exchange, as white men are, or even as free colored men. Mr. Curry, of Alabama, introduces the following resolutions into the Confederate Congress, which set forth their claims with distinctness:
Therefore it u resolved by the Congress of the Confederate States of America, That they do adhere to the position that the emancipation of the negro slaves within the Confederate States, by the enemy, is not among the acts of legitimate warfare; but it is properly classed by writers on public law, including the more eminent publicists of the United States, among such acts “as putting to death all prisoners in cold blood and without special cause, or the right to use poisoned weapons or to assassinate.”[!!]
Resolved, That the pretensions of the United States, that these States, whenever they may recapture their own slaves, abducted and armed by the enemy, shall deliver them back to the enemy on parole as prisoners of war, is in effect a demand that this Government shall recognize the rights of the United States to legislate within its limits, and shall aid the United States in giving effect to such legislation; a pretension too monstrous and revolting to be yielded to for a moment, by the Confederate States, and set up by our enemies only to create a pretext for violating the obligations of liberating prisoners of war, in accordance with the terms of the cartel, to which the faith of the Government is pledged.
Resolved, That Congress approve the action of the Executive in refusing to entertain any proposition for treating our own recaptured negroes otherwise than as the property of those from whom they were abducted by the enemy, and to whom the laws require their restoration.
DEATH OF REV. T. STARR KING.
A despatch from California yesterday afternoon to Daniel N. Haskell, Esq., editor of the Transcript, brought the sad intelligence of the death of Rev. Starr King. He died in San Francisco yesterday morning, of diptheria, retaining his consciousness to the last. Mr. King was in the prime of life and usefulness, and who can measure the extent of that usefulness? It was not limited to his own society, or even to the city of his temporary residence, but was felt throughout the whole of California, where his fervid and patriotic appeals in behalf of the government have strengthened the cause of the nation, and contributed to firmly fix that State in the galaxy of the Union.
Mr. King was born in New York city, Dec. 17, 1824. During his youth, his father, Rev. Thomas F. King, removed to Charlestown, Mass., to take the pastoral care of a church, and here young King went through a course of study preparatory to entering college. This last project, however, was frustrated by the death of his father. But while discharging the duties of a public school teacher, and, afterward, clerk in the navy yard at Charlestown, he pursued an extensive course of study, theological and classical, and probably made more rapid progress from the intensity of his desire for self-culture than if he had received the advantages of a collegiate institution. In September, 1846, at the early age of twenty-one, he was ordained the -pastor of his father's parish in Charlestown, as the immediate successor of Rev. E. H. Chapin. On the 17th of December, 1848, he married Miss Julia M. Wiggin of East Boston, who, with two children, survives him. In the same month he was installed as the successor of Rev. David Fosdick, in the pastoral charge of the Hollis Street Church in this city.
The pastorate of Mr. King at Hollis street continued until the spring of 1860, when he voluntarily relinquished his charge, much to the regret of his church and society, impelled by a deep-seated conviction that a wider field of usefulness was opened to him in the city of San Francisco, where the religious field was almost uncultivated. The result justified his topes and his expectations. He built a flourishing society which has just completed a new and beautiful church, to which he gave an organ, purchased with funds which he had earned by lecturing.
Letters have been received from him within a few days, full of joy at the success which attended the erection of his new church, and replete with buoyant anticipations of the future. In a letter to the editor of the Transcript, written about a month ago, he said he should employ all his leisure hours in the spring in advocating the claims of the Sanitary Commission in the interior of California.
Two Sabbaths ago, a letter from Mr. King to his successor at the Hollis street Society was read from the pulpit of that church, thanking his old parishioners for their generous remembrance of his new congregation on the Pacific shore. He closed this communication with expressing the hope that he should once more address his Boston parishioners before the close of 1865. But death has extinguished these bright anticipations in which his friends here have shared, and his career of usefulness is ended. “The silver cord is loosed, and the golden bowl is broken.”
Mr. King was a man of rare genius, originality and eloquence. And it was not alone as a pulpit orator that this was displayed. As a lecturer and as an author, his talent was scarcely less conspicuous. He was a frequent contributor to the periodical and newspaper press, availing himself of every agency for extending an influence which was ever exerted on the side of justice, humanity, patriotism and Christian morality. With a tender and affectionate disposition, and a genial nature which won the friendship, confidence and affection of all who came within his sphere, he possessed a firmness and inflexibility of purpose which commanded respect and strengthened his beneficent influence.
But we need not dwell upon his virtues, for few public men are better known in this city of his adoption, and no where will his loss be more deeply mourned. His life, devoted to the service of God and his country, was all too brief, but was filed with a measure of usefulness which few who live in the allotted span can hope to attain. The sweet fragrance of his memory will long linger amid the scenes of his labors.-Boston Journal of Monday.
DEATH OF REV. THOMAS STARR KING. The unexpected death of Rev. Mr. King will be severely felt in California, as well as by the large numbers of' his friends in New England Mr. King worked his way up to eminence in early life against many disadvantages, and yet at the youthful age of twenty-one had attained high eminence in the pulpit among the educated and intellectual classes, and in his own home, where a man has always many strong prejudices to combat which he is not obliged to encounter when he comes forth before strangers. He has now passed away in the prime of manhood at the age of only forty, from his earnest and useful labors.
His excellent sense, good taste, genial high-heartedness, and eloquent oratory, gave him a commanding and salutary influence in San Francisco, and from thence all through California, in the formation of a sound public opinion and healthful social organization.-Daily Evening Traveller.
Mr. King was one of the most eloquent orators and brilliant writers in the country. His scholarship, for which he was indebted to no college, and which received, in 1850, the tardy recognition of the Master's Degree from Harvard, was of a high order. It was in the pulpit and lecture-hall, however, that he shone with exceeding lustre, and in which he possessed unbounded popularity. Mr. King had made himself thoroughly at home in California, where be was deeply beloved. His noble eloquence and his untiring zeal had done much to keep the State loyal; and everything towards the ingathering of the munificent donation that California has made to the benevolent enterprises connected with the war. The Sanitary Commission has lost their most successful champion, and the cause of the Union and of Freedom has lost a devoted friend and advocate, who would count no cost or sacrifice too great for either. It is not only among his personal friends and in the congregations committed to his charge, that Mr. King will be mourned. As a lecturer, he was known in every city and large town of the Northern States, and tens of thousands of young men have been stimulated by his example and inspired by his teachings to undertake pursuits and studies in the highest degree beneficial. Few men so young have done greater good than the lamented T. STARR KlNG.-New York Commercial Advertiser.
SAN FRANCISCO, March.4. The sudden and unexpected death of Rev. Thomas Starr King to-day, at once surprised and saddened the whole community. Business was nearly suspended. The courts adjourned, the public offices were closed, and the flags on every flag staff put at half-mast, including those on every church that ever raised a flag. It is universally conceded that no man has ever done so much as he towards making California loyal, while his untiring zeal in promoting every benevolent enterprise made him generally beloved.
SAN FRANCISCO, March 7. The funeral of the late Rev. Thomas Starr King took place yesterday, and was very imposing. The assemblage of people was greater than on any similar occasion for years. All the Christian denominations, the Masons and the military participated. The Governor and the principal Federal and State officials were present. Minute guns were fired during the service. The mortal form of Mr. King was buried beneath his own pulpit.
Mr. Everett's subscription list for the relief of the East Tennessee patriots baa already reached nearly $50,000.
<c05>
ENROLLMENT OF SLAVES.
The follow in circular in regard to the enrollment of slaves has just been issued:-
WAR DEPARTMENT, PROVOST MARSHAL GENERAL’S OFFICE, WASHINGTON, Feb 29,1864 
CIRCULAR, No. 8. I. Pursuant to section 25, of the Act approved February 24, 1864, amendatory of the Act of March 3, 1863, boards of enrollment in districts in which there are any colored persons held to service will, without delay, proceed to enroll as such persons as are liable to military duty.
II. Enrolling officers will conduct the enrollment in the manner prescribed by existing orders and regulations, and such other directions as the Acting Assistant Provost Marshals General of the States may give.
III. Enrollment lists will be made upon the printed forms (Nos. 35 and 36.) altering the heading to suit; and in the column headed “former military service,” the name of the person to whom service is owed will be written.
IV. A list, with the recapitulation of the number enrolled, will be made for each sub-district, and as soon as the enrollment of the district is completed, these lists will be forwarded to the acting Assisting Provost Marshal General for transmission to the Provost Marshal General. Copies of the list will be kept in the offices of the District Provost Marshal. Those lists by sub-districts will not be consolidated.
V. The Provost Marshal will furnish each person to whom the persons owe service, a list of those owing service to him who have been enrolled, specifying their names, ages, and date of enrollment.
VI. It is made the duty of the Acting Assistant Provost Marshal General to superintent this enrollment, and to give such orders and directions a* may be necessary to make it accurate and complete.
JAMES B. FRY,
Provost Marshal General
ANOTHER ORDER FROM GEN. BUTLER.
General Butler recently issued the following order:
NORFOLK. VA. Feb. 11, 1864. General Order No.8. All places of public worship in Norfolk and Portsmouth are hereby placed under the control of the Provost Marshals of Norfolk and Portsmouth, respectively, who shall see the pulpits properly filled by displacing, when necessary, the present incumbents, and substituting men of known loyalty the same sectarian denomination, either military or civic, subject to the approval of the commanding general. They shall see that all churches are open freely to all officers and soldiers, white or colored, at the usual hour of worship, and at other times, if desired; and they shall see no insult or indignity be offered to them, either by word, look or gesture, on the part of the congregation. The necessary expenses will be levied, as far as possible, in accordance with the previous usages or regulations of each congregation, respectively.
No property shall be removed, either public or private, without permission from these headquarters.
By command of Brigadier General E. A. Wild.
The Richmond Sentinel publishes the order of General Wild relative to the churches of Norfolk, and comments on it as follows:-
“This order is the quintessence of a brutal and God-forsaken tyranny. It is in pursuance of the plan adopted by Lincoln to send Abolition zealots rum the Yankee conventicles to drive our people away from the altars where they have been accustomed to worship, and to deny them practically the services of the sanctuary. Mohammedanism is hitherto the only religion which has been propagated by the sword. Abolitionism, a far baser delusion, now employs the same propagandism. The iron hoof of war invades the temples of God; devotion is subjected to the will and rule of profane provost marshals, and conscience is deemed a fair subject for military conquest.
But it was reserved for the mercenary fanatics of Lincolndom to add further infamy, of which the mailed worshippers of Islam would have disdained to be guilty. Not only are the citizens of these unhappy towns to be driven from their pews and their churches, -not only is a blatant fanaticism to be installed in their pulpits,-but they are to be made to pay, “as far as possible,” the salaries which may be levied for those who desecrate their altars, and defile the temples in which they have so long worshipped the God of their fathers! A Yankee never forgets the dollar. An outrage upon helplessness would be but half complete, if it did not include theft and robbery. How long-Oh, God, how long?”
These contortions and exclamations are extremely ludicrous. Well, let these miserable traitors “gnaw their tongues for pain”! God is just.

THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 29. Senator Sumner's report made, to day, from the Select Committee on Freedmen, discusses the relation between slavery and the fugitive slave acts, which it says may be reviewed as part of the system of slavery, and therefore obnoxious to the judgment which civilization is accumulating against this barbarism.
It is Bad enough to thrust an escaped slave back into bondage at any time. It is absurd to thrust him back when slavery is rallying all its forces for the conflict which it has madly challenged. But the crime of such a transaction is not diminished by its absurdity. A slave with courage and address to escape from his master has the qualities needed for a soldier of freedom, but existing statutes require his arrest and sentence to bondage.
The Committee argue that the 4th article, section 2d of the Constitution, according to the best rules of interpretation, cannot be considered as applicable to fugitive slaves, since, whatever may have been the intention of its authors, no such words were employed as described fugitive slaves and nobody else.
It is obvious that this clause in its force is applicable to apprentices.
Is is only by going behind its primary signification, and by supplying a secondary signification, that the clause can be considered applicable to fugitive slaves.
In the House, on the 29th ult., a Mr. Long, o Ohio, Copperhead, moved to send Franklin Pierce, Millard Fillmore and Thomas Ewing as Commissioners to Richmond to negotiate peace. Mr. Dawes suggested Vallandigham in place of Ewing or Fillmore, and Mr. Ashley of Ohio thought that Mr. Buchanan should surely be added to the Board. When the vote was taken, there were 96 nays and 22 yeas.
Then came up Mr. Schenck's war resolutions. The yeas and nays were demanded on that which culled for the removal of the cause of the rebellion, when Mr. J. C. Allen, strongly coppery, voted yea amidst loud laughter. Mr. Alley, who was called next, voted nay, whereat the laughter increased; but he changed his vote immediately, explaining in substance that he thought it safe to oppose the gentleman from Illinois; and then the laughter pealed again. The resolution passed unanimously-Cox, of Ohio, explaining that the opposition voted for the resolutions because they thought abolition and secession the cause of the war, and that these ought to be removed; and Mr. Mallory of Kentucky made a similar explanation. And by this miserable subterfuge they dodged voting their real sentiments.
POLITICAL. The following appears in a Washington despatch to the Cincinnati Commercial:
“An interesting correspondence has taken place between Secretary Chase and President Lincoln on the subject of the Pomeroy circular. Some days since, Chase sent a note to the President, saying he had not seen the Pomeroy circular until published, and that he disapproved of it; nevertheless, at the solicitation of friends, he stool in the attitude of a candidate for the Presidency, and he submitted to Mr. Lincoln the question whether such an attitude was incompatible with his relations as a member of the Cabinet.
The President replied that he had not seen Mr. Pomeroy's circular at all, and as to whether Mr. Chase's candidacy was incompatible with his position as a member of the Cabinet, that was a question for him (Chase) to decide.”
The Washington correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune gives this version of the latter part of the above:
“The President replies that he has not seen the circular, and that be does not know of any act of Mr. Chase inconsistent with his position as a member of his Cabinet.”
Senator Sherman of Ohio says in a recent letter:
“I prefer the nomination of Gov. Chase to that of Mr. Lincoln, as I believe GOV. Chase has more executive ability than Mr. Lincoln, but I am entirely willing to abide the action of the Union Convention at Baltimore. If Mr. Lincoln should be nominated, he will receive my hearty support.”
The Chicago Times says that Ben Wade has proclaimed against the renomination of President Lincoln.
On a train going west from Dubuque, a vote on the next Presidency was taken, resulting thus: Lincoln 74, Grant 10, McCllellan 5, Butler 5, Seward 1, Seymour 1, and Herron 1.
CAIRO, III., March 2. By the arrival of the steamer Empress, we have New Orleans dates of the 23d of February.
The total vote of the State of Louisiana, as far as received, is 9 293. Hahn's majority for Governor over Fellows is 3,542; over Flanders, 3,595; and over both, 1,727. The other candidates on the Free State ticket an elected by about the same majority.
<c06>
REBEL INTEREST IN THE NEW HAMPSHIRE ELECTION The rebel leaders are awaiting the issue of the campaign in Now Hampshire with no less interest than the people of the loyal States. The recent address of the rebel Congress truly asserted that there exists a powerful political party” here at the North which openly condemns the efforts of the administration to conquer the South. The Richmond why said but a few days ago. That on “moral grounds the justice of our cause has been vindicated by the ablest intellects in Europe and by the best men at the North. England, the mother of abolitionism, has sustained us; France, as thoroughly anti-slavery as England, though, not like her, a propagandist, has sustained us. Fernando wood, Franklin pierce, Seymour of Connecticut sustain us, in the moral issue at least. Thus sustained, we shall indeed lack manhood if we fail to meet this last hour of trial bravely and hopefully.” The sympathy and good understanding which exist between Frank Pierce and other Copperhead leaders at the North and the Southern rebels have been repeatedly demonstrated.
The rebels South, and the copperheads North, will find cause for lamentation at the result of the election in New Hampshire on Tuesday last, which shows a majority of more than fire thousand for Gov. Gilmore, the Republican candidate, and a clean sweep for Senators and Representatives of the same stamp; members of Council-&c.
NEW YORK, March 6. The Times' special Washington dispatch gives the following additional statement of the result of Kilpatrick's raid:-
“Miles of railroad track on the two principal roads over which Lee transports his supplies for the northern army of Virginia, bare been so thoroughly destroyed, that some time mast elapse before the roads can be put in running order again. Depots of commissary ordnance and quartermaster's stores were burnt or destroyed. No less than six gristmills and one sawmill-principally at work for the re bet army- were burnt. Six canal boats loaded with grain, several locks on the James Hirer Canal, and the almost invaluable coal pits at Manikin's Bend, were destroyed. Nearly three hundred prisoners were captured, and several hundred horses pressed into service Hundreds of negroes availed themselves of this opportunity to come into our lines.”
The Washington correspondent of the Boston
Herald writes:-
“An unpleasant rivalry between Meade and Sickles has been developing for some some. It is stated that the latter testified before the Committee on the Conduct of the War on Tuesday, that Gen. Meade would have ordered a retreat from Gettysburg, had not the first corps got in a light, and brought on a general battle.”
NEW YORK. March 5. The Times' despatch says, Gen. Meade has been summoned here by the President to answer the charges preferred against him by Gen. Sickles and Doubleday before the Committee on the Conduct of the War The matter is assuming a serious aspect.
TWENTIETH COLORED REGIMENT. The Twentieth regiment United States colored volunteers-the first two regiments already organized by the New: York Union League Club-left Riker's Island this morning, on its way to New Orleans, passing through this city, and receiving the present of a handsome stand of colors from the ladies of New York. The men had a magnificent reception on their march through the streets and at Union Square where the flags were presented to them, on behalf of the donors. by President King of Columbia College, in the presence of many thousand spectators-N. Y. Eve. Post, Monday evening
WASHINGTON, March 4. Messrs. Bretonneau and Ronpennez, the delegation appointed by the colored freemen of Louisiana to wait upon the President, presented their memorial last evening, asking that the colored people in Louisiana who were free before the rebellion may be permitted to vote in that State.
The President received the deputation cordially, and replied that an impression had gone abroad that he was acting irresponsibly in the elections in the rebel States; but it was wrong. Ha must finish the big job on his hands of crushing the rebellion, and in doing that, if it became necessary to prevent rebels from voting, he should do so.
If the recognition of black men as having a right to vote was necessary to close the war, he should not hesitate. He saw no reason why intelligent black men should not vote; but this was not a military question, and he would refer it to the Constitutional Convention in Louisiana.
The Boston Courier, the author of the meanest pro-slavery hunkerism and disloyalty which is tolerated at the North, patronizingly says of the Democratic leaders of New Hampshire-” Our friends are stripped to the work, and mean to do it” Stripped of conscience, humanity and loyalty, the Courier means.-Journal.
Anna Dickinson has been speaking to crowded houses in St. Louis. Gen. Rosecrans and others have invited her to come again. Fred. Douglass and Wendell Phillips are to be invited.
ADDITIONAL SUBSCRIPTIONS
To the Thirtieth National Anti-Slavery anniversary
Mrs. Lydia a. Jarvis, Boston, &5.00
Miss Abby W. May, Boston 5.00
Surgeon Daniel Mann, of Gen. Wild's Brigade, South Carolina, 10.00
Anna M. and E. W. Twing. Springfield, 5.00
Joseph S. Davey, Harlem, N. Y., 5.00
Mrs. Caroline Remond Putnam, Salem, 20.00
A Friend, by Mrs. C. R. P., Salem 5.00
Errors in first List.
Read Sarah G. Weld (instead of A. G. W.)
Read Mary M. Brooks (instead of M. H. B.)
Read Mrs. B. Pitman (instead of Puman.)
ALSO: In the list of receipts by Finance Committee, at the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, Jonathan Buffum of Lynn, instead of $2, should be credited with $5.
LIBERTY AND UNION.-Rev. WM. 8. HEYWOOD, of Mass., and AARON M. POWELL will address meetings in behalf of General Emancipation and a prohibitory Constitutional Amendment, at
Waterloo, Amendment, Saturday, March 12.
Waterloo, Amendment, Sunday, March 13.
Geneva, Amendment, Tuesday, March 15.
Seneca Falls, Amendment, Wednesday, March 16
Auburn, Amendment, Thursday, March 17.
WM. A. JACKSON, (Jeff. Davis's Coachman,) will speak in
Augusta, Friday, March 11.
Bangor, on the following weak.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will speak in North Easton, Sunday, March 13, all day and evening.
E.H.HEYWOOD WILL Speak in Feltonville, Sunday, March 13, afternoon and evening.
MEDALLION OF JOHN BROWN,-The subscriber invites the attention of her friends and the public to a number of Medallions of John BROWN, just completed by her, and which may be seen at rooms No. 89, Studio Building, Tremont Street M.EDMONHIA LEWIS.
Boston, Jan.29, 1864.
MERCY B.JACKSOM, M.D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M.D; David Thayer, M.D. office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
DIED-In Brighton, (MASS.) 5, Mr. JOHN T.HILTON, aged 62.
(An obituary notice will appear next week.

R.BACON
Real Estate Agency,
No.36 Washington Street,
Room No 3, UP STAIRS BOSTON
REFERS TO
Hon. H. Wright, Dr. D. Russell, Messrs. Bowers & JENKS.
Particular attention given to the purchases, sale and exchange of farms; also to the sale and letting of Houses and Stores in the city.
March 11-3t
Portrait of William Lloyd Garrison
In preparation, and will shortly be published, a splendid lithographic portrait of Mr. Garrison, from an original crayon drawing by that eminent artist, S.W. Rowse price &1.50.
Address C.H. BRAINARD, BOSTON.
March 11-2wis
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
TO THE PIONEERS OF THE ABOLITION MOVEMENT.
Ye have made a wide breach in the fortress wall
Of slavery, ye small, but ye brave-hearted hand;
And the fortress is tottering to its fall;
And its turrets, once strong, how they trembling stand!
Ye have climbed up, with wearisome steps and slow,
The steep hill that concealed the prospect so rare;
And the rich, peaceful, smiling valley below
Lies stretched at your feet, so calm and so fair.
Some, too, have ascended the summit of life,
And your feet are now journeying down its hill;
But bravely ye bore the hard toil and the strife,
With true faithful hearts, and with undaunted will.
Now blest are ye, Warriors, permitted to see
The wall that ye battered lean swift to decay!
And blest among life's weary Travellers are ye,
For in prospect ye view of true Freedom the day!
JANE ASHBY.
Tonbridge, Kent Co. (Eng.) Feb., 1864.

For the Liberator.
THE HEROIC BLACK.
[A colored soldier in Tennessee was mortally wounded. He told his officer that he could not live, but would die fighting for the flag of liberty; and continued to discharge his rifle until he fell dead on the field of glory.]
TUNE-Auld Lang Syne.
I.
The ball had crush’d a vital part-
He could not long survive;
But, with a brave and loyal heart,
For viet’ry still would strive.
His rifle 'gainst the traitor foe
With deadly aim would ply;
And till his life-blood ceased to flow,
Fight on for liberty.
II.
His skin was of the ebon hue-
His heart was nobly brave-
To country, flag, and freedom true,
He would not live a slave.
His rifle flash'd-a traitor falls;-
While death is in his eye,
He bravely to his comrades calls,
“Fight on for liberty!”
III.
He look'd upon his banner'd sign,
He bow'd his noble head-
“Farewell, beloved Flag of mine!”
Then fell among the dead.
His comrades will remember well
The hero’s battle-cry,
As in the arms of death he fell-
“Fight on for liberty!”
IV.
And still for liberty and laws
His comrades will contend
Till vict'ry crowns the righteous cause,
And tyrant power shall end.
Though low in earth the martyr lies,
Still rings his battle-cry-
From hill to hill the echo flies-
“Fight on for liberty!”
Weymouth, Mass. F.M. ADLINGTON.
The following tribute by Mrs. Child, written several years ago, suggests its republication at this time.
TO GEORGE THOMPSON.
BY L. MARIA CHILD.
I've heard thee when thy powerful words
Were like the cataract's roar,
Or like the ocean's mighty waves,
Resounding on the shore.
But, ever in reproof of sin,
Love brooded over all,
As the mild rainbow's heavenly arch
Rests on the waterfall.
I've heard thee in the hour of prayer,
When dangers were around;
Thy voice was like the royal harp,
That breathed a charmed sound.
The evil spirit felt its power,
And howling turned away;
And some, perchance, who “came to scoff,
Remained with thee to pray.”
I've seen thee, too, in playful mood,
When words of magic spell
Dropped from thy lips like fairy gems,
That sparkled as they fell.
Still great and good in every change!
Magnificent and mild,
As if a seraph's godlike power
Dwelt in a little child.

A NORTHERN SONG.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
Now joy and thanks forevermore!
The dreary night has well-nigh passed; 
The slumbers of the North are o'er,
The giant stands erect at last!
More than we hoped in that dark time,
When faint with watching, few and worn,
We saw no welcome day-star climb
The cold grey pathway of the morn.
Oh, weary hours! Oh, night of years!
What storms our darkling pathway swept,
Where, beating back our thronging fears,
By faith alone our march we kept!
How jeered the scoffing crowd behind,
How mocked before the tyrant train,
As, one by one, the true and kind
Fell fainting in our path of pain!
They died-their brave hearts breaking slow-
But, self-forgetful to the last,
In words of cheer and bugle-glow,
Their breath upon the darkness passed.
A mighty host on either hand
Stood waiting for the dawn of day,
To crush like reeds our feeble band!-
The morn has come-and where are they?
Troop after troop its line forsakes,
With peace-white banners waving free,
And from our own the glad shout breaks,
Of “Freedom and Fraternity!”
Like mist before the growing light,
The hostile cohorts melt away:
Hurrah! our foemen of the night
Are brothers at the dawn of day!
As unto these repentant ones
We open wide our toil-worn ranks,
Along our line a murmur runs,
Of song, and praise, and grateful thanks.
Sound for the onset! Blast on blast,
Till Slavery's minions cower and quail!
One charge of fire shall drive them fast,
Like chaff before our Northern gale!
Oh, prisoners, in your house of pain,-
Dumb, toiling millions, bound and sold,-
Look, stretched in Southern vale and plain,
The Lord's delivering hand behold!
Above the traitor's pride of power,
His iron gates and guarded wall,
The bolts which shattered Shinar’s tower
Hang, smoking, for a fiercer fall!
Awake! awake! my Father-land!
It is thy Northern light that shines; 
This stirring march of Freedom's band,
The storm-song of thy mountain pines!
Wake, dwellers where the day expires!
Your winds that stir the mighty lake,
And fan your prairie roaring fires-
They’re Freedom’s signals! Wake! Awake!
<c02>
The Liberator.
PARLIAMENTARY TALK ON AMERICAN AFFAIRS.
LONDON, Feb. 5, 1864.
To the Editor of the Liberator:-
DEAR SIR-The friends of the slave on this side of the Atlantic will have occasion to watch with something more of interest than that which would attach to mere curiosity, the speeches in the Houses of Lords and Commons concerning the American struggle. So long as the Southern snake is scotched-be it ever so badly-and not killed outright, our Copperheads will be perpetually seeking to furnish it with sustenance. This can be done nowhere save within the walls of the Legislature. It was, therefore, to be expected that the debate on the address in reply to the Queen's speech would elicit some faint hisses from that slimy genus which has waged war upon the happiness of mankind ever since Satan assumed their shape in Eden. It is said that Mahomet succeeded in converting all the beasts upon earth, save the buffalo and two others. There is an obvious fallacy in this statement; for had the Eastern prophet tried his hand for a month upon a Copperhead, he would have found it the same uncircumcised and unregenerate reptile at the end of his labors as it was at the beginning. It possesses the same tenacity of malice as it proverbially has of life.
The Royal speech-which you will no doubt receive by this mail-contains no allusion to America. This reticence appears to have amazed the leaders of the Tory faction. Upon the ordinary principle of ex nihilo nihil fit, they were thus deprived of good materials for a faction fight. This deficiency, however, they resolved to make up for by the unparliamentary proceeding of travelling out of the record-the speech. They were not content to do battle upon the Schleswig Halstein question alone. They lifted up their hands and eyes with the best simulation of pious horror they could command, at the fratricidal contest now going on amongst you savage republicans; but they did not moralize upon the edifying spectacle now presented in our most enlightened royal family-the daughter-in-law's father leading on the army on one side, and the daughter's husband leading on the invading host on the other-and for what? Certainly not to prevent the dismemberment of an empire, or for the freedom of four million of slaves. My principles have been sorely tested lately upon this war question. I am in the position of Paul, with a law in my members warring against the law in my mind. The renewed Adam sees clearly that man in every shape is sinful; but the old Adam cannot help feeling an intense degree of interest in the progress of the Federal arms with you; and, notwithstanding my plain convictions of the wickedness of the thing, I cannot help feeling a high degree of complacency-I think I might even say exultation-when I read of the slaveholders getting a thorough thrashing. So with regard to Denmark. I look with contempt and disgust upon the wanton effusion of bloodshed which is taking place in the duchies; but along with my Christian repugnance theoretically, practically there is a good deal of-no doubt very sinful-satisfaction at the troubles in the North of Europe, inasmuch as I know that it is eminently the case with European monarchies, that
"Satan finds some mischief still
For idle bands to do";
and I would much rather just now that that mischief should be done on the banks of the Eider than on those of the Mississippi. The devil has found enough of that article for you at home, without any European importation.
The Copperhead efforts made in both Houses yesterday were but the faint efforts of an expiring faction. The Tory leader, Earl Derby, clearly indicated his belief of the impossibility of the establishment of a slave republic for any commercial purpose. If he has any doubt about the issue of the pending struggle, of one thing he seems quite certain-that cotton will never again be the absolute autocrat of America. He said, referring to Lancashire:
"There is unfortunately an exception to the general prosperity in those districts which are suffering from that unhappy and desolating war which is distracting the greater part of the continent of North America. But even there, I concur in the language of the speech, that the amount of the pressure has been to a certain extent mitigated, although it is exceedingly severe. There is, however, some prospect that in the course of a very few months there will be a considerable increase of employment in our manufacturing districts. The anticipations that we formed last year of a probable supply of cotton for the consumption of the country during the present year has been realized almost to the letter, and we may, therefore, rely with great confidence upon the anticipations of those who assumed that, in the beginning of April or May in this year, we may calculate upon a sufficient supply of cotton to maintain the whole of our mills now in operation to the extent of at least five days in the week. Our domestic industry now obtains its supply of raw material from many sources, and the war between the Federals and the Confederates has shown us the danger of relying upon one source of supply. (Hear, hear.) But I must not lead your lordships to believe that there may not be great fluctuations in the amount of distress. It is not so much the high prices of cotton as the uncertainty in the prices of cotton which is paralyzing the operations of our manufacturing industry. High as the price is at present, it is a remarkable fact that the consumption of cotton has by no means kept pace with the increased prices. So long as the present state of things continues, so long will our manufacturers limit their operations to little more than meeting the demands of the hour. Their mills will close and re-open from time to time, whilst the present state of the market continues, and thus there will in all probability be great fluctuations in the amount of distress in the manufacturing districts. But I may venture to say this, that there is a hopeful spirit in these districts-that there are under course of erection, or have been erected there, 110 new cotton mills, which will be prepared to take advantage of the first improvement in the cotton trade. (Hear, hear.) I have heard that in one alone of these new establishments, 5000 looms have been put up.  He (Earl Russell) has been neutral-a one-sided neutrality I will call it-between the Federal and Confederate States of America; and now we see by the papers laid before Congress, that he has received from the Federal States demands outblustering even the noble Earl himself. (Cheers and laughter.) We are not only told that the Federal Government will hold us responsible for all the damage to their commerce sustained by the Alabama, but that if we do not put a stop to the future sailing of such vessels from the ports of this country, the Federal Government will take the law into its own hands, and follow those vessels into British waters, and seize them. (Hear, hear.) I hope that the noble Earl will be able to show that he has answered that despatch in a manner which will put a stop to the repetition of such demands. In November last, the noble Earl took the somewhat strong step of seizing certain steam rams in the Mersey, under circumstances which will no doubt lead to the Government hearing more of that matter, but still he has not satisfied the Federals, while he has offended the Confederates."
Earl Russell gave, to my mind, a very proper answer to this Tory philippic. He spoke as follows:-
"With regard to non-intervention, I am content to say that, with few exceptions, to intervene is not only unjustifiable, but will usually defeat its own end. Then the noble Earl goes on to say, that we have not only intervened, but that we have differed with France on certain questions. If the noble Earl pleases to adopt the policy, the avowal of which is attributed to a member of the other House, who was one of his colleagues when in office-a policy which is that, whatever France proposes, we should accept, that we ought to have no opinion of our own, but that the French policy should prevail-I say that I cannot accept that policy which has been pat forth by the leader of the Opposition in the other House. With regard to the question of Mexico, we stated from the beginning, that we did not go there to intervene in the internal affairs of the country, and when the French went beyond the original object of obtaining redress, we withdrew. (Hear, hear.)"
Earl of Derby: I did not blame the withdrawal from Mexico. Earl Russell: Then why mention the topic? (Hear, her.) The noble Earl says we differ from France about the recognition of the Southern States of America. There was no such proposal, but one for mediation; but we thought that proposal would irritate the Northern States, and that there was much better chance of reconciliation between North and South by not putting in any foreign proposed The whole country approved of the resolution of her Majesty’s Government (Hear, hear.)”
<c03>
Lord Russell gave the following exposition of French policy, showing the senseless folly to which even an enlightened English aristocrat can give utterance:-
"The Emperor of the French, I believe with great sagacity and great wisdom, has given certain powers to his people. Like the philosopher of old, who said if he had his hands full of knowledge, he would only open one finger at a time, the Emperor of the French brings his people to the enjoyment of liberty in much the same manner; but at the same time, I believe it is for their benefit, and I trust that his authority may be maintained; and with his sagacity and his skill, it is probable in time, without convulsions, the French people will have all the liberty they can properly enjoy.”
His Lordship, in such an assembly, was safe in the inference that Providence had wisely placed the liberties of a great people in the hands of one man, who had been so conservative of the trust reposed in him, that he had not ventured yet to raise his little finger to let out the smallest portion of the precious boon. Lord Russell's audience, of course, did not know that Napoleon's predecessor, by keeping his hand shut down too close, had his royal arm blown off.
D'Israeli played primo buffo in the Commons. He said:-
"It seems to me somewhat strange that the United States of America are not noticed in her Majesty's speech. (Hear, hear.) Our relations with the United States are at this moment very intimate, and have been very active. Some expression of opinion on the part of government as to the probable duration of that eventful struggle-(a laugh)-which is taking place there, would have been received, I have no doubt, with very great respect. It is said they received official communications on that subject, and I am sure we should have been extremely obliged to them had they communicated them to the House. But if they could not venture to give an opinion on the probable duration of that struggle, they might at least have assured us that the policy which they had adopted with regard to that struggle, and which had been sanctioned by Parliament, was unchanged. It would have been satisfactory to know that the principle of strict neutrality was still the principle of our policy with regard to the United States, and that during the recess it had been rigidly observed and strictly enforced. (Hear, hear.) I say so because much has happened during the interval which has created great suspicions on the subject in the public mind. Although at present I give no opinion on the circumstances, and freely own they may be susceptible of an interpretation quite satisfactory on the part of the government; still, I cannot doubt that this is a subject which will require the attention of Parliament, and it would have been wise that, at the commencement of the session, there should have been some notice of our relations with the United States in the speech of the Royal Commissioners.”
Lord Palmerston, in reply to D'Israeli, said:-
"He complains, in the first place, that no mention is made of the civil war in America. Why, we have over and over again lamented, and still continue to lament, the continuance of that war; and we have declared more than once that her Majesty's Government profess and act upon, and intend to continue and act upon, a principle of strict neutrality in regard to that quarrel. (Hear.) And unless the House thought that her Majesty's Government were going to depart from that course, of which they had given no intimation whatever, then it would have been a matter of surplusage to have filled the speech with a repetition of statements made on former occasions, and which are still binding on her Majesty's Government. (Hear.)
Mr. Peacocke said that he would have been happy to have heard what her Majesty's Government had done in respect of our relations with America to vindicate the honor of this country, and how it was that Earl Russell had given orders to seize the steam rams only a fortnight after his reply to a memorial of the Emancipation Society, stating that he had not sufficient evidence on which to proceed to such an issue. (Hear, hear.)"
Such were the references made to American affairs during the debate, and I think you will agree with me that it is not calculated materially to affect the value of the currency North, whatever it may do South. The rebels ought, by this time, to perceive the folly as well as the meanness of whining to the European powers to come over and do the fighting for them. There is, however, a little go to be tried respecting an alleged seizure of British ships:-
“Mr. S. Fitzgerald gave notice that, on going into committee of supply, on Friday next, he should call the attention to the seizure by American cruisers of the Springbok and Sirius at Matamoras, and of the Saxon within the limits of the Cape Colony; and also to the case of the Margaret and Jessie.”
W. FARMER.

INTERNATIONAL LEAGUES.
Any experienced engineer, sitting down before a fortified place, can, by aid of experimental analysis, foretell nearly the period at which the reduction of the fortress shall be effected.
In abstract analysis, a dogma or creed has no power. The stubborn fact, that the Sermon on the Mount exists, is absolute proof that the moral, political and physical development therein foreshadowed is not above human attainment.
There is no combination of talent or power which can fortify error so strongly, that the opposition of moral, political, and physical dynamics cannot overcome and destroy it.
As these premises are true, so true is it that, from necessity, from natural law-or, if it is more authoritative, from the will of the Eternal-an alliance of the highest human developments, to elevate the race, must obtain the end sought, and in progress towards it destroy all opposition.
It is of no final Importance, (as to the result,) except as a standard, that despotisms, creeds and aristocracies are in opposition, because without opposition progress could not be measured, and without the mercy of evil good could not be ascertained.
Cosmopolites have reason to be of good cheer; and none the less when they have ascertained from all history that minorities have governed. If on the side of aristocracies and despotisms, with such efficiency, how much more so with a combination of the best developments, and the vantage of natural law, in the opposite direction! And as the tendency of good is to increase alway, and of evil to diminish until destroyed they can safely rely upon greatly accelerated progress when communities are added to already thoroughly organized Leagues.
The foundation of all social improvement is in the honesty of the people. It is, however, practical lying of the worst description to instruct a starving, or even hungry people to be honest, when the law of instinct teaches them imperatively to take food, and raiment, and shelter, or perish. Of course, laws of primogeniture, and all other laws which stand in the way of the equal divisions of estates, are hostile to the improvement of men. The use of government is to clothe the naked, to feed the hungry, to shelter the houseless, to find employment for the incompetent, to restrain evil, and create good; and by carrying these truths to their legitimate conclusion, it will result, that the land tenures will be vested in the nation for the benefit of the whole people-one great family living upon their own estate; and that this estate will then be improved with the greatest sagacity, the greatest economy, and the greatest sum of human happiness, as also with a degree of visible splendor and wealth now entirely unknown and unapproachable by the greatest display of sovereigns.
It should not be a source of uneasiness to stare the fact in the face, that society has to be entirely changed from its beginnings, in order to secure progress in the right direction. It takes time, but the generations soon succeed each other; and what was a myth at first, becomes not long after a record, to be remembered and referred to.
Of this nature will be the moral schooling of a whole nation of children. Of this nature will be the statute, that no lawyer, or physician, or surgeon, shall be suffered to charge a fee for his attendance at court, or upon the sick and dying: that no debt can be legally collected.
The mention of such changes appears so harsh and madly radical to those who have active prejudices, or who are thoughtless, that they are put aside as not worth a second consideration. And yet, by making remuneration depend upon the amount of good dose by the doctor, or attorney, at the discretion of the per-
<c04>
son benefitted, many a long lawsuit would never be, and many patients would get immediately well, who would otherwise linger on sick beds, or be measured by the undertaker.
The men of degrees must be consoled by the practical experience, that grateful hearts make open hands.
If paper debts and promises could not be collected, cash transactions would become universal, which would make the financial state of the nation much more safe, and a great many crimes would disappear entirely-forgery would not be known.
War may disappear by two instrumentalities. The first is the development of moral sense in the children of the people, with records of their standing in all shire towns, from the time when they are first enrolled as members of the schools, to the time when they become members of the body politic-at the age of twenty-one years. The other is the discovery by science, of agents which will destroy whole communities at once, and thus make it monstrous and impracticable.
In crimes and punishments, death, is unnecessary. Yet, when the crime is capital, and the whole combined wisdom and effort of the people through the training of the schools, for nearly half the average length of life, has been proved to be of no avail to develop self-restraint-and the individual proves to be radically bad-then, to defend the race, and to allow full scope for the principle which should govern the improvement of all races, the condemned should not be suffered to continue his species; emasculation might, with safety to society, be the highest punishment known to the law. The criminal could yet enjoy the natural term of life, and be useful, with the possibility of a change of nature for the better.
It may be argued that the whole theory of elevation for the race is visionary and impossible, and from the nature and constitution of man, (which would deny God and crucify a Redeemer,) it is utterly useless to try the experiment.
It is answered, that if a difference could be added to the volume of the Caucassian skull, in favor of moral sentiment, equal to the difference which exists between the highest type of the Caucassian and the lowest type of the Australian of to-day, the experiment would be an accomplished fact. We should have a brain sufficiently developed to grasp and realize the great truth, that the welfare of the individual is best consulted by the welfare of the race. Besides this, all analogy in breeding gives a multitude of facts to show that a race can be so changed as not to be at all the same, except as to general form and habit.
The broad, selfish head of modern times upon which crime is stereotyped, with all its varieties of low fore-head, and flat-top, and immense back head, can be made to give place to one that clearly can distinguish between good and evil, and that will prefer the good. Indeed, the process of change for the better is now going on; for as there is a tendency in evil to destroy itself, so in the gratification of selfishness, avarice lust and murder, make rail-roads and ocean steamers to shorten communication, ruin each other by fire and sword, and stock plantations with light hair and blue eyes.
And this, then, is the vantage of position which international leagues must enjoy. They have an ally in natural law-they carry with them the morale which gives a snap to all their proceedings.
Let the masses be once satisfied that there is a combination of power always on the watch for the common good, to make each man a king and a priest, and to secure for the whole the kingdom and the dominion under the whole heavens-and the downfall of the opposition is but a question of time, for it is as certain as that time shall be. CARBON.

NON-RESISTANCE.
MR. GARRISON-I love and venerate the character of the Divinely Inspired Teacher of Christian Non-Resistance. I reverence, and, in my intercourse with my fellows, endeavor to live faithfully by the principle itself; not because it was taught by Him, for it was as true and as necessary to the well-being of man kind before his advent as it has been since; but because of its adaptation to the wants of Humanity, its necessity to the perfection of human character. The whirlwind of war, in its devastating progress through this nation, has swept away the professions of many, it might be said the most, of those who imagined themselves believers in its doctrines, and grounded in its principles. Such, probably, were admirers at a distance of an idea they supposed themselves to comprehend, but which they never understood. Of the few still left to claim discipleship, how many of us may not perchance be found in the category of uninformed believers? Discussion of its philosophy is manifestly needed, that, if we be in error, the fact may be demonstrated by those who are wiser; and if we possess aught of truth, those who believe differently may have opportunity to perceive it.
The Liberator has recently contained several articles devoted partly to the subject, which, to my apprehension, manifest indications of a want of full comprehension of the whole scope of the doctrines of non-resistance. The spirit in which they have been written seems beautiful. If they contain error, it consists not in intention, but in the lack of the fullest development of thought of which the question is capable. In commenting upon them, I would desire to assume the attitude of inquirer, remembering the possibility of the error being mine, in matters wherein we differ.
In that paper of August 21st, 1863, is contained a letter over the signature of W. P. G., with the sentiments chiefly of which I most sincerely agree. When, however, the writer remarks, “But I live at that stage of the progress of mankind in which governments are a necessity-the indispensable aids to a better condition of individual self-government hereafter,” I think an admission is made fatal to his position as a non-resistant. It is true we may grant that, in some instances, the motives which prompted to the creation of penal governments, and many of the objects provided for by them, are the one meritorious and praiseworthy-the other, highly desirable. But to go so far as to claim they are “a necessity, and indispensable” to progress, is to assume it is possible for evil to generate good, and that there is no immutable law that like shall beget its like in the moral as well as in the physical universe. Grant that penal governments of human contrivance are indispensably necessary, and I see not bow the writer is excusable in “never taking an office, nor creating an office under them.” The argument so often used against non-resistants, that they permit the wicked to create and sustain governments, without employing their own better influence to promote the right, seems a perfectly valid one against such a position. To arrive as nearly as we may at truth, I would solicit the efforts of W. P. G., or any other thoughtful person, in a demonstration of the source from which men derive a right to form any penal government, and what are the conditions and limitations of that right, in view of the admitted fact that “all men are created equal, and possessed of certain inalienable rights.” When this shall have been done, there will be time to inquire about the possibility of enforcing any penal infliction by a system which forbids the taking of life, as the ultimate resort of the governing power. And there will still remain the question, how any enforcement of penalties can be reconciled with the injunction, “Love your enemies, do good to them that hate you,” and the imperative duty of forgiving, not punishing, all trespasses, announced by Him whom men profess to receive as an authoritative Teacher.
An idea similar to the one I have noticed runs through the several communications of ALFRED H. LOVE. He is even enthusiastic in praise of government, and, for aught that appears, takes no exception to it, save on the subject of the war; and even to that, only as it interferes with those conscientiously opposed to that barbarism. He is worthy of all honor for his faithful adhesion to principle in respect to the draft. A further development of the same principle, it appears to me, will lead him to repudiate all penal legislation as a wickedness to be patiently endured
<c05>
when enforced on the individual, but in no respect to be participated in or eulogized.
Never, probably, was there occasion for such watchfulness over opinion and action, by any people, as by this nation at this time. Elsewhere, governments are schemes of iniquity, with evil intentions in view as well as good, fastened upon men by arbitrary power, and the subjects of them free from all responsibility, save for the employment of rightful means for their overthrow. Here, with the same mixture of good and evil in the intentions for which it was framed, the voter makes himself accountable for all the wrong done by the government, because he enters it only by consenting that the will of the majority shall be accomplished, thereby consenting to all that it does, whether evil or good. The facts in history show that the whole of those who have been voting in the government, up to the breaking out of the war, are accountable for its origination. All consented to, and by their physical and moral power enforced the condition of slavery upon the unfortunate negro. When the serpent of slavery had been nourished into such huge proportions that it felt strong enough to turn upon a portion of those who had warmed it into life and sustained it, in accordance with its nature it manifested towards them its venomous spirit. Then, and not sooner, with the chief motive the ignoble one of self-protection, they attempt its destruction. And this new-born hostility to slavery, which, in its aims, falls so far short of justice to the negro, they christen philanthropy, plume themselves upon their exalted virtue, and boast loudly of the sacrifice which is being made by the nation for impartial liberty; whilst non-resistants join in the praise, as affording a sublime spectacle of “moral integrity”! In my belief, when the just authority of the God of the universe comes to be comprehended, the North will have to be pronounced scarcely less guilty than the South in the inception of this war, and, consequently, scarcely less stricken by that righteous judgment which never sleeps. The overthrow of slavery seems a probable anticipation; and such an event is so desirable that an undue leniency of judgment in respect to the means used for its accomplishment is every where apparent among men. But Divine law is inexorable; it takes no account of motives, but rewards or punishes individuals according to their acts. And, unless there be no truth in the idea that, by an immutable law of nature, like is compelled to produce its like, in moral causation as in physical; it will be found that, with slavery overthrown, mankind will be so demoralized by the means employed to do it that, at the end of the war, we shall find ourselves, as a whole, in an infinitely worse condition than at the beginning. This is a logical necessity from the fact that every effect becomes immediately the germ of future consequences. If it correspond in its essence with natural or Divine law, the consequences will prove a blessing; if it violate that law, the consequences must inevitably be a curse, wholly irrespective in either case of the motives of the actors. It is true that an actor may violate an additional law, the social, through the motive which governs him, and thereby incur an additional penalty.
But, be the motive ever so meritorious, which prompts to the commission of an act violative of natural law, the penalty for that violation is never suspended on account thereof.
I would invite the attention, then, of professing non-resistants, and of all those friendly to the cause of peace and good-will to men, to a thorough investigation of and obedience to those, first principles, or natural or Divine laws, upon which must be based every doctrine destined to endure, and to conquer its way, through its influence on the understanding and the conscience, to the perfect regeneration of the human family. A right co-operation of effort in men not only will never stand in the way of progress, but is absolutely essential to it. If political institutions, commercial arrangements, or social usages, are found in any respect to be perverting influences, let us not assume such to be “necessities,” but rather press above them, and prove by our lives, as well as language, they are not so. With their interests linked indissolubly with all others, individuals cannot live wholly right, whilst the masses are vastly wrong, yet still the grosser wrongs of our social system may be measurably avoided.
Yours, respectfully, A. BROOKE.
Marlboro’, Ohio, Feb. 20, 1864.

THE COLORED PEOPLE OF NEW ORLEANS.
NEW ORLEANS, Feb. 21, 1864.
While enthusiastic meetings were holding last evening in the different public squares of this city, called together by bands of music and torchlight processions, and immense placards with the names of favorite candidates for Gubernatorial honors emblazoned thereon, another meeting, quite as important in many respects, and as significant of the signs of the times, was quietly held in the old French part of the city.
It is probably well known that the free colored population of New Orleans in intelligence, public spirit, and material wealth, surpass those of the same class in any other city of the Union. Many of these gentlemen have been highly educated, have traveled extensively in this and foreign countries, speak and read the French, Spanish, and English languages fluently, and in the Exchange Rooms, or at the Stock boards, wield an influence at any time fully equal to the same number of white capitalists. Before the war they represented in this city alone fifteen millions of property, and were heavily taxed to support the schools of the State, but were not allowed to claim the least benefit therefrom.
These gentlemen, representing so much intelligence, culture, and wealth, and who would, notwithstanding the fact that they all have negro blood in their veins, adorn any circle of society in the North, who would be taken upon Broadway for educated and wealthy Cuban planters rather than free negroes, and although many of them have themselves held slaves, have always been loyal to the Union, and are to-day the sincerest and firmest friends of the nation in New Orleans.
The meeting held last evening was called in part to receive Col. James McKaye, of the Freedmen's Commission, to hear an address from him, and to appoint a Committee to wait upon the President of the United States and the National Congress, and petition for the right of suffrage.
As Col. McKaye entered the Hall, accompanied by Major B. Rush Plumly and several other staunch advocates of human rights, the entire audience rose to their feet, and received them with enthusiastic applause. After the Chairman, Nelson Pavajean, had introduced the gentlemen to the audience in the French and English languages, Col. McKaye rose and addressed the meeting at length. He urged upon them the importance of discarding all ideas of caste and superiority on account of their wealth and intelligence, to labor for the elevation of those of their race who have but recently been emancipated from Slavery, and to demand their rights upon the broad ground that they were human beings, created in the image of God, with intellects and hearts and wills-that they possessed faculties to acquire knowledge, to accumulate property, to increase the wealth of the nation, and the strength and the will to defend their country against foreign and domestic foes. He expressed no doubt that the time would arrive when the free colored people would be allowed the right of suffrage upon an educational or property qualification-that all white men were not competent to vote intelligently, and that negroes who have long been held in Slavery, if allowed to flock to the polls indiscriminately, would be but the instruments in the hands of demagogues for the accomplishment of base purposes.
I regret that I cannot give you a full report of the able address of Col. McKaye. All that be said was warmly applauded, although no extravagant views with regard to the immediate accomplishment of their objects were held out to them. His views were broad and statesmanlike, and were presented with clearness of thought and elegance of diction.
After Col. McKaye had concluded, Major Plumly addressed the meeting. He referred to the past, when New Orleans seemed in danger of being retaken by the Rebel forces under Gen. Magruder, when those free colored people before him rose enmasse, closed their offices and stores, armed and organized themselves into six regiments, and for six
<c06>
weeks abandoned their business and stood ready to fight for the defence of New Orleans, while, at the same time, not a single white regiment from the original white inhabitants was raised.
If these men, so patriotic so intelligent, so ready to sacrifice their lives for their country, and representing so much wealth and culture, were not competent to vote, he knew not who were. In a strain of fervid eloquence he encouraged them in the belief that, so far as they were concerned, the prayer they were about to send up to the President and to Congress, would be heard, thoughtfully considered, and, before the close of the present session of Congress, granted.
Major. Plumly's remarks were frequently interrupted by applause. Indeed, he seemed to be well known, and to be upon the very best terms with his audience.
After addresses by several others in the French language, the meeting adjourned.
J. B. Rondanez and Arnold Bertoman, gentlemen well known in business circles in New Orleans and in every respect accomplished and able men, are the delegates selected to visit Washington, and represent the interests of the free men of color in New Orleans. N.P

SOME FACTS ABOUT THE BLACKS.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 24, 1864.
The Senate is not engaged upon important business to-day. In the House, Mr. Dawson, of Pennsylvania made an old-fashioned non-coercion speech, in which he inculcated the doctrine that “the energy of the law upon individuals” was about the extent of the power of the general government against rebellion. His speech was also an apology for the administration of James Buchanan. It is some time since the House has heard a speech so decidedly opposed to the war and the government as this one. Mr. Dawson comes from John Covode's, old district, and he is squarely upon Fernando Wood's platform.
The speech of Mr. Kelley, of Philadelphia, yesterday, presents, a very striking contrast to that delivered by his colleague to-day. Some of the facts of Mr. Kelley's speech are worth preserving. Two paragraphs I will quote:
"Let us look at the census of 1860. I find by it that more than half a million of the colored people of that section are, as I have already intimated, the kindred of the white race of the South. Thus is Louisiana, of the free colored people, 81.29percent. are of mixed blood, while in Pennsylvania only 36.67 are of mixed blood. And here let me say, the latter are nearly all of southern birth. I remember while litigation was pending in our courts between two colored natives of Charleston, there were on one occasion about fifty witnesses, in court. Some of my colleagues remember the occasion. The contest was between Robert J. Douglass and Wilkinson Jones, and among the fifty witnesses, all of whom were natives of Charleston, South Carolina, and its immediate vicinity, there was not a black or one white man. They were all of mixed blood.
”And in behalf of Pennsylvania I claim that the South has sent us by far the greater portion of what we have of that stock. In Alabama the percentage of mixed blood is 77.75, and in Vermont 22.8. In Texas it swells to 76.90; in Rhode Island it sinks to 25.23; in South Carolina it rises again to 71.96, notwithstanding her exportations to Pennsylvania and elsewhere; in Connecticut it sinks to 22.4. In North Carolina it is 71.59; in New York it is 15.88. In Florida it is 68.99; in New Jersey it is but 13.64. But these you may say are freed people; these are persons whose fathers, unwilling to sell their own blood, have manumitted their children. Let us look, then, to the statistics of the slave population. I find that, by the census of 1850, there were of mixed blood among the slave population, but 7.30 per cent; and in 1860,so busy had the proslavery democracy been in augmenting the numerical power of the institution, that the 7.30 had swolen to 10.41; and if the negro race is to be saved as a distinct race, the only way to do it is to take it from the embrace of the slaveholders, to acknowledge the humanity of the slave, to give him the rite of marriage, and to teach him those great truths which, according to the gentlemen from New York, in twelve or fifteen hundred years gave freedom, and with it morals, to Europe.”

"MASON & HAMLIN'S
CABINET ORGANS.
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family
MAY HAVE
A GOOD ORGAN
AT a very moderate cost-$85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.
THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public, and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses, Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as sacred music.
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeca or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are:
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a <illegible> forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments. and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an <illegible> unparalleled 
Among those who have proffered written testimony is their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c.; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Culter of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher's Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakouch, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is security boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston, 7 Mereer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN.
Feb. 26-6m
THEODORE PARKER'S MEMOIRS,
JUST PUBLISHED BY
S. R. URBINO,
13 School Street,
FOREIGN BOOK-STORE.
