THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING
-AT THE-
ANTI SLAVERY OFFICE <ILLIGBLE> CORNHILL
ROBERT FO WALLCUT, General Agent.
TERMS Two dollars and fifty cents per <illegible> in advance. 
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements making less than one square inserted three times for 75 cents-one square for 1.00. 
The Agents of the American, <illegible> Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial. Committee, but are not responsible for any of the debts of the paper, viz:-FRANCIS JACKOSON, EDMOND QUINCY SAMUEL PHILBRICK, AND WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXIX. NO. 11. BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 1859. WHOLE NUMBER, 1584.
<c1>
SELECTIONS.
From the Christian examiner for March. 
CONDITION OF THE FREE COLOBED PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES.
BY REV. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE.
The Free colored People of the United States occupy an unfortunate and exceptional position. They stand among us, yet not of us. We know less of them than we know of the people of France and grandfathers were before them, we yet talk <illegible> about sending them back to ' their naive land.-meaning Africa. Allowing them freedom, we deny them equality. In most of the Free States they are not allowed to vote, nor admitted into the public schools, <illegible> are driven from places of public amusement and from the public conveyances, and are not permitted by social sentiment to engage in more than ten or twelve out of the three hundred and more occupations set down in the census for the white male population. Though citizens in some of the Free Stat s, they are yet prohibited by the laws, or by the Constitutions, of other Free States from entering their borders,-and this in direct violation of the United States Constitution. In the Slave States they fare yet worse, as we shall see further an in this article. The Supreme Court decides that they are not citizens of the United States; inferior courts decide, like Judge Sharkey, of Mississippi, that a white husband and father cannot emancipate his wife and son, even by taking them to a Free State to do so. Southern legislatures and governors propose to sell the whole body of free colored people into <illegible> and put the proceeds into the State treasury. In Maryland a free colored minister of the Methodist Church was lately sent to the penitentiary for having in his possession a copy of Mrs. Stow's Uncle Tom. In Mississippi, John Duburry, a free colored man, was sent to the penitentiary for reading and circulating the speeches of Senator Seward and Sumner. In Washington city a free colored man has just been sent to prison for allowing his own son. a slave, to pass a night in his house, and for giving him food and clothing. Thus, both at the North and at the South, the free colored people are regarded as pariahs, if not as outlaws, Belonging to a race whom we persist in holding as slaves, thus illustrating anew the famous maxim of the profound Roman historian. The defenders of slavery try to excuse their own practices by disparaging the character of colored people. 
It is curious to see the variety of their methods and the unity of their aim. If they are religious people, they sanctimoniously declare that the colored people are cursed by God, and doomed by him to be degraded class, because Noah in a drunken fit cursed Canaan. If they are scientific people, they learnedly show that the brain of the negro differences him essentially from the white man, so that he is not fit for freedom, and never will be. If they are freshly imported Irish patriots, who have bawled themselves hoarse for liberty at home, they instantly express their contempt for the colored man's rights, and their desire for an Alabama plantation stocked with fat negroes. If they are those Southerners who talk about chivalry, they show their conception of its meaning by hastening to trample on the defenceless and forlorn. Or if Northerners who prate of Democracy, they understand it to be hatred of the colored man, and a denial of his equality with themselves before the law, If they are judges, they promulgate judicially, that when our fathers said it was a self-evident truth that all men are born equal, they meant to say the precise reverse; and that when they contended for the rights of men, they meant that the negro 'had no rights which white men were bound to respect'! If they are politicians, 
See, for an instance on high places of this silly habit, one of the messages of Governor Hunt, of New York, recommending an emigration of the free colored people of New York to 'their native soil' of Africa. General Jackson's father was an Irishman, but what would he have said if we had proposed sending him back 'to his native soil'? It seems time for this absurdity to drop out of the messages of Governors, if it must still linger in the speeches of demagogues and the columns of second-rate newspapers. 
A young man of color lately applied for admission to Union College. The President left it to the class. They voted by a majority of ten to admit him, but only by his testifying under oath, that he was of French and Indian extraction, and had no African blood in his veins. 'A Junior' in the College writes to the papers, indignantly denying that the class was willing to admit a colored man. 
The has been recommended by Southern Governors and Southern Legislatures. The alternative of emigration is usually to be offered them.
Samuel Greene, a regularly licensed exhorter of the Methodist Episcopal Church in Dorchester County, Maryland, sentenced to the Maryland Penitentiary for ten years, by the Dorchester country court. He is still in the Penitentiary, if not pardoned out very recently, serving out his time. His offence was having in his house a single copy of 'Uncle Tom's Cabin. The pastor of the church to which he belonged told rev Mr. McCarter, of Harrisburg, Penn., that Mr. Greene was exceedingly useful among the colored people, and often preached to them the word of life. 
Dr. J. S. Rock, a free man of color, a gentleman of cultivation and worth, was refused a passport from the United States by General Cass, and took one from the State of Massachusetts, of which he is a citizen. With this passport he entered France, and under its protection went safely to I'aris, and remained there. It is a comfort to know that Massachusetts can protect here citizens abroad, when the United States government has the inexpressible meanness to refuse to do it. 
See Rev. Nehemiah Adams, President Lord, Bishop Hopkins, &c.
See Nott and Glidden, 'Types of Mankind,' &c.
John Mitchell, the author of this <illegible> sentiment, has lately threatened to come North and turn <illegible> it the slaveholders do not go in for the slave-trade. It will be a small but valuable compensation to us for the opening of that traffic, if it saves us from this infliction. He would be a convert of the sort of which dean Swift said, (When the Pope weeds his garden, I will thank him not to throw his weeds on our side the <illegible>
With some honorable exceptions. For example, Mr. Bancroft, in his seventh volume, speaking of the <illegible> who fought a Bunker Hill, says: Nor should history forget to record that, as in the army at Cambridge, so also in this gallant band, the free negroes of the Colony had their representatives. for the right of free negroes to bear arms in the public defence <illegible> at that day, as little disputed in New England as their other right. They took their place, not in <illegible> corps, but in the ranks with the white man, and their names may be reed on the pension rolls of <illegible> country side by side with those of other <illegible> of the Revolution. 
Howard's Reports, 1856, p. 407. Opinion of the court, Dred Scott Sandford. The Chief justice <illegible> that this opinion ' was at this time fixed and <illegible> in the civilized portion of the white <illegible> It was regarded as an axion in morals as wall as in poli-
<c02>
they try to make themselves popular at the South and the North by attacking the unpopular and defenceless colored man.* If they are respectable and conservative citizens, who desire present peace for themselves by smothering volcanoes, they say, 'The colored people have a insurmountable prejudice against them here: send them to Liberia.' Nearly all classes of persons, therefore, unite in trampling on the colored man, and if it ever happens that the sense of justice and indignation at oppression and wrung leads a man to say a word in defence of this unfortunate people, he is immediately accused of loving negroes more than white men.
We are not conscious of any such preference as this. Our habits and tastes would probably lead us, like others, to prefer the white race to the negro. But as Christian Examiners, believing that we should love our neighbor as ourselves, and that our neighbor is the man who has fallen among thieves, and been stripped and wounded, it seems only the right thing to try to do what justice we can to an unfortunate and slandered people. We propose, therefore, in the present article, to state facts concerning the free colored people of the United States, which will be new to some of our readers. Let us see what this degraded, worthless, and inferior people, as they are universally believed to be,-this oppressed and ill-treated people, as they certainly are,-let us see what they have been able to do for themselves, and what progress they are making. Our facts will be taken partly from published authentic documents, and partly from personal observation.
Nothing is more common than to hear it said, in j general and sweeping terms, that the free colored people of the country are in a miserably degraded condition,-that they are much worse off in regard to the comforts of life than even the slaves,-that they are constantly exposed to hunger and cold,-that they are lazy, have no tendency to improve, no energy, honesty, industry. Such assertions are indeed the staple of pro-slavery speeches, and have passed almost u contradicted. They are made quite as commonly at the North as at the South. Senator Brown of Mississippi only went a little way beyond the common opinion, when he lately remarked that 'the slave is blest with sound health, a sleek skin, and Christian instruction. The free African is dwarfed by disease, scrofulous from hunger, and is a barbarian and a cannibal.'
It is a little remarkable, surely, if the free colored people are in such a state of destitution, that they! should so seldom appear as paupers in our poor-, houses, or as beggars in our streets. By the census of 1850 there were over 9,000 colored people in Massachusetts, and only 89 of these were paupers in the poor-houses; that is, less than one in a hundred. Meantime there were in the same poor-houses 803 paupers born in Ireland, out of a population in Massachusetts of 115,000, or about one to a hundred and thirty-one. But what an advantage has the Irishman over the colored man in Massachusetts! All trades are open to him, while prejudice prevents the colored man from finding employment in the majority of them.
But out of these 9,000 free colored people in Massachusetts, 1,439 were returned an attending school in 1830, which is one in 6 or 7. In New York there were 5,447 out of a free colored population of about 50,000, or about one in 10; in Connecticut 1,264 out of a population of less than 8,000, or about one in 7; which is nearly the same proportion as were attending school in Alabama and Georgia from the whole white population. Just about the same ratio exists also for the white population in South Carolina and Virginia. From this we may infer, with certainty, that the colored people of Massachusetts, New York, and Connecticut are not in a state of extreme destitution, for such persons cannot send their children even to free schools.
In Boston, and in other cities, it is quite unusual to see a colored beggar, for, in general, the colored people take care of their own poor. The Minister at Large in St. Louis declared, after the two years of his service, that no colored person had in that time applied to him for aid. In Cincinnati we have been told the same thing. Out of a free colored population of 3,500, it was rare to see a colored beggar, though Irish and German are common.
In 1852 a friend, for whose authority we vouch in full, made some investigations concerning the condition of the free colored people in Cincinnati. Their number then was, as we have said, about 3,500. The census had just been taken of their taxable property in real estate, and though not all taken, it amounted to more than 500,000 dollars. Out of 3,500 persons, there were 200 property-holders who paid taxes on this real estate. Four hundred and fifty of their children were in the public schools, and fifty more of them at higher schools in Oberlin and Albany. They supported six colored churches, three of which were Methodist and three Baptist. He asked how many of the colored people attended church; and they told him that 'all attended church, river hands and all.' These six churches had over 1,200 members. They had also lately contributed between 2,000 and 3,000 dollars to endow a colored orphan asylum.
The occupations of the colored people of Cincinnati three-fourths of whom had been slaves, were as follows:
One was a bedstead-maker, Henry Boyd, a mulatto, who employed many white hands. His own return of taxable property was 26,000 dollars. His bedsteads are sold through Ohio, Kentucky, and Indians.
One was a master-carpenter, John Woodson, who employed eight or ten hands.
Four or five were grocers. One of them, named Wilcox, was taxed on $59,000. He began life as cabin-boy on a steamboat, then became steward, when he had opportunities to make money by trading between New Orleans and Cincinnati. He said: 'I might have bought a farm and lived on my money, but I wished to show, if I could, that colored people could do something beside being barbers. Many advised me not to try, and said nobody would buy groceries of a colored man. I said I would try the experiment. I built this house and store, fitted up the cellar for Milk and batter, and have a manufactory of pickles. This morning I received five letters on business from the South. In those boxes there is a thousand dollars' worth of goods just pack-
-
tics, which no one thought of disputing, or supposed to be open to dispute.' This at the time of the Declaration of Independence,' the first draft of which by Jefferson and that the king of England 'had waged civil war against human nature itself, violating its most secured rights of life and liberty in the persons of a distant people, who never offended him,' &c Mr. Chief Justice Taney may ignore the opinions of Wilberforce, Clarkson, Sharp, and Mr. Pitt, but one would think he might remember the views of Jefferson, Franklin and Washington.
See, for instance, a speech by Mr. O'Conner, Oct. 1, 1857, before the Supreme Court of New York, in which he asserts that 'no single negro has ever rises above immediately, and that 'no single member of the race has over attained proficiency in any member of the race has ever attained proficiency in any act or science requiring the employment of high intellectual capacity.' He also thinks that Judge Tancy concedes too much in calling them 'unfortunate.' Mr. O' Conner has never heard of Toussaint L'Ouverture.
<c03>
ed for Terra Haute. I have taken stock in banks so that there may be one colored man there to vote. I own a thousand dollars in the Kentucky Trust Company, and am often invited over to meet the Directors.'
There were also in Cincinnati three blacksmiths, four shoe-makers, one tailor, sixteen or eighteen hucksters (one of them, Phillip, worth $20,000), three cabinet-makers, two boat-stores (the proprietor of one, Mr. Gaines, quite wealthy) and five drinking-shops kept by colored men, one hotel-keeper (who kept the Dumas Hotel), three daguerreotypists (one the best in the city), five or six master-painters, one artist, two plasterers, fifty to a hundred tobacconists' journeymen, twenty draymen, twenty dread-makers and shirt-makers, fifty or sixty seamstresses, four school-teachers, one physician ('and he a quack,' added our informant), two druggists, three master-coopers, one large coal and wood yard kept by a colored man, one master brick-mason, one hundred and fifty to one hundred and seventy five barbers, five or six clergymen, five keepers of boarding-houses, two keepers of billiard-tables, two makers of blacking, some hundreds of boatmen on the river, four lime-burners, six colored men on the Board of Education for Colored Schools, and six runners in banks.
Our informant spent an evening at the house of one of these colored men, by name William W. Watson, who was a slave in Kentucky till 1831, and was sold on the auction-block in that year. He was bought by his wife's brother, a barber in Cincinnati, who raised the money by getting two merchants to indorse his note, on which he borrowed $750 at two per cent a month. In a year after getting into business, Watson paid for his brother this note, with the interest. Since, then, he had bought from slavery very his mother, brothers, and sisters (his wife being already free); he had contributed largely to build a church, he always helped fugitives, and was worth (we were told by others) some $30,000.
Of 7.6J3 free colored persons in Connecticut in 1850, the largest number, 1.108, were laborer, 316 were mariners, 146 were farmers, 108 servants, 41 shoemakers, 39 barbers, 34 cooks, 12 blacksmiths, and 9 tailors.
In Louisiana, especially in New Orleans, the free colored people are in a better condition than in the extreme. Northern States. This is shown by the census, and has been confirmed to us by the colored people themselves. More pursuits are open to them there, and there is less competition from the whites, than among us. Wilcox (in Cincinnati) said that he knew three or four colored cotton-brokers in New Orleans. The census gives nine colored brokers. One of them is the largest broker in New Orleans. The French and Spaniards have less prejudice against color than the Americans. 4 are put down in the census, in New Orleans, as capitalists, 4 as doctors, 4 as engineers, 61 as clerks, 77 as merchants, 244 as planters in Louisiana, 7 as students, and 15 as teachers.
In Philadadelphia, by some statistics which were published a few years since, there were 4,019 families lies of colored people, of whom 241 were living in their own houses. Of these there were about 5,000 able-bodied men over 21,-of whom 1,581 were laborers, 256 mechanics, 240 mariners, 166 shopkeepers, 276 coachmen and carters, 557 waiters, 156 hair-dressers.
The free blacks of Philadelphia owned, by census, $800,000 of property, divided among 19,000 persons sons.
In the city of New York the colored people have invested in business carried on by themselves the sum of $755,000, in Brooklyn $76,000, and in Williamsburg $5,000; and they own beside, in real estate unencumbered, in New York $733,000, in Brooklyn $276,000, and in Williamsburg,$151,000; making in all, about $2,000,000. Twenty years ago, when this population was three-fourths of what it is now, its property was leas than half what it is now. The only colored beggars seen in New York are those who ask for money to help them buy their wives, their sons, or their daughters.
We shall not go at length into the condition of the colored people in Boston or New England, but beg our readers to examine for themselves, and see if their condition is as miserable and degraded as usually taken for granted. Go into their churches, and see if you will anywhere see more respectable and orderly congregations. Go into the schools, and see if the colored children who sit by the side of the white children are any less intelligent, well-behaved, or neat in person and attire, than their neighbors. When, in the can or omnibus, you are near a colored man or woman, or sit with them in the saloon of a Sound steamer, see if they do not appear as well as the average of their white neighbors. And then remember that, a very few years since, no colored child could attend school with the white children, no colored man or woman travel in the can or on the steamers with the whites,-and you will feel that a people must be improving who are able to break down such barriers of social prejudice as these. And then visit them in their homes, and having witnessed their comforts and conveniences, we do not think you will find it necessary to ask them if they would prefer to go and tire in the slave cabins of Mississippi. The colored people of Boston are accumulating property, and many of them already pay large taxes. They are seldom seen in the almshouses, for they have many benevolent societies,-some of them on the mutual principle,-and in case of Deed are ready to help each other.
We ought not entirely to omit the colored mariners of the United States in this sketch, however brief it may be. It ought not be forgotten, that to defend the rights of colored mariners of the United States, impressed among others on board a British ship, we made war with England in 1812. In those days, men of color were still citizens, even to Mr. Madison and his Secretaries. By a careful investi-
-
The following paragraph lately appeared in the Palquemine (Louisiana) Sentinel:-
'"A WEALTHY NEGRO FAMILY. An immense estate in Louisiana, embracing over four thousand acres of land, with two hundred and fifty negroes belonging to the plantation, was recently sold for a quarter of a million of dollar. The purchaser was a free negro, who is said to be one of the wealthiest men of the South."
'The above is from a New York paper, and refers to the Harrison property, which was purchased by Cyprian Ricaud, a free man of color of oar parish. If the property had contained as many acres as stated above, and at many slaves, it would have brought nearer a million and a quarter then a quarter of a million. On the contrary, the land, we believe, comprised some sixteen hundred acres, end then were about one hundred slaves, of all sixes. It lies in the rear of Madame C. Ricaud's plantation; and the two plantations, new owned by that flunily, probably do comprise the number of acres of land and slaves as above stated, making them, doubtless, the richest black family in this or any other country.'
See, also, concerning the free colored planters on Cane River, ( where they own plantation and<illegible> for fifteen miles on the bank,) Olmated's <illegible> Slave States,' page 633. Suits to recover freedom is Louisiana are frequent, and are often successful.
<c04>
gation of this subject, made some years ago, it appeared that there were then
Colored men in the merchant service, 6,000
Colored men in the naval service, 1,400
Colored men in the whaling service, 2,900
Colored men in the internal navigation, service, 5,000
15,300
Of those in the merchant service, there roil from the principal ports of the United States as follows:-
Colored seamen sailing from port of New York, 2,200
Colored seamen sailing from port of Boston, 1,000
Colored seamen sailing from port of Baltimore 600
Colored seamen sailing from port of Philadelphia, 600
Colored seamen sailing from port of all other ports, 1,700
6,000
The estimated number of mariners in the United States, according to Captain Thomas B. Sullivan, (exclusive of the internal navigation,) is 150,000, including the naval and merchant service, the whale, cod, and mackerel fisheries. Of this number 25,000 or 16 2-3 per cent. are Americans, the rest being foreigners. Perhaps one half of the native American seamen are colored men.
A law was passed by Congress in 1843 to exclude colored seamen from the naval service, but no regard has ever been paid to it. Indeed, since the passage of this law, the Secretary of the Navy, in fitting ships for the African station, has issued a special order to ship a larger proportion of colored men than usual,-the usual rule being to have one colored to twenty white seamen. {To be concluded.)
Published in a series of letters in the Anti-Slavery Standard, New York.

EVANGELICAL ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION AT WOHOESTEB.
The Convention of members of evangelical churches, from various sections of the country, to take action in reference to slavery, re-assembled at the Mission Chapel in Worcester, Wednesday morning, at 9 o'clock, pursuant to adjournment, the President, Hon. Elmer Brigham, of Westboro', in the chair. Prayer was offered by Rev. Jonathan Cable; after which, the Convention proceeded to a spirited discussion of the preamble to the Constitution, several of the brethren contending that the word • inherent,' as applied to the Bin of slaveholding, should be stricken out. But it was voted by a large majority to retain it. The preamble and Constitution were then adopted, as follows:
PREAMBLE.
Under profound convictions of the inherent sinfulness of slaveholding and the great system of American slavery that has grown out of slaveholding-deeply mortified and grieved by its continued toleration and defence in the. Church-fearful of the impending judgment of the Almighty upon our beloved country on account of it-and believing it is in the power of the people of God, under Divine guidance, to accomplish its overthrow-we, a company of ministers and Christians, of one mind and heart, as in duty bound, by our common allegiance to the Lord Jesus Christ, do solemnly pledge ourselves selves to one another, and before God, to REMEMBER THOSE THAT ARE IN BONDS AS BOUND WITH THEM, and to do all that we can for the utter destruction of that atrocious system of chattel slavery which is maintained in the United States; and, as a means to that end, we hereby form ourselves into a Society, to be called The Church Anti-Slavery Society of the United States, to be governed by the following Constitution, and to maintain this declaration of principles:-
DECLARATION OF.PRINCIPLES.
1. The rights of man, as man, sacred and inalienable, without distinction of blood or races.
2. Property in man impossible, as being without grant from the Creator, and equally contrary to natural justice and to revealed religion.
3. The system of American slavery and the practice of slaveholding essentially sinful and anti-Christian, and to be dealt with, therefore, as such, by Christian churches and ministers.
4. The utter inadequacy and impossibility of any remedy or relief from slavery, but one that insists upon its inherent wrongfulness, its total intrinsic baseness, and denies absolutely the wild and guilty fantasy that man can have property in man!
5. The duty of one family or section of the Christian church to rebuke and refuse fellowship to another section of the visible church that denies the rights of man and the common brotherhood of humanity, by defending slavery and folding to its bosom slave-sellers, slave-buyers, and slaveholders. 
6. No compromise with slavery allowable, but its total extinction to be demanded at once, in the name of God, who has commanded ' to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go' free, and that ye break every yoke.'
7. The total abolition of the vast system of American slavery, to be accepted as the providential Mission and Duty of the American clergy and the American churches in this generation.
8. The church and the ministry to form the conscience of the nation in respect to slavery, and to make it loyal to the higher law, against all unjust judgments of courts, and unrighteous legislation of Congress.
9. The Word of God our charter of freedom and our armory against slavery, and any assertion that the Lord God sanctions slavery, practical infidelity. 
10. Ultimate success sure, in the warfare with oppression, to a faithful ministry and witnessing church. 
CONSTITUTION. 
The object of this Association being to unite all Christians on the basis of the Word of God against slavery, and to concentrate the energies of the Christian ministry and of Christian churches upon the extinction of that great sin, the condition of membership shall be the adoption of its pledge and principles, and the payment of an-annual contribution for its support. And members of local Societies formed oh these principles' shall be members in full of this Society.
Art. 1. The officers of this Society shall be a President, Vice President, Secretary, and Treasurer, an Auditor, and on Executive Committee of five, to be chosen annually by ballot.,
Art. 2. The duties, of the officers and committee shall be to provide for and call public meetings, at such times and places as they may see fit, in order to advocate the principles of the Society, to mould public opinion, to induce action by the churches with reference to slavery, and to inculcate the duties of civil government, of civil rulers, and of citizens, in respect to its overthrow.
Art. 3. Besides local and extraordinary meetings, which may be called at the discretion of the officers and the committee, there shall be at least one public meeting annually, during the religious anniversary in the cities of Philadelphia, New York and Boston, for the free expression of the anti-slavery principles and sentiments of Christian churches, as declared by the Society. 
<c05>
Art. 4. The expenses Incurred by the officers of the Society, in toe prosecution of their duties, by the maintenance of public meetings, lectures, and the use of the press, shall be met by the resources derived from the annual contributions of the members, and by such donations as benevolent individuals and churches shall bestow for the use of the Society.
Art. 5. The expenses incurred by the officers of the Society, in the prosecution of their duties, by the maintenance of public meetings, lectures and the use of the press, shall be met by the resources derived from the annual contributions of the members, and by such donations as benevolent individuals and churches shall bestow for the use of the Society. 
Art. 6. This Constitution may be amended by a vote of two-thirds of the members present at any meeting, notice of said amendment having been given at any previous meeting.
The afternoon session was held at the vestry of the Union Church, when the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:
Resolved, In view of honest differences of opinion among anti-slavery Christians in regard to the Bible view of slavery, their relation to slaveholding churches, and those ecclesiastical bodies and benevolent societies that embrace or tolerate such, as also their duties to the civil government, that the Executive Committee be instructed to diffuse such information and discussion, through the periodical press, and by means of tracts, as in their judgment shall seem desirable: and that they also confer with the American Tract Society at Boston in relation to the publication of such tracts as may be procured for these purposes.
2. Resolved, That the Executive Committee be instructed to call the attention of the various local associations, of the different evangelical denominations, in sympathy with this movement, to the objects of this Society, with the request that they shall recommend to the ministers and churches in their
connections to form local societies in accordance with the plan recommended in the Constitution now adopted.
3. Resolved, That the Executive Committee, as soon as they are justified by the state of the treasury, be requested to employ public lecturers, to explain and defend the principles of the Society, and to promote the general purpose for which it has been formed.
4. Resolved, That, in the opinion of this Convention, the charge so often made by pro-slavery men, that slavery exists by divine authority, in the word of God, is without a shred or shadow of foundation, and hence an impious slander on the holy name of God.
5. Resolved, That, in the opinion of this Convention, the system of domestic service instituted by God for his chosen people was a wise and just institution, and was intended as a safeguard against chattel slavery.
A committee, previously chosen for the purpose, reported the following list of officers of the Society:-
President-Rev. J. C. Webster of Hopkinton.
Vice President-Rev. Wm. H. Beecher of North-Brookfield. 
Secretary-Rev. Henry T. Cheever of Jewett City, Conn.
Treasurer-Deacon Ichabod Washburn of Worcester. 
Executive Committee-Hon Elmer Brigham of Weshburn, Rev. Samuel Hunt of Franklin, Deacon Ichabod Washburn, Charles Ballard, and Rev. Chester Field, of Worcester.
The afternoon session opened at 2 o'clock. Final action was taken on the Declaration of Principles, and the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:
1. Resolved, That American slavery, as defined by its own code, and as exhibited in the practice of slaveholding, is a system of usages by which human beings are chimed, held, and treated as property, 'goods and chattels personal, in the hands of their owners and possessors, and their executors, administrators and assigns, to oft intents, constructions and purposes whatsoever, a slave being one who is in the power of a master to whom he belongs'; whose ' master may sell him, dispose of his person, his industry and his labor '; one who can do nothing, possess nothing, nor acquire anything, but what must belong to his master.' (2. Brevard's Digest, 229,-Prince's Digest, 456, &e. Civil Code, Art. 35, 173. See Stroud's Sketch; and American Slave Code, chap. 1.)
2. Resolved, That, under this code, and according to its established usages and daily and general practice, slaves are regarded and treated as the subjects of sale, barter, mortgage, sales at auction, and shipments, as absolutely as any other property, and by the same tenure-are seized and said to pay the debts of their pretended owners, while living, and for the settlement of their estates, after their decease-are transmitted by inheritance or by will, to heirs at law or legatees, and distributed like other property. [Vide American Slave Code.]
3. Resolved, farther, That, under this code and these usages, staves, as property, may be used, absolutely, by their owners, for their own profit or pleasure, to minister to their avarice, their cruelty, their pride, or their lusts; that slaves can own no property, nor make any contract, not even the contract of marriage; cannot constitute families, nor have any security from separation of the nearest kindred by sale; can have no marital rights, nor parental rights, no family government, no family education, no family protection; that the power of the slave-master (whether owner overseer or hirer,) is virtually unlimited, and the slave in without protection
from its cruel exercise; that, as chattels, they may be worked, at the discretion of the master, as other working cattle are; that their labor is coerced without wages, extorted only by fear; that their food, clothing, dwellings, are at the discretion or convenience of their masters; that slaves cannot sue their masters; that they have no power of self-redemption, or choice of masters; that the relation is hereditary and perpetual; that they are denied all right to education, to religious liberty, to rights of conscience; that, as between masters and slaves, the slaves can enjoy no privileges, as religious and thinking bangs, except such as their masters, whether Christians or Infidels, sober or drunken, may accord to them.
4. Resolved, That the origin, and pretended authority and validity of the so-called ' legal relation' are to be found, not in the institutions of the Patriarchs, nor is the code of Moses, (which knew nothing of human <illegible>, or of involuntary or unpaid labor, or any of the oppressions or <illegible> of modern slavery,) but in that African slave trade which our own laws now <illegible> as piracy, it the <illegible> 
<c06>
terwards; neither the slave trade nor slaveholding having ever been legalized by any set of Parliament, by any of the colonial legislatures, or by the legislatures of any of the several States, but only assumed and taken for granted as a previously existing relation, (contrary to truth,) thus reposing only on brute force, and extending, accordingly, over all chases whom the slaveholders have been able to seize classes whom the slaveholders have been able to seize upon and retain, over Indian, free colored person, and whites; especially over all the infant children of <illegible> including the children of slave holden <illegible>.
5. <illegible> the relation of the slaves to society and to civil government grows out of their relation to their masters, as property, and is determined and defined by it, insomuch that the slave in not regarded by the governments that tolerate slavery as having any rights, are as being the subjects of legal protection, so that a slave cannot be a party to a civil suit, nor give testimony to injuries inflicted on slaves, and are held subject to the will of all 'white persons.' Yet they are held amenable, as person, to unequal and barbarous penal enactments; are forbidden to be educated even by their master, and are denied the Bible and the privileges of free social worship; regulations which even the slave master himself my not relax or abrogate. The statutes of the slave States not only make no provision for general emancipation, but obstruct and prevent emancipation by the master. And the constitutions of some of the States forbid the legislatures to abolish slavery. 
6. Resolved, That the slave system requires for its security the persecution and proscription of the free people of color, conceding to them only a portion of their right, and exposing them to the danger of being re-enslaved. 
7. Resolved, That the white people of the slave States, whether slaveholders or non-slaveholders, are deprived by the slave code of some of their <illegible> rights, including the right to instruct their slaves, the liberty of the press, and of free speech, and cannot be regarded as a people possessing civil, religious and political freedom. 
9. Resolved. That the rights of the white people of the non-slaveholding States are directly and indirectly invaded by the slave codes of the slave States, and of the federal government, their liberties, to a great extent, have already fallen a sacrifice, and can never be secure while slaveholding in this country continues. 
9. Therefore, Resolved, That such being the leading facts of American slavery, and such its fruits, no person, not culpably ignorant of the facts upon which he passes judgment, can, without violence to his moral nature, pretend that such a system can be innocent, nor otherwise than wicked and criminal in the highest degree. 
And no person, not culpably ignorant of the Bible, as well as of the facts of slavery, can, without doing violence to his reason and conscience, <illegible> to believed the Bible sanction such a system, or does otherwise than condemn it, by all its leading doctrines and precepts, as a system characterized at every point by a total opposition to the law of God, and to the gospel of Jesus Christ, a system of superlative iniquity, of selfishness, of malignity, of impiety, of oppression, of selfishness, of malignity, of impiety, of oppression, the deadliest enemy of the Christian religion of which any conception can be formed. 
10. Resolved, That the practice of slaveholding cannot differ essentially, in its moral character, from that of the slave code that defines and sustains it, nor from that of the slave system with which they both harmonize, or which is composed of both of them. Because slaveholding is, itself, primarily, the sin, which the slave code and the slave system become sinful in sustaining. Because slaveholding came first, and contrived and produced both the code and the system, for its own security and protection. And because, it slaveholding were abolished, there would be an end both to the slave code and the slave system. 
11. Resolved, That those who, while declining to justify, directly, the slave code and the slave system, insist nevertheless that the ' loyal relation ' between slave-owner and slave may be held innocently, overlook three important considerations, namely, First, That, strictly speaking, and according to the time-honored maxims of universal or common law, as laid down by the most eminent jurists, ancient and modern, there can be no such thing as a ' legal relation,' nor any valid law for slavery; Second, That if there could be, it does not exist in this country, (by the testimony of eminent slaveholding statesmen and jurists,) there being a total absence of any municipal, positive, state law, creating such a ' relation'; and. Third, that if there were such law, and such 'legal relation,' the holding of that ' relation ' would be of the same moral character with that of the law, and the relation iniquitous, unrighteous, criminal, a violation of the law of justice the law of God.
12. Resolved, That slaveholding is sinful, because slaveholding is man-stealing, a crime for hidden by the Mosaic Code, and ranked by a inspired apostle with the most flagitious <illegible> with the murder of fathers and of mothers.
13. Resolved, That those who deny slaveholding to be ' man-stealing,' my, in effect, that there never has been, is not now, and cannot hereafter be, any such crime as ' man-stealing.' They can neither produce an instance of it, nor describe, nor define it, nor tell the process by which it can be committed by any man, otherwise than by describing sets equivalent to slaveholding. 
Treasure stealing is taking what belong to another without his consent. Every man belongs to himself, and the slaveholder claims and holds possession of a man without his consent. This is evident, 
Because, this is generally admitted to be the fast in respect to the kidnapper of a man, to <illegible> him, and common sense and common law hold the receiver and holder of what is stolen to be a <illegible> of the theft. The law of Moses says, expressly He that stealeth a man, and setleth him, or if he be found in his hand, (i. e. in his possession,) he shall <illegible> be put to death.'
Because, moreover, the slaves of this <illegible> are monthly in the hands of the original kidnappers, who stole them in their infancy, and enslaved them. 
14. That those who say, an some do, that the holding of a slave may be innocent, provided he be well treated, and provided he be held for his own benefit, take for granted what is not tree, namely, that an immortal, accountable being may be welt treated, when treated as chatted, and denied the rights of our common human nature-that it may be possibly for his own good to be thus trusted, to be accounted an article of property instead of an heir of immortality, created a little lower than the angels. 
15. That those who place the evils of slavery in its ' abuses ' and not in the ' relation '-(it they <illegible> what their words naturally <illegible> the relation of the slave owner and his human <illegible>
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.
The united state constitution to a <illegible> with death, and an agreement with <illegible>
The try states are the guardians and <illegible> supports of slavery. We are the jailers and <illegible> of the institution... There is same excuse for communities, when, under a generous impulse, they espouse the cause of the oppressed in other states, and by force restore their rights; but they are without excuse in aiding other states in binding on men on unrighteous yoke. On this subject, OUR PATIENTS, IN FRAMINO THE CONSTITUTION, SWRRVED <illegible> THE RIGHT. We their children, at the end of half a country, see the path of duty more clearly them they, and must walk in it. To this point the public mind
has long been tending, and the time has come for looking at it fully, dispassionately, and with manly and Christian resolution.... No blessing of the Union can be compensation for taking part in the enslaving of our fellow-creatures; nor ought this bond to be perpetuated, if experience shall demonstrate that it can only continue through our participation in wrong doing. To this conviction the free States are tending.-WILLIAM ELLERRY CHANNING.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Among the many interesting and important articles that we have been compelled to defer, in consequence of the crowded state of our columns with reference to the paramount question of slave-hunting, now before the Legislature and people of Massachusetts, is the following letter from Dr. Doy and his son, giving the particulars of their capture in Kansas by an armed band of Missouri ruffians, their abduction and removal over the border, their brutal treatment and imprisonment, &c, The victims are still in prison, and probably will never be allowed to obtain their liberty. This letter should be read by the hearth stone of every family at the North, and cause an electric flame of popular indignation to spread from State. Alas for the colored captives, who, though free, have been sold into interminable bondage! And for then there is no hope!

LETTER FROM DR. DOY AND SON.
A PAINFUL STATEMENT.
From the Leavenworth Times, February 14.
PLATTE CITY PRISON, Feb. 7, 1859.
We are anxious that the world should know all the facts connected with our being kidnapped, bound and forcibly taken into Missouri, where we are at present, confined in an eight feet square iron box, having to burn our fat meat to make light by night or day.
The inhabitants of Lawrence had a meeting to take into consideration the removal of the negroes about the suburbs of the city. The next question was, who should take charge of such removal. After considerable pressing, I accepted the task, (provided a team could be hired in connection with mine,) as I had business at Holton, county seat of Calhoun country, in Kansas. We took the provisions and colored persons into the wagon, after they had shown Charles (my son) their free papers. All had them but two. They had been cooks at the Eldridge Hotel, and were free born, one coming from Cincinnati, Ohio, the other from Brownsville, Pa. After we had travelled say twelve miles on our way,ï¿½of course, many miles from the Stale of Missouri,ï¿½we were all at once surprised by from tea to fifteen men, fully armed and mounted, rushing from a low ravine upon us.
Surrounding us, some of toe colored men asked if they should fire. I told them to wait till I went on the offside, when some ten guns were pointed at ma, and a number shouted ï¿½Shoot!ï¿½ I held up my hand, and told them to shoot me, but not to fire into the wagons, as the emigrants were packed so close that it took some time for them to get out. The kidnapping party then offered to pay me well if I would drive to Leavenworth. I told them my team should never take a man into slavery. Upon this, Garvin, Postmaster of Lawrence; Ben Wood; Mayor of Weston, Mo.; Fielding H. Lewis, Marshal of Weston, and others, jumped down, put their pistols to my head, while they bound me with ropes. They also bound my son, and, all the men and woman.
I then mentioned the Lawrence men by name, telling them, in a loud voice, that I protested against the whole act of kidnapping and highway robbery, in the name of Kansas, whose laws were being trampled under foot.
The following are the names of the principal actors in this unparalleled outrage: Benjamin Wood, Mayor of Weston, Mo.; F. A. Lewis, Marshal of same place, and Constable of Platte county; Martin Reilly, Geo. Robbins, Hugh Murdock, Patrol, all of Weston, Mo.; a man called Duncan, a Kentuckian; Doctor Garvin, Postmaster, Lawrence; Jake McGee, and the notorious Jake Hard, of Lecompton, Kansas. They took full possession of our horses, wagons, money, &c.; put on driven, and drove like madmen across the prairies, keeping scoots a mile before, and behind the same.
We were about to feed when taken, but they drove till they broke down a wagon, and nearly killed one horse. They threw out the provisions, carpet-sacks, robes, &c., packed all the prisoners in the other wagon, and drove on till within two miles of Leaven worth, which we reached in the dark, having four hones bitched to the wagon, which was packed with fifteen people.
At this place they broke out the tongue. They then put all out, and drove the prisoners among the brush until they went to Leavenworth, and got another team. They came back, packed all in again, and in the dark went stealthily through the town, than by the Fort to the ferry, where the boat was waiting, steam up, all ready, Ben. Wood having gone ahead and prepared all.
Here every person was ordered on board, on pain of being shot. I jumped down, declared I would not go on board, but guns were put to my head, and I was told my property would all be lost, if I was killed; but if I went on board, Ben. Wood, the Mayor, and many others, gave me their word, as men of honor, I should return all safe and sound in the morning. We went, landed, and were thrown on the floor of the police office, where we laid all night. In the morning, we were taken through the streets, the people shouting, bells ringing, &c. I should have said, at night, on landing, salutes were find, &c., and a grand supper was had by the captors, while every insult possible was heaped upon us. Candles were held to our faces to observe us. We were than taken to the Court-house, amidst a motley group, using such language as I never heard, ï¿½give them hempï¿½ï¿½ï¿½the rope is ready,ï¿½ &c., and were informed that they were ready to try us. We stated we wished for a day or so to get counsel, as we knew not a man in Missouri; but no, we must proceed. We might take a 1awter they mentioned, if we bad money to pay him. They had our money, we told them, and we were in their hands, and they could do as they chose with us. After the mockery of a trial ended, I eat down and wrote a protest, as a citizen of Kansas, against the whole proceeding. We were committed for trial for stealing a negro named Dick, a carpenter, fiddler, &c We were then handcuffed (our trial comes off Feb. 20ï¿½the bail $5,000), and taken to Platte City jail, where we now are. The inhabitants guard the jail every night. I cannot learn where my hones an, or why they released Mr. Clough, the man taken with us, but the report is that Jake Hard, Dr. Garvin, Mr. Whiteley and McGee declared they could buy any Abolitionist in Lawrence for $50, and that they had so bought Clough. They said Hancock of the Mansion House, Hamilton, who lives over Huntï¿½s weigh-scalar, Fry and some others, kept them posted every day of all movements.
We learn that a committee came over from Leavenworth to demand us, but they, with other friends who have come over, were sent back without seeing us. We have not seen a friend since we were taken. Oh! my country, how free art thou? How can we get ready for trial, knowing no one, and not allowed to see any one? We lay two nights in Weston in irons, before being brought hen. Some of the colored man an here in prison that were in the wagons, as they would not choose masters nor admit they were slaves, being born free. February 3d, 1 saw a terrible sight. Jake Hard came into the prison, having a covered buggy at the door, ordered the free boys, George Wilson Hayes, late cook at Eldridge Hotel, Lawrence, and Charles Smith of Brownsville, Pa., to come out and get in. They said they weald wait in prison till their free papers came. Jake took his whip, and unmercifully whipped them till they consented to go with himï¿½God only knows when. He said, ï¿½I am your master now, and by God I will make you obey me.ï¿½
We have not seen a person that we knew since our imprisonmentï¿½yet wean to prepare for trial on the 20th of this month. Can it be that we are deserted in this our extremity, or that the people of Kansas will see their follow-citizens kidnapped and imprisoned and tortured by the residents of another Stats, without lifting a hand, or extending a word of sympathy! Neither my son nor myself have committed say crime or offence; we have violated no law; and yet we are now caged and fettered in a Missouri cell.
We are very filthy, having no water to wash with, and the stench is horrible. My eyes an weakï¿½in met, I am almost blind with the darkness of the iron box in which we eat, sleep, and are shown to persons, who, with a candle, take a view of the ï¿½two live abolitionists!ï¿½ But as the cause of Freedom demands this, we say, welcome to it all; and if Missouri desires to become a free State sooner than many expect, why, then, let them make as dance on nothing All we ask is, that the citizens of Kansas stand true to freedom; and if our blood or our sacrifice will aid in advancing that cause, it shall be freely offered.
We would like to be treated like prisoners, (not like brutes,) and for ourselves only desire to have a fair trial We despair of both, however, as long as we remain where we now are, and throw ourselves upon the kindness and protecting care of Almighty God.
DOCTOR DOY,
CHARLES DOY,
<c02>
SLAVE-HUNTING IN MASSACHUSETTS.
In the MASSACHUSETTS House of Representatives, on Friday last, the Committee on Federal Relations presented majority and minority reports on the petitionï¿½signed by sixteen thousand five hundred citizens of Massachusettsï¿½praying that the rendition of Fugitive slave may be, by law, prohibited in this State.
The majority presented the following bill:
SEC. 1. No person, now in this Commonwealth, or who Bar hereafter come into it, or be brought into, it, shall be considered w property or treated as such.
SEC. 2. Whoever shall arrest, imprison, or carry out of this Commonwealth, or shall attempt to arrest, imprison, or carry out of this Commonwealth, any person for the alleged reason that such person owes service or labor, as a slave to the party claiming him, shall be punished by imprisonment in the State Prison not exceeding five years.
The report is assented to by Mr. BORDEN of New Bedford, Mr. RICE of Worcester, Mr. KIMBALL of Haverhill, of the House, and by Mr. DAGGETT, Senator from Bristol.
Mr. BORDEN stated that he agreed to the bill, as far at it went, but he desired to send to the Chair two additional sections, which he should more, as amendments, at the proper timeï¿½at follows:ï¿½
SEC. 3. Whenever any person shall be deprived of liberty, arrested or detained in this Commonwealth, on the claim that he owes service or labor to any other person as a slave, the person so arrested or detained shall be entitled as of right, and of course, to the writ of habeas corpus. Such writ to be applied for, issued and returned as now provided by law, except that the same may be returned before any Justice of a Court of Record; and if it shall appear by the return of said writ, or otherwise, on a hearing before the said Justice, that such person is deprived of liberty, arrested or detained, because be was, or because it is alleged that he was, a slave before coming or being brought into this Commonwealth, and as such is held to service, or labor, to the person claiming him, be shall forthwith be discharged.
SEC 4. Whoever shall suffer wrong or injury by any proceeding punishable by the provisions of this Act. may maintain an action and recover damages there for in any Court of Record in this Commonwealth.

MINORITY REPORT.
The undersigned, a minority of the Joint Standing Committee on Federal Relations, to whom were referred the various petitions praying for the enactment of a law to prevent the rendition of fugitive slaves, differing from the opinions and dissenting from the conclusions arrived at by the majority of the Committee, and deeming that a subject of such importanceï¿½pregnant as it is with the seeds of discord and disunionï¿½should receive the most solemn deliberation, the full and free discussion, and the clear and manly expression of opinion of every member of the Committee: and believing it to be our duty to submit the reasons which have led us to differ from the report of the majority, would respectfully submit the following

REPORT.
The subject covered by both the majority and Minority reports is one upon which the people of Massachusetts have again and again spoken; spoken again and again with all the force and eloquence of earnest conviction; spoken at all times and in all places; spoken in hot, impassioned eloquence, and sealed by the heroic blood of her martyred sonsï¿½the subject of liberty. We feel, therefore, that it is a subject, around which the warmest and strongest feelings of her people centre; the slightest appeal to which is sure of a ready and warm response.
The Committee would not deprecate that sensibility; would not blunt nor deaden that sentimentï¿½a sentiment, without which, no people could long retain even the semblance of libertyï¿½but would share alike in its honor and its glory. We have received that love of liberty and its fruitionï¿½a free and independent government, civil and religious freedomï¿½from men who, through a long and bloody war, and privations and sufferings, beneath a summer and a winterï¿½s sun, toiled and struggled, fought and died for it. That liberty which was thus won by such sacrifices and devotion, was bequeathed as a priceless heritage to their posterityï¿½bequeathed with all its sacred obligations to maintain, defend and perpetuate it to the latest posterity. Feeling the full force of this obligation, we have patiently and carefully examined the subject referred to us; and while expressing but one opinion in regard to slavery, cannot join in an act which, viewed in the light of that responsibilityï¿½in the light of our sworn and sacred duty to uphold the laws and the Constitutionï¿½is a direct violation of them all. Therefore, in obedience to our sense of duty, in obedience to our oaths of office, and in obedience to the Constitution which was framed and adopted by men whom the world delights to honorï¿½we shrink from an act, which, in our opinion, is a virtual declaration of disunion and civil war.
The various petitions submitted to the committee pray for the enactment of a law against the rendition of fugitive slaves. By the Constitution of the United States it is provided that ï¿½no person held to service or labor in one State, under the lawn thereof, escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein, be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up, on claim of the party to whom such labor or service may be due.ï¿½ This is clear and emphatic language. But to make it more clear and emphatic. Congress, by a declaratory law, passed 1850, further provides for the execution of the clause of the Constitution. And it is for the purpose of defeating the ends aimed at in this clause of the Constitution and in this act of Congress, that the petitioners pray for the enactment of a law. We will not discuss the question whether the Constitution of the United States recognizes slavery, or whether the ï¿½fugitiveï¿½ means a ï¿½slave,ï¿½ since the most eloquent and able of those who appeared in behalf of the petitioners frankly admitted that it did. Admitted that the framers of the Constitution knew what they did, that the Constitution was a compact of compromises, that to preserve that liberty for which they perilled their ï¿½lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honors,ï¿½ it was necessary to establish a government which should be a bond of union and an ark of national prosperity.
To do this it was found necessaryï¿½like individuals in society, each must give up something of personal libertyï¿½to secure the general good, compromises should be effected, and the Constitution under which we have grown, strengthened and multiplied, was formed, adopted, and ratified; and yet the petitioners pray for a law which they admit is in opposition to the will of this instrumentï¿½the Constitution of our common country, and which we, as legislators, have solemnly sworn to uphold and defend. We are asked to set aside our sworn duties, to trample the laws and the Constitution, (which are the only barriers between us and anarchy,) beneath our feet, and solemnly to declare, in the presence of the world, that the allegiance of Massachusetts to the Union is at an end. ï¿½And why? Because, say the gentlemen who appeared before us, ï¿½the Constitution requires that at your hands which your conscience and your God forbid; you must do no wrong, commit no sin.ï¿½ We admit the moral proposition; but we do not admit the application. We are not a court of ethics.
The Constitution is not a court of morals. It is a political instrument, framed and adopted for the political government of a people, and as such, is liable to all the frailties of the work of man. We accept the Constitution as an instrument which secures to us the greatest liberty, the greatest good, and the greatest prosperity of any nation in the world; and as such we accept it as we receive it, as a political bond which we must cherish and defend. Again, they tell us that we are not bound in conscience by the action of those who framed the Constitution. And why? Because their act was wrong, and as such has no binding force upon us. ï¿½Corporations never die,ï¿½ is a maxim. Are we not the political successors of those men who adopted that instrument? Or. in the language of one of the petitions, an we not their ï¿½spiritual mediumï¿½? Again, they tell as that we are not in conscience bound by our oaths office. And why? We knew, in taking that oath, what the Constitution meant; and knowing, we solemnly swore to uphold it
Therefore, in view of the past legislation of Massachusetts upon the subjectï¿½going, as she has, to the ï¿½utmost verge of the Constitutionï¿½ï¿½in view of the. consequences which must inevitably follow the enactment of toe law prayed forï¿½and in view of our sworn and constitutional dutiesï¿½we would report leave, on the part of the petitioners, to withdraw.
Respectfully submitted,
MARTIN GRIFFIN,
DANIEL LOYELL.
The reports were ordered to be printed.
<c03>
From the Worcester spy, March 9.
PERSONAL LIBERTY.
The public sentiment of Massachusetts has about reached a state of maturity which will justify the dispensation of equal civil rights to all men, except maniacs and felons. Various inequalities hare, at one time or another, scarred our statute booksï¿½ some of then imposed by the State, some by the general government. Nearly all the restrictions over which the State had any direct control have been summarily abolished. The shadow of religious persecution fined out long ago. The unreasonable jealousy of foreigners is, we confidently hope, on its journey to the shades. Before the taw, the free descendant of the African stands on an equal footing with the consummate Saxon. Whenever the general government has been disposed to interfere, our Legislatures have been almost always ready to set themselves right, by establishing its own tests of citizenship and manhood.
There is one step more which it will he at once consistent, decorous, and becoming for us to take. We say it will be, because it gratifies us to believe that the present Legislature is prepared to enact a law, extending the privileges of personal liberty to all persons who shall be in the State, till they Forfeit them by violation of any of the statutes. Every child in the land is taught to believe that the right to liberty in among the inalienable rights; that it is a necessary condition of individual responsibility, and a part of the inexorable logic of Godï¿½s government over the world. But the child no sooner arrives at manhood than he begins to be troubled about his ï¿½constitutional obligations,ï¿½ and to question whether the lessons he has learned are not ï¿½glittering generalities,ï¿½ after all; whether the disinterested and patriotic owners of plantations in South Carolina and Mississippi are not better expounders of the limitations and restrictions of human rights than Jefferson, Madison, and the Adamses. It is time that these cobwebs, which are ingeniously knit at every cross-road and voting precinct in the free States, should be wholly swept away.
Within her own boundaries, South Carolina is independent of Massachusetts. Her morals, her institutions, her laws, are all her own. The same reasons which would justify her in extending the spirit of her laws into Massachusetts, would justify us in extending ours into South Carolina. It would be no more than a just and courteous reciprocation of offices. We attempted such an interchange once, to our cost. It would have been better for us to have staid at borne, and minded our own business. The laws of South Carolina for the protection of slave property, extend into every State in the Union, except Wisconsin; but an ambassador of any free State cannot, with impunity, prosecute a claim in behalf of one of his fellow-citizens whom any body in South Carolina chooses to steal.
We do not refer to the fact as a reason for self-defensive legislation. The impulse of revenge is the unworthiest of all impulses, and should nave no place among the motives of those to whom is committed the grave duty of making the laws of a State. But we allude to it for the sake of removing scruples about our ï¿½obligationsï¿½ to the slave States. The debt is all on the other side. We have been fortifying and defending their institutions for half a century after they ought to have been dead and turned to ashes; and we are yet to receive the first particle of compensation. Let us pause and consider whether it is good policy to continue this course forever. Let us say to those States for whose supposed interest and benefit slavery has been so long maintained, preserve your system if you will, let it wear out your energies, corrupt your families, and weaken your prosperity, till the crack of doom; but as for us and our house, we will serve the Lord.
The case seems to us a very plain one. A manï¿½s right to himself is not a question for the courts to determine. The idea of it is one of the facts of human consciousness, of which no man can wholly divest himself, whatever may be the decisions of courts and commissioners. It is consistent with every manï¿½s divinely implanted ideas of right and wrong; and, fortunately for legislators, it is in harmony with the theory, and the earlier and better practice of the government. If it is asked what is the exigency for a statute of this kind, we answer that, under the recent perversions of law and justice by the federal government, no man who has once been a slave is safe on the soil of the United States. It is in the power of Massachusetts to set up here a legal harrier, across which no kidnapper can pass. Such an act would be a worthy one to crown the labors of our present useful and efficient Legislature. It would give imperishable honor to those members who avail-themselves of the privilege which fortune has placed in their hands, by doing so great a service for the sake of justice, and in the name of our common humanity.

GREAT SALE OF SLAVES AT SAVANNAH.
Mr. Pierce M. Butler of Philadelphia, well known as the husband of Fanny Kemble, having been unfortunate in some speculative operations, has been compelled to sell his hall of the slaves left him by his father, to pay his debts. They were 400 in number, and were sold in families at Savannah, on Wednesday and Thursday last, bringing an average of something over $700 each, or about $300,000 in the aggregate. A correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune occupies a page of that paper in giving an account of the sale, at which he was present. He says:ï¿½
ï¿½There were no light mulattoes in the whole lot of the Butler stock, and but very few that were even a shade removed from the original Congo blackness. They have been little defiled by the admixture of degenerate Anglo-Saxon blood, and for the most part, could boast that they were of as pure a breed as the bluest blonde of Spainï¿½a point in their favor in the eyes of the buyer as well us physiologically, for too liberal an infusion of the blood of the dominant race brings a larger intelligence, a more vigorous brain, which anon grows restless under the yoke. The pure-blooded negroes are much more docile and manageable than mulattoes, though less quick of comprehension.
None of the Butler slaves have ever been sold before but have been on these two plantations since they were born. Here have they lived their humble lives, and loved their simple loves; here were they born, and here have many of them bad children born unto them.
The women, true to the feminine instinct, had made, in almost every case, some attempt at finery. All wore gorgeous turbans, generally manufactured in an instant out of a gay-colored handkerchief by a sudden and graceful twist of the fingers; though there was occasionally a more elaborate turban, a turban complex and mysterious, got up with care and ornamented with a few beads or bright bits of ribbon. Their dresses were mostly coarse stuff, though there were some of gaudy calicoes; a few bad ear-rings, and one possessed the treasure of a string of yellow and blue beads. The little children were always better and more carefully dressed than the older ones.
Mr. Pierce Butler appeared among his people, speaking to each one, and being recognized with seeming pleasure by all. The men obsequiously pulled off their hats, and mode .that indescribable sliding bitch with the foot that passes with the negro for a bow; and the women each dropped the quick curtsey which they seldom vouchsafe to any other than their legitimate master and mistress.ï¿½

STUPENDOUS VILLANY.
We are told that ï¿½there is no country on the face of the earth where security for life, property and liberty is so great as in the United States.ï¿½ Let us see. In the State of Marylandï¿½but here we shall be interrupted with the exclamationï¿½ï¿½There you go again! Yes, yes! we know all about that. You are going to rake up the everlasting slavery crotchet again.ï¿½ No, we are not. We speak of 25,000 free citizens of the State of Marylandï¿½as free, by even its laws, as any other subjects of King Buchanan. But because their color is not white, or because it is a particular kind of white, meetings of the chief in habitants of the State have been held in every county to ï¿½restore them to slavery by Act of the Legislature!ï¿½ Restoreï¿½what a nice word! How delicately euphuistic is yon gentleman rascal!ï¿½how nicely broadcloth ruffianism wraps its fangs in wool when it wants to be a thief! What security for life, property, or liberty can there be in a country where such things are possible? These free negroes were either born free, were manumitted, or purchased their freedom; they bad the guarantee of the whole sanction of the Legislature for their inviolability. It had been dearly but honestly paid for. Their property in their liberty might be reckoned in the very dollars it cost. Yet here is a civilized, a Christian (?) State deliberately proposing to commit the most wholesale spoliation and robbery that was ever perpetrated.ï¿½London. Weekly Dispatch,
<c04>
The Liberator.
NO UNION WITH SLAVEHOLDERS,
BOSTON. MARCH 18. 1859.
THE ï¿½BOSTON JOUENALï¿½ IN FAVOR OF SLAVE-HUNTING!
There are many contemptible, cowardly, trimming journals in the land; but, among them all, we know of none surpassingï¿½scarcely one equallingï¿½the Boston Journal, in these characteristics. No matter who has had the editorial management of it at any time, it has always endeavored to cater to the popular taste, however depraved, and to damage the anti-slavery cause as much as possible, without jeoparding its own circulation. It resisted the Republican movement till the extinction of the Whig party and the change of political sentiment throughout the Commonwealth compelled it, as a matter of pecuniary selfishness, to modify its tone, and somewhat alter its course, but with no change of disposition or purpose. In 1835, it spoke of the Abolitionists in the following venomous and mob-exciting manner:ï¿½ 
ï¿½We have already evidence, from almost every part of New England, sufficient to prove that a meeting of the Abolitionists is but the signal for the assemblage of a mob. This being the case, it becomes the DUTY of those, in whose hands the public authorities of a city or town are vested, TO PREVENT SUCH MEETIEGS BY THE STRONG ARM OF THE LAW (!!!)ï¿½If the magistrates have not this power, the laws of our country are indeed imperfect, and should be amended with all possible despatch (!!!)ï¿½If they have the powerï¿½and tee cannot doubt that they have itï¿½they ought to exercise it to prevent the assemblage of such meetings (!!!)ï¿½The delirious and impotent efforts of the Abolitionists to irritate the great mass of the people, under a pretence that they wish to convince them of their errors in relation to the subject of slavery, deserve the most severe reprobation. WR HAVI no STMFATHIBS FOR THEM. And we cannot help entertaining an opinion that the authorities of this city, and of towns in various parts of Massachusetts, have been neglectful of their duties in not arresting these disturbers of the public peace, THESE MANUFACTURERS OF BRAWLS AND RIOTS, and causing them to give security, in A LARGE AMOUNT, for their future good behavior(!!!) Such a measure. we believe, is what justice requires, and what the laws would sanctionï¿½(!!!)
These dastardly and atrocious sentiments, subversive of all personal liberty, were written as the commentary of the Journal upon the breaking up of a meeting of the Boston Female Anti-Slavery Society, in 1835, by a mob of ï¿½five thousand gentlemen of property and standing,ï¿½ and the brutal outrages inflicted at that time upon the Editor of the Liberator, who was dragged through the streets with his clothes torn from his body, and finally consigned to Leverett street jail for the night, as the only method of saving his life! The Journal is now in other hands, but its spirit is the same, only the state of public sentiment now forces it to dissemble, and be more guarded in its utterances against the Abolitionists. It is seems to be incapable of saying a manly word, or doing a noble deed. A large reward might be offered to any one who will cite, from its editorial columns, since it was started, a single straight-forward, consistent, courageous article on any controverted subject whatever. It is an adept in the art of giving and taking, denying and affirming, dissenting and approving, blowing hot and blowing cold in the same breath. It is neither for liberty nor slavery, neither for God nor the adversary, neither hot nor cold, and endeavors to keep its equilibrium by any number of ï¿½BUTS,ï¿½ carefully distributed and cunningly posted through its lucubrationsï¿½ though its aim and tendency are to play into the hands of Hunkerism, and impede the progress of reform as far as practicable. It is not at all creditable to the intelligence or virtue of the people, that it has the largest circulation of any daily paper in New England, and makes the most money.
In the Journal of Tuesday is a characteristic editorial article on the majority report of the Committee on Federal Relations, with reference to the prohibition of the inhuman and unchristian practice of slave-hunting in this Commonwealth. It ï¿½deeply regretsï¿½ that the Committee ï¿½should have lent their sanction to the bill to prohibit the rendition of fugitive slaves.ï¿½ It says, ï¿½the scheme is so full of mischief (!) and so inoperative for any practical good,ï¿½(!) that it ï¿½cannot help suspecting that sinister designs (!) have had something to do with its origin and development.ï¿½ It is ï¿½confident that the people of Massachusetts want nothing of the kind,ï¿½ï¿½though they have petitioned for it from every section of the State, an army of them, and though not a single petition on the other side has been forwarded to the , Legislature! ï¿½Such strained and futile legislation as that proposedï¿½ it regards as quite unnecessary. It assumes that the proposed bill comes into direct collision with the Constitution of the United Statesï¿½ï¿½ and says that ï¿½even Mr. Garrison admits it.ï¿½ But there is this difference between Mr. Garrison and the Journal. He admits the fact, but denies the obligation to catch slaves, by every consideration of justice and humanity, and by the supremacy of the law of God; whereas the Journal maintains that the damnable deed ought to be done, because it is at the bondï¿½the law of God and the claims of human brotherhood to the contrary notwithstanding! It echoes the old cryï¿½it presents the old justificationï¿½ï¿½We have a late, and by that law he ought to die!ï¿½ It has no bowels of mercy for the trembling fugitives from the hell of Southern oppression, and is disposed to give them no quarter! ï¿½Perhaps,ï¿½ it says, making a mean and malignant appeal to complexional prejudice, ï¿½if the proposed bill should be passed, the only effect would be to detain a large proportion of the fugitives as residents here, and to attract hither many who would otherwise seek Canada through the other Northern States. Would our permanent population be benefitted by this addition?ï¿½ The Journal reveals its supreme selfishness, as well as contemptible littleness, by the question it propounds. Just as though we are not to save the perishing, and ï¿½hide the outcast,ï¿½ and ï¿½bewray not him that wandereth,ï¿½ unless it will benefit ourselves!
DEATH or ARNOLD BUFFUM. Just as our paper is going to press, we have received intelligence of the death of this venerable and devoted friend and advocate of the enslaved in our landï¿½the first President of the New England (now the Massachusetts) Anti-Slavery Society, and the first to enter the lecturing field in their behalf. He died at Eagleswood, Perth Amboy, N. J., on Monday last, after a sort but severe illness, at the ripe age of 77. His end was peaceï¿½ his mind brightï¿½his faith firm. We shall take another opportunity to pay a suitable tribute to his memory. 
A NEW SCHOOL BOOK. Bazin & Ellsworth, of thisï¿½ city, have just published a new School Book, entitled ï¿½The Progressive Speller, for Common Schools and Academies; embracing a complete key to pronunciation; easy words for primary classes; lessons for spelling and defining; dictation exercises; also exercises in the formation and the analysis of derivative words; thus furnishing a thorough course of instruction in the orthography and orthoepy of the most common words in the English language, By salem Town, LL. D., and Nelson M. Holbrook, Authors of ï¿½The Progressive Series of Readers.ï¿½
To CORRESPONDENTS. A. T. F., when he writes. will please give his P. O. address, for a little time in advance.
E. H. HEYWOOD, in accordance with an invitation from the Rhode Island Anti-Slavery Committee, expects to pass the first three weeks in April in that Stale. 
The admirable speech on Popular Education, by Wendell Phillips, will be read with great interest.
<c05>
THE EDUCATION OF THE PEOPLE
SPEECH OF WENDELL PHILLIPS. ESQ., 
IN THE RESPRESNTATIVES CHAMBERS, 
Thursday Evening. March 10, 1859. 
PRONORAPHIC REPORT BY JAMES M.W YERRINTON 
MR.CHAIRMAN:
I have never been present at any of your meetings and am not well informed as to their precise purpose I may, therefore, step aside from the platform accorded to you in the remarks I am to offer. I cannot expect, either, ladies and gentlemen, to present to you, on the topic of to-night, any thing like the comprehensive views or the varied and exquisite illustrations which the speakers of the last weak [Rev. K. U. WATERSTON and Rev. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE] gave you on a kindred topic, They are rare men, and have had rare opportunities. I am sorry to remember, even though it be to their honor, how much rarer still it is to find each men coming forward. to aid in meetings like these. I suppose your intention is to touch all sides of the question of Popular Education, and with especial reference, so far as outsiders may, to some of the plans which engage the attention of the community and of the Legislature at this moment;ï¿½plant of vast public improvement; plans of generous State aid toward great interests of the public; plans intended to make Boston the leading city of the Union, in regard to some of those intellectual gratifications and scientific attractions which our country so much lacks, which would subserve, not only the honor, hut the interest of the Stateï¿½if that is to be considered, some call the Yankee blood niggard, and think we look with suspicion upon such plans of public expense. For one, Mr. Chairman, I doubt that. I think we hare fairly earned, we New Englanders, the character of generous patrons of all things that really claim public support. They call us ï¿½pedlars,ï¿½ huckstersï¿½; we are said to look upon both sides of a dollar, and all round the rim, before we spend it, and yet I undertake to say, that in this very ï¿½niggardly New England,ï¿½ there have been and are not only the most generous efforts for the widest education, for the readiest relief, for the most lavish endowment of all institutions for the public, but we have set the world the first example in many of these. I believe it would be found, that if we compared New Englandï¿½I will not say with the rest of the Union, for she may justly disdain such comparisonï¿½but with England itself, with any country, it would be found that a greater proportion, a larger percentage of private wealth, since its foundation, had been given and pledged to matters of public concern, than any where else in the world. We are educated in that faith. Money-giving is the fashionï¿½provided you choose popular objects. Indeed, to give is so much a matter expected and of course, that the rich manï¿½s will which is opened in the latitude of Boston, or its neighborhood, and found not to contain ample legacies for great public objects, is set down as singular, oddï¿½so singular as to be marked with the stigma of public rebuke. It is so much a fashion, that it takes a peculiar obstinacy of stinginess even to hide itself in the grave without giving more than the Jewish tenth to the public. If, therefore, these projects of State aid to great public intellectual and moral purposes should result (which I doubt) in expense to the State, they would be justified by the whole tone of the past history of Massachusetts, and welcomed with proud satisfaction by the community. I think we have only reached a new level in the gradual rising of public feeling. Every year, at least, every decadeï¿½every generation, certainlyï¿½originates a new step; the stand-point rises; we look at things from s different point of view. We have reached one now, when it begins to be claimed of government and private individuals, that all their wealth belongs to the public; that it is mortgaged for the education of every child among us; that God gave it for mankind. I look upon the State, or rather, I look upon society, composed of the religious and civil organizationï¿½the one represented here, the other represented in the churchesï¿½as a great Normal School. I think the men who occupy these benches day by day are mere schoolmasters for the State. Their object is to arrange the best method to unfold and carry forward the public mind.
The friend who has just taken his seat (ISAAC F. SHEPARD, Esq.) has alluded to Greece. It reminds me that there were two civilizations in the old time: one was Egyptian, the other was Greek. The Egyptian kept its knowledge for priests and nobles. Science hid itself in the cloister; it was confined to the aristocracy. Knowledge was the organ of despotism; it was the secret of the upper classes; it was the engine of government; it was used to overawe the people; and when Cam by sea came down from Persia, and thundered across Egypt, treading out under his horseï¿½s hoofs royalty and priesthood, he trod out science and civilization at the same time. The other side of the picture is Greece. Her civilization was Democratic. It was for the mob of Athens (so to speak) that Pericles spoke and planned, that the tragedian wrote, that the historian elaborated, in his seven yearsï¿½ labor, those perfect pictures of times and states and policies. It was for the people that the games, the theatres, the treasures of art and the records of learning were kept. It busied itself with every man in the market-place, day by day; and the scholar thought life wasted if he-did not hear, at the moment, he echo and the amen to his labors in the appreciation of the market-place. The Greek trusted the people; he laid himself, full length, on the warm heart of the mob, the masses. Anacharsis came to Greece, and they asked him what be thought of the Greek Democracy, when he had heard the orators argue and seen the people vote. The faithless scholar, with that same timidity which marks the fastidious scholarship of to-day, replied, ï¿½I think that wise men argue questions, and fools decide them.ï¿½ It was a scholarï¿½s judgment. But you sit hereto-day with the science of Egypt,ï¿½its exclusive, fastidious, timid, conservative science,ï¿½buried in the oblivion of two thousand years; and you live to-day with a hundred idioms of speech borrowed, all your art copied from Greece, your institutions shaped largely on her model, and your ideas of right and wrong influenced by the hearts that throbbed in that mob of Athena, two thousand years ago! (Applause.) Our civilization takes its shape from the Greekï¿½it is for the people. There was no private wealth, there was no private interest in Greece; it was all for one commonwealth; and such should be ours to-day.
Government. I say, is a school. Two thousand years ago, all government thought of was to build up its gallows. Fine and death were its two punishments; it knew no other. To use Bulwerï¿½s figure, it put up the gallows at the end of the road, and allowed men to stray as they might. We have gone on two thousand years, and now we put a guide-board at the beginning, saying, This is the wrong road.ï¿½ We educate men. We have added disgrace, disfranchisement, imprisonment, moral restraint, rewards, and many other things to our list of instruments. Government is beginning to remember that prevention is one of its great objects. It begins to remember that it does not get the right to hang until it has discharged the duty of education; that until it has held up the baby footsteps with knowledge and moral culture. it has no right to arrest the full-grown sinner, and strangle him. 
Now, that ides broadens with every year. What is Education? It is not simply books There is another idea that is dawning before us. We have been accustomed to study only books. I believe every observing man will agree with me, that the day is dawning when we are to study things, not books only. I do not mean that we are to my aside books. We are not to give up languages and history, and studies of that class, but I think that the study of things is to be grafted upon these, Godï¿½s worksï¿½the
<c06>
beautiful in objects the curious and useful in scienceï¿½ the great relations between the scienceï¿½ the laws which govern national developmentï¿½ the conditions of health and diseaseï¿½the growth of populationï¿½ the laws which crime. and accident obeyï¿½ the material interests of societyï¿½the handiwork of God and his laws. The day is dawning, I think, when education will turn largely in that direction The people claim of government that: it should provide these museums of things; that it should, taking time by the forelock,ï¿½ gather up in them living, books that God has made for the education of the people, and preserve them. Science, the history of science the details of it, as preserved in museums,ï¿½ these are beginning ginning to be, especially with us, the object? of study They affect legislation closely. No man is up to the van of his age, if he has not, at least, a general knowledge of these relations; he is not fit to sit in this hall and legislate about them. 
If you will take up Broughamï¿½s discourse on ï¿½The Advantages and Pleasures of Science,ï¿½ or Herschelï¿½s or that of any English scholar, you will find that they point to the pleasure and the moral growing which the individual finds in the pursuit of science We have a broader interest. The young men of New England, as a general thing, are tossed into life before twenty. Their fathers cannot afford them long schooling. After the training of a few year, ï¿½the narrow means at home,ï¿½ as the Roman poet the keen wants of the family, oblige them to launch into life, after having gathered what they can in a few short years from books. And these very men, snatching education by the way-side, their minds developed one-sidedly, perhaps, by too close attention to the immediate calling which earns their bread. are to come up to this hall, and be trusted with the various interests, the great necessities, and the interest of the Commonwealth. It is, then, for the interest of the Commonwealth, that all along their wayside should be planted the means of a wider education, the provocatives of thought. I will tell you what education, I mean. Suppose to-day you go to Paris. (I am not now touching on the motives that make government liberal; we may have one motive, a despotic government may have another.) But suppose you go to Paris. In the Jardin des Plantes there as it technically called, you may find a museum of mineralogy; in the acres under cultivation. you may find every plant, every tree possible of growth in the climate of France; in other departments, every animal that can be domesticated from the broad surface of the globe; so that the children of the poor man, without fee, he himself, in his leisure, may study there related sciences as much in detail, and with as much thoroughness, as one half of men can study them books, and better than the other half can study them at all. in the actual living representative The very atmosphere of such scenes is education. People are not able even to live, even to stand among the evidences of the labors, among the collected intellectual fruits of their fellows, without tasting something of education. If I were, therefore, speaking simply as a Massachusetts citizen, with my future interest in the hands of a Democratic Legislature, chosen from among the people, I should claim of the wealth of the State, of the wealth of the wealthiest, that it was, all mortgaged, not for ordinary schools merely, not for book culture, not even for the costly apparatus of university life, but that, in the crowded thorough fares of cities, there should be thrown open to the public, in every large crowd of population, the mean of studying the great sciences of the day. If I asked it for nothing else, I would ask it as wise, policy for the future. I believe in it as education As simple, individual education, I believe in itï¿½I believe in it as thoroughly, and for the same ends, as those Englishmen to whom I have referred. I welcome it as such. I know its influence. I believe that the dissipated young man of Boston, who goes to Paris to spend his three years, has fifty chances out of a hundred to come back a better moral man from the fact that his nature derives the needed stimulusï¿½ from causes which call out his mind and better feelings,ï¿½ for we can, none of us, get along without some stimulus. In our country mere are only three sources of stimulus, as a general thing. One is the keen zeat of money-making; the other is he interest excitement of politics; and if a man cannot throw himself into either of these, he takes to drinking (Laughter and applause.) It is no marvel that them is so much dissipation among us; for every human being must hare his pleasure, must have his excitement menu One man snatches it in ambition, another man hives it in close pursuit of wealth, and in pecuniary success. There was a time when it seemed almost providential that our race should have the keen edge of money-loving. We were to conquer the continent God set us to subdue the wilderness We were to dot America with cities and States; we were to marry the oceans with roads. Two generations have almost done it. That function could be discharged only under the keen stimulus of a love of pecuniary and material gain. God gave it to us for that purpose. I never blushed for the Yankeeï¿½s love for the Almighty Dollarï¿½; it was no fault in the age of it. But now, we may say, we have built our London and our Paris, we have finished our Rome and our Vienna, and the time has come to crowed them with art, to flush them with the hues of painting, and fill them with museums of science. and all to creats and to feed a keen appetite for intellectual culture and progress among the people. (Applause) 
In this very city, in one word, in one of the months of the past year, six hundred families were relived by public aid, and mostly because their heads were intemperate;ï¿½nigh twenty-five hundred persons out of a population of fourteen thousand. I verily believe that if those six hundred heads of families, in their hours of leisure, in their moments not necessary for toil, could have been lured, as the Italian is into gardens, could have had thrown open to them. As the Frenchman has, museums, teaching him History at a glance, as in the galleries of the Louvre, their families would not have been left to the hand of public charity. The citizen of Paris, without a sou after laboring at 4fty cents a day the week through, may have, on Saturday or Sunday, his nature elevated the needed stimulus supplied, without liquor by entering Museum, in which, if he has the taste, he shall see every form of ship ever built, from the first frail canoe that ever floated, to the last steamer that defied the element; every species of the last steamer that rude arrow made by a Greek or Egyptian hand down through the middle ages, to the revolves that Yankee skill has lent to war; every from of furniture if he chooses to turn there; every plan of a city, ancient or modern; every bone, every fact of anatomy illustrated for him. The very share our institutions give to each man in the government, the responsibility we lay on him will call out, more than any where else has been manifested an eager love for these things. It is but just to say. That our community has made most readily the amplest use of all means provided by government or individuals In our libraries, books wear out in using and no complaint made anywhere of want of popular interest in any scientific collection. You know not how the taste grow, by the feeding. We sometimes forget how the sight of these stores unfolds a taste which the man himself never dreamed he possessed He gases, and, lo! he too is a thinker and a student, instead of a half-wakened brute born only. As the Roman says, ï¿½to consume the fruits of the earthï¿½. He no longer merely digs or cumbers the ground, or hangs a dead weight on some braver soul. He thinksï¿½ and his spreading pinion lifts his fellows. Mr. Waterston taught this in the anecdote he mentioned, of a glance at Franklinï¿½s urn first revealing to Greenough that he was a sculptor You know the great John Hunter the head of English surgery constructed with his own hands a museum of comparative anatomy a hundred feet long, and every spot filled with some speci-
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
men which his own hands had preserved in the leisure of a large city practice. A lady once asked him, ’Mr. Hunter, what do you think is to be our occupation in heaven:’? I do not know,’ replied the old men; ’I cannot tell what we shall do there; but if the almighty God would grant me the liberty to sit and think, for eternity, of  his wonderful works that I have seen in forty years, I could be happy as long as eternity lasted.’ (Applause.)
It is impossible to trace the results of such provacatives of though as these. A name which the previous speaker used gives me an illustration pertinent sot the occasion.  He spoke of one who has just left our shares a man eminent in every good work, Dr. BOWDITCh You know his family story.  His father was a poor boy, one of those whose early privations and need after time gathers up with loving and grateful admiration.  It chanced that one of the privateers of <illegible> county brought in, as a prize, the extensive library of Dr Kirwan a scientific man.  It was given to the public by the generosity of the merchants of Salem, and so became open to young Bowdich. He was left to avail himself at will of this magazine of science. The boy grew into a man; wife and children were about him, and moderate wealth in his Kendra. La Place published his sublime work, which it is said only twenty men in the world can read. With patient toil, with a brain which that early devotion had made strong, he mastered its contents, and was the first among the twenty to open that great commentary on the works of God to every man who reads to the English language, by translating it into our tongue, and supplying, with adroit and skilful industry, the steps by which the humblest student in mathematics may follow the giant strides of la place.  The expense of publishing a work which as few would buy would take half of his fortune.  That life had in part educated, perhaps, his wife to the same high souled determination which animated him.  He said to her,’ Shall we give our wealth to this service for posterity, shall we give it to our boys, or spend it in the pleasures of life. ’Publish, was the wife's reply. He consecrated half his fortune to the service of the future and the distant, to the student, and the left to his children only education and his example. They stand now around us, eminent in every profession, and equally eminent for the same enthusiastic devotion, and the same prodigal liberality in every good cause. How proud might the State he if, by opening similar libraries and museums, she educated a community of Bowditches, fathers of such children in the generations to come! (Loud applause.)
There is another consideration. I will not pursue this subject, merely on this level; I will present even a lower one, if you please. I mean to come down to the business level. We never shall compete with New York in the allurements of a great city life. As far as magnificent spectacles, as far as metropolitan wealth, as far as the splendors and amusements of the world are concerned, the great focal metropolis of the Empire, New York, must always outdo us, in drawing vast numbers of business men and strangers to enter her streets. She can make the tide set that way <illegible> and turn New England into a dependency on her great central power. But it lies with Boston to create an attraction only second to hers. The blood of the puritans, the old New England peculiarities can never compete with the Parisian life of New York. , But if we create here a great intellectual <illegible> by our museums, by our scientific opportunities, if we become really the Athens of America, ‘as we assume to be, if we guard and preserve the precious gatherings of science now with us, we shall attract here a large class of intelligent and cultivated men, and thus do something to counterbalance the over shadowing influence of the great metropolis. Why, here is the museum in Mason street, which has laid a petition upon the table  of this House to-day, possessed of treasures which , if lost, no skill, no industry could replace; giving to the geological and natural history of New England contributions which, if once lost, cannot be regained; treasures visited, weekly, by crowds from our schools. They should be covered safely, and extended, if we would do what New York has done already.  I went in Albany lately to a noble building which the Empire State has furnished, dedicated to this: She means that every ore, every plant, every shell every living or extinct animal, every tree, on the surface, or in the bowels of the Empire State, shall be represented in the Museum, for the study of her sons. They shall find the fauna and the flora there; they shall find the living and the dead of the State represented. It remained a while, (so the custodian, Col. Jewett, told me.) for some five or seven years, without provision for its shelter and safekeeping, and one half its treasures were lost. They have placed it to-day beyond risk. They have done it in order to excite the curiosity and appreciation of their sons; they have given them the natural and scientific map of the State to study; they have called out their latent capacity for science; they have set an example for other cities; they have done thus much to educate the people. 
There is education in the very sight of things about us. I believe in the sentiment which would preserve yonder Hancock House, for the very sight of such a monument is a book pregnant with thought to the people that pass by it. A man of one mould has, of course, no right to regard a man of another mould as necessarily his inferior. But this much surely we may be allowed, to hold that philosophy as cold and heartless which conducts us indifferent and unmoved  over any ground which has been dignified by poetry as <illegible>; Certainly, that profound sentiment which makes the past live for us in scenes consecrated to the noble servants and great events of our race; which depends our sense of obligation to the future by showing us our debt to the past; which changes our little life here from an isolated instant into the connecting link between two extensities; which lifts the low window of some humble dwelling, and lets the genius of the past enter, till its walls expanded into a palace, and we see written in the glowing letters over all,’ the courage or virtue, the toil or self devotion, which have made our daily life safer or more noble; which calls into being, amid the desert of low cares and dull necessities, an oasis; and so forces us, even when most harried or smothered in dust, to think and feel.
-‘till the place
Becomes religion, and the heart runs o’er 
With silent worship of the great of old, 
The dead but sceptred sovereigns who still rule
Our spirits from their urns.
For this sentiment, no one need blush; and often as it has been perverted, much as it has been abused. I believe in it as the mother of much that is beautiful, as a staff to resolution, as an incentive to virtue, as a pulse of that full being which lives in us when we are nearest to God. (Applause).
A few years ago, I was in Chicago, and they showed me, in the very centre of her stately streets, the original log cabin in which Gen. Dearborn lived, before any other white man, save himself, drew breath upon that spot, now covered by the Queen of the West. It stood in its original, untouched primeval, condition—the dark stained, natural wood of the forest. On all sides of it rose the splendid palaces of the young queen of western cities—the lavish outpouring of the rapidly increasing wealth of the lakes.  Roofs that covered depots, hotels, houses of commerce Rivaling any to be found in the spacious magnificence of Europe, were within a biscuit through of the spot;  while that very evening were celebrated the nuptials, in her twenty-first year, of the first child born on that spot were ,stands now a city of sixty thousand inhabitants. It was the original ark of the city; it was the spot where her Romulus first drew breath drew breath; it was the cradle of her history.  No capital in the world ever had such as opportunity of saying had, when a hundred years old, to her million <illegible> be sold the first roof that told the forest man.
<c02>
had taken possession!’ To-day it has vanished! There was not education, there was not sentiment there was not historic interest, there  was not that manhood which marries the past and the future, and raises us above the brutes,—there was not enough of, it in the young civilization of the West, to save that unique specimen, testifying, by Ha very presence, to the growth, in a night, of the city of the lakes-to save from the greed of speculation or the roar of trade, a spot full of such interest to every thoughtful mind. Would you like Boston to be subject to such criticism as that? Is there not an education of the heart of which it shows a lack? Evidently there is. Such public treasure, open to all, work for us all the time. If you should go and stand, for in stance, in Florence, and see the peasant walking amid a gallery of beautiful culture, or wandering through the gardens of princes, surrounded with every. exotic and every form of beauty in marble and bronze, yon would see the reason why the Italian drinks in the love of the beautiful, until it becomes a part of him, without his thinking of it. So I think that the very sight of yonder Public Library, even to the man who does not enter its alcoves, contributes to the growth, expansion and elevation of his mind. He remembers, at least, that some men have recognized that duty to the minds of their fellows, and it raises him for a moment. Direct study is only half. The influences we drink in as we live and move, do even more to mould us. It is not till these do their full work that the character is formed. Argument is not half so strong as habit. A truth is often proved long before it is felt. A man is convinced long before he is converted. Constant, habitual, and often slight influences give us shape and direction. Whitley has well said there is more truth than men think in Dogberry's solemn rebuke,’ Masters, it is proved already that you are little better than false knaves, and it will go near to be thought so shortly.’
I had supposed that I should have given place before this, to one who would have addressed you in detail, and more specifically, in reference to the plans which engage the attention of the public; but I do not see the gentleman who has been announced as one of the speakers this evening, Mr. J. A. ANDREW, before me, and perhaps, as we have reached the hour at which these meetings usually close, it will be proper for us to adjourn, leaving that particular branch of the subject untouched, and fresh for your next session. Perhaps indeed it does not become us, not members of the Legislature, to volunteer our advice or opinion on topics that are before them; but still, it is to be remembered that, after all, public opinion, the opinion of all thoughtful men, who have an interest in the growth and future of the Commonwealth and of Boston, is entitled to consideration; that all of us have a right to utter our wish, to express our earnest desire, that the State should recognize, before it be too late, her duty in this respect; that she should save, while she may, this unexpected and large accession of wealth from the possibility of misuse, not let it slip from her hands till some great measures be accomplished; such measures as show us worthy, by noble thoughts, of these great trusts-for such wealth is a trust; that she should help the growth of her capital city, and with it, that of the whole Commonwealth, by plans fitted for the highest culture of the people.
I welcome the action of the State for another thing. If we could snatch from dispersion, or from the purchase of some foreign capitalist, that magnificent collection which Catlin has made for the history of the aboriginal races of this continent,-something that can never be replaced if it be once scattered and lost,-of which Boston might fairly take the custody, as the nucleus of that ethnologic study of the races, languages and epochs of the last history of the continent, and make New England the centre, as that one collection would make it, of this inquiry and study; it would give a peculiar interest to our city, and a great impulse to a curious and valuable study.
I see before me some of the women of the Commonwealth; and I remember that this very Legislature has voted the funds of the State for forty-eight scholarships for boys, to be instructed in our various institutions of learning. I see no reason why, with the Normal Schools, the District Schools, and the Academies of the State calling for teachers, and all departments of life calling for a more broad and liberal culture, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts should not raise forty-eight scholarships for the girls of the State, so that they may enjoy the some liberal opportunities with her boys. (Applause.) It seems to me that, in connection with these noble provisions for the growth of the adult intellect, the State should remember the schools, and the various channels of woman's influence, and hold the balance even. I value those open institutions of learning which it is proposed to establish on yonder bay, especially because they will tempt women-I mean, in an especial sense, the women in easy circumstances, not obliged to labor for bread-—to imitate the example of their English sisters, on the other side of the Atlantic, and make it fashionable to study the open page of God’s works, as they are written out for them in the collections of museums and curiosities of the past.
Mr. Chairman, our social life, or what we call such, is a poor and vapid imitation of foreign manners-so unlike the original, no wonder some will doubt the propriety of my calling it an imitation. Like an exotic laid on an unfit soil, we cannot say planted-it dies. For the mere show and splendor, the luxurious pleasure, the prodigal display of social life, we have neither, the wealth nor a large class of idle loungers to keep each other in countenance, and make such continual show possible. Hence, what we call society is only a herd of boys and girls, tired with the day's lessons, or just emancipated from school, met to prattle of nothing, and eat and drink. Selfishness and rude frolic, or tasteless bearing about of rich dress, and a struggle round groaning tables, have usurped the place of conversation and manners. Earnest life, the cares of business take up the full grown men;—disgust and weariness keep women away: these last must either contract into idle gossips, or marry to be the drudges of a life aping wealthier levels. Old prejudice shuts them out of active life. No social life, worthy of the name, upholds them in that wide and liberal interest in thought and science-in great questions and civil interests, which made the French woman a power in life and the State, which once separated the Quaker women from the level of their gayer sisters-which now crowd the lists of English Literature with women, some of them the best thinkers, the greatest poets and most faithful scholars in our mother land.   Open these public storehouses- gather these treasures of science into the lap of the State, and see if we cannot create for our women a nobler career, and call into being a society -which will refine life, and win men from cares that eat out every thing lofty, and sensual pleasures that make them half brutes.'
All these things work for us. They would make government unnecessary, so far as it is coercion. I look upon, these things as I do upon the windmills one sees all over the provinces of Holland. They have shut out the ocean with dykes; past ages built up the colossal structures which saves Holland from the wave. So we have built up laws, churches, universities, to keep out from our. garnered Commonwealth the flood of ignorance, and passion, and misrule. But in morals as in nature, the water which we press back upon the flood oozes daily through the mass; and the cunning Hollander, for centuries, remembering this law, has placed his picturesque and wide-spread sails to catch every breeze that sweeps through the country, and as last as nature lets the ocean ooze through his defences, the tireless windmills it, and pour it back into the depths of the and every breeze that hurries across the province’ at night tells the Dutchman, M he listens, that his home is safer for its passage. So, while you wake or 
<c03>
sleep, these stories and  associations shall do the work for you which the- winds do for-Holland. As the floods of voice ooze back through your defences, they shall relieve you from the continual watching, and educate the people in spite of themselves, winning them to think, pointing them through nature to her God, fortifying virtue by habits that render low stimulus needless, and developing the whole man.;
I think we owe all this to posterity. The generations that preceded us built ships, roads, cities, invented arts; raised up manufactures, and left them to us. We inherit libraries and rail ways; we inherit factories and houses; we inherit the wealth and the industry and the culture of the past; We do not do enough if we merely transmit that, or what is exactly like it, to the future. No; he does not imitate his father who is just like his father, paradoxical as it may seem. Every age that has preceded us in New England has net its ingenuity to work to find out some wider, deeper, better, more liberal and higher method of serving posterity. The Winthrops, the Carvers and the Brewsters left us churches; planned schools; common roads and wooden houses; the generation just gone have not only turned their wooden wharves into granite; their roads to iron; their spinning-wheels to factories that can clothe the earth in a month; but they have conquered space and the elements with steam, they have harnessed the lightning, and sent it on errands; they have not only continued their churches, they have taken hold of the four corners of the earth with their societies for the education of the race. It is fur us so to be wise in our time, that posterity shall remember us also for some peculiar improvement upon the institutions of our fathers.' Inaugurate, then, this generation, by the avowal at the principle that private wealth has ceased to be; that it is mortgaged for the use of the public; that its office is not to breed up idlers, but to provide the broadest and most liberal means of education; that it takes the babe of poverty, and holds him in its careful hands, and pledges the skill and garnered wealth of the wealthiest to give him the very best possible culture of which- the age is capable; that Massachusetts not only gives him the District School and the Normal School, she not only sees to it that his hands shall be educated to earn money, but when, with; native tenacity, he turns his attention wholly to the present, she opens her broad arms, she utters her tempting voice, she spreads before him the wonders of creation, lures him back from a narrow and sordid life, and bids him be a Massachusetts man, worthy of the past, and the apostle of a greater future. (Loud and prolonged applause.)

THE STATUE OF WEBSTER.
In the Massachusetts House of Representatives, on Monday last, the Speaker laid before the House  a communication from the  Governor, transmitting to the House of Representatives a communication from Hon. Edward Everett, enclosing a copy of resolutions requesting the Legislature to allow the Webster statute to be placed within the State House grounds. The Governor, in his communication, remarks:
‘I recommend that the request of the General Committee of the friends of Mr. Webster be granted. Mr. Webster gave to the service of the Commonwealth the best years of his life. Entering the public councils in 1820, he devoted himself to public employments in the constitutional and legislative assemblies of this State, in both Houses of Congress, and in the Cabinet until the closing hours of his life.
His eloquence, superior attainments, and unsurpassed intellectual power, contributed in an eminent degree to mark the period of his public service as one of the most interesting and important that has occurred since the adoption of the Constitution.'
Let the insulting proposition be voted down!
In the House, 8th inst., a Committee reported leave to withdraw on the petition of John A. Andrew and others, asking that a law may be enacted, prohibiting any person licensed to exhibit any public show, or to open or maintain any theatrical exhibition, or other public amusement, in this Commonwealth, from excluding any person from any seat or place occupied by an audience or spectators on account of his race, opinion or color.
In the Senate, on Monday last, Mr. Butler of Middlesex, reported leave to withdraw on petition of Wm. C. Nell and others, that the names of all adult citizens  be put into the jury box.
The same action was had upon the petition of Ly-sander Spooner and others, empowering jurors to determine the sentence of criminals.
In the House, on the same day, the report (inexpedient) on the memorial of colored citizens of Massachusetts, protesting against the Dred Scott decision, &c., came up.
Mr. Borden, of New Bedford, said he wanted to discuss the report, in a certain contingency, and, on his motion, it was laid on the table.
Recently, a resolve being before the House to appropriate $1500 for the purpose of aiding Levi Baker, a Cape Cod shipmaster, to test, in the United States Court, the constitutionality of the Virginia search law, Mr. Cushing made a demonstration against it in two or three speeches. It does not seem to make any great difference to Mr. C. what method Massachusetts adopts to vindicate her rights against the encroachments of the slave States. Any strictly legal process excites in him as strong disgust as any measure of the most doubtful legality. It is the spirit of opposition itself which he deprecates. Acquiescence is, in his estimation, the sublimest of virtues.
CONCERT BY THE HUTCHINSON FAMILY. This family, now consisting of five persons-John W., Fannie B., Henry and Viola Hutchinson, with a Bass Voice- will give two concerts of vocal music in the Mercantile Library Hall, in Summer street, next week, on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings; and we hope, for various reasons, they will have a crowded house each evening, as they are highly deserving of it. They have had great success elsewhere recently. The Bangor Union says:-
‘The Hutchinsons had one of their fullest and most select audiences at Norombega Hall on Saturday evening. Their singing could not have been more excellent or entertaining. The performances of Master Henry and Miss Viola were remarkably fine, and each one of them elicited the heartiest applause. They are truly prodigies in their line. Of John W. and Fannie B., we need say nothing, so well known to the public are their unsurpassed powers as vocalists.'
The Hartford Times says:-
‘The concert of John W. Hutchinson at the American Hall last evening, was attended by an overflowing audience. He had given two or three concerts in this city previously, and his houses increased on each occasion-a compliment that is never paid to any who are not really meritorious. He might give twenty conceits here, and not fail in a single instance of seeing a full house.'
Be sure and go to the Concerts on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, next week, at the Mercantile Library Hall, Summer street.
HANCOCK. HOUSE. The interesting report submitted by Hon. Edward G. Parker to the Senate in favor of the State purchase of the Hancock House, has suggested the following fact as one not. inappropriate to be placed also on record, and which happened to be called to the notice of the Committee on Federal Relations in a hearing before them of memorialists protesting against the Dred Scott decision, and on the same day, (Feb. 10th) that Mr. Parker's presentation was made to the Senate:
‘At the close of the Revolutionary war, John Hancock presented the colored company called the ‘Bucks of America,’ with an appropriate banner bearing his initials, as a tribute to their, courage and devotion throughout the struggle. The ’Bucks’ under the command of Colonel Middleton, were invited to a collation in a neighboring town, and en route were requested to halt in front of the mansion in Beacon street, where the Governor and his son united in the presentation 
This flag is now in possession of Mrs. Kay, whose father was the Ensign who received it from Governor Hancock.
W. C. N.
<c04>
‘NO SLAVE HUNT IN OUR BORDERS
In the speech of Rev. T. W. Higginson, before the Committee of Federal Relations, in support of the Petition asking for a law to prevent the recapture of Fugitive Slaves, February 17 1859, he said.
‘Let me tell you, gentlemen, there is not a day in the year when there are not fugitive-slaves in Boston, liable to be arrested; there is scarcely a week, certainly, not a month in the year, when there are not agents in, Boston seeking to find a man or. woman claimed as a fugitive-slave, and could they find some body, the right one or the wrong one, and arrest him,' we should have all the horrors of a fugitive-slave case again upon us. This is not a matter which depends upon the United States Courts, it is not a matter that can be so easily settled in the District Attorney’s office. A claimant may be, for aught we know, in Boston, to-day, in search of a fugitive-slaves. That claim ant to-day, nay, at this moment, may have his grasp upon a man, and the next moment the hurried news may reach us that the crisis has come which we ask you to provide for and avert, and that a fugitive-slave case is once more, upon us. Fugitive slaves, or men in danger of being claimed as such, are all around us. They are pressing upon us. These Abolitionists, whom some gentlemen think such firebrands, they are safety-valves; it is they who have prevented the recurrence of such instances by sliding off these perilous colored men, who are threatening the peace of the community, before the danger comes. The Abolitionists are a safety-valve,-too much of one, some of us think: and the time is coming when this perpetual transmission of fugitives beyond our borders on the track of the underground-railroad will itself become distasteful to the people of Massachusetts.’
The next day, (Friday, February 18th,) there arrived in Boston a slave-owner and two kidnapping abettors, whose advent was promptly announced by the following handbill, which was placarded in various parts of the city:-
IS THERE A SLAVE-HUNTER AMONG US?
Charles L. Hobson, of Richmond, Virginia, Tobacco Merchant, was seen in our streets yesterday: Stops at the Tremont House. He is 22 years of age, six feet high, slim, pale-faced, gray eyes, solemn countenance, hair short and sandy-colored, beard on his chin, goatee fashion, wears a dark-colored overcoat, light-colored pants, and black slouched hat. He had one slave who has run away. Does he come here to hunt him?
Boston, February 19, 1859.
Yankee curiosity being thus appealed to, it was interesting to see and hear the people, in various ways, seeking information on the subject-mentally reviewing the Burns’ affair, and asking each other- ‘Is Boston again to be disgraced by such a scene?’ Some there were, who expressed surprise at the coincidence between the words of Mr. Higginson, and the facts now developing; and truly, it was remarkable.
The Boston Post, of course, rallied to the defence of the slave-hunter from the imputation thus cast upon him, and boldly denied that he had any wish or intention to recover the fugitive.
But, in proof that this Hobson was here for the purpose of slave-catching, read the following advertisement from the Richmond Dispatch, of February 10th, 1859:-
$250 REWARD.—Ran away, about 27th December, 1858, my boy HENRY. Henry is about 21 years of age, rather delicate in appearance, about 5 feet 9 or 10 inches in height, bright mulatto, full head of hair, of good address, but rather cringing when spoken to, laughs when talking, fond of dress and somewhat of a dandy, had a small patch of beard on his chin. He is also a little bowed in the legs, and can read and write.
I will give fifty dollars reward if the above negro is taken in this State, and lodged in some jail where I can get him; and $150 if taken in any other slave State. I will give $250 reward if information sufficient for conviction can be given against any white man who may have had a hand in getting him off to a free State.
jan 27 CHARLES L. HOBSON.
What has the Post to say now?
There are persons in Boston who know all the parties in Richmond-Hobson the self-styled owner, and Henry, the self-emancipated chattel.
It was optional with the claimant to have remained here, and hunted his victim (like another Anthony Burns) through our streets-summoning to his aid the Union-savers, to the tune of ‘when you catch him, hold him fast’-but, for reasons best known to himself, but shrewdly guessed at by others, he conferred upon the liberty-loving citizens of Boston the boon of his absence. W. C. N.
Boston, March, 1859.

THE CAUSE OF THE WORRIMENT.
NATICK, March 11th, 1859.
DEAR SIR—In Mr. Stacy's report in the Liberator of last week, of the lecture given in Milford, recently, by Rev. Mr. George of this town, on the ‘Infidelity of the Garrisonians,’ I notice this question: ‘Has anybody worried the Rev. gentleman in Natick?’ I will tell you what we have had in Natick, since the Rev. gentleman commenced his labors here, nearly one year ago, and leave you to guess what his feelings may have been, a part of the time, at least.
Last May William W. Brown came here, and read a Drama. In June, he returned, and lectured once, and read two Dramas. July 4th, C. L. Remond and sister held meetings three times. August 8th, Parker Pillsbury lectured twice. In September, A. T. Foss spent a Sunday with us, and lectured twice. In October, Mr. Pillsbury came again, and lectured in the south part of the town twice, and at a small village in the north part (called Felchville) once. In this same month, a meeting of the Middlesex A. S. Society was held here. Messrs. Pillsbury, Heywood, Remond, and Sanborn addressed these meetings-four in number. In November, Rev. A. D. George gave a lecture in the M. E. Church on the ‘Infidelity of the Garrisonians.’ December 19th, Mr. Garrison lectured three times, and noticed some statements made by the Rev. gentleman. Two weeks from this time, this Rev. character felt called upon to’ defend himself against some statements made by Mr. Garrison.’ In January, Mr. Pillsbury came, and spent a Sunday with us-lectured twice, and told so much truth about slavery and the M. E. Church, that the Rev. gentleman has since been mum in Natick, so far as I have heard, on the subject of the ‘Infidelity of the Garrisonians.'
Yours for truth and humanity, T.

MRS. DALL’S LECTURE.
We copy from the Worcester Spy the following notice of Mrs. DALL’S lecture on Public Opinion, which has attracted a good deal of attention:
‘Mrs. Dall’s second lecture, last Monday evening, kept the undivided attention of her audience to the last. Her subject was, ‘Public Opinion, as it is derived from the study of the Classics and History, General Literature, Customs and Newspapers—to discourse upon which, intelligently, required no ordinary reading; and yet, when we say that Mrs. D. proved herself entirely competent to the task, we express, we think, the universal sentiment of her hearers. She spoke also plainly and fearlessly. First of all, she remembered the claims of Truth, and to it paid no divided allegiance. It would be singular, indeed, if, in her hearty protest against the wrongs suffered by her sex,-if, in her wide survey, in the course of which so many famous names were criticised,-there should not have been some unexpected judgments; and if sometimes the advocate, rather than the judge, seemed to sum up the case. Even then, however, we felt that it would be well to review our own opinions, before joining direct issue. Her criticism upon Hypatia was especially interesting. The lecture richly repaid the silence with which it was honored. It has increased our interest in the next and closing lecture of the series.
Mr. GARRISON’S article, in the Liberator of Jan. 21st, reviewing Rev. Henry Ward Beecher’s Defence of himself, for lecturing in the Boston Fraternity course, has been printed in pamphlet; form. A few copies remain for sale, at the Anti-Slavery office, 21Cornhil 
THE BURNS FESTIVAL AT THE REVERE House. A pamphlet, edition, of the centenary celebration at Burns at the Revere House. Jan. 25, has been published by John Wilton & Son. 
<c05>
PUBLIC IMPROVRMENTS AND BENEFICENT ENTERPRISES.—‘A noble public spirit and education there to,’ was in brief, the topic of the educational meeting at the States House last evening. There never has been such a crowd before at these gathering. Hall, galleries and standing places were full. Hon Mosses Kimball presided, with appropriate opening and intermediate remarks and anecdotes.
Isaac F. Shepard. Esq., a member of the House, descanted upon the culture of quick sympathizes and widely embracing benevolence is the young. He touched the hearts and moistened the eyes of the hearts by illustrative incidents, drawn from his school teaching experience, a few years ago, in this city. He told how an interest  in the suffering Greeks and famished Ireland, and little beneficent activities there to served to develop a beautiful spirit of sympathy and charity , that tasted on and showed itself years afterwards, He spoke of the  effect of a letter from Dr. H. I Bowditch, upon one of his pupils, By the way, could the Doctor, who is at this moment crossing the ocean to England have, known the feeling allusion  to himself, and the sweet sympathies awakened, he would have been conscious of blessings pursuing his generous nature, from his native land.
Wendell Phillips, Esq. was the next and the last speaker.  We wish we could report him in full, that all our readers might be charmed into grand expansiveness of spirit, and up to the work of founding institution of great worth in the war of outward gain and of greater worth to the intellect, the tastes and the affections— as the crowd last evening were charmed, and forgot themselves, but not the future and its vast and magnificent interests, we trust. He was not severe, sarcastic, terrible to prejudice, narrowness and meanness, as he had the power to be, as everybody knows; bat he was genial and golden as this morning sun, and came over human characteristics as softly, but as potently as the vernal breezes are coming over the icy and embrowned earth. We hope that there will be analogous results. We commend him not only for the might, but the mildness of his speech.
John A. Andrew, Esq., was expected to make the closing address, but a press of professional occupations, much to his own regret, we believe, and certainly that of an expectant audience, prevented. Mr. Phillips, therefore, was kind enough to occupy the half hour which had been assigned to him, It was well, indeed, that one was there whose rich resources, ready benevolence, and love of all that benefits the race, enabled him to meet the emergency.
The topic for next Thursday evening is as follows: ‘The training of the young, from their earliest years, to observe and study the works of God in nature, as among the best means of disciplining the intellectual faculties and enriching them with knowledge, and also of exalting the heart towards the Creator.’ Professor Agassiz will make the principal address of the occasion-Boston Transcript, 10th inst.
Professor Velpeau, Chief Surgeon of the Charity Hospital in Paris, is going to put one of its wards in the charge of a mulatto, named Wries, well known as the Black Doctor, who has cured several persons of note of cancerous abscesses which had been pronounced to be utterly desperate cases. His remedies are vegetable, brought from the Dutch East Indies. The most striking of his cures is that of Adolphe Sax, the celebrated brass -instrument maker, whose face was nearly consumed by a cancer. The Black Doctor' has now under treatment at the wife of a stock broker, famous for her beauty, and given up as incurable in her thirty-fourth year, by her former physicians, Richard and Neleston. Wries will cure her. This mulatto Esculapius receives fees of fabulous amount, but not too dear for the value of his services.
Slaveholders of the parish of St. Landry, La., held a meeting recently, at which they resolved that the laws in regard to free negroes must be so amended that hereafter and free person of color who should be duly convicted of any offence against the laws, by  a court of competent jurisdiction, should be sold by the sheriff of the parish in which he was tried, to the last and highest bidder, as a slave, either for life or for a term of years, in accordance with the nature  of the offence.
THE WILD AFRICANS SURRENDERED –SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS.—The two Africans of the Wanderer’s cargo, that were arrested in Macon some weeks ago by the Deputy United States Marshal, and brought to the jail of this city, were discharged yesterday, under the following circumstances; Mr. C. A. L. Lamar, it seems, took the bull by the horns, and made affidavit before Justice Smaley that the aforesaid Africans were his property; that he had quiet and peaceable possession of  them, and that they were taken from him without his consent, Upon his affidavit Justice Smaley issued a poser warrant addressed to Charles Van Horn, the Jailor of Chatham County, and directing him to bring the Negroes before him, the aforesaid Justice.  This requisition was promptly obeyed by the Jailor and the Africans being brought before the  Justice, Mr. John A. Tucker swore that he had seen them in possession of the claimant in December last; whereupon the Africans were turned over to Mr. Lamar, and the novel proceedings brought to a close,. The proceedings, we hear, were wholly exparte, and disposed of in a very brief space of time.
It is but due to the United States District Attorney, Mr. Gonahl, who has discharged his duties in these slave trade cases with praise worthy fidelity to the Government, to add that he was engaged at the time in a legal investigation before the Court of Admiralty, and had not the slightest intimation of what was going on until the entire matter had been disposed of -Savannah Republican, 9th.
[The proceedings in relation to the Wanderer, taken together, appear to indicate the establishment of the slave trade by Georgia, in defiance of the U. S., laws, which make it piracy, punishable with death].
THE BOSTON LIBERATOR. This we consider as one of our most valuable exchanges. It is about the only paper in Massachusetts which occupies the true position, that of a former and leader of public opinion.  In this respect, our journals are behind those of New York, being, in general, like too many of our clergy men, exponents of present public opinion Norfolk County Journal.
Advices from Porto Rico received at Havannah, state that a large clipper ship went ashore on the night of Feb. 4th, near punta de candelero She had 600 Africans on board. Her name was unknown, but she hade the letter T on one side of her bows. The captain, mate, and some of the crew had died on the passage, and the rest of the crew were sick. The negroes were taken to the city, and the sailors—twenty in number committed to prison.
SALLIE HOLLEY, an Agent of the Maas. Anti-Slavery Society, will lecture as follows:
Dover, Society, Sunday, March 20
Rochester, Society, Thursday, March 24
Great Falls, Society, Sunday, March 27
Exeter, Society, Wednesday, March 30
WM LLOYD GARRISON will lecture on Slavery, in the city Hall river, in Fall River, on Tuesday evening, March 22.
He will also lecture on the same subject, at Lanesville, on Friday (this) evening, March 18.
GEORGE W. CURTIS, Esq., of New York, will address the Twenty -Eighth Congregational Society (Rev. Theodore Parker’s) on Sunday forenoon next , 20th inst., at Music Hall, on ’Democracy and Education.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will lecture in Plymouth , Sunday, March 27th, all day and evening. Subject of the evening lecture The Living Present and the Dead past.
PARKER PILLSBURY, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will speak at NORTH ABINGTON, in Union Hall, on Sunday next, March 20th, afternoon and evening.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak on slavery as follows:
Keene, N. H., Saturday evening, March 19
Keene, N. H., Monday evening, March 21
Winchester, N.H.,. Tuesday evening, March 22
E. H. H. will also speak on Temperance, on Sunday evening next, 20th inst., at Keene.
TO THE FRIENDS OF THE FUGITIVE— A robust and able-bodied fugitive slave from the South a carpenter, who has worked many years at house -building, framing and finishing —wants a place. Apply to R. F. WALLCUT, Anti -Slavery Office, 21 Cornhill, or, by letter, to FRANCIS JACKSON.
MARRIED —In Pittsburgh, Pa., Feb. 17, by Rev. John Peck Professor, GEORGE B. Vashon of Pitt burgh to Miss Susan Paul Smith of Boston.
VASHON, of Pittsburgh, to Miss SUSAN PAUL SMITH, o; Boston.
DIED— In New York, February 11, Mr. Thomas l. <illegible> 
L. JINNINGS, aged 68. His name has been prominently connected with many of the movements for emancipation, and elevation of those with whom he was identified by complexion and condition.
In Boston, Feb. 26. Mr. WILLIAM WEIGHT, aged 58. 
<c06>
THE MUSTEE.
487 pp. Price, $1.25.
WE beg leave, through this circular, to call your attention 
to a new work recently issued by us, and one that we are confident will occupy a high position among the many works that have been published  within the last half century.
In point of interest and delineation of character we say, without fear of contradiction, that it is not equalled by anything that has emanated from the press for years.
Editors, clergymen, and literary men generally have vied with each other in bestowing upon it laudatory comments superior to those received by any work since the publication of ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin
The writer shows a command of language unequalled by novel writers of the age; while, at the same time, the intense interest which accompanies each and every page in the book is unsurpassed by any work of fiction. We annex a few extracts from the. many hundreds of notices we have received in its favor, and will leave the public to decide for themselves, after having read the opinions of others:-
From Rev. T. Starr King.
‘My recollections of the interest of the story (the Mustee,) the nobleness of its purpose and sentiment, and the careful preparation and labor which the style and structure of the work, evince, and which I owe to a perusal of the manuscript some months ago, are still fresh; and it is from the impulse of these that I heartily thank you for the copy you have sent me; and I commend the book, so far as my words can avail, to the community.'
From Wendell Phillips, Esq. 
‘I have read the Mustee with an interest which deepens as the story advances. Mr. Pretbary has made skilful use of his materials. His plot is excellent, and his characters cannot fail to awaken the heartiest sympathy-
From R Shelton McKenzie, Esq.
‘Very well written, with an interesting plot, and well distinguished characters. We hope to meet the author again.’
From the Taunton Gazette.
‘An extremely interesting tale, told with a good degree of art, and no waste of paper
From the New Hampshire Patriot. 
‘Equal in highly wrought interest and dramatic-effect to anything we recollect in the range of modern fiction. Can be read only with’ bated breath,'’ eager curiosity, and thrilling emotion.’
From the Boston News.
‘Written with great care, and possesses uncommon interest and value
From the Salem Observer.
‘As a work of fiction as well as one of superior moral aims, it possesses great value.'
From the Hartford Courant.
Powerfully written. The characters well drawn and the incidents well told.
From the New Hampshire Palladium
‘A fascinating work, and does honor to the head and heart of its author. Its style is one of' of great force and purity.'
From the Boston Post.
‘The story is naturally told, and we heartily commend it to our readers and the public.'
From the Providence Post.
‘An excellent story.'
From the Boston Recorder.
‘Above the ordinary class of novels, and adjusted to the taste of numerous readers.'
From the Providence Tribune. 
‘The Mustee is a book that will go through the family before it goes to the library, and, when read, will not be forgotten. It will bear reading a second time
From the Schenectady Star.
‘The author wields a vigorous pen, and the story cannot fail to interest.'
From the Christian Freeman.
‘One of the best books of the season.'
From the Bangor Jeffersonian.
‘A story of absorbing interest.’
From the Charlestown Advertiser,
‘A novel of uncommon ability,-readable and entertaining in an uncommon degree.’
From the Cambridge Chronicle.’
‘The characters all well drawn.'
From the Bangor Whig and Courier.
‘Attractive even to the mere lovers of something exciting
From the Congregationalist.
‘Well wrought up, and of a high degree of merit,'
From the Daily Advertiser.
‘The plot exhibits decided artistic skill,-the language manly and chaste, its sentiments sound, and its style bold and vigorous.'
From the Home Journal.
‘Very excellent.'
SHEPARD, CLARK & BROWN.
PUBLISHERS, 
110 Washington street, Boston.
Copies mailed, postage paid, on receipt of the advertised price. 
March 11. 3tia
Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma, Croup, 
Whooping Cough, Diseases of the Throat and 
Lungs, and Pulmonary Affections,
Of the severest type, are quickly cured by that long-
tried and faithful remedy,
DR. WISTAR’S BALSAM OF WILD CHERRY?
Says a well-known Editor— ‘This is truly a balsam and a blessing to invalids. It contains the pure balsamic principle of Wild Cherry, the balsamic properties of tar and of pine. Its ingredients, which are mingled after the true principle of chemistry, are all balsamic, and therefore it is safe and sure in effect. Cough, Colds, Consumption, and Bronchial troubles disappear under its balsamic influence as though charmed away. Probably no medicine has ever attained so extended a sale, or accomplished so much good, as this renowned Balsam’.
CASSVILLE, (Ga.) Feb. 26, 1858.
Messrs. SETH FOWLE & Co., Boston, Mass:
GENTLEMEN—At the request of your Travelling Agent, I give you a statement of my experience in the use of Dr. Wistar’s Balsam of Wild Cherry. I have been using it for two years in my family, for Colds and Coughs, and have found it the most efficacious remedy that I have ever tried. For Colds and Coughs in children, I know it to be an excellent medicine. 
Respectfully yours,
JOHN H. RICE.
The genuine article always has written the signature of’ L. BUTTS’ on the wrapper, and is for sale by all respectable Druggists everywhere.
Prepared by SETH W. FOWLE & CO., BOSTON, and for sale by dealers in Medicine in nearly every town in New England. Feb. 
25—4tis

FARMS.
G ENTLEMEN who wish to purchase Farms, or have Farms which they wish to sell or exchange for property in Boston or vicinity, would, do well to call on the subscriber, as he has superior means of effecting sales. R. A. WILLIAMS
No. 4 Wilson’s Lane. Room No. 6
March 11—3w

MY PRICED 
DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE
OF
Choice Fruit and Flowering Trees
SHRUBS, EVERGREENS, ROSES, BEDDING-OUT PLANTS, &<illegible>
Is now ready, and will be mailed, to any address. Carriage of packages paid to Boston, or New York 
M. B. WATSON,
Old Colony Nurseries, Plymouth, Mass.
March 18—6wis
J. B. YERRINTON & SON.
PRINTERS:
21 Cornhill BOSTON.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
POETRY,
For the liberator
INSORIBED TO REV THEODORS PARKER 
Safely bear him, honored vessel,
To those islands of the main;
And, with health restored, bring him
To his country back again!
Spare us, Death, this precious treasure,
Touch him not with iey band!
Who, like PARKER, in the contest,
Can for troth and freedom stand?
Who like him the torch of heaven
With such god-like mien am bear,
And the Christian's golden armor
In such child-like beauty wear?
Who, his mantle o'er him casting,
Could its folds of beauty fill;
And what voice, in sweetest pathos,
Could the heart's strong pulses thrill
Who with creeds would dare to battle,
And the blinded bigot slay?
Who has wisdom or the courage
Such grand words of troth to say?
Spare him, Death, that he may gather
Richer gems on Time's fair shore-
That the eyes of future ages
O'er his starry tomes may pore!
Spare his giant brain to bless us,
Till with hoary locks and eyes,
He with angel-guides shall leave us
For his home beyond the skies.
Manchester, February, 1859.
For the, Liberator.
GOD'S IMAGE.
BY C. JILLSON.
Although disease, with ruthless hand,
Hath stricken down the bondman's friend,
There still remains a dauntless host,
Who dare to fight and dare defend
The rights of every human sou',
Whate'er its garb or hue may be-
To break the fetters on their hands,
And thereby set God's image free.
God's image! yes, within our land,
Where patriots boast in speech and song,
Where Christians pray for Southern trade,
And Senates legislate for wrong, That image lies to-day in chains,
Where no one dares to drop a tear; For pity ne'er has touched the heart
Of master or of auctioneer. 
God's image! see it in the eye
Of her who clasps her female child, And lifts her voice to heaven in prayer,
That God mar spare it undefiled
No time is lost-the hammer falls-
The child is taken from her breast,
And claimed by some inhuman fiend,
'Mid sneers, and oaths, and vulgar jest.
God's image! see it flee for life,
Through dismal swamps, with rapid pace-
A score of bloodhounds on the track,
And demons urging on the chase!
It finds no rest on Freedom's soil,
In Faneuil Hall, on Bunker Hill,
But waving plumes and glittering steel
Sustain the Southern planter's will.
God's image! hear its fetters clank
Beneath the shade of Boston's spires,
While public men bow down in fear,
And grant to Slavery its desires.
‘Back to the dungeon!' cries the judge,
‘The black man cannot here be free;
The Union! let it be preserved,
Though Christ be chained to every tree!'
God's image! rally for the fight,
Ye noble souls, with courage true;
Break every fetter in the land.
And break or mend the Union too.
The Union 1’neath its starry flag
The pirate roams the open sea;
Be yours the work to yet declare
His victim and the nation free!
Rev. Theodore Parker
For the Liberator.
VALLEAS BOSTONIA!
Grand old city! how I love thee!
Love thy earnest, honest men;
How I love thee!-yet I leave thee,
Ne'er again, perhaps, to see thee,
Or thy honest, earnest men.
Dear old city! my wild fancies
Clothe thy narrow, crooked streets
With unuttered, sad romances,
Bathing all my soul in trances,
And Vheir dim, delusive cheats.
Holy city I sweetly sleeping
On thy margin lie the dead:
There my heart a watch is keeping,
‘Mid its sorrow and its weeping,
With the sweet and spotless dead-
With the dear and sainted dead:
And a nameless feeling thrills me,
And a bitter anguish fills me,
And I leave thee with thy dead.
Sacred city! must we sever
All the ties that round us cling?
Tea, old city! we must sever-
‘Sever now, if not forever,
All the tics that round us cling.
Though I leare thee, I bequeath thee
Unto Him who will not leave thee-
Who will watch and guard thee well-
Grand old city! fare thee well!
Meedville, (Pa.) Feb.19,1859. T. V.
For the Liberator.
TRUTH TRIUMPHANT.
When Persecution's angry waves rage round the righteous soul,
Then Truth, borne high above the surge, maintains her just control:
Twas the lurid flames which o'er the dying martyrs curl'd,
That Truth of old lit up her torch, to flash it round the world;
And now, while on Columbia's shore, where bled the patriot brave,
The vice of Truth is heard on high, the land from crime to save,
The men who raise their voice for right, ‘gainst crimes which curse our age, 
Must breast the tide of public scorn, and brave the public rage;
But Truth, <illegible> amid the strife, is sure to win the field;
For God and right are with her there, and never will she yield.
Rutland mass. J E E
FORGIVE AND FORGET
Gently speak in second tender
Of the friends ye loved of yore,
Though, purchases they may not render
All the joys they gave before;
These are few whose lives are blameless,
Who have nothing to regret,
<illegible>
<c02>
The Liberator 
LETTERN FROM MRS. FRANCES D. GAGE 
NEW OELEAKS Feb. 27,1859 Dear garrison: 
 I promised to send yon a thought, from time to time, as I made my way through the soft and genial climate of the South, as time and place should give rise to one. Bat were I to give you a tithe of the thoughts, the deep-stirring, bitter thoughts that are continually springing into my brain, and asking utterance, I should hare time for nothing else, nay, not even to mark the facts as they rise before me. 
Frank Blair tells yon that emancipation has began in Missouri, and he tells you troth. That is, Missouri is being emancipated. But, alas! while the country is shaking off its burdens, its people are fastening the chains of bondage more powerfully upon the limbs of the departing slaves. On the boat that bore me down the great ‘Father of Waters' were a number of the dark-cheeked children of Missouri, sent away by their masters to be sold to Southern: planters. They were very still and gloomy all the way down. Now and then, as the little children gathered about them, and gamboled in their glee, they would smile a faint, sad smile, that made the heart ache. There were serene young girls in the lower cabin or wash-room, going away from home and friends-from parents, brothers and sisters- perhaps from’ lore. One wept nearly all the time. I tried to draw from her the especial cause of her sorrow, but she gave me no satisfaction. The special cause What could there be more terrible than the plain and horrible fact,-she was a slave; a slave,. to be bought and sold like a beast!
There were several little girls in the ladies' cabin, children of the first families, no doubt; but I noticed that their mothers had not the slightest objection to their associating with the’ darkies,' (as they facetiously called them. ) They sat in their laps, played, talked with, and ate with them-these girls, some of them boarding-school misses. But when a lady came on board at Memphis with a dark-skinned boy, and set him down to eat by her side at the dinner-table, there war a terrible quaking among the fair ones lest, possibly, he might not be one of them. What a commotion there was!
'Now, if he is a darkey,' said one, ‘I tell you that woman ought to be put off the boat.'
'I can't believe he is,' said another;’ she would not be so mean.'
'I mean to ask her, any how,' asserted a third.
'If he ain't a nigger,' whispered the fourth,’ he is real handsome.' 
'And so polite,' said a fifth. 
'That's just what makes me think he is,' chimed in a sixth; • no white boy has them manners. '
So they whispered and gossipped, until the unconscious objects of all this flutter among the fowls had finished their breakfast, and come back into our midst, The bright, merry boy walked on out upon the guards, and the lady, with her babe, sat down by the fire. 
'Is that ere boy a travelling ‘long o' your' asked an Arkansas madame, who had four slaves and two daughters on board. 
'He is travelling with me, ma'am. He has been up to Memphis to school, and I am taking him down to his mother at Vicksburg. '
All right! The boy that could not be told from a darkey was highly respectable ever after, and the lady had no straw laid in her path. 
The steward of our boat, all the waiters at the table, all the wash-women, and many other hands about the boat, were tinged with that blood which has brought the direst of curses upon their devoted heads; yet, save and except their being slaves, I saw no cruelty; they were comfortably dressed, kindly spoken to, and respectfully treated. This shows a fear of public opinion, or a relenting of the human heart. Even the ladies who were so fearful of eating with a’ darkey,' each and every one expressed her utter disapprobation of the system, and wished it could be done away, and each in turn told of some grievous wrong enacted under its terrible power. 
Among all the crowd, I found not one willing to defend the evil. All admitted the wrong, but asked,’ What can be done with it?' Early prejudice, habit and fear make their imaginations teem with terrors at the thought that the faithful creatures, whom they praise extravagantly for their disinterestedness, their honesty and unswerving affection, should be made free. One woman gave me a glowing description of her Julia:’ She would not take a pin that was not her own; had nursed all her children, and loved them even more than she did herself; she had left her with all the keys of the house, and had full faith that all would be well on her return. She said also that she had taught her to read and write, gave her money, and offered her freedom; but the girl would not go. Of course not, loved and trusted thus; and this they take as evidence of their love of slavery, not as an evidence of their goodness of heart, which prompts them to give back an hundred fold the favors they have received. 
This is the phase of slavery that travellers see, as they pass up and down this great river, that carries the muddy waters to the sea; and they tell us of’ well-treated slaves,'-as if a slave could be well-trented! Were you, reader, fed and clothed like the princes of eastern lands, loved and petted as a child, and surrounded with every luxury, still, if you were bound, if the privileges of to-day were held by the uncertain tenure of a law, that, through its exponents, declares, ‘The black man has no rights which the white man is bound to respect,' would you call yourself well-treated? Never!
I have lived for years in a slave State, and I have never seen a black man or woman struck a blow. But do I not know that they are beaten?-do I not know that they are wronged?-do I not know that the mass of them are not permitted to lift themselves above the brute that is often advertised fur sale in the same paragraph with themselves?
I see often the well-dressed, gay, dashing black girl; she seems as happy as happy can be; but I see behind her the slave-driver, with his manacles and his whips, ready to march her, at a moment's warning, to the steamer or the slave-pen, to pay some debt, perchance, of a debauchee master. I see her torn from her lover, separated from her husband, outraged and trampled upon; and shall I, because I see her apparently gay end happy to-day, shut my eyes to all these horrors, and say she is better off than the New England maiden who toils in the factory, or the Irish girl in the kitchen who labors for her own bread? No amount of jewels hang in the ears, no display of cast-off finery from the mistress's wardrobe, no senseless mirth, can disguise the hideous form of Slavery, nor shut my ears to the wailing cry of the crashed and degraded spirit that is willing to accept these things in lieu of the priceless boon of liberty. 
But, as the great Mississippi, in its onward sweep to the South, is continually wearing away the banks and widening its channel, at the same time carrying away the filth and garbage of its banks, so is public feeling washing away old prejudices and wearing away wrongs; and as God live th, the time must come when these things shall not be. There is a great gain in moral sentiment when vice is compelled to cover itself with a mantle in company, and there is a vast difference in the sights and sounds since I travelled in this region years ago. The Legrees dare not obtrude themselves upon the notice of the travelling public now. Then the blustering authority, the imperative tone and<illegible>, and the display of power, ‘were things to be proud of, and awed the simples ones who
looked on into silence. Then a bold expression of opinion would hare almost raised a mob. New the 
<illegible>keep silence, and the anti-<illegible>
<c03>
are not quite -salvery yet)carry the day. And were you here, friend Garrison you, would be glad even to see the white man asserting. his own right to earn his own bread by the sweat of his own face; for when a man comes to that-comes to appreciate himself-he will learn somewhat of the rights of others, and at last, perchance, if he livelong enough, the idea may intrude itself upon his brain, that the negro is a man as well as himself, and entitled by his birthright of humanity to all die good in this world that he is able honestly to obtain. 
Yours, F. D. GAGE
FREE SPEECH AND A FREE PRESE. 
FRIEND GARRISON: 
C. C. Burleigh, in, his masterly speech before the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, made one part of his argument turn on the point that “The Constitution [of the United States] has guaranteed to us. free speech and a free press. ‘This idea is so prevalent in the community, that it would not be surprising for ordinary persons to make such an assertion as
Mr.Burleigh here does; but for him, who has so long studied and been conversant with the slavery question in all its bearings of fact and argument, and who is as clear, logical and sound: a constitutional expounder' as can be produced, perhaps, to make so erroneous an assertion and argue from so incorrect a premise is so surprising as almost to lead one to doubt the apparent facts of the case, and admit Mr. Burleigh's statement to be true.
But what are the facts? Where in the Constitution is the asserted guarantee? Is not the only thing to be found as to this matter contained in the first article of the Amendments to the Constitution, and in these words-'Congress shall make no law. abridging the freedom of speech or of the press'? And does this contain any guarantee of these rights whatever, or does it in any way prevent each. or every State from abridging free speech and a free press? The tenth article of the Amendments says, ‘The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively or to the people. ' Now, until the Adoption of the first Amendment, Congress held, under the clause that gives it the power’ to provide for the common defence and general welfare,' the right to prohibit free speech and a free press, if it appeared to them necessary to the common defence and general welfare. But this amendment abridges their power, and in this direction forbids its exercise. And where does it leave it? By the tenth article, ‘to the States," as a reserved
right, whenever they choose or deem it necessary to exercise it; and when the State of Virginia, or Louisiana, by enactment as ‘States,’ or Carolina by the acts of the • people,' see fit to forbid Mr. Burleigh the right of speaking or printing against slavery, how can he show that the Constitution is violated, or where therein does he find that’ shield of protection,' or his ¦ legal rights piled up before him as an impregnable fortress of defence,' of which he talks?
But it may be said that the’ reserved rights' of the States and the people are rights, and the prohibition of free speech and press is not a right, but a wrong. That is plausible, to be sure; but does not the very inhibition of this power to Congress by the first Amendment recognize the fact, that without this inhibition, Congress could exercise it? And if Congress might have exercised it previous to this inhibition, why may not the States do it who are not inhibited at all?
Again, Mr. Burleigh seems to argue, that the constitutional guarantee to him, as a citizen of one State, of all the rights and immunities of a citizen in the several States, carries with him the right of free speech which he enjoys in Massachusetts to Carolina, or whichsoever of the States he may enter. Is this so? Does his right to the elective franchise in Massachusetts attach to him in Rhode Island or New York when he goes there, save only as these States may extend it to him under their laws and regulations? Or does the right of a citizen of Delaware to deal in lotteries attach to that citizen when he comes to Massachusetts? Or does the Virginia right of Senator Mason to drive his slaves on the James river give him the right to enter Massachusetts, and call their roll on Bunker Hill? Judge Taney may say yes, but does C. C. Burleigh?
Does this constitutional guarantee give Mr. Burleigh, in itinerating from State to State, any other privilege than those enjoyed by the citizens of the State to which he goes,-say, giving him the right to hold slaves, but forbidding him to speak against the system, if he goes to Virginia, as it does to its own citizen, Senator Mason; while the Senator, on entering Massachusetts, acquires the right to speak against slavery, but loses the right to hold there his slaves, and thus stands precisely in the status that citizen Burleigh does?
Will Mr. Burleigh tell the readers of the Liberator whether this is a correct view of the constitutional questions, or if incorrect, show wherein, and where is his warrant for these assumptions of his speech?
Wendell Phillips, in his speech before the Committee on Federal Relations in behalf of the anti-kidnapping petition, is reported to have said that’ Mr. ’Sumner, from his high place in the Senate, has again
and again avowed his belief that there is no legal claim for any fugitive slave within any of the free States. ' Is this so, Mr. Phillips? To be sure, Mr. Sumner denies the constitutionality of the Fugitive Slave Bill of 1850, but has he ever denied the constitutionality of the rendition of fugitive slaves by
 some proper process? If so, when, for once, omitting the' again and again'? Will Mr. Phillips please cite the avowals, or one of them? J. A. H. 
NO PROPERTY IN MAN! VERMONT
' ERECT!
Dear Garrison:
Freedom has achieved a glorious victory- in the Green Mountain State. The passage of the Personal Liberty Bill by our Legislature must be hailed by every friend of freedom not only, as a great and important victory of freedom over tyranny, but as an unmistakable sign of the times. Barely has Vermont been so thoroughly aroused on any question. The petitions poured in from all parts of the State like hailstones, signed by thousands of every class and occupation, from the highest to the lowest, and the Legislature dared not, if they would, turn a deaf ear to those petitions. Surely, it seems as though we had arrived at a stand-point favorable for looking back and noting progress. 
Let us, then, just look back to 1850, when it seemed as if the whole North were about to’ cave in,' and the Spirit of Freedom were about to take its final flight from our soil; when Daniel Webster (Samson like) laid himself down in the lap of the Southern Delilah, and was shorn of his strength, and forced to bow to Southern dictation, eat his own glorious’ words for freedom uttered oh Plymouth Rock, and pledge himself to support and carry out that most infamous of all enactments, the Fugitive Slave Law. Them let us look: to 1852; when the Legislatures of the different States (Vermont among the number, who now declares her soil free to all who choose to stand upon it!) passed the following resolution:-
' The series of acts of the thirty-first Congress, known as the Compromise Measures, the Fugitive Slave Law included, are received and acquiesced in, sec.
Surely, the world moves!
Never was I so disgusted with my native State as when that resolution was <illegible>, and <illegible> so proud of her as when the Personal liberty Bill was adopted by our last Legislature, by such an overwhelming
<illegible>
There were a few who new bowed down to the images set up Slavery in Vermont, and who pledged themselves never to rest till that <illegible>
<c04>
action was expunged from the record of the State; and they claim that that has been virtually done in the passage of the Personal Liberty Bill To the accomplishment of this glorious object, the Randolph Convention and the invaluable labors of Miss Holley contributed their full share.
A word in regard to Miss Holley. Her labors are invaluable. May they long be continued! Never was I more deeply interested than in her lecture at Washington last summer. O, the moral sublimity with which she portrays the doctrine of good-will to man, and the tendency of the age towards universal brotherhood!
Objections have been made against the Personal Liberty Bill on the ground that, under the third section, a slave may be arrested, tried by a jury, and if found to be a slave, can be remanded into slavery. This objection I think not well founded. Whoever will read the report of the Committee accompanying the bill, will see that they discard the idea, that the word ‘persons,’ as used in the Constitution, refers to slaves. Now, however unsound you and I may regard that position, it cannot be supposed that when they use the word persons in precisely the same connection, they mean slaves, especially as they had just before, in the first section, discarded the idea that there could be property in man.
Now, suppose a fugitive should be arrested under that section, and proved to be a slave. In that case, he is to be declared free, of course; for the sixth section expressly declares that a slave coming into this State, or in any way being in this State, shall be free. The party claiming him has, therefore, completely non-suited himself. The law, then, covers the whole ground of the petition, and makes a slave just as free in Vermont as in Canada.
To have been instrumental in any degree in bringing about this glorious result is to me a source of the greatest satisfaction; and I can say in truth, in the language of our last State Convention, I ‘glory in the record that Vermont holds out to the world on the subject of human rights.’ May other States soon follow her example, and they will. Reforms never go backward. Massachusetts will soon follow; then, perhaps, Wisconsin, New York, New Hampshire, Michigan, and so on, till Canada line comes down to 36?30?; and may God speed the day!
Dear Garrison, how much has been gained since your first issue from that upper chamber! I was glad to hear you say, in the Convention, ‘We have no occasion to speak in desponding tones.’ Take courage, brother! your reward is sure; nay, you reap it every day, in the consciousness of well-doing; and may you live to see the full consummation of your hopes in the final overthrow of the most execrable system of oppression that ever saw the sun.
Yours, for the universal rights of man,
S. M. SEAVER.
P. S. Some of the friends here think yon have hardly given due credit for what Vermont has done in the good work of reform. We have scarcely seen a passing remark on the ‘Personal Liberty Bill,’ and not even a section of it in the Liberator. The following is the sixth section:—
‘Every slave who shall come, or be brought, or be in this State, with or without the consent of his master or mistress, or who shall come or be brought, or be involuntarily, or in any way, in this State, shall be free.’
Surely that, when contrasted with the Fugitive Slave Law resolutions of 1852, shows a great step in advance; and may the good work continue to progress, till personal and mental freedom shall be enjoyed ‘throughout all the land, by all the inhabitants thereof.’ S. M. S.
Williamstown, Vt., February 15, 1859.
Since the letter of our Vermont correspondent was written, we have printed the Personal Liberty Bill adopted by the Legislature of Vermont, and noticed it in appropriate terms.—[Ed. Lib.
In a recent letter, Rev. N. R. JOHNSTON, of Topsham, Vermont, says:—
‘The work goes on here. Those who would not sign our petition to the Legislature, last fall, for the new law [protecting every man’s liberty, and putting an end to slave-hunting in Vermont] are now rejoicing that New York and Massachusetts are likely to have a similar law.’
EVANGELICAL A. S. CONVENTION.
WORCESTER, March 9, 1859.
DEAR GARRISON:
I had the pleasure of attending the recent Anti-Slavery Convention in this city; but as all their proceedings, viz., Constitution, votes and resolutions, will soon be published, I forbear saying any thing about them. A strenuous effort was made by three clergymen to strike out the word ‘inherent’ before the word ‘sinfulness’ and the word ‘slaveholding.’ These three were willing to admit that the system of slavery was wrong, but would not admit slaveholding to be always wrong, or, in other words, that it was always a malum in se or malum per se, and therefore could not, or would not, join the association. The world, however, moves, and will continue to move without them. I need not say that I fully endorse the principles which are declared in the enclosed communication. When our clergy, as a body, take the only true ground, that every slaveholder is a thief, and steals from morning till night, and from night till morning, and that this persistent and aggravated theft involves the continual violation of the whole decalogue, then, and not till then, will the North begin to testify against this enormous iniquity. Says the Rev. Albert Barnes—‘There is no power out of the Church that could sustain slavery an hour, if it were not sustained in it. Let every religious denomination detach itself from all connection with slavery, and utter a calm and deliberate voice to the world, and the work will be done.’ I say amen to such a doctrine as that.
But enough. I will only add my hearty Godspeed to all your exertions against slavery.
Yours, truly,
THE AFRICAN AID SOCIETY.
MENDON, Jan. 13, 1859.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,—In your paper of the 7th inst., there is an article copied from a circular devised and published in Syracuse, N. Y., prejudicial to Dr. William Brown and the ‘African Aid Society,’ whose Vice President I am. It may be of interest for you to know that I have been well acquainted with the gentleman you publish as an impostor, and the doings of the ‘African Aid Society,’ (which you call a sham,) for a year past, and am deeply interested in the operations of said Society; and feeling myself, with the other officers of the Society, implicated by your notice, I respectfully request that you so far correct your notice of our General Agent and the Society he represents, as to place us in a more favorable fight before the public. We acknowledge no relation or obligation whatever to the Underground Railroad men of Syracuse, or to any gentlemen residing in Canada, and shall at once proceed to take measures to determine their prerogative in this unchristian interference.
ANDREW H. REED,
Minister of the Gospel.
FOXBORO, Feb. 3, 1859.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
DEAR SIR,—Nothing can be more ridiculous and absurd than the May Circular, devised in Syracuse, and published in the Wesleyan, under date of Sept. 10, 1853, against Dr. Wm, Brown and the ‘African Aid Society.’ whose Vice President I am. It would seem by said circular, that no man, not endorsed by Rev. S. J. May & Co. in Syracuse, or New York even, had any right whatever to set in favor of the refugees,
<c05>
unless in direct sympathy with his peculiar views. I deprecate their course, and feel myself implicated also; and, endorsing Rev, Mr. Reed's letter on the other page, subscribe myself.
Yours very truly,
NATHANIEL T. SHEPARD
For an editorial comment, see our third page. 
THE STATUE OF WEBSTER. 
Let me. see! What was writing about in my last letter? I think it must have been the Webster State. I certainly did free my mind as to the merits of that works of art, thought I cannot say in
what terms, as have no copy with in reach. what ever I may have said of the colossal abortion in question I have nothing to unsay. , I think there never was anything of a public nature on which the public was so entirely of a oneness of spirit. Even the Committee of One Hundred, who procured its casting, though they have the impudence to propose having it set up in the State House yard, have not assurance enough to say any thing in its favor You may recollect that I vouchsafed my consent, after seeing the statue, to have it erected at the head of State street, or in any public square of this city. AH that support Mr. Webster had, after his tergiversation of nine years ago this day (please notice my date)-that is, all to speak of-came from State street and the parts of the city appurtenant thereunto, so there was no absolute unfitness in his molten image being Bet up in some of the public places of Boston. But the proposal to make the State accept him as her Representative Man, by letting his eidolon be erected in front of the Capitol, is a totally different thing, and I trust such a stultification of themselves and of the State they represent will never be permitted by the General Court. ” And 1 hardly think it can be. . Governor Banks, I am well assured, ran before he was sent when he intimated to Mr. Everett that there would not be any objection to the place. I have reason to think that there will be very serious objection from within the walls of the Legislature-; and, if not, I trust there cannot be wanting plenty of objection from without. It were an insult to the Commonwealth to set up the man who turned his back on her, and, as Lord Castlereagh said, on himself at the same time, and whom she has so emphatically disowned, as the citizen whom she most delights to honor. For if the Governorship of Mr. Banks and the supremacy of the Republican party in the State and an any thing, it is an utter renunciation of the Man of the Seventh of March, and all his works from that day forward. It will do no man any good with the people to be mixed up in any fetishism of this sort. The shadow of that ugly idol will reach a great way and fall across the path of many a man, should enough be found to put it anywhere on soil belonging to the Commonwealth in its sovereign character. The suggestion is made with cunning as well as with impudence, inasmuch as the statue is offered as a free gift, and the State is asked to pay no part of the expense of putting it up. She is only asked to give up her consistency and sell-respect! And in exchange she is to receive a statue so absurdly without merit as a work of art, that even its authors and founders have not the face to claim any for it. I rather think it can't be done. -Boston correspondent of the Anti-Slavery Standard. 
THE WEBSTER STATUE. 
It seems to be a matter of general regret, (says the Boston Christian Watchman,) that the second statue did not meet the fate of the first, and go on exhibition to the’ spirits of the vastly deep. ' But it is well to have a community amused if not instructed, and we doubt if any specimen of art has furnished occasion for such an outflow of good humor and wit in our city for half a century. The soberest man has laughing convulsions on hearing the comments passed from different critics. The graceful’ Lounger’ in Harper's Weekly offers the following suggestion, to relieve the embarrassment of the Committee who ordered it, and don't know how to dispose of it:-
' The State is making land about Boston. It throws into the Back Bay hills and rocks and rubbish of all kinds. Put the statue in the Back Bay -or in the spire of the Old South-or, horizontally, in the Frog Pond. '
From the New Bedford Republican Standard. THE MASSACHUSETTS CLAIM AND THE
HANCOCK ESTATE. The sum of $227,000, which Congress has just appropriated for the claim of Massachusetts upon the General Government, has been due since 1812. The claim arose iron expenditures then incurred by the Commonwealth in the last war with Great Britain. They were incurred before Maine was organized into it State, and in the act of partition it was provided that one-third of the amount should belong to Maine, and two-thirds to Massachusetts. Stock of the United States, bearing interest at 5 per cent, and redeemable in ten years or sooner, is to be issued by the President to liquidate the claim. As to the manner in which it is to be disposed of, the Advertiser says that many years ago the Massachusetts Legislature, by law, placed this claim to the credit of the fund accumulating for the redemption of the debt incurred in the subscription by the state of 10,000 shares of the Western Railroad Corporation. This debt was discharged at its maturity from other sources of revenue; and in 1857 a law was passed whereby the claim, with other assets, was placed to the credit of a fund provided for the j extinguishment of other portions of the public debt. The same paper deems it a perfect God-send towards the purchase of ^he Hancock estate. We wonder that no other of our old or recent patriots put in the claims of their estates. Where are the friends of the Adamses, or the adorers of the Godlike' Daniel? Why should not the estate of the one at Quincy, and of. the other at Marshfield, be taken under the fostering care of the State? Why should not the Governor have a country as well as city residence? Why not send a commissioner through the country to gather all the old coats and trowsers, rusty swords and clumsy flint-locks, worn and used during the Revolution, and buy them up to increase our patriotism with gazing on them?
At the same time,. When it is proposed to expend $100,000 in the purchase of a tumble-down old building in Boston, the most distinguished man of science in America, and with few if any compeers in Europe, is asking Of the Legislature aid to erect a building which shall place beyond peril, and preserve for the purposes of science, a collection of natural objects, of vast extent, and forming a nucleus which would soon enable us to surpass the most famous museums of Europe. He has spent his life and his fortune in forming this collection; he has forsaken the old world, with its almost irresistible attractions, to the man of science, he has spurned the most magnificent offers to induce him to take up his abole in Paris, where unlimited means would beat his disposal, and scientific intercourse could be freely enjoyed, to devote himself to the advancement of science, and therefore of humanity in America. He asks that aid of the State which shall enable him to make his noble collection available, and which shall attract students from Europe itself to avail themselves of advantages not tote, found there. , What a proud position would this be for. Massachusetts! What nobler aim could her statesmen seek to accomplish? What disposition can she make of her wealth, more generous, more useful, more calculated to exalt her in the eyes of the civilized world, more beneficial to her own citizens, than lour the promotion of such an object? And yet Agassis pleads again and again before Legislative committees for his favorite object, seeming to meet with little or no sympathy, while men make silly speeches, and expatiate in Condimental twaddle, to secure the expenditure of $100,000 for an old building which is a curiosity merely because it is old, and which was inhabited' by a man neither better, wiser nor more patriotic, who rendered no greater services -to his country than thousands of his fellow-citizens, but who happened to be possessed of great wealth, and to be long to one of the first families. '. We hope our representatives will exhibit too much common sense to be deluded by the rhetorical nonsense uttered by the advocates of this project. We trust they will appropriate our riches liberally for the benefit of education and; science, among other useful objects, and not throw it away on a purchase which has not a single substantial reason to support it. 
We observe that the Boston Traveller comes out with a strong article in opposition to the pro-
posed purchase of the Hancock <illegible> by the Commonwealth. We are glad to find one of the Boston
regret that, it did not come out more promptly and
decidedly. Republican Standard. 
<c06>
SHOCKING WIFE MURDER. – A most revolting at-
tempt at wife murder occurred in Forty-seventh street,
yesterday afternoon. The would-be murderer was
Michael Kelly, a brutal Irish porter-house keeper. About 3 o'clock he went to his house in Forty- seventh street, near Sixth avenue, in state of intoxication. His wife reproved him for coming into there presence in
such a state, whereat he seized an iron shovel and <illegible> saluted her with the ferocity of a savage. In spite of her shrikes and entreaties, he struck her upon the
head with the shovel, and would have cloven through
her skull had she not broken the force of the <illegible>
with her arms. She clung to him and begged for life, but be thrust her from him, and renewed the <illegible>. In a few seconds he had inflicted two frightful gas bat in her cheeks, cut her nose nearly off, and laid her skull bare-in several place. while she lay upon the floor. She tried to crawl away from the madman, but he followed her up, repeating his blows until the floor and furniture of the room were covered with blood, and the poor woman lay senseless, and <illegible> gently dead. He then went to the grate, and with his bloody shovel took out the live coals and heaped them upon the body of his wife. This accomplished, he sat
down near the body, gloating over his bloody work. 
while the cotton garments of his wife burst into dazes. He was sitting in the same place, his hands and clothing red with gore, apparently enjoying the spectacle, when the officers and neighbors came in. After extinguishing the flames, they found that there was still some little life left in the woman, and sent immediately for a physician. Officer Whitmore took the prisoner before Justice Kelly, who held him to await the result of his wife's injuries. The woman is not expected to
recover. Kelly keeps a low porter-house at the curser
of Leroy and Washington streets, and is a man of about forty years of age. -New York Tribune. 
Ayer's Sarsaparilla,
A compound remedy, in which we have labored to produce the most effectual alterative that can be made. It is a concentrated extract of Para Sarsaparilla, so combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effective antidote for the diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. It is believed that such a remedy is wanted by those who suffer from Strum us complaints, and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this com-pound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found of the following complaints:- 
SCROFULA AND SCROFULOUS COMPLAINT, ERUPITONS
AND ERUPTIVE DISEASES, ULCERS, PIMPLES, BLOTCHES, TUMORS, SALT RHEUM, SCALD HEAD, SYPHILIS AND SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, MERCURIAL DISEASE, DROPSY, NEURALGIA OR TIC DOULOUREUX, DEBILITY, DYSPEPSIA AND INDIGESTION, ERYSIPSLAM, ROSE OR ST. ANTHONY’S FIRE, and indeed the whole class of complaints arising from IMPURITY OF the Blood. 
This compound will be found a great promoter of health, when taken in the spring, to expel the foul humors which fester in the blood at that sea-son of the year. By the timely expulsion of them many rankling disorders are nipped in the bud. Multituder can, by the aid of this remedy, spare themselves from the endurance of foul eruptions and ulcerous sores, through which the system will strive to rid itself of corruptions, if not assisted to do this through the natural channels of the body by an alterative medicine. Cleanse out the vitiated blood whenever you find its impurities bursting through the skin in pimples, eruptions, or sores; cleanse it when, you find it is obstructed and slug-gish in the veins; cleanse it whenever it is foul, and your feelings will tell you when. Even where no particular disorder is felt, people enjoy better health, and live longer, for cleansing the blood. Keep the blood healthy, and all is well; but with this pabulum of life disordered, there can be no lasting health. Sooner or later something must go wrong, and the great machinery of life is disordered or overthrown. 
Sarsaparilla has, and deserves much, the reputation of accomplishing these ends. But the world has been egregiously deceived by preparations of it, partly because the drug alone has not all the virtue that is claimed for it, but more because many preparations, pretending to be concentrated extracts of it, contain but little of the virtue of Sarsaparilla, or any thing else. 
During late years the public have been misled by large bottles, pretending to give a quart of Ex-tract of Sarsaparilla for one dollar. Most of these have been frauds upon the sick, for they not only contain little, if any, Sarsaparilla, but often no curative properties whatever. Hence, bitter and painful disappointment has followed the use of the various extracts of Sarsaparilla which flood the market, until the name itself is justly despised, and has become synonymous with imposition and cheat. Still we call this compound Sarsaparilla, and intend to supply such a remedy as shall rescue the name from the load of obloquy which rests upon it. And we think we have ground for believing it has virtues which are irresistible by the ordinary run of the diseases it is intended to cure. In order to secure their complete eradication from the system, the remedy should be judiciously taken according to directions on the bottle. 
PREPARED BY
DR. J. C. AYER & CO. 
LOWELL, MASS. Price, $1 per Bottle; Six Bottles for $5. 
Ayer's Cherry Pectoral
has won for itself such a renown for the cure of every variety of Throat and Lung Complaint, that it is entirely unnecessary for us to recount the evidence of its virtues, wherever it has been employed. As it has long been in constant use throughout this section, we need not do more than assure the people its quality is kept up to the best it ever has been, and that it may be relied on to do for their relief all it has ever been found to do. 
Ayer's Cathartic Pills,
FOR THE CURE OF
Costiveness, Jatendice, Dyspepsia, lndigestion, Dysen-tery. Foul Stomach, Erysipelas. Headache, Pries, Rhettmatism, Eruptions and Skin Diseases, Liver Complaint, Dropsy, Tetter, Tumors and Salt <illegible> Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, as a Dinner Pull, and for Purifying the Blood. 
They are sugar-coated, so that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best <illegible> in the world for all the purposes of a family physic-Price, 25 cents per Fox; Five boxes for $1. 00. 
Great numbers of Clergymen. Physician, Statesmen, and eminent penonages, have lent their names to cer-tify the unparalleled usefulness of these remedies, but our space here will not permit the insertion of them. The Agents-below named furnish gratis our AMERICAN ALMANAC, in which they are given; with also full descriptions of the above complaints, and the treatment that should be followed for their cure. 
 Do not be put off by unprincipled dealers with other preparations they make more profit on. Demand AYER'S, and take no others. The sick want the best aid there is for them, and they should have it. All our Remedies are for sale by
THEODORE METCALF & CO., Boston. BREWER, STEVENS & CUSHING,
Boston
BROWN & PRICE, Salem;
H. H. HAY, Portland;
J. N. MORTON & CO., Concord, N. H.
Sold by Druggists and Dealers in Medicine every
where. 6m May 7
NOW READY. 
The Life of
JOHN H. W. HAWKINS,
THE GREAT APOSTLE
OF THE
WASH1NGTONIAN TEMPERANCE RE-
FORMATION. 
THE LIFE of a most extraordinary and useful man, and faithful and indefatigable laborer in behalf of degraded humanity. It is a book which no person. can read without being stimulated to noble deeds.
All orders for the Book, or for Agencies, should be addressed to the Publishers,
Fifty Thousand should be sold in six months.
It makes a handsome 12mo. volume of 420 pages, with several wood-cuts, and a fine steel portrait of Mr. Hawkins. Price $1. 
JOHN P. JEWETT & CO. ,
20 Washington street, Boston. 
February 11. 4 wis
FARMS. 
GENTLEMEN who wish to purchase Farms, of have Farms which they wish to sell or exchange for property in Boston or vicinity, would do well to
call on the subscriber, as he has superior means of affecting sales
R. A. WILLIAMS, WILLAMS,
No. 4 Wilson's Lane, Room No 1
March 11-3w
