<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
- AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
TERMS -Three dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO.51. BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1864.WHOLE NO. 1767.
Selections.
OPINION OF THE ATTOENET-GENERAL
AS TO THE PAY OF COLORED SOLDIERS.
ATTORNEY-GENERAL'S OFFICE, 
July 14,1864. 
TO THE PRESIDENT:-Sir-By your communication 24th ultimo, you require my opinion in writing as to what amount of pay, bounty and clothing are allowed by law to persons of color who were free on the 13th day of April, 1861, and who have been enlisted and mustered into the military service of the United Stales between the month of December, 1862. and the 16th of June, 1864.
I suppose that whatever doubt or difficulty may exist with regard to the amount of pay and allowances to which the soldiers to whom you refer are entitled, has mainly its origin in the several provisions of the Act of July 17, 1862, chap. 201, (12 stat., 599,) relative to the employment and enrolment of persons of African descent in the service of the United States. The 12th section of that statute provide - that the President be, and he is here by, authorized to receive into the service of the United States, for the purpose of constructing in-trenchments or performing camp service, or any other labor, or any military or naval service for which they may be found competent, persons of African descent; and such persons shall be enrolled and organized under such regulations, not inconsistent with the constitution and the laws, as the President may prescribe." The 15th section of the same statute enacts, that" persons of African descent, who under this law shall be employed, shall receive ten dollars per month, and one ration, three dollars of which monthly pay may be in clothing."
The first and main question therefore is, whether the persons of color referred to in your letter, who were mustered into the military service of the United States during the period of time, which you indicate, are "persons of African descent " employed under the statute of July 17, 1862, chap 201. If they are not thus employed, their compensation should not be governed, and is not regulated by the words of the 15th section of that statute, which I have just quoted.
Now I think that it is clear-too clear, indeed, to admit of doubt or discussion-that those persons of color who have voluntarily enlisted and have been mustered into our military service, who have been organized with appropriate officers into companies, regiments and brigades of soldiers, and who have done and arc doing in the field and in garrison the duty and service of soldiers of the United States, are not persons of African descent employed wider the statute to which I have referred.
I do not find, indeed, in the act, any authority to enlist persons of African descent into the service as soldiers. It will be observed that the said 12th section enumerates two kinds of employment for which those persons are authorized to be enrolled, namely, contracting entrenchments, and performing camp service The section then contains a more general authority-authority to receive such persons into the service for the purpose of performing "any other labor, or any military or naval service for which; they may be found competent." I am bound, however, by every rule of law respecting the construction of statutes, to construe these words of more general authority with reference to the character, nature and quality of the particular kinds of labor and service, which are in the first instance specifically enumerated in the statute, as those for the performance of which persons of African descent are authorized to be received into the service, and. therefore, I must suppose that Congress, when it conferred authority upon the President to receive into the service of the United States persons of African descent for the purpose of performing any other labor or any military service for which they may be found competent, meant and intended that such other labor and military service should be of the same general character, nature and equality as that which it had previously in the statute especially named and designated. " Always in statutes," says Coke, "relation shall be made according to the matter precedent " Dwarris says, " Sometimes words and sections are governed and explained by conjoined words and clauses: noscitur a socli."-Dwarris on Stat. 604,
Applying these rules of construction, then, to the act before me. I am constrained to hold that, if the authority to enlist and muster into the military service soldiers of African descent depended upon this statue, (as it dors not,) it would furnish no foundation (or such authority. It is manifest that the labor and service that United States soldiers are enlisted to perform are of an essentially different character from, and are essentially of a higher nature, order and quality than those kinds of labor and service specifically named in the statute, and for the performance of which the President is especially authorized to employ "persons of African descent."
In my late opinion in the case of the claim of Rev. Samuel Harrison for lull pay as chaplain of the 54th regiment of Massachusetts volunteers, I expressed this same view when I said that the act of July 17, 1862, chap. 201, " was not intended either to authorize the employment, or to fix the pay, of any person of African descent, except those who might be needed to perform the humbler offices of labor and service to which they might be found competent."
This view finds confirmation in a statute that received the approval of the President on the same day as the act before me-the statute of July 17, 1862, chap. 195 (12 stat.592)-which conferred on the President the authority to employ as many persons of African descent as he might deem necessary and proper for the suppression of the rebellion, and gave him power to organize and use them in such manner as he might judge best for the public welfare. In these words we may find clear and ample authority for the enlistment of persons of African descent as United States soldiers. It is under this act, it under citer of the acts of July 17, 1862, that colored volunteer soldiers may be said to have been employed There is no need to resort, there fare, to the statute of July 17, 1862, chap. 201, for any authority with respect to their employment, or for any rule in regard to their compensation. Persons of African descent are not embraced at all, as I have shown, by the act of July 17, 1862, chap. 201, as objects or subjects of legislation when employed as soldiers; and we must, therefore, look to some other law for the measure of their compensation.
I find the law for the compensation of the persons of color referred to in your letter to me, in the acts of Congress in force at the date of the enlistments of those persons, respecting the amount of pay and bounty to be given, and the amount and kind of clothing to be allowed to soldiers in the volunteer forces of the United States. For, after a careful and critical examination, I believe, of every stat-
<c02>
ute enacted since the foundation of the present government relative to the enlistment of soldiers in the regular and volunteer forces of the United States, I have found no law which at any time prohibited the enlistment of free colored men into either branch of the national military service.
The words of Congress descriptive of the recruits competent to enter the service were, in the act of April 30, 1790, "able-bodied men not under five feet six inches in height without shoes, nor under the age of eighteen years, nor above the age of forty-five "; in the act of March 3, 1795, "able-bodied, of at least five feet six inches in height, and not under the age of eighteen nor above the age of forty-six years; " in the act. of March 3,1799, " able-bodied, and of a size and age suitable for the public-service according to the directions which the President of the United States shall and may establish "; in the act of March 16, 1802, "effective, able-bodied citizens of the United States, of at least five feet six inches high, and between the ages of eighteen "and forty-five years;” in the acts of December 24, 1811, January 11, 1812, January 20, 1813, and January 27,1814, " effective, able-bodied men"; In the act of December 10, 1814, " free, effective, able-bodied men between the ages of eighteen and fifty years;” and in the act of January 12, 1847," able-bodied men." Some of the foregoing statutes are obsolete; others of them are still in force, and furnished, before the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus, the rule by which the validity of the enlistments of persons alleged to have been minors was every day tried in the State and Federal Courts. They organized the military establishments of the United States in time of peace and in time of war. They embrace the periods of all the wars, previously to the present, in which the United States have been engaged. By no one of them was or is the enlistment of free colored men into the military service of the United States, whether as volunteers or regulars, prohibited. After the war of 1812, claims for bounty-land, preferred by persons of color who had enlisted and served in the army under the statutes of December 24, 1811, January 11, 1812, and December 10, 1814, were sustained as valid by the then Attorney-General, William Wirt, (1 Opinions 603.) And when I turn to more recent statutes-those which authorize, the raising and regulate the organization of the whole body of the volunteer forces now in the field, and provide for the increase and maintenance of the regular forces in the service, I discover throughout them no other statutory qualifications for recruits than those established by the earliest legislation to which have referred.
It is not needed that I should specially recite the words of those acts of Congress that provide for the pay, bounty and clothing to be allowed to soldiers in the volunteer military service of the United States. It is enough to say that under the statutes relative to those subjects, and in force during the period of time mentioned in your communication, all volunteers, competent and qualified to be members of the national forces, are entitled respectively to receive like amounts of pay, bounty, and clothing from the Government.
In view, therefore, of the foregoing considerations, I give it to you unhesitatingly as my opinion, that the same pay, bounty, and clothing are allowed by law to the persons of color referred to in your communication, and who were enlisted and mustered into the military service of the United States between the month of December, 1862, and the 16th of June, 1864, as are, by the laws existing at the times of the enlistments of said persons, authorized and provided for, and allowed to, other soldiers in the volunteer forces of the United States of like arms of the service.
I have the honor to be,
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
EDWARD BATES, Attorney-General.
NEGEO SUFFRAGE.
ST. Louis, November 15, 1864. To the Editor of the Cosmos:
Sometime since, an invitation was extended to me by the citizens of St. Charles to address them on political topics. My health, much broken down since last winter, did not then permit me to comply, but a hope was entertained of ability to do so before returning to Washington. In this it seems J am also to be disappointed. Many reasons concur to prevent the carrying out of such a purpose before leaving. Still, I would do an injustice to my own feelings and to the warm support so zealously extended to me in the long freedom struggles of Missouri, by those who made this call, if 1 were to omit a recognition of their courtesy, and also a hearty congratulation upon the noble affirmance radical principles have received in their midst at the late election.
Permit me to do so through the columns of the Cosmos-a paper that has ever so fearlessly advocated the advance positions of radical freedom.
The returns, which are as yet incomplete, nevertheless make it sure that Missouri, by an overwhelming majority, has declared in favor of our cause. Governor, State officers, the Legislature, a Convention, all elected upon unequivocal pledges, and all charged as their first duty to extirpate slavery from the soil of our commonwealth-these are the first fruits of your victory. Nor is this all. A clear recognition of the fatal influence which any form of human bondage exerts upon society, has gone along with this judgment of the people, inducing everywhere the choice as representatives of those avowing the extremist liberal views, recognizing in all the outgrowths of opinion, or the promptings of sympathy an identity betwixt slavery and rebellion, and connecting the franchise with freedom as a correlative term to be enforced as such in any reorganization.
A more absolute, unqualified decree was never rendered by any community upon any matter of great public concern, than has been delivered by the citizens of this State upon the fundamental basis that should characterize the recasting of our Constitution.
 Let all friends of radical freedom be vigilant, then, in this hour of triumph, to see that full expression is given, by those appointed to the task, to the will of the people thus declared. It is the Past, with its slavery, its inhumanity, its retardation, its sterility, its substitution of classes and castes, and masteries of that simple faith of the equality of all men before the law, which is to be obliterated. A future is to be inaugurated that shall be blurred by none of the disfigurements of bad passions taking the shape of oppressive enactments against the weaker members of society-none of the old prejudices of the slave code founded on color, done up into new idols to be worshipped by the ignorant, and shed for by the good and brave; Let us have a charter of liberties that will not require to be apologized for whenever cited, that will carry on its face guarantees of freedom to all-freedom in its ultimates as well as its surface showings-freedom that is to be a reality and an even-handed justice, not a mockery and a sham. 
Without doubt, assuming the abolition or slavery
<c03>
as settled, the concomitant question of franchise will claim all the faith and tax all the firmness of the friends of radical freedom for its right settlement. That violent prejudices will have to be encountered, and all the weary round of two-facedness and demagoguery and subterfuge confronted, is rendered certain by the attitudes of the conflict of the past three years in Missouri. But that any people forming a new constitution of their liberties, after such experience as ours, should willingly leave to breed other conflicts unjust discriminations against large portions of their population, in the shape of a refusal of any participation in government, is scarely to be credited. To those who are emancipated, access to the franchise must be opened up, otherwise the boasted freedom conceded to them is a cheat, and their status for the future becomes one of abjectness or else active hostility. Temporary and transitory stages of qualification may be prescribed, if needful-service in the armies is already qualifying thousands for the duties of citizenship; but the primary condition of a right of suffrage must be incorporated into their estate, if the honor and safety and prosperity of this commonwealth for all time are to be consulted. The same logic that obtains in the absorption of any other large element of population into the body politic also controls with respect to those manumitted as a class. The argument of slavery is inferiority of race. Shall we abolish the name, but retain the argument? The most patent evils of slavery flow from caste distinctions reacting upon society. Shall we make a merit of destroying the institution, yet insist on perpetuating the distinctions that breed social disease and death? There surely are considerations of State, that should weigh decisively with a community just emerging from the fierce fires of an unparalleled strife engendered by like prejudices and errors, and should cause it to cling to the path of safety. But before all such, and higher than any question of profit or peace, is the knowledge that it is right and conforms to God's appointment, whereby all men are created free and equal.
The dangers and short-comings which have attended the exercise of the franchise in the past, and prevented the attainment of that perfect reflection of popular will which is the ideal of Democratic government, have arisen from two or three sources, such as frauds, impairing the purity of the ballot-box, exercise of suffrage as identified with slavery rather than freedom; thus involving moral contradictions fatal to any truth of public utterance, and the attempts to impose restrictions and limitation upon the privilege of voting that were not founded in any justice; thus seeking to make that the property of the few which is the common right of the many. In addition to this may also be cited the unwise provisions which have sought to render difficult, if not impossible, the carrying out of the popular will in matters of constitutional reform. Such obstacles invite harsh and revolutionary modes of redress. They exasperate passion and intensify political crises. They are usually made to secure doubtful or wrongful assumptions against the corrections of awakened virtue. And in all their operation they both discredit and embarrass any free or fair exercise of the elective franchise. If, therefore, we are to preserve universal suffrage as the corner-stone of our political structure, any reconstruction should carefully guard against those defects which have so shaken the old edifice as to make its habitation unsafe.
Without undertaking to amplify the positions thus presented, it may be sufficient to state in brief the requirements at the hands of our new Convention on this head. They are:
1. Protection of the purity of elections by a registration that shall identify the person and the ballot.
2. Elimination of slavery from the State, not only in its present constitutional guaranty, but in all those recognitions which go to its support, and enable it more or less directly to control the suffrage.
3. Opening up the franchise to the attainment of all save the criminal-amongst whom must primarily be classed those whose sympathies have led them to foster rebellion.
4. Facilitating the modes whereby popular expression may accomplish constitutional reform as the only complete assurance of future progress.
It is upon such points that the friends of radical freedom should be insistent with those representing them, and united in co-operation with each other. They involve the outlines of a reform that must take place in Missouri sooner pr later, and those who are disposed to shirk such issues now would do well to reflect whether they are not likely to be agitated with increasing violence if deferred to a time when conservatism shall grow insolent in the arms of peace.
Trusting that our noble State may yet be the first to pioneer the way of deliverance from former afflictions, and that in establishing here freedom as the watchword of our new life, we may be paralyzed with no halting performance, but declare and set forth with undaunted faith the equality of all men before the law, I remain, very truly yours,
B. GRATZ BROWN.

LORD RUSSELL ON AMERICA.
Lord Russell has been honored by the scarlet gowned lads of Aberdeen University, rather for his political than his literary reputation; for, though he has written a great deal-plays, poetry, history, biography, essays, even a novel-he has not been a successful man of letters. His installation address, which was elaborate and long, was a political discourse, into which he dragged the inevitable subject of the war now raging in this country. As Foreign Minister of England, his words have weight, and he is too prudent to utter them without grave consideration beforehand. It is well-known, because he rather ostentatiously proclaimed it, that his sympathies as an individual are strongly with the South, while the policy of the Cabinet of which he is a leading member is to observe neutrality. At Aberdeen he touched upon one part of our question in language which is worthy of a man who claims to act, in public life, as successor to Charles James Fox, who is entitled to credit, amid a life-time of political failures, for the legislative abolition of the Slave Trade.
On this subject, it is satisfactory to find Lord Russell decisive and plain. He said:
There is another portion of the globe where we still have to lament the scenes of bloodshed which are to be witnessed; where we still have to lament the bloody arbitrate of war has not been brought to a close; and, if there is any bright spot on that dark scene, it is for the African race. [Applause.] For I cannot but believe that the civil war in America, whichever way it may end-whether the States are again united, or whether there is to be a final separation-I cannot but believe that oat of these events the African race are to receive their freedom. [Applause.] I am sure I need not speak to you of abhorrence of slavery, because we must all have that abhorrence as strongly as we have had; but there is one thing which makes it impossible that the, master and. the slave should ever live in harmony together. With regard to other kinds of property, to which the slave masters assimilate them-with regard to horses, dogs, and other ani-
<c04>
mals-it is the interest of the master to keep them well led, happy, and contented. He is quite sure that these animals have no conspiracy against him; but with regard to slaves-to the human being-every slave-master knows that the Almighty has planted a spark of freedom in. the breast of every man, and he always suspects, and always fears, that the day may come when the slaves may conspire together against his interest and against his person. [Applause.] For this reason, then, among many others, we must all wish that among future benefits that are to be conferred upon mankind, that kind of African slavery will reach its termination,"
These sentences are not merely humanitarian- they also are eminently statesmanlike, for they declare that, happen what may, African slavery-the bondage, in this country, of colored persons-must be considered as annihilated. Nothing can restore it. The relations of owner and slave have terminated. And, if nothing else come of the ordeal of blood and fire through which we still are passing, this truth, decidedly enunciated by the Foreign Minister of England, is a result worth all that has been paid for it.-Philadelphia Press,

THE ENQUIRER AND HON. GEOERGE THOMPSON.
It is well known that a sprinkling of holy-water will resolve any of the seductive shapes, in which Satan often disguises himself to deceive man and woman, and will expose him in his proper person, horns, hoof, tail and sulphurous perfume, and put him to flight, howling. A poetical version of an ancient legend, which must be true, for it was written by a serious clergyman of the Church of England, relates how the Evil One once tempted the Lord Abbot of the Abbey of St. Nicholas, by claiming, in the guise of a beautiful, distressed, noble maid, protection from a cruel parent who would force her to marry; and how the Abbot, touched by her distress and her beauty, promised her protection, and ordered a sumptuous dinner; and how, as his heart warmed with the cheer:
"He grew less pious and more polite."
And how-
"She pledged him once, and she pledged him twice,
And she drank as lady ought not to drink,
And he press'd her hand neath the table thrice,
And he winked as Abbot ought not to wink."
But St. Nicholas, who saw the goings on and the perilous condition of his Abbot, came to the rescue in the guise of a Palmer, dusty and rusty with travel I from Holy Land, who gave a thundering knock at the Refectory door, entered, and after expressing his astonishment at the sight, he pulled a flask from beneath his gown, drew the cork with his teeth, and making over it the sacred sign, he dashed the contents of holy-water over the beautiful maid. The effect we give in the words of the legend:
O! then did she reek, and squeak, and shriek,
With a wild, unearthly scream;
And fizzled, and hissed, and produced such a mist,
They were all half-choked by the steam.
Her dove-like eyes turned to coals of fire,
And her beautiful nose to a horrible snout,
Her hands to paws, with nasty great claws,
And her bosom went in and her tail came out.
On her chin there appeared a long Nanny goat's beard,
And her tusks and her teeth no man mote tell;
And her horns and her hoofs gave infallible proofs,
'Twas a frightful fiend from the nethermost hell.
We are reminded of this metamorphosis by the Enquirer's sudden restoration to its normal condition by the presence of Hon. George Thompson in this city. Since the rebellion broke out, the Enquirer has appeared in the disguise of an advocate of liberty of speech and of the press. It denied that any circumstances of public peril could justify restraint upon speech or press, and it declared that life would be unendurable, and the Government fit to be revolutionized, if any restrictions were placed on the agitation of opinions.
But Mr. Thompson appears in our city, and his presence operates on the Enquirer, like the bottle of holy water on the other fiend, resolving it instantaneously to its natural shape, in which it exulted in the destruction of anti-slavery presses, hissed on mobs to brutal violence against anti-slavery citizens, and in which its office was the headquarters of the rioters who assaulted Wendell Phillips and his audience at the Opera House, with missiles both vile and deadly. It declares that the mobs who sought Mr. Thompson's life, when he visited this country, were “a cool and rational people, whose wholesome instincts revolted at the poison with which he was charged," and that in the violence offered him "he received from the people what he deserved," and it more than insinuates-it instigates-that a " cordial reception " should be given him now, that will visit upon him the responsibility for this Democratic rebellion and all its bloodshed.
It is better so. The normal shape of the others Democrat was not so pleasing as his guise of a beautiful maid, but it was better for the Abbot to know the company he kept. So it is better to have the Enquirer in its natural ugly snout, nasty claws, hoof, tail and unwholesome odor, than in its shaky disguise of a defender of freedom of speech-a thing that a Democrat fears and hates as his aforesaid father does holy water.
But we rather admire that the Enquirer should so far forget the altered condition of things in this city as openly to attempt to excite violence against any friend to our Government. Its venom has tempo rarily blinded it to the fact that the time has gone by when a pro-slavery mob can reduce this city to terror; and that if a hair of a friend to the Government were harmed by violence of the Enquirer's instigation, it would be held accountable for it.
The head and front of Mr. Thompson's original offence is, that he publicly delivered arguments against man's enslaving his fellow-man. The Enquirer has lately argued that nothing has a right to exist that cannot stand the utmost liberty of speech. At the worst, Mr. Thompson: has not spoken worse of slavery than Jefferson did, the father of the Democratic party. Yet the Enquirer would have him mobbed. Is not this Democratic patricide? The Enquirer was a " freedom-shrieker" against the extension of slavery into Kansas. This carried the whole principle of abolitionism, and this territorial defeat was what gave organic form to the Southern. secession elements. Yet it instigates violence against Mr. Thompson for holding the same principle, Is not this Democratic suicide?
The Enquirer is too much tainted with Abolitionism in the blood to feel this hatred to Mr. Thompson for his anti-slavery labors; for long after his first visit to this country, the Enquirer's party declared it the duty of the Ohio Democracy to mitigate and finally eradicate the evil of slavery. But it is virulent because Mr. Thompson has been in England the fast friend of the American Republic, and has devoted his labors to resisting the bias of English opinion against our Government. Hence the Enquirer feels for him the same hatred that it has manifested toward every man, American or foreign, civil or military,
<c05>
who has rendered efficient service in the preservation of the Republic. And in its impotent venom it commits the meanness of personal slander of Mr. Thompson, which it knows to be false; and which shows that the Enquirer does not regard his anti-slavery labors as a sufficient reason for its hatred.- Cincinnati Gazette.

THE DESTRUCTION OF SLAVERY IN KENTUCKY.
Taking the recent returns, and the result so unexpected by many of our people in the interior, of a heavy vote for Mr. Lincoln, we must look matters fairly in the face, and consider them practically. What is our case and the pressure upon us? In the central parts-the bluegrass regions and the Green river country-the heaviest slaveholding portions of the State, their condition is deplorable. Our system of labor is utterly demoralized; no family know when they rise in the morning, whether they have a servant to prepare breakfast for them or not. But this is by no means the worst, for a family of any industry may contrive to cook their own breakfast, and dinner too, but many of our farmers are almost or quite deprived of their laborers. Some have lost only one or two hands, but some have lost a fourth or a half, and some all of their servants. The important considerations here suggest themselves, how are the farms of such men to be cultivated next season, and if not cultivated, where are our supplies of food to come from? These are practical questions for Kentucky planters and farmers to meet, and they have nothing to do with the result of the late election; they are contingent solely upon the rushing tide of uncontrollable events in the prosecution of the war to put down the rebellion. Again, many of the farmers have had the wives and small children of their men left on their hands, a present and prospective burden; and what adds to the perplexity of their position, the active men of every age, and many of the younger and middle-aged women, have been going away, and will continue to go, until, apparently, the institution of slavery will remove itself, and with it we shall lose nearly ail our labor. The Government wants the active black men for soldiers; the policy of their enlistment has become settled say legal enactment, and by the same power it is decided that the wives and children of the colored soldiers obtain with the enlisted negro the status of freedom. We are dealing with facts, and not with an argument whether such a policy was wise or politic to ward a loyal State like Kentucky; we want a prompt disposition of the question. It is of all-absorbing interest in oar State. We have numerous private letters and communications intended for publication, all asking if something can not be done early to prevent these catastrophes. They all say they cannot wait the slow processes suggested by our correspondent "D," or by ourselves. They argue that the patient will die before the doctors have their remedies ready. Emancipation, it is urged, may be effected by the Legislature, at their meeting in January, by making compensation; for, as our Constitution forbids the Legislature to emancipate without compensation, the necessary implication is that they may do it with compensation. We have no idea, however, that the Legislature will do this, even at the present nominal value of the slave. When President Lincoln proposed compensation, Congress did not vote the supplies necessary for the compensation, and there is hardly a possibility that it will be offered again. The progress of the war will take our slaves away without compensation, except the bounty for able-bodied soldiers.
The question now is, not bow shall we save slavery, but how shall we raise our bread, and bake it after we have raised it. Where shall we get the labor? We have now neither slavery nor freedom; we have none of the benefits of either system of labor, but are suffering the disadvantages of both, in the midst of the demoralization and anarchy that prevail around us. Shall we let events take their course, and without effort drift with the stream and land wherever our unguided bark may bring up? Is this the part of wisdom, of statesmanship, or, better than either, of common sense? No one can assert it. We say again, let us meet this question practically; lay aside prejudices, and look to our self-interests. If we will not emancipate at once by legislative act accompanied with compensation, which, as we have shown before, is perfectly constitutional, then there is nothing left, so far as we can see at present, to prevent our laborers slowly, yet wholly, leaving the State, but a solemn expression of the Legislature of Kentucky at its meeting this winter, that the rebellion has incidentally already so demoralized slavery in this State that its restoration is beyond hope, and that we must acquiesce in its termination. This would be but the expression of a matter of fact; it makes no difference whom we blame or whom we do not blame, or whether we are pro-slavery or anti-slavery. This is a concrete, practical question: "to be or not to be." Shall we let things drift along at their own will, or shall we interpose our active efforts to guide results?
It may be objected that we shall turn all the negroes loose upon us: but the simple reply to that is, that they are already turned loose, and they will be turned looser still if something is not done, and that promptly. We will have the old and the blind, the lame and the halt, the mother and her brood to feed and to clothe, without any body to work to maintain them. This is what we can prevent; and the only way that suggests itself to us is by legislative recommendation and general consent formally, as far as we can, to terminate what is already virtually at an end and hopelessly beyond restoration. Of course such advice, recommendation, and consent would bind no one who dissented. If any are of different judgment and can retain their slaves by other means, by all means let them do it as long as they can. We are for abiding by the Constitution, both Federal and State, to the letter. They are the only palladiums of our safety. Lay them aside or evade them, and we are at sea-we are in rebellion. Let us try to keep matters square within constitutions bounds. Let us have no Sovereignty Conventions, but abide by the bond, though it take "the pound of flesh" and the blood as well.
We throw out these suggestions to the people of Kentucky, who have no alternative but to meet these questions; They can, if they act wisely, control affairs to their own best interests, or they can plunge our State into social as well as political difficulties; they can, by moderate counsels, bring the State safely through the "new order of things" which is upon us, and cannot be escaped or evaded. We ask a calm, patient, and searching consideration of these suggestions. We have given them much anxious thought, and their importance demands that the intellect and experience of our State should take them under deliberation.-Louisville Journal, Nov. 21.
The people of the Northwest propose to hold another great Sanitary Fair at Chicago, to open on the 22d of February, and close on the 4th of March, 1865.
<c06>
THE OBJECT OF THE REBEL WAR.
The present civil war in the United States in the last frantic attempt of a dying feudal aristocracy to save itself from inevitable dissolution. The election of Mr. Lincoln as president of the United States, in 1860, by the vote of every Free State, was the announcement to the world that the people of the United States had finally and decisively conquered the feudal aristocracy of the republic, after a civil contest of eighty years. With no weapons but those placed in their hands by the Constitution of the United States, the freemen of the republic had practically put this great slave aristocracy under their feet forever. That portion of the Union which was controlled by the will of the whole people had become so decidedly superior in every attribute of power and civilization, that the slave aristocracy despaired of further peaceful resistance to the march of liberty through the land. Like every other aristocracy that has lived, it drew the sword on the people, either to subdue the whole country, or carry off a portion of it, to be governed in the interests of an oligarchy.
This great people was not plunged into civil war by unfriendly talking, or by unfriendly legislation of the Northern people, or by the accidental election of Abraham Lincoln as president. Nations do not go to war for hard words or trifling acts of unfriendliness or accidental political changes; although these may be the ostensible causes of war-the sparks that finally explode the magazine. There was a real cause for this rebellion-the peaceful, constitutional triumph of the people over the aristocracy of the republic, after a struggle of eighty years. If ever a great oligarchy had good reason to fight, it was the Slave Power in 1860. It found itself defeated, and condemned to a secondary position in the republic, with the assurance that its death was only a question of time. It is always a good cause of war to an aristocracy that its power is abridged; for an aristocracy cares only for itself, and honestly regards its own supremacy as the chief interest on earth. This Slave Power has only done what every such power has done since the foundation of the world. It has drawn the sword against the inevitable progress of mankind, and will be conquered by mankind. It is waging this terrible war, not against Northern Abolitionists, or the present Administration, but against the United States census tables of 1860; against the mighty realities of the progress of free society in the republic, which have startled us all; but with which no class of men were so well acquainted as Mr. Jefferson Davis and his associates in rebellion.
There has always been a conflict in our country between this old slave aristocracy and the people. The first great victory of the people was in the war of the Revolution. This war was inaugurated and forced upon the country by the masses of the people of the New England and Middle States. The aristocracy of the South, with their associates in the North, resisted the movement to separate the people from the crown of G. Britain, till resistance was impossible, and then came in, to some extent, to lead the movement and appropriate the rewards of success. But the free people of the North brought on and sustained the war. Massachusetts was then the fourth province in population; but she sent eight thousand more soldiers to the field during those bloody eight years than all the Southern States united. Virginia was then the empire State of the Union, and, Rhode Island the least; but great, aristocratic Virginia furnished only seven hundred more soldiers than little, democratic Rhode Island. New England furnished more than half the troops raised during the Revolution; and the centres of aristocracy in the Middle and Southern States were the strongholds of Toryism during the war. Indeed, a glance at the map of the Eastern and Middle States reveals the fact that the head-quarters of the 'peace party' in the Revolutionary and the present war are in precisely the same localities. The 'Copperhead' districts of Now York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania are the old Tory districts of the Revolution. The Tories of that day, with the mass of the Southern aristocracy. tried to 'stop the war' which was to lay the foundations of the freedom of all men. The Tories of today are engaged in the same infamous enterprise, and their fate will be the same.
Had the Slave power been united in 1776 we should never have gained our independence. But it as divided. Every State was nominally a Slave State; but slaveholders were divided into two class. The first was led by Washington, Jefferson, Madison and other illustrious aristocrats, North and South; and, like the Liberal lords of Great Britain, threw their influence on the side of the people. This party, very strong in Virginia, very weak in the Carolinas, dragged the South through the war by the hair of its head, and compelled it to come into the Union. It also resolved to abolish the Slave Power, and succeeded in consecrating the whole Northwestern territory to freedom as early as 1790. The opposition party had its headquarters at Charleston, was treasonable or lukewarm during the war, and refused to come into the Union without guarantees for slavery.
Abolitionism, as recognized by the Slave Power, is nothing more nor less than the religious reverence for man and his natural rights. This moral respect for the nature and rights of all men has always encountered the peculiar scorn of aristocracies, and no men have been so bitterly persecuted in history as those who represented the religious opposition to despotism. The Hebrew aristocracy in old Palestine called this sentiment 'atheism' in Jesus Christ, and crucified Him. The pagan aristocracy called it a devilish superstition' in the early Christians, and slaughtered them like cattle. The priestly and civil absolutism of the sixteenth century called it 'fanaticism' in the Dutch and German reformers, and fought it eighty years with fire and rack and sword. The church and crown nicknamed it 'Puritanism,' and persecuted it till it turned and cut off the head of Charles the First, and secured religions liberty. The slave aristocracy stigmatized 'Abolitionism,' and let loose upon it every infernal agency in its power.
William Lloyd Garrison has been, for the last twenty-five years, the best-hated man in these Northern States, not because be failed to see just how a Union of Free and Slave States could endure; not because of any visionary theory of political action or the structure of society he cherished; but, strangely enough, because he stood up for man and his divine right to freedom. This was what the aristocracy hated in him, and this is what, with inexpressible rage, it saw gaining in the North. It is truly said that our education, our arts, our literature, our press, our churches, our benevolent organizations, our families, all that was beat in Northern society, even our politics, were being consolidated by this 'fanaticism,' 'Puritanism,' 'Abolitionism'-otherwise, by reverence for man and his right to freedom.
It grew, however, almost as fast as the material power of the North-this moral conviction of the divine right of man to liberty; grew so fast, that in 1860, South Carolina glanced over the November election returns, saw the name of Abraham Lincoln
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that stale of things so far from its being true that the States when slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES..... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in, martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
at the head, shrieked,' The North is abolitionized!" and rushed out of the Union, with ten other Slave Stated at her heels; while four more were beld back by the Strong arm of the national power. The North is not yet 'abolitionized,' but every volley fired at liberty by the Slave Power for these last three years has killed a lover of slavery, and made an Abolitionist; as the juggler fires his pistol at your old black hat, and when the smoke clears up, a white dove flutters in its place. If the Slave Power shoots at us long enough, we shall all become Abolitionists, and all learn to love our fellow-man, and protect him in the enjoyment of every right given him by God. -Extract from Rev. A. D. Mayo's article on "The Progress of Liberty in the United Slates"-Continental Monthly for November.

BRITISH VIOLATIONS OF NEUTRALITY.
To the Editor of the Philadelphia Press:
SIR:-I have just read an article extracted from the Boston Advertiser, and ascribed to a statesman of the highest eminence, citing a long list of violations of neutrality committed by Great Britain, as a retort to the comments of the British press in the case of the Florida.
The writer appears to have been diligent in exploring historical antiquity, and to have been led back by his researches even into times when you were English citizens, proud of the name, and when the shame of English dishonor fell on you. I will not venture to discuss the cases individually, not having the proper means of reference at hand. Any candid reader will, I think, see that a pretty strenuous effort has been made to press rather reluctant auxiliaries into the service. The seizure of the Danish fleet, for example, besides being a somewhat stale indictment, cannot be cited in answer to a charge of violating a neutral port. It was, if anything, a case of commencing war without good cause and proper declaration. If the author of the article will turn to the papers on the subject in Coleridge's Friend, he will see the act defended, on grounds of the highest morality, by a publicist who was opposed to it as a matter of policy, and who was certainly not a vulgar flatterer of the passions of his countrymen, nor regardless of the moral law. The general remark which I wish to make is, that of all the cases, not one morally pertinent falls with in the last half century. The only two pretended instances within this period are the burning of the Caroline and the seizure of the Santa Cruz. The burning of the Caroline was not in any moral sense a violation of a neutral port. It was an incident in an irregular border war, brought on by the interference of American sympathizers in the Canadian rebellion. The Santa Cruz was alleged, as the writer states, to be engaged in the slave trade, and was seized, not from any motive of national interest, or in. any spirit of aggression, but in exercise of the high police of nations. The exercise of this high police is a delicate matter, and is pretty sure to lead to some disputable acts, which, however, if done in good faith, will not taint the general morality of the nation.
It is during the last half century, and since the conclusion of the Napoleonic wars, that moral sentiment has made its greatest progress on the subject of national rights and obligations, and especially in regard to the rights of the weaker nations. No one acquainted with the tone of European morality would believe a Government capable now of doing what Governments were capable of doing in the time of the French Convention. You are citing deeds done in comparative darkness, to warrant you in sinning against meridian light. The last great precedent in the international history of England is the voluntary cession of the Ionian Islands, which had been put into her possession half a century before. Such an act proves, in the eyes of all candid judges, that the old age of aggression and violence, with all its precedents, is rapidly being numbered with the past.
As charges against English honor, cases half a century old are irrelevant. You cannot push the figurative personality of a nation so far. Scarcely an Englishman is alive who could by any possibility have been implicated in the capture of the Essex; and no man believes that if that act was what it is represented on your side to have been, there is a single Englishman at the present time capable of assenting to its perpetration. In the counsels of Providence, the sins of the fathers are visited on the children; but, before a human tribunal, thesins of the fathers must be ratified by the children before they can be laid to their door. When praising the liberty of conscience enjoyed in this country, I have encountered the objection that the New Englanders persecuted the Quakers; but I have not paid much respect to the objection.
It is not to be forgotten, either, that since 1815 the English Parliament has been reformed, and something like the sentiment of the nation has begun to prevail in the counsels of our Government. Before that time we were ruled by an oligarchy, whose proceedings were sometimes as violent abroad as their government was oppressive at home. Legally, of course, this change does not affect our identity or our continuous responsibility as a nation: but morally it does. And you have need yourselves of the same equitable consideration. You would be sorry to be taxed as a free nation with all the international acts of your late slave-owning Government. I might, perhaps, from the history of those acts, cull the materials of a retort to the writer in the Boston Advertiser. But I do not wish to be familiar with the criminal records of nations. Let the dead past bury its dead; and let us, as wisdom and generosity alike prescribe, rejoice in the improved morality of the living.
Suppose England to be as bad as you will-to be as base as your fathers thought her glorious-it is not in the presence of England alone that you stand deciding between honor and dishonor. It is in the presence of the whole community of nations; and those who. instead of recalling to your minds at this most critical moment of your moral life the high principles of civilized morality and the brighter examples of your own history, divert your eyes to the bad precedents of evil times, conspire, however unintentionally, with that one of the two contending voices in the national breast which tempts you to take the downward path. There is a certain class of questions which, when an honorable man is called upon to decide in his own case, he puts all equivocal precedents and everything else behind him but the thought of his own honor.
I am, &e., GOLDWIN SMITH. 

PROF, GOLDWIN SMITH AND THE FLORIDA.
To the Editor of the Philadelphia Press:
SIR.: It is with unfeigned regret that one finds himself differing from so good a friend of our country and her cause as Mr. Goldwin Smith has proved himself to be; and one would be very much disposed to take in good part any reproof from him, however ill-founded it might appear, and even to suspect that, after all, he was likely to be right. But he will pardon a few simple strictures, offered in a friendly spirit, and in the way of deprecation rather than of dispute, upon his communication in The Press of Saturday last, In relation to the seizure of the Florida.
1. The case is not that, an American ship having committed a violation of international law, the merican press, or an American statesman, forth with proceeds to ransack history and antiquity, in order to show that Englishmen have been guilty of similar and even greater outrages. But the case is this: an American ship is alleged to have committed an act contrary to the law and comity of nations. No sooner does the report reach England, than, with out waiting to hear the unbiassed story of the case, or to see what the American Government will do, the leading representatives of the English press immediately denounce the act in the most unmeasured terms, and not only so, but charge the "American Navy" with being " the pests of the ocean," and incontinently call for a combination of the civilized world against American lawlessness. It is then, and only then, that English precedents are referred to in the way of retort, not in justification of the act committed in the port of Bahia, but in rebuke of the effrontery of the British press in thus thrusting themselves forward as the conservators of the morality of the world, not in kindly reproof or in friendly advice, but in fierce and denunciatory condemnation. It might have been better, it might have shown a higher moral and Christian tone on our part, to have meekly submitted to objurgation, however ill-natured, dictatorial, or insolent; but if we have failed to do so, it would seem that the impartial observer would find more to condemn in the asperity of the censure than in the impatience of the defence.
2. But although English precedents ought to stop the mouth of English censure, it is not to be presumed that the American press would deliberately urge
<c02>
them in justification of the act of Captain Collins, in its international aspect, and still less that the American Government would either allege such a
justification of that act, or any justification at all. On the contrary, there is no reasonable doubt that the American Government is ready promptly to acknowledge that it was an infraction of international law, and offer every possible and reasonable atonement-to Brazil, not to England or to the so-called
Confederate States. 
3. I am not sure that I distinctly understand what is meant by cases "morally pertinent;" but if the pestilent, revolutionary, propagandist character of the " French Convention" could afford any justification of extraordinary or illegal acts for self-preservation on the part of England, surely the character of the Southern rebellion may furnish an equally good moral defence for similar acts on our part. And if the seizure of the Danish fleet in the harbor of Copenhagen was not so much the "violation of a ueutral port" as the "commencing of war without good cause and proper declaration," one would naturally suppose the violation of a neutral port of so gross a character that it was tantamount to a commencing of war, and that without good cause, could hardly fail to be considered as indefensible in a moral point of view, as violation of a neutral port of so slight a character that it can be looked upon as only a formal infraction of international right. Surely, the moral implication of our national character would not have been less if the seizure of the Florida, instead of being the unauthorized act of Capt. Collins, had been directed by the express orders of the American Government. And still less would it have improved the moral character of the act, in our relation to Brazil, if the Florida, at the time of her seizure, instead of belonging to the Confederate rebels, had actually belonged to Brazil, and had been seized in the port of Babia, merely on suspicion that she was about to fall into the hands of the rebels. And as to the case of the Caroline, how much would its "moral pertinency" have been improved if the Government of the United States had seen fit previously to recognize the belligerent character of the Canadian rebels? There are other instances of British naval encroachment upon the rights of neutrals, which, if they do not fall "within the last fifty years," fall in the present century, and even within the memory of many now living; and it is giving rather large credit to the rapid moral improvement of modern times to call the age of Pitt, an age of comparative moral "darkness." Though I am fully ready to believe that the English Government would not venture to repeat such acts now, and that the better part of the English people-of course I do not include the London Times-would heartily disapprove of them, still it must be confessed that neither the English Government nor the English people have given any better guarantee that they would not do similar things under similar circumstances than this, that they have decidedly condemned the commission of such acts by others; for surely the cession of the Ionian Islands has as little to do with respect for neutral rights as has the opium war with China. And if any combination of circumstances could mitigate our moral condemnation of an unlawful act, or justify us in rejoicing in the accomplishment of the end, even while regreting the character of the means, that combination of circumstances is found in the history and character of the Florida-a mere corsair, without any home, or recognized national authority, entirely dependent upon the aid and comfort of "neutral" sympathizers, burning and destroying our commerce upon the ocean without adjudication or prospect of redress. While I am glad to believe that Professor Smith, and many more right-minded Englishmen like himself, and I would fain add the great body of the English people, would cordially condemn such a violation of neutral rights at the present day by any portion of the British navy as was committed in the harbor of Valporaiso, in the capture of the frigate Essex, I cannot help thinking he carries his good opinion of his countrymen a little too far, when he assumes that' 'there is not a single Englishman at the present time who is capable of assenting to the perpetration of such an act. " Who are the editors of th London Times? Where are the Englishmen -nay, members of the English Parliament-notoriously engaged in building and fitting out ships for the use of the American rebels in preying upon American commerce? and where are the multitudes of Englishmen engaged in the profitable business of blockade-running, and the still greater multitude who sympathize with them and protect them in that business, in every possible way? But are not such proceedings morally wrong in these days of modern enlightenment, and, in a modified sense, at least infractions of international law? infractions on the part of individuals, and showing the spirit and the moral character and judgment of individual Englishmen?
4. It is doing a great honor to the American Government and the American people to expect of them that they should conform to a higher and purer moral standard than other nations, in similar circumstances, have been accustomed practically to recognize. Let it be expected. Let it be demanded. I would not abate one tittle from the hope or the requirement. I would not justify or encourage our Government or our people in any act of wrong whatever. And I trust that no temptation will ever induce our Government to bring a stain upon its well-earned reputation for a punctilious adherence to rules of international law; and that, alike undisturbed by the petulant denunciations and bitter aspersions of a foreign press, and uninfluenced by the thoughtless ebullitions of popular sentiment at home, they will pursue the even tenor of their way, and vindicate the national honor, in the only proper manner, in the case of the Florida, as they were ready so promptly to do in the case of the Trent.
I am, sir, your obedient servant, PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 5th, 1864. G

MR. GEORGE THOMPSON. M. P.
[Special Correspondence of the Missouri Democrat.]
SPRINGFIELD, III., Dec. 2, 1864. 
This distinguished philanthropist has been here for a few past days, a guest of Governor Yates. He delivered a very fine lecture on Tuesday evening, in the Hall of Representatives, and by his modest and unaffected manner, greatly won upon the sympathies and respect of the people. I had the pleasure of spending the day in his company on Wednesday, and showing him all that was to be seen of an interesting character here. The modest and unpretending residence of Mr. Lincoln seemed to strike him very forcibly, and he took away some photographs of it to send to his English friends. Mr. Thompson's conversational powers are most excellent, and his long residence among the leading men of Great Britain, the East Indies, and elsewhere, supplies him with a fund of anecdote which appears to be absolutely inexhaustible. I was particularly struck with some of his reminiscences of Daniel O'Connell, Macaulay, Bright, Cobden, and others. He considers Lord Palmerston, in some respects, the most wonderful man in the world, and Mr. Gladstone the ablest speaker of modern times. He says that Gladstone's speeches, delivered extemporaneously, are as perfect specimens of composition as the written productions of other men, and not even exceeded by the famous speeches of Edmund Burke. He looks upon the present Sir Robert Peel as a very able, although erratic man. Mr. Thompson thinks that the great contest between slavery and feeedom, between Union and disunion, is yet to come, and that, our greatest danger is in our own party, the conservative element of which will be inclined to lower the standard of its principles and throw the country back again into the era of compromises and concessions, all of which latter, of course, are to be on one side, and in favor of slavery.
The Secessionists and Copperheads will assume a virtue, if they have it not, and thus delude the people. He says that no man should be selected for high position who is not thoroughly grounded in the great principle of human liberty. The great danger to the Union, the late election, has been tided over; but the conspiracy to establish a Northwestern Confederacy and disintegrate the loyal States, by exciting divisions between various sections, and by a war on New England, he considers scotched, but not killed. Mr, Thompson's knowledge of the status of leading politicians of the country is really wonderful for a foreigner. He was greatly taken with Governor Yates, and the latter found, to his astonishment, that his record for many years past was not unknown to Mr. Thompson.
Mr. Thompson is very anxious to see and speak
in. St. Louis. He looks upon the feet that be is allowed now to address the public in slave States and cities of the Union, as an index of the change in
public sentiment with regard to slavery; and when be returns to England he can point to his reception in such places as evidences that slavery is fast being
obliterated from the soil of the Republic.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1864.
OUR NEXT VOLUME.
It has been erroneously stated in certain quarters, that the Liberator and Anti-Slavery Standard are to be united on the ensuing 1st of January. Sach a union has, indeed, been under friendly consideration; but no such conclusion has been reached. If possible, it is desirable and fitting that both journals should continue until the JUBILEE BELL is rung in the land, proclaiming freedom to all the inhabitants thereof. They were both established to effect the utter overthrow of slavery; they have had essentially the same experience, and gone through the same trials and vicissitudes; and new that the great victory is manifestly nearly accomplished, they should have the satisfaction to record the consummation of their labors, before retiring from the field. But, so enormously enhanced is the price of paper, and also of printing, that we have left to us no other alternative than to increase the subscription terms of the Liberator, or discontinue it at the close of the present volume. Our subscribers, faithful and kind in every emergency, though far from being numerous,) we are confident, will readily meet the small advance to be made in the price, rather than to have our flag go down at this time; especially as that advance will not make up the difference between the old state of things and the new. We shall still have to struggle against wind and tide, in order to keep our barque afloat. Those of our friends with whom we have consulted unanimously advise us to put the terms of the paper at $4.00 per annum; but we are very reluctant to do this; and have concluded, therefore, to make the trial at $3.50, instead of $3.00 as hitherto. We shall be sorry to oblige any to withdraw their patronage on this account; but we importune none to continue their subscriptions, and make no claims upon any for their considerate regard. Whatever is done we wish to have done for the cause's sake, and not on personal grounds.

THE ASHLEY BANQUET.
A sumptuous banquet was given to the Hon. JAMES M. ASHLEY, at the Oliver House in Toledo, (Ohio,) on the evening of the 27th ult., which was an occasion long to be remembered by all who participated in it. The Weekly Commercial says the occasion was one which did honor alike to the donors and the distinguished guest of the evening. It was a happy reunion of friends, who, through the late exciting and hard fought political contest, have stood shoulder to shoulder in battling for the great principles of human freedom which underlie our social and political fabric. It was a cordial greeting, a social communion, a good time. It was the rejoicing after the battle had been fought and victory won. It served to cheer, strengthen and invigorate. It was a repledging of devotion and fealty to the fundamental principles of truth, liberty and law, which in the late grand triumph of the Union party secure to the American people the permanency of her free institutions.
Among the letters read on the occasion were the following:-
CINCINNATI, November 24,1864.
DEAR SIR:-It is with real regret that I find myself unable to accept the invitation of the Union men of the Tenth Congressional District, to meet them at the entertainment to be given to their able and faithful Representative, General Ashley,
It has been my privilege for many years to rank him among my true and faithful friends; but it is not alone, or chiefly as a friend, that I rejoioe in his reelection.
During his whole service in Congress, he has never wavered or halted in his devotion to Union and Freedom. His vote has never been separated from duty. To him, as Chairman of the important Committee on Territories, more ttian to any other one man, do we owe the consecration of all new States to Liberty by irrepealable provisions of fundamental law.
These, and such as these, are his titles to the confidence, esteem and affection of his constituents. Let them be assured that the loyal people of the country partake their sentiments.
Very fruly yours,
S. P. CHASE.
GEORGE E. HAYNES, Esq.
BOSTON, November 8, 1864.
DEAR SIR:-It will not be in my power to unite in the banquet which you propose in honor of the reception of your most faithful Representative.
I know Mr. Ashley well and honor him much. He has been firm when others have hesitated, and from an early day saw the secret of this war, and I may add, also, the secret of victory.
In the questions of statesmanship, which will soon supersede ali military questions, he has already given assurance of practical wisdom. His various indefatigable labors and his elaborate speech, on "reconstruction " show that he sees well what is to be done in order to place peace and liberty under irresistible safeguards.
For myself, I have no hesitation in saying, that next to the rebellion itself, I most deprecate a premature State Government in a rebel State. Such a Government will be a source of sorrow and weakness incalculable. But I am sure that your Representative will fall in no effort to prevent such a calamity. 
There is also the Amendment of the Constitution prohibiting slavery throughout the United States. Nobody has done more for it, practically, than your Representative.
Accept my thanks for the invitation with which you have honored me, and believe me, dear sir, Faithfully yours,
CHARLES SUMNER.
Hon. Daniel S. Dickinson, of New York, also sent a congratulatory letter, accompanying it with the following sentiment:

THE HON. JAMES M. ASHLET-The soldier's honored and favorite Representative. New York unites with Ohio and the District he so ably represents, in paying tribute to his fidelity and firmness in the cause of resisting rebellion.
Mr. Ashley responded in an eloquent and stirring speech, in the course of which he said:
"We can, to-night, congratulate each other on a victory which means something; a victory which the world can understand; a victory which proclaims with trumpet tongue, "Liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof':" a victory which sends forth the glad tidings which shall give great joy to every slave and to the lovers of freedom in every land; a victory which declares to the rebels and their Northern allies that the integrity of the Union, the acknowledged supremacy of the National Constitution and the abandonment of slavery are our only conditions of peace."
Mr. Ashmun has been a faithful and efficient advocate of the cause of impartial liberty in the U. S. House of Representatives; and it is on his motion that that body is shortly to be tested as to its willingness to accord with the Senate in submitting to the people the proposed amendment to the Constitution, abolishing slavery throughout the republic. May his effort be crowned with success, and the righteous verdict be soon impartially recorded by THE PEOPLE!
REV. CALVIN FAIRBANK. This horribly outraged victim of slaveholding villany-now happily released from his long protracted incarceration in the Kentucky penitentiary for the alleged CRIME of having aided in the escape of a fugitive slave-informs us that his post office address is Williamsburg, Mass., where letters may be sent to him for the present. After enjoying a little rest, he desires to visit such places in New England as may extend imitations to him-feeling quite sure, from his experience at the West, during the past season, that he shall meet a hearty greeting "from all progressive, liberty-loving people "-and desiring to give them an account of his unlawful arrest, partial trial and conviction by perjury, and indescribable sufferings, (including privation, cold. severe labor, and more than ONE THOUSAND floggings for inability to perform his alloled task,) during his dreamy years of Imprisonment in Kentucky. He is preparing a narration of his prison life, which he wishes to publish as early as practicable. No doubt its relaretions will be equally painful and appalling.
<c04>
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
LOOKING TOWARD SUNSET. From Sources Old and New, Original and Selected. By L. MARIA CHILD. Boston: Ticknor & Fields, 1865.
The tens of thousands of both old and young, on both sides of the Atlantic, who have been so thrilled with delight, so strongly fascinated, so morally elevated, and so wisely instructed by the various writings of Mrs. Child, will hail with delight this additional volume to her works-a volume which, though largely a compilation, contains many a page of her own felicitous composition. With exquisite taste she has here brought together some fourscore pieces, in prose and verse, from the works of many first class authors, such as Dr. Johnson, Mr. Pierpont, Theodore Parker, Bishop Heber, Burns, Richter, Miss Muloch, Wordsworth, Dickens, W. C. Bryant, Dr. Holmes, Whittier, John Sterling, Mountford, Mrs. Stowe, E. H. Sears, Eliza Cook, Uhland, Mrs. Barbauld, Henry Ward Beecher, Zschokke, Elizabeth Hamilton, Convers Francis, Mrs. Whitney, Thomas Hood, Mrs. Tighe, Tennyson, Dora Greenwell, Alice Gary, Miss Proctor, R. Bloomfield, Mrs. Gaskell, G. H. Clark, Miss Bremer, W. C. Bennett, and others. Nine of the pieces given are by Mrs. Child, and they are of the best in the volume. They bear the title of The Friends, Old Folks at Home, (two poems,) The Mysterious Pilgrimage, Unmarried Women, Moral Hints, Letter from an Old Woman, Old Bachelors, and Hints about Health.
We give her characteristically modest but brief Preface entire:-

"I occasionally meet people who say to me, 'I had many a pleasant hour, in my childhood, reading your Juvenile Miscellany; and now I am enjoying it over again, with my own little folks."
Such remarks remind me that I have been a long time in the world; but if a few acknowledge me as the household friend of two generations, it is pleasant assurance that I have not lived altogether in vain.
When I was myself near the fairy-land of childhood, I used my pen for the pleasure of children; and now that I am travelling down the hill I was then ascending, I would fain give some words of consolation and cheer to my companions on the way. If the rays of my morning have helped to germinate seeds that ripened into flowers and fruit, I am grateful to Him, from whom all light and warmth proceed. And now I reverently ask His blessing on this attempt to imitate, in my humble way, the setting rays of that great luminary, which throws cheerful gleams into so many lonely old homes, which kindles golden fires on trees whose foliage is falling, and lights up the silvered heads on which it rests with a glory that reminds one of immortal crowns.
This volume is most handsomely printed and bound, and will be sure to attract the attention and secure the patronage of those who are soon to be seeking their most pleasing and useful Christmas and New Year's gifts. Especially will filial affection proffer it to beloved parents, and friendship to other relatives who are "getting in years," and "looking toward sunset," as a most fitting present for the season. The Taunton Gazette says of it-" Familiar with the gems of European literature, whether set in classic works or floating fugitive, and possessing strong and true feelings, and a highly cultivated taste, Mrs. Child's book will long be regarded as one of the very choicest of its kind. It will even do what she hopes; namely, to, 'throw cheerful gleams into many lonely homes.' The accomplished publishers have so issued this volume that it will be observed anywhere. Printed at the University press, on toned paper, it is more chastely beautiful in all its parts than any which have yet appeared to grace the approaching holidays."
Noble woman! what a benefactor she has been to mankind!
GAME OF BATTLE FIELDS OF OUR FATHERS. New
York; John H. Tingley, 152 1-2 Fulton Street.
This Game may be played by any number above two, though best adapted to five. In preparing it, the publisher has made use of the Book entitled " Battle Fields of our Fathers," published by John Bradburn, New York.

EMANCIPATION IN MARYLAND-CELEBRATION AT THE COOPER INSTITUTE.
A crowded and enthusiastic meeting of the colored citizens of New York was held on Monday evening, 8th inst., in the great hall of the Cooper Institute, under the auspices of the African Civilization Society, to celebrate the adoption of a Free Constitution by Maryland. In the absence of the President, the Rev. A. H. Freeman, the chair was taken and the meeting called to order by the Rev. H. S. Wilson. After a song and chorus, which were received with loud applause, the Rev. Sella Martin proceeded to deliver an able and interesting address on the subject of the evening, fully illustrating the benefits that might be expected to flow from Emancipation in Maryland, not only to the slaves themselves, but also to the State, and the influence which would be thereby exerted on the other States yet retaining slavery.
Madame Keibler then sung a patriotic song, receiving the compliment of an enthusiastic encore. A letter of apology on the ground of ill health was received from Rev. Dr. Cheever, who had been expected to be present. Viva 1'America was then sung by Mr. W. F. Sturgess and encored, after which the Rev. H. S. Wilson delivered a short address, in which he gave some interesting particulars as to the operations of the African Civilization Society, from which it appears that five schools have been recently opened by the Society in Washington, Georgetown and other places, and they have also made arrangements for a course of lectures to be delivered in New York by some of the most eminent friends of the colored race, among them Wendell Phillips, Win. Lloyd Garrison, and Horace Greeley. The Marcellaise was then sung by Madame Magnun, followed by a dialogue by three young ladies, and an address from the Rev. R. H. Cain, whose references to the reelection of Abraham Lincoln, and his utterances in his message, elicited a storm of applause. Several recitations and songs were then given, and received with loud applause, after which the proceedings of the meeting were brought to a close by a stirring speech from John Peterson, Esq. Miss Virginia Magnan was the pianist, and Mr. Peter Loveridge acted as master of the ceremonies.
Dr. Dio Lewis's " Normal Institute for Physical Education," located in Boston, Mass., incorporated in 1861, and employing several eminent Professors, will open its Winter Term for 1865 on the 2nd of January next. Already nearly two hundred graduates of this institution are at work in the cities and towns of the Northern States. Of these, about two thirds are ladies.
Ladies and gentlemen who would enter the New Profession, and become teachers of the popular system of Gymnastics, can send to Dr. DIO LEWIS for a circular.
The old KNICKERBOCKER says: "Success to Dr. LEWIS! Gentlemen or ladies who would do real good in this world, and would learn a calling whose practitioners are every day in more request, should qualify themselves to become teachers at the Normal Institute."
The crowded state of our columns forbids a report, this week, of Rev. Mr. Manning's excellent lecture (excellent with a single exception) before the Parker Fraternity on Tuesday evening last. It was one of the best of the admirable course now in progress, and was warmly applauded by a very large audience. A sketch of it will appear next week. The concluding lecture of the course will be given next Tuesday evening by Henry Ward Beecher.
<illegible> the late canvass, the Republican committee at Washington sent to the Army of the Potomac, 200,000 documents; the Army of the Cumberland, 100,000; forces on the coast 30,000; forces west of the Mississippi; 100,000; forces in the Department of the Gulf, 80,000; and forces near the river, 50,000. To this aggregate of about 600,000 may be added 150,000 for handbills, newspapers, &c.
<c05>
PARKER FRATERNITY LEOTURES.
The eighth lecture of the Fraternity course was delivered cm Tuesday evening, 6th inst., by Wendell Phillips. His subject was "The Situation."
He requested his, audience to recal the time, four years ago, when he declared the North to be divided into three classes. First, a discontented and defeated minority. Second, a large class of dominant Republicans, led by Secretary Seward, and ready to surrender anything to save the Union. Third, a considerable class of earnest, honest Republicans, determined to fulfill in office the pledges of the canvass,' He had placed Abraham Lincoln at the head of the last class, and justly; for whatever criticism may be made upon him, he Has certainly carried out the policy upon which he was elected.
Now, at the close of another Presidential election, Mr. Phillips thought the same division should be made. First, there is a defeated minority. Second, a large portion of the dominant party ready for dishonorable compromise. And third, those Republicans who are honestly desirous to fulfill their pledges. And again, at the head of this last class must be placed Abraham Lincoln. (Applause.)
The question now is-What is the significance of this last canvass? Does the President understand it as we would have him? Is he able to fulfill its implied promise, and is he willing? Many think that the adoption of a Constitutional amendment prohibiting slavery would cover the whole ground. But that plank is too narrow for us to stand on. I think the meaning of the canvass and the necessities of the future are far greater. We must have not only one nation, but a nation whose corner-stone is one idea.

What are the indispensable elements of a real and durable nationality? Who is to lead us in the effort to found it? And what dangers obstruct our progress towards it?
Three elements underlie every great nationality. It must be strong, prosperous and just. Each of these elements is indispensable.
Our present condition is not satisfactory. We are not seen to be a great, strong, immortal nation. We stand before the world as a second-rate power. England hastened to acknowledge the belligerency of the rebel States. Her Government made only tardy and ineffectual efforts to stop the piratical Alabama. Even our true friends in Europe offer us their counsel in a patronizing way, as if we were little children among nations.
Two qualities have always attended a truly great nation. 1. They have always been governed by one idea. We, under the sham of a Republic, have always been a slaveholding oligarchy. While slavery ruled supreme, we seemed to be a strong nation. When liberty claimed her rights, and a conflict arose in the nation, we fell to the position of a second-rate power. But in the future liberty must go with unity. The nation will go no further than the idea, no matter where Grant's cannon go. Massachusetts ideas must kiss the Gulf before we can have unity combined with greatness. (Applause.)
2. No great nation has ever been founded on the blood of a single race. They have always been a mosaic of races.. France and England are the product of the fusion of a dozen bloods. We never could have got thus far with only the calculating, inventing, labor-saving Yankee, active with his brain and idle with his hands. We need Germans to till our Western prairies, and Irishmen to make our network of railroads. You all see where I am coming, to the blacks. Some wish to get rid of them. You can't get rid of them. They are your cousins. Whatever element they have to contribute to the use and power of a nation, they are to give to us. Even if they are not, as some say, a prime race, here they are, and here they must remain. We must make all races and colors revere and love the Union as the common property of all. Only thus can we become truly strong and permanently great.
An Irishman, hearing that a dancing-master had 815 for his first term's instruction, and $10 for the second, said he would take the second term. Our nation wants Union without Liberty, but she can't have it.
In a true nationality, the interests are all common. There must be, then, a certain homogeneousness in the whole nation. To strike out slavery by constitutional amendment is much, but not enough. The Constitution should not only prohibit slavery, but prohibit the passage of a law by any State, making a distinction between her citizens on the ground of race, color or nationality. The negro must have the ballot before this convulsion ends. He must have it, first, because it is right, chiming with the principles of the Declaration of Independence. Next, he must have it because it is needed for his education. Whether excluded from the suffrage or not, he must be an element in our national life. If yon exclude him, you vitiate the influences which form the character of the nation. And the proper sense of his responsibility in national affairs can be taught him in no way so clearly and so readily as by the power of voting on political questions as they arise. This is God's normal school for the negro. This education of responsibility is essential for him.
Another condition of our redeemed nationality must be the extension of our common-school system to the South. The beauty of Grant's cannon is, that behind every one is a school-house, and when the cannon comes back the school-house will not. We must carry our schools to the Gulf of Mexico. And we must have the wealth and respectability of the North pledged for the education of the poorest child born within the limits of the nation. When Beacon Street knows that the child of Broad Street is to wield the ballot, it will favor universal education on the ground of self-interest.

The military horizon is brilliant, and seems to promise that within four years the work of reconstruction is to be effected. First in position stands President Lincoln. His doctrine is that the President is merely to obey the wishes of the people. I do not accept this as the proper function of a President. We are entitled to the benefit of all the wisdom and courage possessed by those who have been chosen to act for the people, Mr. Lincoln chooses to obey the public sentiment without seeking to lead it forward. And further, he conciliates his enemies and neglects his friends. He neglected Massachusetts, and thought it safe to leave her out in the cold, and she gave him 78,000 majority. He folded Kentucky like a pet lamb to his bosom, and she went for McClellan. Of one fault Mr. Lincoln cannot justly be accused. He never really believed in McClelian. Though bowing to him repeatedly, it was not because he believed in his generalship, but because he needed popular strength, and regarded McClellan as the representative of a great and powerful party. This same mood will lead the President to postpone further advance in the direction of liberty; and to disregard this idea of the friends of liberty, namely, that the cannon must not come back from the Gulf without bringing every fetter with them.
We now see in the South a conflict of ideas more momentous than any of Grant's engagements. One party is represented by Georgia, headed by its Governor and by A. H. Stephens, Vice President of the rebel Confederacy; in opposition to these are Jefferson Davis and Robert Lee. If Georgia conquers, we are in great danger. If Davis conquers, there is scarcely a cloud in our horizon. Stephens and Brown represent a class of men who would fight till success appeared hopeless, and then escape to some dirty foreign port, and there lead dirty lives. Davis, on the contrary, is playing the great game for empire or the grave. He will have the whole country, or content himself with six feet by two. There is talk about the rebels freeing their slaves. Jefferson Davis would not only free the slaves, but give every black man a patent of nobility, rather than give up the contest. He will offer no terms, but will be pushed to the Gulf rather than succumb, and perhaps perish defiantly in the last battle rather than yield or fly. If Davis carries the South with him, neither the magnanimity of
<c06>
Butler, the indifference of Lincoln, the greed of the merchants, nor the malignity of the copperheads can obtain a dishonorable, compromising peace.
 But when peace does come, how will it come! The honesty of Mr. Lincoln (with a qualification) is to be admitted, now as heretofore. He will stand by his previous offer of Union and Liberty. But it is the beginning of a bargain, and every bargain includes a compromise. If Arkansas, Louisiana, Missisippi, Standing ready to return, and agreeing to the integrity of the Union, shall say, as to the other proposition-Let every man actually freed by the army remain at liberty let those whom the proclamation has actually reached be free, and let every child born after 1865 be freed when he is twenty-would not the North, would not two-thirds of this very audience, be ready and glad to accept it? (Cries of No! No! from the audience.)
What is the Republican party? Does its increase of numbers since 1860.how an increase of strength in opposition to slavery? Its growth has been by the accession of Bell-Everett men and war democrats to its ranks. The New York Times says this very week -If the South will come back on the ground of Union we will consult about all subordinate matters. Even Butler proposes a repetition of the offer of amnesty to all, leaders and followers, on their submission to the flag. Shall Louisiana, poisoned by the policy of Gen. Banks, shall Arkansas and the other rebel States, embittered, by defeat, come back and take their places in the Union with a continuance of their slave system! Two men out of three in Boston streets will agree to close the war upon these terms Yet, if a single shred of slavery is allowed to remain after reconstruction, the danger and the contest will have an indefinite continuance.
What is the condition of the negro in Louisians? Banks, the pet statesman of the President, places one race under the other, and sets Provost Marashals to whip them into obedience. If compromise is offered by States in which that condition of thing prevails it will need all your energy of remonstrance to prevent this treachery to the blacks from being consummated. If such a compromise shall be made the future lies before us in the darkest colors.
Mr. Lincoln is a politician. He cannot be anything else. He must bend; the only question is, which way! Compromise, said Lord John Russell, is the essence of politics. The message just sent to Congress is the most noble document ever issued by an American chief magistrate, but the President seems to hope rather than to expect the immediate overthrow of slavery. He looks for the passage of a Constitutional amendment not by this Congress, bat a year hence. If Grant succeeds in the mean time, all sorts of offers will be made; and as soon as the President makes or receives a proposition for compromise, we can no longer have the opportunity of amending the Constitution.
In 1834, Jamaica started on the same experiment that Banks is now trying in Louisiana, and fell behind twenty years. Her experience ought to teach us wisdom.
The negro is now no more in danger than we are. God has tied us together. It is our liberty as well a his that is in question. There is but one future for us both. God has lifted the negro's cause out of the hands of the abolitionists, and placed it on the broad level of human progress. White and black have now the same interest in making the Union what it should be. Let us use every effort to make the U. S. flag, formerly the symbol of oppression, represent a strong, prosperous and just nation.
Rest on no laurels. Put unlimited confidence in no man. Common sense is our duty. Trust no party, which, like that which has just elected its President, is only half educated to the demands of the hour. Let us proceed to undertake the whole problem. "Freedom" is the voice of the chief magistrate; let "Suffrage" be the voice of the agitator. Four years have turned Mr. Lincoln from an abolitionist of the Territories to an abolitionist of the Nation. Four years more of further struggle will perhaps place him on the still higher ground of universal justice. Then only can the nation be safe.
A very large audience attended Mr. Phillips's lecture, the platform and balconies of the Music Hall being crowded, as well as the floor. His criticisms of the President were heard in silence, but his exhortations to a continuance of labor until the complete triumph of freedom were actively applauded.-C. K. W.
"RESOURCES."
This was the title of the third lecture of Mr. Ralph "Waldo Emerson's Sunday evening coarse. He commenced by saying:
We are all inventors, each sailing on our voyage of discovery. We not only receive material benefit from every victory of man over nature, but we are touched and cheered by every such example.
Scepticism is slow suicide. The teachings of per simism make the teacher odious. The true doctrine is the opposite one, that there is always way to everything desirable. This teaching cheers and helps us. It gives us content with our position in the world, and inspires gratitude to the Cause of causes.
A great teacher may divine all the possibilities of the planet, and its inhabitants. St. Simon said well' The Golden Age is not behind, but before us. Evidence is constantly accumulating in regard to the instruments. material resources of our country. How wonderful, that Massachusetts, with but a million of inhabitants, should be with her machinery the work of more than a hundred millions of men!
All delight in the man of resources. In the material world, we have unnumbered instances of the extent of human invention and ingenuity. Few heroes benefit mankind so much as the physician and surgeon. In the hands of the discoverer, medicine becomes a heroic art.
The man is all in all, Everything depends on his personal qualities and presence of mind. These may protect you, event from the terrors of a mob; as they constantly help the fisherman and the forester to escape from their peculiar perils.
Mr. Emerson proceeded to speak of the doctrine of resources in the intellectual; sphere, and gave various illustrations, from the aunt keeping the children family employed and amused without their knowing it, to the experiences of Newton and Wordsworth. He recommended the cultivation of natural history in the country, speculated on the power and moods of the mind, spoke of the intermittent character of inspiration, suggested the inquiry how far these powers and moods are within our control, and proceeded to mention. some distinct. sources of inspiration. 
First, Sleep Health is the first Muse, and sleep, which constantly renews our' lost vigor and courage, is the condition of health.
Second, Solitary converse with nature. The genuine layer of nature will "prevent the morning," and feast himself with summer dawns and October woods.
Third, new poetry, or such old poetry as is new to tike reader, makes a precious and lasting resource of indoor life.
Fourth, Conversation.
Fifth, fact-books, which all geniuses prizes as raw material for their minds to work upon. Books of fact, especially if written without ambitions aim, are nearer allied to poetry than one would think
Mr. Emerson concluded by saying-That day is good in which we have had most perceptions. There is no limit to the chapter of resources.
His audience seemed undiminished by the bad weather and wretched walking. His lecture next Sunday evening will be on-Table Talk.-C. K. W.
PLEDGES made to the American or the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies are now payable; and it is earnestly requested of all who be owing such to forward the amount of their pledges, without delay, to the Treasures of those Societies respectively, or to SAMUEL MAY, Jr., 221 Washington Street Boston.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE THIRTY-FIRST NATIONAL ANTI-SLAVERY
SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY. The AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY was <illegible>
for the immediate and total abolition of slavery
in the United States. Its labors have been unre<illegible> prosecuted, "without compromise and without concealment," for a period of thirty years, through featuring agencies, the printing and circulating of anti-slavery publication, the support an official weekly organ, and other instrumentalities; and to these <illegible> is largely due, primarily, that cheering and <illegible> change in public sentiment, in opposition to slavery and in support of free institutions, which be taken place in ail the loyal States, and which, enclose the Government to maintain successfully its tremendous conflict with the Southern SLAVEHOLDERS REBELLION. But slavery is not yet abolished, even in the Rebel States, except by the Proclamation of President Lincoln; and it still holds a tenacious existence even in some of the so called loyal sections of the country. Not until its utter extirpation everywhere should the American Anti-Slavery Society be surrended, or regard its mission as consummated, or be left without the necessary pecuniary aid to carry on the ordinary operations. Its time to dissolve will be when liberty is proclaimed throughout all the land, to the inhabitants thereof, by the proposed amendment of the Constitution of the United States, making it illegal to enslave any person on the American soil. That grand and glorious event, it is confidently <illegible> and believed, will take place during the coming year, inasmuch as the potential sentiment of the people in regard to it was indicated by an overwhelming majority in the late Presidential election, and inasmuch as President Lincoln, in his annual message to Congress, urges this constitutional amendment upon <illegible> body for speedy adoption. Thank God that the per 1865 is, in all probability, to be the long-desired
YEAR OF JUBILEE!
Once more, then-and we trust for the last time-set the treasury of the American Anti-Slavery Society be replenished by the generous donations and contributions if those who have so long given it their countenance; and also of those who, regenerated in their views and feeling on the question of slavery, have yet to show their appreciation of the invaluable labors of the Society in disseminating light and knowledge, quickening conscience, elevating the moral standard of individual and national conduct, and <illegible> the rights of human nature on the broad platform of universal freedom and equality. From all loyal men and women the Society is especially deserting of consideration and co-operative support for its prompt and uncompromising hostility to the rebellion, and to whatever at the North has been in sympathy with the rebels; and for the strong moral support and hearty sympathy it has given to the Government in its long and bloody conflict with the Slave Power.
The Managers of the SUBSCRIPTION ANNIVERSARY
hereby announce that they will be ready to receive, with all thankfulness, whatever the philanthropic, the liberal-minded, and the patriotic, throughout the land, at home or abroad, may feel disposed to contribute, at its annual gathering in Boston, on WEDNESDAY evening, January 25th 1865; and to this convocation of the friends of impartial liberty they cordially invite all who desire to aid in breaking every yoke, and setting every captive free. And may the result abundantly meet the necessities of an association, whose crown of glory is its unswerving fidelity, through years of conflict and martyrdom, to the "self-evident truths" enunciated in the Declaration of American Independence! 
Where personal attendance is impracticable or inconvenient, donations may be sent to either of the undersigned, or to WILLIAM I. BOWDITCH, Esq., 8 Rellroad Exchange, Boston, Treasurer of the American Anti-Slavery Society. All such will be duly acknowledged and faithfully expended.
L. Mark Child, Elizabeth Gay,
Mary May, Mary Willey,
Louisa Loring, Ann Rebecca Bramhall,
Homiella Sargent, Sarah J. Nowell,
Helen Eliza Garrison, Elizabeth von Arnim, Sarah Shaw Russell, Alby H. Stephenson,
Sarah Russell May, Eliza Apthorp,
Anna Shaic Greene., Sarah Cowing,
Sarah Blake Shaw, Sarah H. Southwick,
Caroline C. Thayer, Mary Elizabeth Sargent,
Lydia D. Parker, Sarah C. Atkinson,
Caroline R. Putnam, Abby Francis, Mattie Griffith, Georgina Otis,
Mary Jackson, Katharine EarleFarnum,
Eneliva A. Smith, Rebecca Bradford,
Sarah Bradford, Ellen Wright Garrison.
Caroline M. Severance,
ON AMERICAN SLAVERY.
BY PROF. F. W. NEWMAN.
1. Duties are reciprocal. Whether it be written or nor in a Constitution, a Power which claims allegiance owes protection.
2. The Federal Government has always claimed illegiance of the Africans on its soil. It put its claim into fact in 1812, when it drafted and armed slaves against English invasion. It therefore has had unquestionable responsibility for any thing inhuman in the legal status of the African race.
3. So long as it could not do them justice without initiating a bloody and uncertain war, it could not be <illegible> for shrinking to face the negro problem direct. Nevertheless, during the whole time that the North its save white life, be it supposed,) not only refused cognizance of wrongs done to the whole colored race, but did nothing whatever to undermine the system, a debt kept accumulating against North as well as South.
4. On the day that civil war broke out, the negro bill against the Union fell due. By rebellion, (as Mr. Sumner protested in the Senate,) the States forfeited fell legal claim to have <illigble> peculiar laws respected.
From that hour the <illigble> the rebel area stood before the Federal Government in two classes only,-loyal or disloyal citizens <illigble> owing allegiance, all politically equal. Delay in avowing their equality could but damage the moral position of the North, lower the loyalty of slaves to the Union, weaken the zeal of free colored men, and, in short, enhance the penalties of neglect which in the justice of God had to be paid by the Union.
5. Where masters collectively desire to free their slaves, there are many possible ways of effecting it Feudally with mutual benefit and without ill-will. But when emancipation has to come by force from without, any measure which is not immediate and complete is a cruel fraud to the slave. Apprenticeship to
his old master is merely a tyrannical serfdom, which
may work back into slavery itself.
6. When, with the campaign of the Chickahominy, all hopes had vanished of lessening the uncertainties of war by dissembling the rights of the negro; when the only way to save bloodshed was to develop the military power of the North to its maximum, and strike as hard as possible; it was a culpable blindness to postpone justice to the negro,-a culpable weakness to pleased, under mere cover of military necessity, for such half justice as was done; as though justice were a thing to be ashamed of, when the Republic was verily
guilty concerning its brother,-and knew if! 
7. To refuse protection to the innocent is a sin in those who have power to defend them. Overwhelming defeat did not cover the disgrace of Francis of Austria, in surrendering his faithful soldier, Andress Heper, to the vengeance of Napoleon I. Under no amount of calamity would Generals or Presidents have been willing to propitiate great rebels by sacrificing white loyalists to their malice or cupidity. To compliment away the natural and indefeasible rights of black men, for administrative convenience, is not a <illegible> crime.
8. Conquest imposes on victors responsibility for
<c02>
the institutions which they sanction. Partial guilt for Southern, slavery always rested oh the North. The whole guilt will be hers for whatever of serfdom
or other unjust degradation she shall permit in conquered districts.
9. Where, as in Turkey, one race carries arms, and another is disarmed, no good intentions of the supreme Government can hinder irresponsible tyranny
and national disintegration. Unless the Federal Government can keep in its own hands full control over arms, it is vital to the future of the Union to maintain
at all hazards the right of colored men to carry them. 
10. The Constitution, which forbids, under the name of Peerage, the hereditary elevation of the meritorious, much more forbids the hereditary degradation
of the innocent. If a Northern State were to pass laws for enslaving or otherwise degrading the lrish race or the German race, Congress would overrule
this as inconsistent with Republicanism. To pretend difficulty in equalizing the races is absurd; the difficulty is in sharply defining them: and what General Butler found practicable, General Banks cannot persuade us to be impracticable. When Southern loyalists see the full equality of the races to be important to their own safety, lack of zeal in this cause becomes doubly disgraceful to the North.
11. The greater the animosity of certain classes to the equalization of the races, so much the greater is the necessity of that equalization to the future of the Union. The development of Treason in Pro-Slavery fanatics makes it of double and threefold necessity to secure enthusiastic devotion to the Union in the whole colored race.
12. Free colored men in Louisiana have an additional claim on the Federal Government. Having inherited from France and by Treaty equal rights with white men, the local injustice which degraded them might have been resented by France against the whole Union. To disown such injustice from the first moment of conquest was as much a duty of the Federal Government as to observe any other treaty with a foreign power.
13. The policy which interpreted "men held to service" as limited to men of African race, and refused to inquire whether they were rightfully so held, was in its nature arbitrary, in its result cruelly unjust, and in its intention temporary: it therefore could not bind successors. Congress has now disowned such policy, by repealing all Fugitive Slave Laws. It has hereby virtually protested that slavery, as understood by the South, is unknown to the Constitution. After this, it is not clear why this proposition should not be distinctly enunciated by Congress in a Declaratory Law. By Declaratory Law (English histories tell us) the battles of English liberty were fought. 
14. To start from the monstrous concession that a State any rule any class of citizens to be slaves, and define all blood to be African which is mixed with a drop of African; and then hold conventions to alter the Constitution with a view to remove this monstrosity; is surely to give immense advantage to an inhuman wickedness. What if Kentucky had sold children's flesh in the shambles? Who then would hold Conventions to put into the Constitution a prohibition of Cannibalism? Let the Constitution be put fairly on its trial, whether it is at present competent to put down every form of immoral iniquity, before we praise the Convention of Baltimore for its suggested move against slavery.

"HONOR TO WHOM HONOR."
HOSPITAL FOR COLORED TROOPS,
CITY POINT, Va., Nov. 21, 1864.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-As I know that both yourself and readers take a lively interest in every fact or circumstance that in any way illustrates the capacity of the colored race to go forward in the onward movements of our race, I shall send you indications of capacity as seen at this place. 
The hospitals at this place contains, at date of this letter, about 4500 patients. The number of their patients varies from time to time. About 700 of these 4500 are at the hospital for colored troops with which I am laboring in the service of the U. S. Sanitary Commission. The hospitals for white troops here are corps hospitals, and at each of these this great and good Commission has its tent and its agents for the receiving and disbursing of its various articles for the comfort, health and well-being of the soldier. At the hospital for colored troops, Miss Gilson, who has laid her very life on the altar of her country in her devotion to sick and wounded men, has her light diet kitchen. From this kitchen an average of ninety of the sickest of the men receive daily their rations. The food, as far as possible, is adapted to the condition of the patients. A large portion of the raw materials with which their kitchen is supplied is drawn from the Commissary and Steward of the hospital, and, of course, furnished by the Government. Many things, however, which the men require, and which the Government does not furnish, are supplied by the Sanitary Committee; and, indeed, very often the Committee and Steward get short of some of the articles which they are accustomed to furnish, and of which they ought always to have plenty, and then the Sanitary Committee steps in and supplies the deficiency. Government also furnishes some of the manual labor for the establishment. There are other light diet kitchens connected with the different corps hospitals at City Point. Aside from what the Sanitary Committee furnishes these kitchens, they keep a stock of clothing, consisting mainly of shirts, drawers, socks, towels, handkerchiefs, suspenders, arm-slings, and pillows. They also keep constantly on hand writing materials, pipes and tobacco, needles,
thread, pins, buttons, and various articles as forwarded by the loving hearts of the nation. These are daily supplied to the men, either at the door of the Sanitary Committee tent, or sent to the several wards of the hospital. The only drawback there is upon the unalloyed pleasure of delivering these goods to the persons for whom they were intended by the givers, is deficiency in supply, great as it is, to meet the pressing demand. In the matter of writing materials there is usually a good supply; and every man who calls gets his paper envelope, pen and holder, ink, and some one to write for him if he needs such assistance. This is a great matter in itself. But with some other articles, and those too of the first importance to the very life of the soldier, a discrimination
has to be made, and to make it is often enough to break a tender heart. This painful work is mostly confined to the distribution of the good wool shirts,
socks and drawers, of which, though the supply seems large, it is not sufficient to meet the immense demand which presses upon us.
It may seem a strange statement, that more men die at the hospital where they are sent to be cured, than from any previous hurt or disease. Yet I believe that this statement comes near the truth. Let me give my reasons. It is a well-known fact, that nearly all the men who are in the active duties of a soldier at the front find it impossible to keep themselves entirely free from vermin; while the more untidy and careless gather large supplies of the grayback crawlers. Now at hospitals there is a decided prejudice against creepers. The men at front wear shirts and drawers of wool-shirts of wool in the hottest weather, and as a matter of course become careless of exposure; indeed, their duty is a constant exposure to the bullet of the enemy, the dangers of change of climate, and the inclemency of the elements. Well, he gets hart in battle, or exhausted by work in the trenches, or over worn by his duties of various kinds, and is sent first to the field hospital, and if he does not rally at once, he is forwarded to the base hospital at City Point. Here there is a decided dislike to lice. So the men, on arriving here, are stripped of their warm wool shirts and drawers, washed thoroughly by the nurses, if too weak lo do it themselves, and supplied with thin, very thin cotton shirts and drawers, and turned over to the tender mercies of the elements. Is it any wonder that many of the men die?-that pneumonia is not only the most com
<c03>
mon, but the most fatal of the diseases from which the men suffer and die? While I write, (5 o'clock, A. M.) the barking is incessant, loud and fearful, proclaiming the certain approach of death in the tents all around me. Simply for the difference in expense between a cotton shirt and a woollen one is this terrible exposure inflicted. Was there ever such folly, such sheer financial folly outside of army regulations? These men cost the Government or the people from three hundred to a thousand dollars a man, and many of them by their experience, courage and skill as soldiers are valuable to the nation beyond any power of gold to compute; and yet for lack of two or three dollars per man, their lives are put in peril by this violent change in their clothing!
But I am wandering from my main subject. I suppose that we suffer no more in this particular than the men of other corps; though I believe it is generally conceded that the colored troops are the greater sufferers where the exposure is to cold, while the white troops suffer most when the dangers come from heat.
I started to make a comparison between the races in spiritual matters. The Christian Commission maintain an establishment at the City Point hospitals. They have a large force of twenty five agents in their employ. They have a reading-room, a new log building which will accommodate two hundred persons. They hold Sunday meetings, and evening meetings during the week. Their agents visit the tents of the sick and wounded daily, carrying paper envelops, tracts, books and other articles, and offering the men such counsel, consolation, advice and cheer as their peculiar views of these various matters will allow them to furnish. The agents of this Commission come through our Colored Hospital on pleasant week days, in their ministerial garbs, with their haversacks of wares swung over their shoulders, which they deliver with their conversation to all who I will accept. I have often met them, and heard them urging their peculiar notions of original sin and actual sin, &c. upon the men.
Now, then, it is agreed on all hands, that so far as the Colored Hospital is concerned, their spiritual work here is one of purely supererogation. How is this? Do not the colored troops need the ministrations of religion as well as others? Yes, they do. But they have at least four preachers of their own number-three of them sergeants, and one private. All of these men are good preachers, considering their opportunities; and one of them, (sergeant John K. V. Morgan,) born on the eastern shore of Maryland, and educated in the Methodist connection, partly in Philadelphia and partly in Boston, is a man of reading and culture, and by far the ablest preacher at City Point. This I believe is a universal verdict. I have been present at his meetings when many of the hospital officials were present, the very highest among the rest, and I never have heard but one opinion on the subject. His meetings, too, in the crowded attendance, outdo any other held at this place. I have seen the building where his meetings are held not only packed in the ordinary meaning of that term as applied to full meetings, but the gentlemen in shoulder-straps were roosting like turkeys around on the rough beams of the building, while the outside crowd, who could hear just as well as those inside the house, was half as large as the inside one. Week after week his evening meetings are thus fully attended. Those who wish seats must go early. The evening meetings on Wednesday and Friday evenings equally well attended, there always being a large surplus of listeners on the outside of the house. I have several times attended the Christian Commission service, both their Sunday and week-day evening service, and though their house is generally well filled, I never saw it packed, and never on any occasion saw any person taking the trouble to stand outside the house to hear what was being said inside of it; yet they have a population of over four thousand from which to draw their hearers, and we of less than one thousand. They maintain a speaking force of about twenty-five! ministers of the various sects calling themselves evangelical! with all the talent found in the white corps hospitals; and we having nothing but what is found in the enlisted men of our hospital. The Christian Commission agents are constantly changing, each one of them staying six weeks only. They give their services, it is said, and only receive in compensation their expenses. But their expenses amount to a pretty heavy sum of money. Allowing that they stay on an average forty days each, and that their expenses in travel and board in coming and going and staying are two dollars per day, it makes the round sum of eighty dollars per man, or fifty dollars per day for the force of fifty-five men. Now, then, it does not matter who pays these bills. The enormous expenses of the Government itself in maintaining the war, as well as the smaller expenses of the Sanitary and Christian Commissions, all come from the hard earnings of the people. That each church pays its own minister's expenses does not show that the money is well expended. Are the labors of these men worth what they cost? What a contrast between the Colored Hospital and the Corps Hospitals for white troops! In the Colored Hospital the maintenance of public worship on week-day evenings and Sundays does not cost one dollar above the soldier's pay; and yet the meetings are more numerously attended and the preaching abler than those maintained by the Christian Commission at an expense of three hundred and fifty dollars per week.
But it may be said that these evangelical agents do other work besides holding meetings. Well, in so far as they do the same kind of work as that done by the Sanitary Commission, it is doubtless a good work. The articles of use and necessity furnished the soldier do him good, whether furnished from love and good will, or for the sake of melting his feelings that he may be the more easily run over in the evangelical mould.
The persons who started the Christian Commission, if I am rightly informed, disclaimed all intention of supplanting the Sanitary Commission in the work which that Commission was doing. They seem to depart very essentially from their declared intentions; indeed, I think they found that their work of evangelizing the army would be too barren in its results without doing something for the soldiers' physcal wants; and so, instead of supplementing the Sanitary Commission, they work to supplant it. During Miss Gilson's absence East, two ladies (?) of the Christian Commission came and offered to take charge of her light diet kitchen, but the Surgeon in charge declined to make the proposed change. It is a great waste of money to have two such association in the field to do similar work, and a heavy responsibility rests upon those who put the Christian Commission into the field. All good men can work together in the Sanitary Commission; none but those in regular standing in evangelical churches are allowed to labor in the Christian Commission. Then why not call it the Evangelical Commission?-or, at any rate the Evangelical Christian Commission? In its very naming there is something crooked. 
O this sectarian, exclusive spirit! how it mars whatever it touches! May it, with slavery, which it has done so much to defend, receive a mortal blow by the fervent heat which war engenders! Yours, for whatever is Christian-like,
D. S. WHITNEY.
NEW YORK, Dec. 10. The Herald's Army of the Potomac correspondent says: On Wednesday last, owing to the annoyance by rebels firing upon working parties at Dutch Gap Canal, portions of two colored regiments of infantry and a section of Martin's 5th Artillery, under General B. C. Ludlow, crossed to the north side of the James River, and drove the rebels bade, and effected a lodgment at the upper terminus of the canal, where they entrenched themselves, thus protecting the laborers on the canal.
The people of the Northwest propose to hold another great Sanitary Fair at Chicago, to open on the 22nd of February, and close on the 4th of March, 1865.
<c04>
GEN. BANKS'S CIVIL POLICY IN LOUISIANA.
On the evening of the 31st of October last, Major Gen. Banks delivered an address in Boston, before the Young Men's Christian Commission, upon the organization of the Freedmen of Louisiana, and their condition. 
Subsequently, Gen. Banks received the, following letter of thanks from the Hon. Gerrit Smith, which speaks for itself:
PETERBORO', Nov. 21,1864.
GEN. BANKS-My Dear Sir: I have read your speech of the 31st ultimo in Boston. From my heart do I thank you for having made it; the whole country is your debtor for it. I trust those, with whose clamor against you I have never had the least sympathy, will now be satisfied with your relations to the black population of Louisiana, and with its condition.
Your manifestly great love of Louisiana may exaggerate her merits. If it does not, (and I confess your statistics go very far to prove it does not,) then is she worthy to be in our sisterhood of States.
Sincerely do I thank you for your honorable mention of my name, in connection with Mr. Garrison and Mr. Thompson.
It is now more than ten years since we met, fellow-members of Congress. During all this time, we have not met each other; and very happy should I be to take you by the hand, and tell you that I thank you for your entire and enlightened devotion to oar country. 
The late election is one of the many voices which declare that this dear country shall live, and not die. With great regard your friend,'
GERRIT SMITH.
THE BATTLE OF HONEY HILL.
The N. Y. Herald has an account of the battle at Honey Hill, near Savannah, on the 30th ult., from which we take the following:
The Thirty-second United States colored troops were ordered to charge the rebel fort as soon as we had got in position at the head of the road. They attempted, but got stuck in the marsh which they found impassable at the point of their assault; and a galling fire of grape, canister and musketry being opened on them, they were forced to retire.
The 34th U. S. colored troops also essayed an assault, but could not get near enough to produce any effect upon it. These regiments, however, only fell back to the line of battle, where they remained throughout the entire fight.
The 55th Massachusetts (colored) went into the fight on the right of the brigade, commanded by Col. Hartwell. The fire became very hot, but still the regiment did not waver-the line merely quivered. Capt. Goraud, of Gen. Foster's staff, whose gallantry was conspicuous all day, rode up just as Col. Hartwell was wounded in the hand, and advised him to retire, but the Colonel declined, and was anxious to charge the works.
Gol. Hartwell gave the order, the colors came to the extreme front, when the Colonel shouted, "Follow your colors!" and then led the way himself, and marched off obliquely, in column by division. Col. Hartwell was mounted, and so was Capt. Crane, his Adjutant General. Just as they reached the marsh in front of the turn in the road, and within a short distance of the rebel works, brave Col. Hartwell's horse, while struggling through the mud, was literally blown in pieces by a discharge of canister.
The Colonel was wounded at the same time, and attempted to jump from his horse; but the animal fell on him, pressing him into the mud. At this time he was riding at the side of the column, and the men pressed on past. But as they neared the fort, they met a murderous fire of grape, canister, and bullets at short range. As the numbers of the advance were thinned, the few who survived began to waver, and finally the regiment retreated.
In retiring, Lieutenant Ellsworth, with a few men, extricated the Colonel from his perilous position after much delay, and by cutting the saddle from his horse. In carrying him away, he was again wounded in the side, and advised Lieutenant Ellsworth to leave him behind; but the Lieutenant and a few men brought him from the field without further injury, and he will probably survive. He is now at Beaufort, doing well.
The Fifty-fourth Massachusetts, heroes of all the hard fights that have occurred in the department since their arrival here, were too much scattered in this battle to do full justice to themselves. Only two companies went into the fight at first, under Lieutenant Col. Hooper. They were posted on the left. Subsequently they were joined by four more companies, who were left on duty in the rear.
The Twenty-fifth Ohio, soon after the commencement of the engagement, were sent to the right, where they swung round and fought on a line nearly perpendicular to our main front. A portion of the Fifty-fifth Massachusetts were with them. One or two charges were essayed, but were unsuccessful; but the front was maintained there throughout the afternoon. The Twenty-fifth had the largest loss of all the regiment. 
The colored troops fought well throughout the day. There was probably a greater proportion of stragglers among them than among the white troops, but not a single regiment broke as a regiment.
Counter charges were made at various times during the fight by the enemy, but our infantry and artillery mowed them down, and they did not at any time get very near our lines. Whenever a charge of our men was repulsed, the rebels would flock out of their works, whooping like Indians; but Ames's guns and the terble volleys of our infantry would send them back. The Naval Brigade behaved splendidly.
Gen. Foster, finding the enemy's position at Honey Hill too strong to be easily taken, and not of sufficient importance, considering the object of the expedition, to warrant a continuance of the engagement, withdrew to a strong position on the Savannah road, from which he will be able-to conduct future operations.
GEN. FOSTER'S EXPEDITION - CASUALTIES IN MASSACHUSETTS REGIMENTS. The Traveller publishes the following list of casualties in Massachusetts regiments, at the battle of Honey Brook, Nov. 30:
FOCRTH MASS. CAVALRY.
Co. B-Chas. H. Weaver, left arm amputated.
NAVAL BRIGADE MARINES.
Killed-Orderly Serg't. Knapp, of the Mingoe.
Wounded-Corp'l Clancy, of the Pontiac; Corp's Young, Canandaigua; privates Maloney, Canandaigua; Kelley, Sonoma, Walker, Paronee, mortally; Wilson, Mingoe. Missing-Private Joy, Mingoe, [rebel.)
FIFTY-FOURTH MASSACHUSETTS.
Co. G-1st. Lieut. David Reid, wounded and reported killed; Serg't. Henry J. Carter, missing. Wounded-Corp. William A. Cunningham, privates Aaron Cummings, Samuel Duncan, Stephen Franklin, Geo. Reynolds, John Shorter, Lewis L. Simpson Corp. Hill Harris.
Co. C. Killed-Corp. Richard M. Foster. Wounded -Privates Henry Gladden, Peter Harden, Wm. J. Pennington, Wm. Van Alstine.
Co. D. Wounded-Corp. Alex. Renkins, privates Wm. Butler, Chatles Hawkerson, Sam'l Hunter, John Saudis. Missing-Wm. H. Rennard, Hezekiah Stewart!
Co. E. Wounded-1st Lieut. Charles G. Chapman, slightly in arm; Corp. Henry T. Stewart, Corp. Andrew Deforest; privates Peter Bruce, Benjamin Halmus. 
Co. H. Wounded-Corp. Thomas D. Freeman; privates Geo. Alexander, Geo. Brodie, Andrew J. Etheridge, Wm. Henderson, John Johnson, 2d, Tyrrel Roundtoe, Jeff. B. Stewart, David Walker.
Co. I. Wounded-Lorenzo S. Lewis;' missing- Thos. E. Burger.

Co. K. Wounded-David Bronnon, Robert Nelson, Francis Parkis, Samuel Stevenson.
Officers-1st Lieut. Edward B. Emerson,'Co. D, wounded in face, severe; 2d Lieut: Chas. O. Haliett, Co. B, left thigh, severe.

FIFTY-FIFTH MASS.
Col. A. S. Hartwell, hand, contusion of side and foot; Capt. W. D. Crane, killed; Lieut. Winthrop P. Boynton, killed; Lieut. Josiah C. Hall, wounded in side, probably not dangerously; Capt. C. C. Soule, slightly, arm; Captain G. M. Woodard, thigh, flesh wound; Lieut. E. H. Jewett, lip; Serg't. Major J. M. Trotter, slightly, graze of neck.

Co. A. lulled-Privates-W. Purnell, H. Morgan,
E. Porter. Wounded-Serg't W. H. Saunders, hand; Serg't David Spears, finger; Serg't. D. Moss, very slightly; Corp. J. Patterson; privates A. Claiborne, leg and shoulder; James Manley, foot; W. Lewis, thigh; James Gowena, P. Spencer.
Co. B. Killed-Privates J. Smothers, A. S. King, W. Jones, C. Brown, J. Haven, G. W. Bush, E. Lewis, J. Boyer. Wounded-Serg't G. Bazil, flesh of thigh; Corp. O. Oglesbee, Corp. Dobbs; Privates W. Bodry, finger; J. Chism, W. Christy, S. Cox, scalp; R. H. Curtis, W. Howard, W. H. Moore, T. Overton, J. Smith, T. Ventris, A. Wigging, W. Fox, J. Kees, P. Mitchell, R. Ritchie, E. Thoma's, F. Whetsal.
Co. C. Killed-Privates As Haggins, O. Duncan. Wounded-Corporals G. Barret, D. Adams; Privates D. Barrett, W. Bowlin A. Jenkins, S. Hill, fingers; W. C. Roberts, B. Scott, T. Connor, E. J. Stuart, J. Bowlin, J. Crockett, L. Roberts, J. Roberts, J. P. Hightower, D. Harrison.
Co. D. Killed-Sergeant A. R. Lewis, Corporal G. Taylor; Privates E. Allen, C. Stafford, S. Ward. JV Posey, W. H. Griffin. Wounded-1st Sergeant J.
F. Shorter, knee and back; Sergeant P. Fountain, flesh of side; Corporal P. Crowder, back; Corporal B. Henry, groin; Privates L. S. Brown,arm; W. Crainshard, E. Darrickson, W. Glaspy, W. J. Peel, S. Sharp, J.Riley, wrist; R.Burk, C. Dixon, T. H. Fitzgerald, F. Hall, T. Salmons, B. Lee.
Co. E.'-Killed-Privates C. Butler, C. Charleston.
<c05>
Wonnded-J. Black, hand; W.H. Milderdam, hand; M. Thompson, hand; G. Washington, face; E, G. Flood, cheek; J. Scott, body; F. Wells, knee.
Co.F. Killed-Privates E. Major, W. Gibbs, H. Vina. Wounded-Serg't. C. L. Mitchell, foot torn off by a shell; Corp. J. Haddox, foot; Corp. C. Donogan, slight contusion; privates N. Champ, finger; B. F. Ditcher, side, slight; S. Davis, nose, slightly; J. Gillard, wrist; A. Northrop, shoulder; D. A. Payne, head and body; W. Wicker, finger; S. Webster, finger; J. Shipp, back; J. H. Hurley, sculpt slightly.
Co. I. Wounded-Sergeant J. Mathiz, graze of shoulder; Corp. R. Morrison, arm; J. Jones, hand; J. N. Graham, hand; G. Roberts, face; J. Kane, flesh of thigh.
Co. K. Killed-R. M. King, color serg't. Wounded - Serg't Peter Fleming, Serg't. A. Turner, Corp. R. Jackson, Corp. G. McPherson, scalp; A. A. Williams, C. Stedman, E. Cross, slightly, S. January, J. Wheeler, contusion; H. Jarvis, J. W. Stevenson, hand.

UNION MOVEMENT IN KENTUCKY.
A STATE CONVENTION CALLED.
A meeting of prominent Union men of the Sixth Congressional district of Kentucky was held at Covington on the 30th day of November last, W. W. Trimble, of Harrison county, presiding, and A. L. Burke, of Pendleton, acting as secretary. Seven counties were represented.
After a full comparison of views, a series of resolutions was proposed and adopted, declaring in favor of measures to be set on foot in the district and Commonwealth, and urged upon the State and Federal authorities, "which shall effectually and speedily secure a total extinction of slavery" in the State; and that peace to them as a people demands that African slavery, the foundation principle of the insurgents, shall be removed, and "a new, fixed, and reliable element of labor established."
The meeting also concurred in the call for a convention of the friends of the Government, to meet at Frankfort on the fourth day of January next.
A central committee for the Sixth Congressional district was appointed, a headquarters established at Covington, and arrangements made for the thorough organization of the Union party on a radical basis, as set forth in the Baltimore platform, and since reaffirmed by the President of the United States.
SOLDIERS' AND SAILORS' HOME. The following is being circulated throughout the loyal States:-
Whereas, It is desirable to establish a Home for disabled soldiers; and whereas, the flaw or crack in the old historic bell, imported from England in 1752 for the State House in Philadelphia, by order of the province of Pennsylvania, and preserved in Independence Hall, is ominous of the failure to carry out the injunction of the motto imprinted on it; therefore we, the undersigned, citizens of the United States of America, hereby attest our loyalty for our glorious Union, our gratitude to its noble defenders, and our love and veneration for our divine law of liberty, by contributing one dollar each to a fund for the purpose of procuring a large bell, to be called the Union Liberty Bell, which is to be placed on the steeple of Independence Hall, preserving the same Scriptural motto as that on the old bell, viz:
"Proclaim liberty throughout all the land, unto all the inhabitants thereof."-Leviticus xxv. 10.
The new bell to be rung for the first time when we shall be blessed with a righteous, just and honorable peace, based on the principles of the Declaration of American Independence.
The excess of the contributions beyond what will be required for the purchase of the bell, to be applied for the establishment of a Model Asylum, or Home for Invalids, for our brave soldiers and sailors, who, by loss of limb or otherwise, have been deprived of their ordinary means of support, and are thereby justly entitled to the protection of a grateful community. 
Should the subscription be sufficiently general and liberal, some judicious system will be sought for the relief of helpless orphans, widows and others who have been rendered destitute by the loss of those who have sacrificed their lives on the sacred altar of patriotism, liberty and humanity.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN, G. USHER,
WM. H. SEWARD, W. DENNISON,
W. P. FESSENDEN, EDW. BATES,
EDWIN M. STANTON, JOSEPH J. LEWIS, GIDEON WELLES,
Philadelphia, July 4, 1864.
THE INHUMANITY AT CAMP NELSON. We are happy to learn from our correspondent at Camp Nelson, Ky., who communicated the facts regarding the wives and children of colored soldiers being driven from the camp, that when the afiair reached the ears of Gen. Burbridge, now in the field, as commandant of the District of Kentucky, he immediately revoked the unjust order, and directed that the families should be returned to camd. Adjutant General Thomas, who happened to visit this place, was also instrumental in procuring speedy redress.-Boston Journal.
THOMAS WHITSON, the venerable Pennsylvania Quaker, who died last week, aged 69, was one of those remarkable men who are occasionally met with in private life unknown by wide reputation, yet nevertheless recognized by all who know them as ranking among the good and great. One of the original members of the American Anti-Slavery Society, he remained one of its pillars till his death-always a staunch, clear-sighted, and useful advocate of Emancipation. His character, appearance, manners, methods of thought and speech, in a word, his whole personality, if truly described, would appear like some fancy-sketch of a novelist-such a personage as Dickens or Thackeray would have set in a book. How can we ever forget his stalwart frame-his massive head bent on one side, as if with over-weight of intellect -his merry twinkling eyes and constant smile-his immemorial white hat-his admirable awkwardness of gait-his entertaining offences against the King's English-his wit and drollery-his pith of sense in every word he uttered-and, above all, his pure delight in the social circle and the "friends' meeting." Unique, eccentric, and attractive, he was everywhere a favorite, both in public and private. In debate we have heard him floor an antagonist amid such general merriment that even the beaten wrestler would laugh and enjoy it. And some of "Uncle Thomas's" speeches, when in his best mood, were as delicious and memorable as we have ever heard from more famous lips. Always rough ore, unsmelted, they were nevertheless veined with pure gold. Such a good man's life and death are a gain to the world-showing the best fruit, fully ripened, of the Christian morality of the age. If ever a human being might be called without guile-if ever a human life above reproach-if ever a human bosom over-full of Christian charity-such is the tribute due to this rich-minded, sweet-tempered, noble old man, over whose grave a hallowed memory now remains for his monument!
THOMAS WHITSON.
At a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society, held on the 30th ult., the following resolutions were unanimously adopted: 
Resolved, That in the death of our Vice President, Thomas Whitson, the society has lost one of its earliest and most devoted members, and the community a valuable citizen, whose long life was a beautiful illustration of true Christian democracy; whose earnest sympathies were with every enterprise of philanthropy, and whose untiring labors were freely given to the work of abolishing American slavery.
Resolved, That we cherish, as a precious legacy, the example of large-hearted benevolence and uncompromising fidelity to the Right, bequeathed by our departed friend and coadjutor.
JAMES MOTT, Chairman.
BENJAMIN C. BACON, Secretary.
MARRIED-In Chelsea, Nov. 24, WM. ALEX. WILSON and HELEN S. BENNETT.
DIED-At Chambers Island, Wisconsin, 2d June last, Mr. ABRAM. D. TASKER, aged 44. His remains were brought to his home and friends at Saco, Maine, in charge of his only remaining son, and funeral services were conducted by his old friend, and co-laborer in the work of freedom and humanity, Rev. John Stevens.
Mr. Tasker was well-known as an uncompromising Abolitionist, and a fearless rebuker of all pro-slavery conduct and compromise, during a large part of his life; in times and places when, as his friend Mr. Stevens truly said, "it cost something to be an Abolitionist." For nearly a score of years he boa been a constant reader of the Liberator, and has never hesitated anywhere to stand by the great principles of freedom, right, and progress, which that paper has so long and powerfully advocated. He never swerved from his consistent course, although frequently sojourning in very pro-slavery places, where the charges of "infidelity" and the like were frequently showered upon him for his rebuke of the time-servers about him, in the churches as well as out of them. Through all these long years, be stood fast in the anti-slavery faith, honoring and revering the life and example of Wm. Lloyd Garrison, and passed away with the hope strong in his breast that liberty for all would be the result of our country's mighty struggle. God grant that his hope may be folly realised, and our country be truly free, is the earnest desire and prayer of those of his family who survive him. To them his loss was a very heavy one; all the more that it followed, within a few weeks, the death of his eldest son, GEORGE TASKER, who was wounded in the battle of the Wilderness, May 6th, and died at Fredericksburg, Ya., May 20th, 1864.-Comm.
<c06>
TO THE BENEVOLENT.-Thomas F. Small, formerly a slave, and for more than a year in the service of the United States, at the battles of Williamsburg, Malvern Bill, Fair Oaks and other places, having, while sick, been left without help or care froze his feet so that amputation became necessary; and not having been regularly enlisted, cannot receive a pension or pay from the Government; he, therefore, appeals to the sympathy of the kind-hearted to help him in his efforts to obtain a sum sufficient to procure himself a pair of artificial legs-as in his present situation he can only more himself upon his knees. A portion of the sum needed for this purpose has been kindly subscribed by certain benevolent people in North Bridgewater; and it is very desirable that the whole amount should be made up speedily. Any donations sent to the Editor of the Liberator, or to Robert F. Wallcut, Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston, will be gratefully acknowledged. This unfortunate but deserving young man is about 20 years old, and his crippled condition demands the most compassionate consideration.

THE TRIBUNE for 1865. PROSPECTUS.
The Military and Naval successes of 1864, with the auspicious result of our Presidential contest, have lifted a heavy weight front the breasts of the Loyal Millions of our countrymen. It is now felt, even by those who have been distrustful and faint-hearted, that the Union is to emerge triumphant from the deadly strife whereinto she was so wickedly precipitated by her assailants, and that Slavery, her relentless foe, is to encounter the fate of Haman. The perils of foreign intervention and of Western insurrection are safely passed; ABRAHAM LINCOLN, no longer assailable as the choice of a minority, holds the helm of State for four years longer; the Rebellion, palpably weakened by its defeats and losses during the year now closing-with its credit so reduced that its purse-bearer officially declares that its Treasury Notes can only be exchanged for coin at the rate of twenty-five for one, while its bonds command but six cents on the dollar-but awaits the blow which shall soon strike the sword from its parricidal hand, and remit its master-spirits to the justice, or it may be the clemency, of a sorely wronged and justly incensed, but forbearing and magnanimous People. Such are the auspices which justify our faith that the year soon to open will see the Stars and Stripes float unchallenged from every battlement in the Republic, and the perfect law of Liberty for All immovably imbedded in the Constitution of our Union.
The NEW YORK TRIBUNE, founded in 1841, will enter upon its twenty-fourth year with quickened hopes and enlarged means of usefulness. Its principles need no restatement: its aims are the diffusion of Intelligence and the inculcation of a spirit of Freedom and Humanity. When this truth shall have been generally recognized and established as the basis of our institutions and policy, that injustice to the poorest, the weakest, the most despised, is a fearful mistake-that no community or State can afford to wrong even its humblest member-then will our land bask once more in the calm sunshine of peace and prosperity.
THE TRIBUNE has for the last year been published without prost to its proprietors, solely because of the depreciation of our currency below the specie standard, compelling us to buy paper and other materials at a cost considerably above the full amount received from our subscribers. On our Weekly edition, the net loss has amounted to many thousands of dollars; while our large receipts from Advertising have been wholly absorbed by the extraordinary expenses of Correspondence, Telegraphing &c., devolved on us by the war. As we do not suppose our patrons desire that we should work for them at our own cost, and prefer not to be patronized by any who may desire it, we have somewhat advanced for the ensuing year the prices of our Semi-Weekly and Weekly, as we had already done with those of our Daily editions. This increase is purely nominal: there never before was a time who the farmers of our country could buy THE TRIBUNE for so ittle of their own products or labor as they can by the ollowing
TERMS:
DAILY TRIBUNE.
Single copy, 4 cents.
Mail subscribers, 1 copy, 1 year-312 numbers, $10 00
SEMI-WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
Mail subscribers, 1 copy, 1 year-104 numbers, 4 00
do. 2 copies, do. do. 7 00
do. 3 copies or over, to one address, for
each copy, 3 00
WEEKLY TRIBUNE.
Mail subscribers, single copy, 1 year, 32 numbers, 2 50
do. Clubs of five, to one address, 10 00
Persons remitting $20 for 10 copies, to one address, will receive one copy extra, gratis.
Persons remitting $40 for 20 copies, to one address, will receive one copy Semi-Weekly, gratis.
Persons remitting $80 for 40 copies, to one address, will receive one copy Daily, gratis.
Drafts on New York payable to the order of "THE TRIBUNE," being safer, are preferable to any other mode of remittance. Bat where drafts cannot be conveniently procured, United States or National Bank bills are the next best, and may be sent by mail; but in case of loss, THE TRIBUNE will not be responsible, unless furnished with a full description of the bills, including the name of the bank, denomination and number, and the time and place of the mailing of the letter with the enclosures. Address THE TRIBUNE, New York.
A FARM OF 1500 ACEES
FOR SALE.
THE St. Mary's Lake Farm, 3 1-2 miles North from the city of Battle Creek, Calhoun county, Michigan, is offered for sale. The proprietor wishing to retire, offers this Farm for sale on reasonable terms as to price and time of payments. The Farm consists of 1500 acres of as rich agricultural land as can be found in the Northern States; 1000 acres of which are improved in the best manner. There are on this road thirty-seven miles of rail and board fence, mostly new. St. Mary's Lake is one of the most beautiful sheets of clear crystal water in the country, and one of the finest fishing lakes is the State. This lake is in the centre of the farm, and is a mile and a quarter long by one third of a mile wide. The surroundings of this lake are unsurpassed for beauty of scenery. There are some eight or ten beautiful sites for residences on either side of the lake. No low marshy grounds connected with the shore of the lake. There are about 400 acres of timber, and 100 acres of the best marsh meadow land on the west side of the farm. The buildings are, the large Farm House, 88 by 56 feet, elevated 50 feet above the lake, commanding a view of a great portion of the farm and of the lake; also, a large frame Boarding-House, and even frame Tenements; two large Barns, 153 by 70 feet each, with stabling below for 130 head of cattle; also, four other Barns, 50 by 40 feet; also, a Steam Circular Saw Mill, 80 by 60 feet-said to be one of the best mills in the State; an Orchard of 800 apple and 1200 of the choicest peach trees, all in fine bearing order; 350 standard pear trees, a large number of plums, cherries, quinces, and a great quantity of grapes and small fruits, too numerous to mention. Perhaps there is not a 1500 acre farm in the Union better adapted to cattle and sheep-raising than is this farm, every field of which has never-failing water. The land is moderately rolling, and no outlay need ever be made for manures. There is one of the most extensive Brick-yards on this farm in the interior of the State. A more beautiful residence cannot be found than is on this farm. A gentleman having sons to settle around him could arrange to make six or eight beautiful farms, each having a large front on the lake, with a beautiful sandy beach. Battle Creek City is one of the beat markets in the State, and is 120 miles west and 162 miles east from Chicago on the Great Michigan Central Railroad. No situation is or can be more healthy. All the water on the farm is clear as crystal, soft and excellent. This farm affords a rare chance to one wishing to go into stock and sheep raising; it is now seeded down to clover and timothy. The farm, with all the stock, sheep, house utensils and 250 tons of clover and timothy hay, is offered at the greatest bargain.
Letters of inquiry, addressed to me at Battle Creek, will receive prompt replies. I refer to Henry C. Wright, Charles O. Burleigh and Parker Pillsbury, who have visited the St. Mary's Lake Farm.
HENRY WILLIS.
Battle Creek, Nov. 18, 1864.
GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H.B. Stanwood & Co's, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co's, where he has been employed for the last fourteen yean, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
in the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice, Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro' Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell's Provision Store, 132 Charles street, Boston.
NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30-ly
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
The following poem, which, in the light of present events, seems almost prophetic, was read by Rev. R. C. WATERSTON, nineteen years ago, before the Boston Mercantile Library Association:-
THE VOICE OF LIBERTY.
The spirit of the Pilgrims
Is spreading o'er the earth,
And millions now point to the land
Where Freedom Lad her birth:-
Hark!-Hear ye not the earnest cry
That peals o'er every wave?-
"GOD above,
IN THY LOVE,
O LIBERATE THE SLAVE!"
Ye heard of trampled Poland,
And of her sons in chains.
While daring thoughts flashed through your minds,
And fire flowed through your veins!
Then wherefore heed ye not the cry
That breaks o'er land and sea?-
"ON EACH PLAIN
REND EACH CHAIN,
AND SET THE CAPTIVE FREE!"
O think ye that our fathers,
That noble patriot band,
Could now look down, with kindling joy,
And smile upon the land?
Or would a trumpet-tone go forth,
And ring from shore to shore,
"all who stand
in THIS LAND
shall be free forevermore!"
Great God, inspire thy children,
And make thy creatures just,
That every galling chain may fall,
And crumble into dust!
then,-Not one soul throughout the land
our fathers died to save,
small again,
BY FELLOW-MEN,
BE BRANDED AS A SLAVE!
JUBILATE-November 8, 1864.
Well done! victorious nation!
Well done! redeemed land!
Now surely God will set thee
Anear to His right hand!
Now surely wrong must falter,
And all its forces fail,
When'neath thy righteons verdict
Our home-bred traitors quail.
Oh, country! sozely stricken!
Sublime in greatest need;
The world is debtor to thee,
Because of this one deed?
What love the nations owe thee
The coming time shall tell;
For soon the morning dawneth,
And all shall yet be well.
From martyrdom to glory,
From trial unto state;
Out of the vale of weeping,
thou shalt walk forth elate;
And hand in hand go with then
A brighter, better peace,
Thau any built on slavery,
And unrsed in slothful ease.
No tear shall fall unnoted,
No wail shall rise in vain,
Although thy martyred heroes
Lie thick on every plain.
The dear, good God shall treasure
These jewels in His crown;
For their dear fakes His blessing
Upon thee cometh down!
Go on, thou conquering nation!
Go on, thou glorious land!
Shake from thy skirts defilement,
And with the righteous stand!
Gird thee in loyal earnest-
Thy hand put boldly forth-
Once pure, thy God shall make thee
His viceroy on the earth!
HOWARD GLYNDON-(LAURA C. REDDEN.)
SLAYERY A REWAED.
"We hold it to be an act of cruelty to deprive the slave of the care and guardianship of a master. If the slave must fight, he should fight for the blessings he enjoys as a slave, and not for the miseries that would attend him if freed."-Richmond Whig.
"The President refuses to employ slaves under arms, but adopts the fatal principle of emancipation as a reward for service in our army as pioneers. This is an absurdity; for we hold that the negro as a slave is in a better condition than in a state of freedom. Emancipation, therefore, is a punishment, not a reward."-Richmond Examiner.
Hear it, oh, dark-browed brothers, hear!
Long toiling at the rebel guns,
Rejoice in trench and fort, and cheer
On pirate decks, 'neath tropic suns!
Hear it, beneath the cane-brake high,-
Listen, amidst the cotton-bloom;-
Stay, flying victims! cease to fly,-
Nor hide in shades of cypress gloom!
Here's glorions, rich reward for you:-
Haste, arm ye for the rebel fight,
And shield the dastard traitor crew,
Your black forms falling for the white!
So shall ye never henceforth fear
The threatened curse of Liberty,
But generous masters, kind and dear,
Rebind your chains of slavery!
Be yours, henceforth, the whip and rack,
The auction-block, the burning brand,-
Be yours the bending, deep-scarred back,
And kiss your noble master's hand.
Be yours the daughters sold to shame,
And yours the sons of unknown fate,-
All blessings which the slave may claim,
Nor curses of a freedman's fate.
Hear it, oh, Northern homes, whose sons
Lie mouldering in their nameless graves;
Hear it, brave men, whose booming guns
Point Southward to the land of slaves!
Echo it up the Shenahdoah,
And down to Richmond's rebel lines,-
Hear, naval hosts, by sea and shore,
Where blaze of burning vessels shines!
Is it for this our heroes die?
For this still bleeds onr martyr band?
Vainly onr flags in triumph fly,
While yet a bondman walks the land!
Hail, victory, hail! by valor won,
And victory gained by ballot free;
God help us till our work is done,
And Freedom reigns from sea to sea!
Tranecript. H. W.
EDMONIA LEWIS.
[The young colored woman who has successfully modelled
the bust of Colonel Shaw.] 
She hath wrought well with her unpractised hand,
The mirror of her thought reflected clear,
This youthful hero-martyr of our land.
With touch harmonious she has moulded here
A memory and a prophecy-both dear:
The memory of one who was so pure
That God gave him (what only can belong
To an unsullied soul) the right to be
A leader for all time in Freedom's chivalry;
The prophecy of that wide, wholesome cure
For foul distrust and bitter, cruel wrong,
Which he did give his life up to secure.
I is fitting that a daughter of the race
Whose chains are breaking should receive a gift
So rare as genius. Neither power nor place,
Fashion or wealth, pride, custom, caste, nor hue
Can arrogantly claim what God doth lift
Above these chances, and bestows on few.
A. Q. W.
<c02>
The Liberator.
RATIONALIST THEORY OF THE BIBLE AS A RULE OF FAITH.
Mr. editor: dear sir-The human mind is capable of faith and unbelief on different grounds. If we were only capable of believing the truth, it would gave us much trouble. But we are capable of knowing much that is true, and consequently of believing it correctly, also of believing much that is not true, and, consequently, believing it incorrectly. How is this? and why is it? Our belief of what we know to be true proceeds on certain infallible rules of faith, and our belief of what we do not know to be true on such as are uncertain and fallible. We have these two kinds of rules of faith, the certain and infallible, and the uncertain and fallible.
If we note rules of correct faith, and discriminate them from others, we find them to be numerous and diversified; but they consist essentially in objects of knowledge. Every thing which we know is a rule of faith in respect to whatever can be believed on its account, and a rule of unbelief in respect to every thing which it precludes us from believing. Real and known objects are rules of correct faith, and unreal, of incorrect faith. Real objects are rules of correct faith, however, only for those objects which are known from them by correct and certain deductions. All other conclusions are incorrect. This introduces the element of logic and reasoning into the theory of faith, and makes it necessary for us to reason correctly from certain premises by certain methods, in order that our faiths may be correct.
The Scriptures are rules of a vast amount of correct and certain faith. They are infallible teachers of much; and many of their infallible teachings are of great value. But those teachings are not all received at a glance, nor all reached in a life-time, nor in an age; nor will they be all readied in countless ages. Science is progressive, and its faiths strike out into infinity. There is no end to possible deductions from the principles of human knowledge. And this applies equally to those contained in the Bible, in other books, and in other things.
The Scriptures are monuments of the ages and countries which produced them, and teach us much of those ages and countries; especially in respect to their religious faiths, affections, and other religious experiences. It is much to know what those faiths and affections were, and what living they produced. The Scriptures are records of human thought and life, and show how men have thought and lived, with some of the consequences of such thinking and living. Many of these showings are of infallible certainty. In regard to them, however, many are the subjects of great mistakes, and need to reverse their opinions. In many things the Scriptures report facts and truths, and report them correctly, with evidence that shows their correctness. In some things, they report the erring judgments and opinions of the authors and times, and do not accompany them with evidence that shows the correctness either of the reports or of the opinions and judgments which they relate. The lover of truth must discriminate, and only accept as true and reliable what he finds proved to be so; the uncertain he should receive as uncertain, and the false reject as false. The sacred books are light-houses along the track of human experience, showing what positions have been taken, and commending them to our examination, but not to our unquestioning acceptance as final deductions of reason.
The Scriptures are infallible rules of faith as far as they relate to objects of certain knowledge, and ac company their teachings with certain evidence of the truth. Beyond this they cannot be depended upon. To depend upon them beyond this is an exercise of sinful credulity, and not of legitimate Christian faith, and exposes the sinner to just providential punishments.
The Scriptures are not given us to supplement reason, or to supersede it, but to serve it. They reveal God and his laws as apprehended by the wise and good, whose experience and opinions they report, How far they reveal God and his laws correctly we must determine by their evidences of the faiths respecting them which they teach; and by other legitimate and reliable information.
Bible opinions cannot be accepted without evidence of their correctness, any more than those of other good books. Still less can they be accepted contrary to evidence from other legitimate sources. To make the Bible an end of controversy for all it asserts is to elevate contradictions and errors to the dignity of truths, and to introduce into the family ideas apples of endless discord and contention. False assumptions cannot be permanently believed, on any authority or any showing. They are not at home in the family of truths, and only make trouble when admitted there. They are sure to be ultimately rejected.
The progress of the human mind in emancipating itself from traditionary errors is one of the most remarkable lessons of history. The Roman Catholics assumed the infallibility of the church, and took human faith under its tutelage and authority. The church adopted the Bible first, and the fathers next, as its guides, and made the fathers lights by which to understand the Bible and limit the domains of truth. The early Protestants perceived that there was a mistake here somewhere, but did not perceive exactly where, nor what it was. They commenced the solution of the difficulty, and concluded very justly-
1. That the church was not an infallible, teacher of religious truth, and that its teachings required to be verified before being accepted.
2. That the church fathers were as little endued with the virtue of infallibility as the sons, and that their opinions must be admitted with discrimination, and only on proof. This put the church of the past on the same footing in respect to opinions as that of the present.
The next step naturally was, to deny that the Bible, which is really the forefathers, was infallible in its opinions, and require them to be verified and received with the same discrimination as the opinions of the fathers. But they did not get so far. They transferred the infallibility scheme of the Catholics from the church and fathers to the forefathers, and there left it, and there it remains to-day in the generally accepted faiths of Protestant Christendom. Some imagine that it will remain there forever. God seems in no haste to bring matters along; but his scheme is one of progress, and the dominion of error is only for a day. The night of this error is at hand. The forefathers are even less to be trusted than the fathers, and their opinions more imperatively demand verification.
Had Protestantism assumed a tenable position, and planted itself on the rock, the results of its conflict might have been different; but its retrocession from the ground assumed by the Catholics, and substitution of the opinions of the forefathers for those of the fathers and sons, as the rule of all correct and legitimate religious faith, was an enormous blunder; and God has set upon it unmistakable marks of his displeasure in the endless divisions that have arisen among Protestants over their new basis. With the principle that the Bible is the rule of all religious faith, no two can resolve it alike, or agree as to what it teaches. Correct rules of faith do not subject inquirers to such embarrassment. They teach one thing to one, and the same thing, not its opposite, to another. The Catholic church is one. The name of Protestantism is Legion. The Rationalistic church will again be one, on the basis of certain truth. The recovery of the Protestant world from its delusion in respect to the supposed infallible correctness of the opinions of the forefathers is a great necessity. This delusion is supposed by some to be the. corner-stone of Protestant Christianity, as the slightly less absurd opinion-if one absurdity can be less than another, of the Catholics, respecting the infallibility of the church, is supposed to be the corner-stone of Catholicism. But neither is correct; the corner-stone of all true
<c03>
religion, both among Protestants and Catholics, is the common truth which both accept, and this is not impaired or diminished, but promoted and increased, by the rejection of associated errors. Christian Rationalism has the advantage both of Protestants and Catholics. It accepts all the precious truths held by both, and rejects only their errors. Besides, it wages no controversy with either, and has occasion to wage none. It loves both for all that they have which is good, and freely rejects the evil of both. Neither Protestantism nor Catholicism has any thing to lose by rejecting hitherto accepted errors, and correcting and improving its system. Both have much to gain by these means; and every day that they defer the good work of correction and improvement, they suffer infinite injury and loss.
Rationalism is designed to be the salvation both of Catholicism and Protestantism. It can save both, and is the only conceivable scheme that can. Catholicism and Protestantism have found it impossible to supersede Mohammedanism and other anti-Christian systems of religion, including Judaism. Christian Rationalism can both regenerate and unite all Christian denominations, and supersede with its revised and corrected system of Christianity all opposing and dissenting religious systems. The first step of Rationalistic progress is correcting the theory of the Scriptures, and giving them their true character. The moment this is done, they will cease to be instruments of division and superstition among Christians, and the course of human progress will receive an impulse such as it has never had since the days of Jesus. Rationalism will inaugurate a reformation far greater than that of Luther; in which religion will be put on its eternal and immovable basis of evidence, and commence its universal conquests and endless reign.
Manhood, with its full maturity of reason and judgment, is only reached through childhood with its boundless play of fancy, and its limited and partial estimate of things. The human race has come up from childhood, and as it approaches the manly stage of its development and powers, has many childish errors to correct. How silly is it for the man to adhere stubbornly to the errors of the child! or to cling to its toys!
The founders and fathers of the church gave us precious examples of devotion to the true and right, and furnish us honorable precedents by which we may advance beyond them, as they did beyond their predecessors. What they nobly and magnanimously, with vast sacrifices, began, it belongs to us to carry forward and complete.
Yours, most truly,
LEICESTER A. SAWYER.

THE NATIONAL CONSTITUTION.
An adjourned meeting of persons in favor of amending the National Constitution, so as to recognize the authority of God and the obligations of His law, assembled last evening in the West-Arch street Presbyterian Church. The audience filled the large and elegant church building, and the proceedings were quite interesting. Hon. James Pollock, vice president of the Convention, presided. The Convention was opened with prayer by Dr. Edwards. Rev. Dr. Butler, Secretary, read the call of the meeting.
The president then stated that the meeting was preliminary to the business meeting which is to take place to-day. He then read a letter from Rev. Dr. Eddy, president of the Convention, regretting his inability to be present, and expressing his hearty sympathy with the cause under consideration.
Rev. Dr. Edwards then read the following resolutions, which will be considered to-day:
Resolved, That a national recognition of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Scriptures, as pro-posed in the memorial of this association to Congress, is clearly a Scriptural duty, which it is national peril to disregard.
Resolved, That, in consideration of the general diffusion of religious intelligence, principles, and institutions throughout our country-in view of the many express recognitions of Christianity by the Constitution and the Legislative enactments of the several States-and in view, also, of the religious history of the founders of this Government, it is a striking and solemn fact that our present National Constitution is so devoid of any distinctive Christian feature, that one of our Chief Magistrates once refused to appoint a day of tasting and prayer in an hour of public calamity, because the nation, in its Constitution, recognized no God; and another, in contracting a treaty with a Mahometan Power, hesitated not to declare that " The Government of the United States is not, in any sense, founded on the Christian religion. It has in itself no character of enmity against the laws and religion of Mussulmen."
Resolved, That the measures proposed by this association are not sectional, nor sectarian, nor partizan, but the general voice of Christian patriotism, asking that which is right and wholesome, which is in keeping with our antecedents, and which will not operate oppressively upon the conscience of any citizen.
Resolved, That the state of the times, recent and present, and the state of public sentiment, warrants and encourages the attempt to secure the amendment to the Constitution which is proposed by this association.
Resolved, That the hour of chastisement is the hour of repentance and reform; and that while in such a day of national trouble and rebuke as has befallen us, every reformation from sin is valuable and important, it is clear that in acknowledging God, in exalting His Son, and in diffusing the principles of His word through all our Government and Administration, not only is there no mistake committed, but an end of the first dignity is secured.
Hon. Judge Strong and Rev. Dr. Goddard made speeches favoring the proposed amendment. The Convention then adjourned, with prayer from Rev. Dr. Junkin and the benediction, to meet again this morning, at 10 o'clock.
The following is the proposed amendment which will be acted on to-day:
To the Honorable the Senate and House of Representatives in Congress assembled:
We, citizens of the United States, respectfully ask your honorable bodies to adopt measures for amending the Constitution of the United States so as to read, in substance, as follows:
"We the people of the United States, humbly acknowledging Almighty God as the source of all authority and power in civil government, the Lord Jesus Christ as the Ruler among the nations, and His revealed will as of supreme authority, in order to constitute a Christian government, and in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the inalienable rights and blessings of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness to ourselves, our posterity, and all the inhabitants of the land, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America."
And we further ask that such changes be introduced into the body of the Constitution as may be necessary to give effect to these amendments in the preamble.
There was an amendment circulated amongst the audience in the early part of the evening, with blanks for signatures. This is not the amendment of the Convention.-Philadelphia Press.

CHURCH AND STATE.
That the Convention which met yesterday at the West Arch-street Presbyterian church aroused so little interest is one evidence of the unimportance of its purpose. The change it proposed to make in the Constitution is not considered necessary by the majority of American Christians, or it would certainly have had general approval. This it has not obtained, and we trust it never will. The objects of the Constitution of the United States are clearly set forth in its preamble: "We, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America." The assertion of religious obligations, the truth of the Bible, the existence of God, is not the legitimate business of a State document. Indeed, the Constitution itself forbids the establishment of a religion by law. Yet this is the very change demanded by the Convention; nor can the fact that the proposed amendment does not prohibit Judaism or Mohamedanism be confused with its plain establishment of Christianity as a national religion. In one sense, and the highest sense, this is a Christian nation, and nothing so clearly proves its Christianity as the right guaranteed to every man to
<c04>
worship God according to his own conscience. It may be objected that the proposed amendment respects that right; but no one can fail to see that the Jew, Unitarian, or Deist could not worship in his own way, as an American citizen, precisely because the Constitution, under which his citizenship exists, would make faith in the New Testament and the divinity of Jesus Christ a national creed. So far as he should believe, he would be an alien. It is not a service to religion that the Convention would do, but an injury to civil freedom. The question does not concern Christianity, but the very elements of republicanism. Our fathers did well when they carefully omitted from the Constitution the very declaration a few well-intentioned gentlemen would insert in it, and we are glad to believe that the spirit of justice in which it was framed is not now to be sacrificed to a mistaken zeal. These gentlemen apparently forget that the object of the United States is not the conversion of mankind or the recognition of Divine truth; nor can they justly call its Constitution infidel, because it does not declare the Bible to be the Word of God, any more than they could so brand the charter of an oil company. There are no people more profoundly and intelligently Christian than the Americans, and we trust they do not need a Constitutional enactment to make their Christianity more perfect. Individuals have immortal souls, but nations have not, and the good sense of the people will continue to oppose any measures which, disguised as they may be, would in reality repeat the unnatural and criminal blunder of the world's ignorance-the union of Church and State.-Philadelphia Press.

THE REFORMER: HIS OFFICE AND HIS DUTIES.
Among the leaders of mankind, of much abused fame but high desert, is the true Reformer. He has his appropriate office in all times and in all countries. He is likely to be caricatured and defamed by his counterfeits; and from the unwise recklessness of the sham, the world is apt indiscriminately to scorn and despise its real benefactor.
For both the Conservative and the Reformer there is a natural' office in the commonwealth, in society, and among individuals. The only harm which can come of either is in the abuse of his appropriate function. Natural society is like the natural world. Its forces bear the same mutual play of relation. Conservatism and Reform, correctly understood and wisely applied, constitute the centripetal and the centrifugal forces of society. Each left to its natural impulses and unguarded extravagances would be ruinous of social order and destructive of social harmony; but, mutually co-operating, they become the fountain of that law whose homo is the bosom of God, whose voice is the harmony of the universe.
In speaking of the Reformer and the Conservative, we refer, of course, not to modern political issues or recent party contests. Above all the war of factions and the din of civil conflicts rises in awful grandeur the image of the Commonwealth, the common mother of us all. But the State borrows all its significance and its glory from the individuals composing it. It is not the ancestral crown, or the gilded title, or the broad lands, which constitute the dignity of the modern Republic. All this exploded with the fall of the Roman Republic and the decline of the Roman Empire. In our modern days men constitute the State. The individual is everything; society and the State and all the machinery of both exist for him only. The individuality of man, the independence and sovereignty of the individual, this is the central idea of modern thought. To develop and strengthen this truth in all its reaches is the greatest work of the true Reformer.
In character, the true Reformer is bold, truthful and teachable. He bows neither to authority nor to novelty with undue faith. He doubts independently, and he believes circumspectly. Instead of suspecting men and despising their works, he inclines to believe in them, and think well of all they do and plan. He despises the cynic, and holds in little esteem the scorner. His field he recognizes as the world, and his countrymen are all mankind.
No narrow conceptions of duty, no contracted ideas of nationality, no exclusive theories of the high and the low, no party bias and no party servility will induce him to give up to the present, the near and the expedient, those large cosmopolitan sympathies which belong to mankind. By a natural law of Lis nature, he becomes a citizen of the world. He is in his true outline neither a dreamer, a sentimentalist, nor a humanitarian. He seeks the true law of man's being, not in monks' caves or in hermits' cells, but amid the busy haunts of men. He recognizes the utilitarian nature of men, and adapts himself to it. What he proposes will therefore be based on man as he finds him, and on society as it is, rather than on the basis of Utopian tates not reached or likely to be reached by man. He is, therefore, a safe. logical, hard thinker on man-his nature, his destiny, and his depravity, as well as his inspiration and his aspiration. He brings philosophy to the business of life. The useful and the homely he esteems more than the ideal and the sentimental. His office and his duties arise out of the natural law of man in society, which is by experiment and trial to press on to the best estate, by gradual steps and slow degrees. He is a natural leader in the order of nature; a captain in the army of progress.
Such a Reformer has his office in literature, in art, in physical, moral, intellectual and social science, in government, in the church, in politics; and not less certainly in the mechanical and business world. His function is to test all, to improve and advance all these great interests. In all these relations he finds his natural enemy, the Old Fogy, at every turn. The Fogy has his eyes in the back of his head; by a natural law he, like the crab, the father of his race, walks backwards. He forgets that life is short and man is mortal. He ignores the great lesson of his years, that while he lives he is the creature of growth and experience. From helpless infancy to mature manhood, his life is one continued growth, one constant lesson of change; and yet outside of himself he sees no answering law of life and being.
The cause of the little progress mankind have made in real wisdom and useful knowledge has ever been the unreasoning worship of past idols, and an unwholesome fear of new views and new thoughts. Instead of becoming man thinking, he is content to be man believing, man reading, man following. If Voltaire and Rosseau and the free thinkers of England and France had done nothing except to explode the false worship of the established, they would have been entitled to all the fame they have had accorded to them by those in sympathy with them. And this one service to the independency of the human mind should have shielded them against those anathemas in which the devout have indulged, to the serious detriment of their reputation for good temper and good sense. In the war of opinions there can come no permanent wrong, save in the exclusion of men from their natural right of independent thinking and unfettered believing. Thurlow embodied in a sound, but coarse and bold sarcasm, the substance of the philosophy of old fogyism, when he said that he adhered to the established Church because it was established; and when any dissenter wished him to change, he must first get his church established. It is now well understood that Martin Luther has had accorded to him quite as much credit as he ever deserved for his part in the Protestant Reformation; but it is also as well understood by all liberal minds, that if he had done nothing more than teach the people the right to think for themselves, for that one service he would be fairly entitled to all the reputation which has been accorded to him. The philosopher Kant declared that to doubt was the beginning of wisdom. Henry Thomas Buckles's claims to character as an original thinker and a profound philosopher have been much questioned since his new light burst upon the inquiring world; and it may be conceded that there is much reason for disputing his title to a high rank in those capacities; but no carping critic can deprive him of his greatest fame as the benefactor of the nineteenth century, in having taught it to doubt. Some greater man will early enough teach it the conservative art of safe believing, after reform has cleared the way for bold doubting.
The standing foe of Reform is prejudice; and the stanchest enemy of the Reformer is illiberality. This is seen in common as well as in intellectual life. We turn away from things because they are new, little caring to enquire whether they are good or useful. Hence great inventions meet with a tardy adoption, and great inventors live in poverty, and die unrewarded. There never was a wiser maxim than that which directs us to be careful bow we understand new things; and no more useful warning can be uttered in the ears of men than that they be cautious how they reject new things. There can be no real harm in following the ancient maxim which calls upon us to try all things, holding fast only that which is good. Authority in religion, in science, in jurisprudence and in philosophy, has ever been the stumbling-block of a safe progress. Aristotle was a
<c05>
a great man, but his influence upon the world was a great mischief, until the genius of Bacon broke his spell, and opened the Universities of England to the light of a new day. Since then, Aristotle and Bacon are both read to the edification and improvement of the world. In our judgment of men and things, we are far more illiberal than we are willing to confess to ourselves. Tired of the labor of trying and proving we willingly accept whatever is plausible in itself and venerable in its standing, regardless of whether it be wisdom or nonsense, truth or falsehood. As we "row old, this tendency imperceptibly increases upon us, unless carefully guarded against. Coleridge has somewhere declared that he thought that the average opinion of men of thirty-five years of age must be the highest established standard of truth and wisdom in all speculative inquiries. The statement may appear at first sight paradoxical; but upon reflection, it will be found to contain more sense than some of the standards opposed to it. The scholar and the professional thinker are always baulked by their learning and fettered by established opinions: but the independent masses, trusting to the natural dictates of their own unperverted under-standing, look at great speculative questions in their true light. Their guessing is more reliable than the logic of the bookish-wise men.
In a country like ours, there will always be a safe, prudent, honorable and indispensable function both for the Reformer and for the Conservative. The only danger is in allowing them to encroach upon each other. The radical Reformer would turn the world upside down; the radical Conservative would turn it into a stagnant dead sea. The Reforming Conservative and the Conservative Reformer will each find a place in the economy of the universe; and for both there will be always a work, both useful, honorable and indispensable. It is of the essential nature of the human mind and heart to seek the new and the untried; in this we but follow a natural law of progress. This law of being must govern all institutions in which man forms part, or be will sooner or later despise them, and cast them off. Wise men will regard this decree of fate in their laws, their politics, their science, and their art. Change, destruction, reconstruction, are written on every page of nature; the permanent and the transient are equally commingled in the warp and woof of our being.
In the State is the especial work of the true Reformer; in its laws, its institutions, its policies, he finds his great studies. How to evolve a safe rule for securing the rights of minorities, and how to solve the great problem of Labor, are the greatest open questions for Reformers.
Happy that government and blessed is that people who, by a wise and prudent study of national instincts and tendencies, avoid the confusion inherent in a disregard of the natural laws of society, and by timely changes and prudent yielding to the progress of events temper men to events and events to men. and to men and events bring a sovereign law of impartial justice, so that the body-politic shall receive no sudden shocks, and be torn by no unnatural con-vulsions. In a healthy social state the Reformer performs what the thunder and the rain accomplish in the physical system.
The office of the Reformer is, therefore, to stand upon the advance wave of human events, to snuff the breeze of coming winds, and to prepare men and nations for them. With him to be forewarned is to be forearmed. He will seek out advance thought and discover advance action, and prepare the world for their reception and adoption. His function is to temper rash progress by safe conservatism; to destroy where he cannot save; but to save where he need not destroy; to stand upon the ancient ways, and move forward. He is always hearty, always earnest, always hopeful. He will let well enough alone, only so long as nothing better offers, that with a ready, cautious and just spirit he adopts.- Boston Post.
DRESS OF OUR EXTREMITIES.
During the damp and cold season, deficient dress of the feet and legs is a fruitful source, of disease. The head, throat and liver are perhaps the most frequent sufferers.
The legs and feel are far from the central part of the body. They are not in great mass, like the trunk, but extended and enveloped by the atmosphere. Besides, they are near the damp, cold earth.
For these and other reasons, they require extra covering. If we would secure the highest physiological conditions, we must give our extremities more dress than the body. We men wear upon our less, in the coldest season, but two thicknesses of cloth. The body has at least six. Women put on them four thicknesses under the shawl, which, with its various doubling, furnishes several more-then over all, thick, padded furs; while their leys have one thickness of cotton under a balmoral. They constantly come to me about their headache, palpitation of the heart, and congestion of the liver. Yesterday, one said to me, " All my blood is in my head and chest. My head goes bumpety-bump, my heart goes bumpety-bump." I asked, "How are your feet?" "Chunks of ice," she replied. I said to her. " If you so dress your feet and legs that the blood can't get down into them, where can it go? It can't go out. visiting. It must stay in the system somewhere. Of course, the head and chest must have an excessive quantity. So they go' bumpety-bump,' and so they must go, until you dress your legs and feet in such a way that they shall get their share of the blood." In the coldest season of the year, I leave Boston for a bit of a tour before the lyceums -going as far as Philadelphia, and riding much in the night without an overcoat; but I give my legs two or three times their usual dress. During the coldest weather, men may wear, in addition to their usual drawers, a pair of chamois skin drawers with great advantage. When we ride in a sleigh, or in the cars, where do we suffer? In our legs, of course. Give me warm legs and feet, and I'll hardly thank you for an overcoat.
"My dear madame, have you a headache, a sore throat, palpitation of the heart, congestion of the liver, or indigestion? Wear one, two or three pairs of warm woolen drawers, two pairs of warm woolen stockings, and thick, warm shoes, with more or less reduction in the amount of dress about your body, and you will obtain the same relief permanently that you would derive temporarily from a warm footbath."
I must not forget to say that a thin layer of India rubber cemented upon the boot sole will do much to keep the bottom of our feet dry and warm.
DIO LEWIS, M. D.
ARRIVALS FROM DIXIE.
I yesterday met four officers who escaped, more than a month since, from Andersonville, Georgia, where they had been imprisoned. They fully concur in the statements, so often published, of the starving condition of our men, and as the facts connected with this subject have been already laid before the public in such a variety of well-authenticated documents, I do not deem it necessary to repeat them here, but will confine myself to another subject, which is of vital interest to the people. When leaving the prison, each had managed to secrete upon his person a small piece of corn bread, which they carried along without eating till nearly exhausted, when they sat down to eat it, being then about ten miles from the village. They had traveled all night, but, as they had no knowledge of the country, they were not positive that they had taken the right road. All they knew was that they had steered to the north-west. Daylight had come, and they had found a secure thicket, where they proposed to remain till evening, and bad just commenced eating, when they heard footsteps. They naturally dreaded lest they had been pursued, but, to their surprise, the visitor was no other than an old nego, who broke out, "I seed you come in here, and know'd you'd broke out of prison, and I brought yon somethin' to eat;" and he produced a basket of sweet potatoes, well roasted, and several large pieces of corn-bread, which he laid before them, it will not be difficult to imagine the feelings of the fugitives at that moment, and the thanks they returned only found vent in tears.
"Dar, dar," said the old man, " don't take on; we know's our friends; dey often come's dis way, and we watches for'em, and always gives.'em somethin'. But let me tell you, massas, don't you trust any white man; but when you meet a niggar, don't be'fraid; dey's all your friends, and dey won't say nuffin', but will give you anytng dey've got."
The words of the old man sank deeply into their hearts. "Don't trust any white man;" "the negroes are your friends." The advice was strictly followed.
The officers held a long consultation with their sable friend, and were astonished at the intelligence be displayed. He knew all about the Emancipation Proclamation, and only wished he was young, that he might fly to our lines, and shoulder a musket in
<c06>
DECEMBER 16.
behalf of the freedom of his race. He <Illegible> the matter was perfectly understood among <Illegible> blacks, and that the whites were in constant <Illegible> of a servile insurrection; "but," added the <Illegible> "we haven't no arms, and wouldn't know how to <Illegible>'em if we had, till you Yankees learns us." <Illegible> stated that be was about the house most of the<Illegible> as he was too old to work much, and he could <Illegible> the white folks talk of the situation of affairs. He represented that all were despondent, and before that " the Yankees would whip." and that the <illegible> federates" could not hold out much longer.
The men had seen in the Southern papers the proposition to arm negroes, and they asked the <Illegible> man what he thought of it.
"Oh," said he, " they'll take de gues, <Illegible> dey'll never shoot'em at a Yankee, kos <Illegible> friend; but if dey get any, dey'll find Massa <illegible> man, and put on de blue coats, and den dey'll <Illegible> till dey dies, if de Lord wills it."
In the evening their friend retuned with a <illegible> of provisions-corn bread and sweet potatces<Illegible> heavy that they could not take all, and when <Illegible> came they bid their noble friend farewell, and <Illegible> departing, when he repeated his former <Illegible> " Don't trust de white folks; but de niggers <Illegible> friends."
They did not approach a white man on their <Illegible> ney, and could not, therefore, say as to <Illegible> there were, or were not, any Unionists among them But, whenever morning came-for they traveled by night-they sought out a shelter in the woods, and then looked around for a negro, who no <Illegible> learned who they were than he set about preparing them food-corn bread and sweet potatoes-and carefully attended them all day.
One thing surprised them, and that was, the perfect understanding existing among the blacks, and the rapidity and secresy with which they communicated with one another. They have often been visited in their seclusion by fifty of them, all ready to serve them to the best of their ability. <Illegible> they slept, several would stand sentinel to guard them, at a distance, as the number is now so great that not one half of them are employed, and because mistresses and overseers are obliged to be very lenient just now.
Could they have found arms to put in their hands, they could have brought away thousands of the negroes with them. One of the officers stated that he never witnessed a parallel, and he believes that Peter the Hermit never aroused greater <Illegible> in the days of the Crusades than one could <Illegible> he could only address the blacks of the South.
These are fact which should sink deep into every heart. How contemptible the political party that would desert these devoted loyalists to <Illegible> the traitors, and induce them once more to <illegible> back and resume their places as masters of the nation! How cruel to desert our friends, and reconsign them to all the horrors of Slavery? If <Illegible> could see their true interests, how easily might the Rebellion be suppressed! <illgible>
MR. NASBY HAS A DIFFICULTY WITH HIS FLOCK, AND LEAVES IT.
ON2 the WING. Nov. the 10,'64. 
The dy is kast! All is ore! Ef Freedom <Illegible> wen Kossikusco tell, she must hev spswak:las<illgible> nite, ez she beheld the inannymait corps of the <illgible> ecratic party, which fell, crushing Little Mack, and the hopes uv sum hundreds uv thousands uv good Dimecrats who spected to be perswaded by their frends in2 accepting the various offisis under the Guvernment.
I am a lost and mined man. My peoples are <Illegible> Dimecratic stripe. They hev faith in me. They bleeve wat I tell em. I told em Mick <Illegible> certain uv the elecshun, and that I hed ded wooden the disposal uv the offisis in that secksbun. It immejitly becum a ezy matter to borror munny. It wuz deliteful-wood, oh wood that it cood hev been perpetooal! Bro. Savij lent me $50 with a request that I would speke a good word fer him fer a ferria mishn. I assoomed a virchus look and replide that I never sold my inflooens, but I allez had an admirashen fer his massive intelleck and many virtews. Bro. Guttle lent me munny, wantin this,and BraSludge wantin that; in breef, evry indivijjle <Illegible> who hed a forehed a inch high spected sunthin.
The returns cum in. Ohio, Linkin " Good! "Rah!" shouts 1 with grate presences of mind.
"Why good? " anxshusly asks the expectants.
" Becoz, to carry Ohio, the abolishnists must hev brot votes from New York, which will give us that State shoor."
Noo York-Linkun!
" Good Lord!" ansers I. promptly, the Noo York ablishnists must hev voted in Ohio, and hev gone in time 2 vote agin. But wate for Pennsilvany."
Pennsilvany-Linkun!
" My frends, ther wuz fraud-Massychusetts soljers, at least 40.000, must hev votid there. <Illegible> will do, however.''
Injeana-Linkun!
" Not less than 40,000 Massychusetts soljers hev voted there! Illinoise is safe, though."
Illinoise-Linkun!
" 40,000 Massychu-"
"Give me my munny!" roared Savij. and the same remark with variashens wuz made by Guttle, Sludge, and the balance uv em.
"Gently, my frends," sed I, backin out uv the door, " we hev bin detetid, but the grate <Illegible> that a white man is better than a nigger, <Illegible> they hev so long fot, still lives. Let us sink all miner considerations and-''
The miner considerations I referred to wuz, bowever, uppermost in their minds, fer they all went fer me, yellin like Cuscaroarious injins. " Give me my munny!" whereupon I retreeted 2 the meetin house, lockin myself in. They surrounded it, <Illegible> they'd starve me out.
When an innosent boy, I read a harrowin tale or a Rooshun muther who wuz persood by <Illegible> wolves, and who saved her own life by droppin her children to em. 1 by 1. My print barl uv whisky. wuz in my study-I wuz saved! I histid it out un a winder, and kamly awaited results. They <Illegible> around it-they took turns at the bung-hole-in wun short hour they wuz stretched helpless on the plane, ded drunk. Then and there I rezined my charge, and borrerin sich munny and wothes as they had about em to make up arrears uv salary and sich. bid adoo 2 em forever. I shell go to <Illegible>.
PETROLEUM V. NASBY,
Paster uv said Church in Charge.
SENATOR WILSON'S BOOK,
ON THE CONDITION OF THE NEGRO POPULATION AS CONNECTED WITH THE REORGANIZATION OF GOVERNMENT IN REBEL STATES.
SHOWING what the present Administration has accomplished for freedom. Being a
History of the Anti-Slavery Measures of the 37th
and 38th Congresses.
CONTENTS.
Slaves used for Insurrectionary purposes made Free.
Fugitive Slaves not to be returned by Persons in the Army,
The Abolition of Slavery in the District of Columbia.
President's Proposition to Aid States in the Abolishment of Slavery.
Prohibition of Slavery in the Territories.
Certain Slaves to be made Free.
Hayti and Liberia.
Education of Colored Youth in the District of Columbia.
The African Slave-Trade.
Additional Act to Abolish slavery in the District of Columbia.
Colored Soldiers.
Aid to the States to Emancipate their Slaves.
Amendment of the Constitution.
Confinement of Colored Persons in the Washington <illgible>.
Negro Testimony.
The Coastwise Slave-Trade.
Color no Disqualification for Carrying the Mails.
No Exclusion from the Cars on Account of Color.
12 MO.-EXTRA CLOTH-$2.
ALSO NOW READY:
THE YOUNG CRUSOE: OR, ADVENTURES OF A SHIPWRECKED BOY. By Dr. Harley. 12mo., with six full page and a profusion of smaller illustrations, in ANDREW'S best style. $l.50. Boys will find this one of the most entertaining and attractive books produced for their delight this year.
JUST PUBLISHED:
PHILOSOPHY AS ABSOLUTE SCIENCE.
By E. L. & A. L. Frothingham. 1 vol. Svo. <Illegible>.
WALKER, WISE & CO.,

