THE LIBERATOR
- IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT -
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS -Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of, the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J.Q.ADAMS.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 24.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 12, 1863.
WHOLE NO. 1688.
<c01>
Refuge of Oppression.
A REBEL OPINION OF VALLANDIGHAM.
[From the Richmond Enquirer, May 18.]
These are the crimes charged against unhappy vallandigham which bring him under the death order. It seems be was guilty of saying that on the day after the Fredericksburg battle, certain propositions were made from Richmond to reconstruct the Union. Which propositions were rejected. We admit this was untrue. Mr. Vallandigham ought to have been more careful as to his authority: but still one would scarcely say in this country that he deserves a violent death for so inaccurate a statement.
Mr. Vallandigham ought to have foreseen that this was going to be course of affairs in bin country. He ought not to have encouraged a war of invasion so long. He ought not to have voted appropriations for it.
We cannot forget that this same man, within the Last six months, offered in the Washington Congress resolutions that whosoever should propose, or speak of, any termination of the war other than in maintaining the "Union," should be a traitor. By his own showing he is a traitor. He presumes now to say that the war ought to end, and without Union, finging himself, feeble and powerless as he is, under the wheels of the rushing locomotive of a high pressure public: and the war engine goes on, with all, the plagues and abominations that it breeds, including military tyranny-and, behold, he is the first man caught by the death-order! 
It is too true late for him to struggle or remonstrate now. Useless to send for a habeas corpus; that sort of thing is obsolete,. Quite vain to call on the "police"-he is already in the hands of Lincoln's police, that is to say, the troops. There is no law any more; his government is not under but above law, and he may resign himself to his dungeon, and say his prayers. The latest news does not inform us of the judgment of the court-martial. . Under the death-order, what can it be but to be hanged by the neck until he is dead? May God have mercy on his soul!
We are thankful, indeed, that we have not Burnside at Richmond, with his death-order in his hand, and a hundred thousand men at his back. In that case, we know several highly respectable persons who would infallibly be hanged.
This performance in Cincinnati is evidently the first practical opening of Mr. Seward's new campaign for consolidating all power in the hands of his; Dictator, and <illegible> down the last murmurs and struggles of those liege subjects who used to be citizens, whether on behalf of State right; or individual right. Another part of the plan is the new call for another half million of men. The call will produce either the half million of men, or one hundred and fifty million of dollars; or if it turn out its results half in men and half in dollars, that will be best of all. In that case, the Federal government will be more secure against its own people than ever before, and may do and impose everything it pleases.
If there were no alternative but draft-if the $300 payment were not provided as an escape-why, that draft would provoke insurrection and revolution. The government never would have dared to arrest Vallandigham, or he would have been arrested to the tune of cannon-volleys, and by the light of burning cities. As it is, we may bid him adieu, and not in unkindness. He meant, in the main, to be just and honest; he is certainly bold and able; but he mistook the elements he had to work with, the world he was born into, and be perishes without sign. It was probably the last appearance of Vallandigham in the light of the sun, that brandish of a pistol, and that hopeless call, “Police, police!”
We should be sorry for him; but there is really no sympathy in this land to spare for sufferers in any foreign country. All our care is to keep these Burnsides with their “death-order," out of our homes. Hooker is the next in order, and may be the next satrap armed with a general death-warrant.
Our sympathies are all confined at home; yet it is just possible we may help those devoted "Copper-heads” in the only way we know how-also, that they, on their side, are now about ripe to aid us in the only way we could accept their aid. If our troops should this summer appear within their borders anywhere between Cairo and Philadelphia, they would be hailed as friends by a population pretty well cured of Pluribus Unum. Their cry would be, not Union, but deliverance. Wait, then, and watch, and keep your lights burning, ye Knights of the Golden-Circle!
GERRIT SMITH AT UTICA.
To the Editor of the Boston Courier:- The meeting of the “loyal league” at Utica was perfectly ridiculous. It was a mixture of pure Abolitionists, like Jay and Gerrit Smith, and old party hacks, contractors, &c., after the spoils of office. They paid large sums to induce returned soldiers to be present, who, much to the disappointment and chagrin of the “leaguers,” carried around a portrait of and cheered for Gen. M'Clellan. hissed the nigger and political nigger worshippers.
Gerrit Smith, much to the astonishment of everybody, came out and threw the nigger overboard, saying that he would consent to slavery becoming stronger than ever, if it would restore the Union. The fact is, the nigger is played out politically, and as a war “military necessity” or measure, is a failure. The “emancipation proclamation” " has proved like the “Pope’s bull against the comet,” and all those who have been there and seen him say the President has got an “elephant” in the “negro” soldier. They are not soldiers, and do not deserve the name. They cannot do guard and other duty, as they cannot read passes, &c.; they are lazy, and unfit for any emergency requiring pluck and valor. As a returned soldier expressed it, they are only fit to capture secession pigs and chickens, at which they are expert, and run like the d-I when there is any danger. White soldiers will not fight or work alongside of them, and contact in any way makes trouble in the camp, except as cooks and teamsters, or to dig trenches, is acknowledged by all the officers who have been in Hunter’s department, or Louisiana. If they can keep them separate entirely, and use the negro for garrison duty in unhealthy places, he answers the purpose and saves the lives of white soldiers; but on the field, on active duty, he is in the way, and worse than useless; and it is said a negro regiment cannot be carried through New York, Philadelphia or Baltimore without bloodshed.
The public are thoroughly sick of this Administration and its mode of conducting the war, but they say there is one thing now reduced to a certainty, that the next Presidential election will grind the Republican party to powder, and its very name will be odious to all posterity. The Democrats and Conservatives say patience will bring us out all right. The arrest of Vallandigham is worth half a million of votes at the next Presidential election, and the more such arbitrary arrests and despotic acts are
<c02>
committed, the more certain the downfall of the political leaders who are connected in any way with this Administration. Butler, Stanton, Burnside, Halleck, Dickinson and such “life-long Democrats,” are already consigned to that political “bourne from which no traveller returns.” No man in any way connected with this Administration's sins stands the slightest chance of being ever elevated to high office. A renegade Democrat in this hour of his country's peril will be marked, hooted and scorned by posterity, as much as an Abolitionist or secessionist. When I say renegade Democrat, I mean any one who has committed himself in the support of arbitrary arrests or any other unconstitutional measure by which he has become politically defiled. There are strong symptoms of a reaction in favor of McClellan, which will carry him like a whirlwind into the Presidential chair, if it is conceded the President is expected to exercise the duties of Commander-in-chief; as it is admitted by three-fourths of the people you meet here, that “Little Mac” is growing bigger and bigger as a great General everyday, as Hooker and others sink in public estimation, and “play spades.”
PAUL PRY. 
A BLOODY ANNIVERSARY.
Yesterday, May 26th, was the anniversary of one of the most barbarous murders ever committed in New England. A poor truckman, in the desire to add an extra dollar to his week's wages, engaged to watch for the night in the service of that most respectable employer, the United States, at the Court House in this city. In the evening, an assemblage at Faneuil Hall, after being harangued by leading Abolitionists, broke up and rushed to the Court House, which they attacked with missiles and weapons, smashing the doors and windows of the U. S. Court Rooms, and ripping up the bowels of the honeft truckman, Batchelder. Some of these murderers were arrested on the spot with arms and missiles in their hands, and others were apprehended afterwards; but after confinement in jail for some weeks, they escaped punishment, and, at this day, they are found in positions of trust and emolument under the State and Federal Governments. The occasion of this dastardly outrage was the detention of Anthony Burns under the laws of the United States. When, some days later, Burns was remanded, the officers and soldiers having him in custody had to pass under a coffin swung across from the building in which John Andrew and Charles Sumner had their offices, to the Abolition printing-office on the diagonal corner. The coffin was no memorial of the poor <illegible> emblem of the fate to which the officers of the law were taking the negro, Burns. Yet Burns has long enjoyed “life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness” in the Northern States, while the poor white truck-man has lain “mouldering in the grave.” Nor has any Abolition print ever expressed horror of this cruel murder of a hard working man man who only sought to earn an extra dollar on Friday night, trusting that the next Sunday's rest would recuperate his over-tasked energies. Has Mr. Sumner, the rhetorical Senator, who charged the rejection of Mr. Rice by the constituency of the 3d District upon “Jeff. Davis's unarmed guerillas,” ever had a word of denunciation for the armed guerillas who murdered poor Batchelder?-M.-Boston Post.
SPIRIT OF ULTRA FANATICISM.
It is painful to notice the increased and excited spirit of vituperation and ultra fanaticism that pervaded the abolition speeches at several meetings. We say it is painful, because at such a time as this, when the nation is rent with intestine war, and it is of infinite importance to unite all men in the single work of restoring the Union and the Constitution, and especially when the whole country has just been called upon by the President to pray for the restoration of the nation to its former happy condition of unity and peace, it is a shame and a sin for any man to say as Mr. Beecher is reported to have said at the Anniversary of the American Home Missionary Society:-
"I say boldly that, rather than have the States to resume their places under the Constitution with the system of slavery in them, all just as it was before, I had rather give every child that I have; I had rather embark on a war of twenty years, with all its suffering and all its blood; and a war of twenty years, much as its miseries would be, would be cheap compared with the untold wretchedness of this nation if we undertake the Union again with slavery flourishing and rampant.” (Great applause.)
The President of the United States, and all loyal, patriotic men who love the Union and hate slavery, are anxious to see the Union restored with the Constitution as it is, and then to do and suffer all that is necessary to remove the curse of slavery from the land. But we record our emphatic protest against the “great applause” with which the Home Missionary meeting received the disloyal and anti-government doctrine of Mr. Beecher. We stand fast by the Constitution and Administration that supports it, and we write him an enemy who is not praying and working to restore the Union in all its integrity.
Still more disloyal was the language of Wendell Phillips, at the anti-slavery meeting. Speaking of our government, he said:-
"We had monkeys in human attire at Washington; they were determined to compromise, and the South flung nuts at them for eighteen months, and they were on all-fours for the temptation. (Applause.) Routine, West Point, and rotten whiggery should be sloughed off from the government, as they sloughed off Essex and Fairfax in Cromwell's time."
“He believed there never would be victory while Halleck was in command. The old proverb said, a fool was never a great fool until he had learned Latin, and he thought a man was never incorrigible till he had graduated at West Point. (Applause.) While slavery existed, there was danger to the Union. Abraham Lincoln was not President of the United States-the Cabinet controlled him. The first slave to be emancipated was Lincoln. (Applause.) If the government would not obey advice, they must obey reverses.”
Such infamous language as this is applauded; but scores of men have been put to death in war times, for the utterance of words not half so treasonable. The man wants the government to “obey advice” (!) the advice of such men as he, and if not, they must “obey reverses.” Another of the editors of the Independent boldly took the ground that the black race was in all respects superior to the white race on this continent, declaring that universal amalgamation of the whites and blacks is to take place until the black, becomes the dominant race by having absorbed the whites.
We make these records to note the progress of opinion among the leaders of the abolition party who now demand the control of the government. Their creed is fully avowed: twenty years (if necessary) of war! the annihilation of the Southern cities!! AMALGAMATION!!!-New York Observer.
<c03>
Selections.
SPEECH OF HON. GERRIT SMITH.
[Among the speakers at the Loyal League Convention held at Utica on Tuesday and Wednesday, May 26th and 27th, was GERRIT SMITH, who delivered the following address:]
THIS strikes me as a very mottled assemblage, politically considered, and, in a certain point of view, morally considered also. Here we are, Democrats and Republicans, temperance men and anti-temperance men, some one thing and some another, and there are soldiers among us. I see soldiers (applause) who have returned from the battle-field wet with the sweat of war, and some of them with its blood. They have returned to receive our benedictions, and to be the witnesses of our enduring and deep gratitude for their heroic defence of our bleeding country (applause).
Now, what is the object that has had the power to collect this heterogeneous assemblage? I answer, it is a common cause. This is the mighty loadstone that has been able to draw us together, in spite of our mutual differences, in spite of our different views and different characters. There are persons so bigoted and so impracticable as not to consent to come into a common cause. I know Democrats who, not even to save their beloved country-I cannot say, however, how beloved to them (laughter)-there are Democrats, I say, who, not even to save this dear country, will consent to vote any other than a Democratic ticket; and 1 know Republicans who will not consent to vote any other but a Republican ticket; and I know Abolitionists, and I am ashamed of them, (laughter,) and even temperance men, who will not consent to work with any other than their own sort of people. But we-I thank God for it- are not such. We, though differing from each other at many points, can, nevertheless, when the nation calls for it, consent to work together.
Now, I ask, what is the common cause which has drawn us together? Just here give me your special attention. I ask, again, what is the common cause? Is it to save the Constitution? Oh! it is inexpressibly more than that. There are many good, patriotic men who don't wish the Constitution saved as it is; they wish to have it altered. I, for one, would not have one word of it altered; I have pleaded for it with lips and pen, more than any Democrat living or dead. I would not have one word in it altered (applause). Well, if this common cause is not to <illegible> men and wise men, who do not like the terms of our Union; I like them all (applause). I have never taken in my life, with lips or pen, the slightest exception to any of them; and probably never shall. Well, is it, then, the saving of the country that is this common cause? It is not even that, for there are many good men who do not like the present boundaries of our country. They wish it to be made smaller. For my own part, every rood of it is dear to my heart (applause.) I would not have one star pass from the national flag (applause). Not even poor South Carolina (applause and laughter). I love even South Carolina. I love her for the memory of her noble men who stood by the side of our revolutionary fathers. I love her for another reason: I love her for what she will become again, when she shall have come out of her present degeneracy and madness.
Well, now, if this common cause which has drawn us together is not the saving of the Constitution, nor the saving of the Union, nor the saving of the country, pray what, then, is it? My answer will be-and it will leap up from all your hearts to your lips-it is the putting down of this accursed and causeless rebellion (applause). That is the common cause that has drawn us together. And now, mark you, we all stand together at this point, where all good and patriotic men can and do stand with us (applause). And then one thing more; that is the very point where unpatriotic and selfish men refuse to stand with us. The very point. And yet, some of these unpatriotic and self-seeking men, and traitors among them, are very eager to assure us of their intense regard for the Union and Constitution and country. But when we turn upon them with the question, “Are you for putting down the rebellion?” they are found wanting. That is just the only test to apply to them, and under its application they fall.
I recollect that, more than thirty years ago, when Great Britain was agitated by the proposition to abolish British slavery, some Quakers supplied themselves with an image of a kneeling slave, and the appealing question was running out of its mouth, “Am I not a man and a brother?” When the candidates for seats in Parliament would come around to these Quakers, and solicit their votes, and tell them of the many fine things they would do if elected -things peculiarly acceptable to Quakers-these cunning Quakers would thrust in the face of these candidates this appealing image, and ask them, “Can you go that? If you can't go that, we can’t go you." Just so do I do with these men when they prate about their love for the Constitution, the Union, and the country. I ask them, and you ask them, can you go for putting down the rebellion? If you can't go that, we can't go you. O why should we go these vile hypocrites-for such they are-who talk about being for the Constitution and the Union and the country, and yet go not for putting down the rebellion, the putting down of which can alone save these blessings to us, and the triumph of which will rob us of them all?
And, now, we have before us but one duty; our one work is the work of putting down the rebellion. You have got to come to this point. I don't allow myself to become a co-worker with any one on earth who does not come to this point. The putting down of this rebellion must be done, come what will to Constitution and Union, and even country (applause). Can you go that? (Applause, and cries of “Yes, yes.”) For I hold that our duty to Justice, in putting down this rebellion, is infinitely more commanding and absolute than any duty we owe to the Constitution or the Union, or even the boundaries of our country. I claim that we are to go for putting down the rebellion unconditionally. Can you go that? You are not to say, We will consent to put down the rebellion on conditions of the saving of the Constitution, the saving of the Union, or the saving of the country. You are to say, We go for putting down the rebellion unconditionally, and that is just where these traitorous enemies will not go along with us. (Applause.) What! some one questions me, would you go for putting down this rebellion, with all the possible risks that the Union, the Constitution and the country might go down with it? I answer, I would. I answer, I make no calculation at all at that point. My only duty has been, from the first, the putting down of this rebellion. And hence, some old Abolitionists, perhaps would ask me, Do you go for putting down this rebellion at all possible hazards, that slavery may sur-
<c04>
vive and be stronger than ever? I would. I run that risk. (Applause.) I have no conditions to make in behalf of any of my hobbies, and have not had since the day the news reached me at Peterboro' of the bombardment of Sumter. (Applause.)
And now let me here say, that, in my philosophy, the putting down of crime cannot bring any harm to any good, cannot bring any help to any evil. Hence the putting down of this rebellion, which is the crime of crimes, cannot bring any possible harm to any good, in the Constitution, in the Union, or in the country, or in freedom-none whatever. I call it the crime of crimes. Earth has never known a greater crime than this attempt to destroy a nation which has never done anything to provoke that attempt-a nation which had always been not only just, but exceedingly partial, to those guilty of this piratical and murderous attempt. (Applause.) And now let me here say, that to make ourselves most effective in this work, we ought to cultivate earnestness. Oh! what an immense advantage the South has bad over us in that respect! If all our early Generals-I beg your pardon, Mr. President, I didn't include yourself-(laughter)-you are too nearly kindred to me that I should do that-I say, if our early Generals had had but a tithe of the earnestness that characterizes the South and Southern Generals, we should not have needed to be meeting here; the rebellion would long ago have ended.
And there is one thing more we need to cultivate, and that is resentment. We need more resentment to fight the rebels as we ought to fight them. That has been our want all the way through. I recall a conversation with that great and good man, Theodore Parker, which I had a few years before his death-a conversation on the elements in human character. He claimed great credit for our power of party hating. That's like him; and were he now alive, you might be sure of having at least one hearty hater of the rebellion. He would exclaim with the Psalmist, “Do not I hate them, O Lord? I hate them with a perfect hatred.” Perhaps some one would remind me of the prayer, “Father, forgive them, they know not what they do.” Now, I hold that this resentment is entirely compatible with the highest civilization and purest Christianity, and entirely consistent with forgiveness; but, moreover, these rascals do know what they do. (Great laughter and applause.) Our Savior had none such in his eye when he prayed. (Applause.) They know what they do, and they do it with a hatred and with a will that put to shame our indecision and gentleness. I say, we must go unconditionally for putting down the rebellion. And let me add, our loyalty is to be unconditional. We have tried our <illegible> its views of tariffs and other things; I do not say that we are bound to approve all war measures even. It is entitled to our loyalty, because it has abundantly proved itself to be honestly and earnestly intent on putting down the rebellion. I observed, this forenoon, a skittishness on one point-at the point of politics. A word on that. I have observed, I mean to say, that some persons are afraid that this grand Loyal League, into which I would have all right men of the North, South, East, and West enter, will become a party machine. Now I would have this grand Loyal League a mighty power in politics. That's my view of it (Applause.) I would have it work day and night to keep out of political office every man who is not unconditionally against the rebellion. I do not say keep out of office Democrats or Republicans, but every man who does not stand by the government, who is not unconditionally for the government. I have never in my life voted a Republican ticket; for I am, as I think, a Democrat of Democrats. Not a sham, spurious Democrat, but a man going for the equal rights of all men. (Applause.) If any man here can say, I am a Democrat, I answer in Paul's words-" I more."
Our great work is before us. It is not to save the Union, or the Constitution, or the country; that is all prating. I do not want to hear a man speak about his love for his country, but rather about his hatred of the rebels. I will infer his love for the country by his hatred of the rebels. Put down the rebellion, and the Union and the Constitution and the country will take care of themselves. If a murderer should be discovered in Utica, the concern is to be not for the safety of Utica, but to arrest and punish the murderer. Arrest and punish him, and Utica will take care of herself. Nor do I want yon to talk about what shall be done after the rebellion is put down. The rebellion is not put down yet, and we never shall put it down if we allow ourselves to be diverted from the actual and urgent duties of the present to speculations in regard to the future. The only problem, Mr. President, that we can solve to-day is putting down the rebellion. I would postpone every other thought to that solution. Let me add, “Sufficient to the day is the evil thereof.” We must grudge nothing; we must grudge no help, no precious treasure, no precious lives. Neither treasure nor life would be worth anything to us, or any right-minded man, if this rebellion were triumphant. If we should fail, we shall need no property to live on; for then we shall be sinking under loads of infamy and anguish of heart, and shall desire to live no longer.
LETTER FROM HON. M. F. CONWAY
To the Editor of the N. Y. Tribune:-
SIR-The recent avowal of Mr. Gerrit Smith, that he is in favor of a restoration of the Union, even if such restoration should involve renewed power to Slavery, is a slight indication of that counter-revolution in public sentiment on this subject which the war is calculated to effect, and which political leaders seem determined through it to bring about.
The only period in which there was a ghost of a chance of giving this war an Anti-Slavery result was the first two years of its existence. If it had been taken hold of at the outset as an instrument of revolution-to dissolve the Union and constitute the North the nation-thus liberating the government from all constitutional obligations to slaveholders, and had then been rushed through with skill and energy, under wise ministers and competent generals, in a manner to give full effect to the power of the North, Slavery would have been swept out of existence, and the seceded States conquered to the authority of the Union, and held as subject provinces.
But this was not done. On the contrary, the war was employed as a means to prevent revolution and to maintain the Union. The object was to force upon the slaveholders the rights guaranteed to them by the Constitution they discarded. For nearly two years, the most zealous regard was paid to these "rights," and military operations conducted in a manner to induce the Southern people to return voluntarily to their Federal allegiance. In consequence of this policy, the golden opportunity slipped away-the South became a settled and determined power-the North lost the prestige of victory, and its morale was broken.
Thus the war became a failure, and utterly ceased
<c05>
to bear upon the question of the subjugation of the South in any manner whatsoever; and now, whatever may be said to the contrary, there are few reflecting minds which have not come to the conclusion that the independence of the South is an established fact, whether recognized or not.
The war for the future, therefore, becomes simply an instrument in the hands of political managers to effect results favorable to their own personal ends, and unfavorable to the cause of Freedom.
What, matter is it that a few regiments of negroes, more or less, under white officers, are sent into the field? What matters it that the President's edict of emancipation is printed in Little and Brown's edition of the United States at Large? Is Richmond ours? or even Vicksburg? Does not the Confederacy still stand firm and defiant, and does it not promise to stand so in the future? And, above all, is not the Presidential election approaching?
It is now assumed that the Union is an object paramount over all other considerations, and we are told that it must never be relinquished. We are asked to adhere to the war, not because it gives us successful achievements in the field, but for the reason simply that otherwise we give up the Union. We are told also that the institution of slavery, like all other institutions (vide N. Y. Times of to-day), is of minor importance one way or the other, compared with the Union; that it must give way or must not give way; be destroyed, or granted a new lease of life, with increased power, just as the exigencies of the Union may require. And to this doctrine that life-long Abolitionist, Gerrit Smith, and that zealous Republican, Mr. Raymond, and that eminent Democrat, Mr. Van Buren, all alike assent. Since the deportation of Vallandigham, it is supposed that this is to be the mongrel Democratic platform for the next Presidential race.
Now, Mr. Editor, I desire thus publicly and from the beginning to announce my emphatic wish to be counted out of any such arrangement. I went into this Anti-Slavery business earnestly, and on the I presumption that I was acting with honest men- men who hated slavery, and who were determined to cast it out, come what might. I find that, as to many, I have been deceived. I find that these men want power, and care for nothing else; and that for the sake of power they would kill all the white people of the South, or take them to their arms; that they would free all the slaves, or make their bondage still more hopeless; or do any other inconsistent or wicked thing. I have no sympathy whatever with such an unhallowed lust of dominion.
As to the Union, I would not give a cent for it, unless it stood as a guarantee for freedom to every <illegible> was the Union made for? That we should sacrifice ourselves to it? I, for one, would beg to be excused. As things stand, I would sacrifice the Union to Freedom any morning before breakfast.
Very truly yours,
M. F. CONWAY.
Washington, 29th May, 1863.
EMANCIPATION IN THE DUTCH COLONIES.
The Netherlands Royal Cazette publishes the text of the law of August 8th, 1862, for the abolition of slavery in the Colony of Surinam, which differs only in some unimportant particulars from that for the Islands. It is a comprehensive enactment in five chapters and thirty-nine articles, declaring the general principles of emancipation, fixing the compensation to be paid, and methods of ascertaining it, prescribing a term of surveillance or guardianship of the liberated slaves by the State, determining their obligations and privileges in respect to labor and support, and closing with certain general stipulations for their welfare and improvement.
This law by its first article enacts that slavery in the Colony of Surinam shall be abolished from and after the 1st of July, 1863, and the principles on which it is based, are enunciated in the three following articles, as follows: that compensation shall be given to the owners of slaves, that the guardianship of the State shall continue for not more than ten years, and that the colonization of Surinam by free laborers shall be encouraged by premiums during the next five years, the total of which is not to exceed one million of guilders, about four hundred and twenty thousand dollars. The wisdom of this latter provision is in striking contrast to the improvident and stupid prejudice which seeks to banish from this country four millions of laborers at a moment when they were never so necessary to its industry, and are just discovered to be no small part of its military strength.
The compensation to the owners is fixed at three hundred guilders, equal to one hundred and twenty-six dollars for each slave, without difference as to age or sex, but there is a considerable number of cases specified in which nothing will be paid. Provisions for the payment and the precautions against fictitious claims are fully and carefully laid down in the law.
In respect to guardianship, it is wisely enacted that its duties shall be performed by paid officers who shall not be connected with the administration, <illegible> of the colonies, <illegible> interest in any enterprise in Surinam. We commend this judicious stipulation to the regard of our Government as a commentary on the system put in force by Gen. Banks, in Louisiana, and by General Thomas, in the Mississippi Valley, which in effect hands over the emancipated negroes of those regions to the speculating lessees of abandoned cotton plantations. The care to be exercised by the State is liberally and humanely set forth in the article which declares that
"The surveillance of the State is for the protection of the emancipated, and with a view to instruct them in family and private life, to prevent idleness, to regulate labor, and also to promote secular and religious instruction; further to prescribe the manner of aiding the indigent, and to make provision for nursing the sick; and in general to take whatever measures may be requisite in behalf of the emancipated negroes, or for the preservation of public order.”
The Governor is authorized to discharge from surveillance those who may distinguish themselves by their morality and diligence, and they thereupon come unto the full enjoyment of the rights of citizenship. Labor is made obligatory upon the freedmen, and they may either enter into contracts with planters and other employers, or failing, they shall be employed by the Government at fixed wages. Negroes not formerly settled on plantations may have a license for the practice of any calling, profession, or trade, for which they are capable. A working day is legally fixed at eight hours of labor in the fields, and ten hours in buildings, and a working year at three hundred working days. Religious and secular instruction is to be encouraged, and as much as possible supported by the State.
There are other humane and just provisions in this law, which, as well as those above cited, are evidences that the Government of Netherlands, in decreeing the emancipation of the slaves in its Ameri-
<c06>
can colonies, has been guided by far other considerations than merely economical interests or political expediency, or even military necessities. It recognizes the necessity and duty of a paternal care over a wronged race, and while it assures them freedom, aims to secure to them all its blessings, and to root out the degrading influence entailed upon them by long years of servitude. We are not yet so far advanced with our own experiment with emancipated slaves, that we may not profitably observe the method adopted in Surinam.-N. Y. Tribune.
THE LATE REV. ARTHUR B. FULLER.
No civilian whose name is associated with the history of the secession war has bequeathed to the country a purer reputation than the late Rev. ARTHUR B. FULLER, who was slain at Fredericksburg, in December last. He belonged to a family renowned for the extraordinary and various talent of its members, and he might have remained in the enjoyment of dignified literary life, which no man was better qualified to adorn, if he had not deemed it his duty to take an active part in the great struggle which engrosses the attention of mankind. We are glad to see that a proper account of his pure life and valuable services has been prepared by a near relative, Richard F. Fuller, under the title of Chaplain Fuller, being a Life-Sketch of a New England Clergyman and Army Chaplain. This work, which appears in the form of a 12mo volume of 400 pages, is divided into three Parts. Part I., “Childhood and Youth,” contains five Chapters; Part II., “The New England Chaplain,” has three Chapters; and Part III., “The Army Chaplain,” nine Chapters, being more than half the volume. Accounts of his life and labors down to the time of the breaking out of the war are given in Parts I. and II., which will well repay an attentive perusal; but Part III. will command most attention, as it relates to Mr. Fuller's career while in the army, and is largely composed of his brilliant writings. He became Chaplain of the Sixteenth Massachusetts Regiment, commanded by the lamented Colonel Wyman, in the summer of 1861, and accompanied the Regiment when it was sent to the South; and from that time until the day of his death, he was an enthusiastic and enlightened laborer in the great cause to which he had devoted all his talents and energies. No office was neglected by him, and no duty left unperformed; and the popularity which he enjoyed was the effect of his arduous and intelligent labors. He wrote much while with his military friends, and many of his letters were furnished to the columns of this journal, as well as to those of <illegible> his writings. Nothing more spirited than <illegible> belongs to the literature of the war, and to them historians will be indebted for much matter of no ordinary value. He was an eye-witness of the terrible raid made by the Merrimack, and of that immortal conflict between her and the Monitor; and his brilliant description of those events has a prominent place in this volume. Others of his letters are most vividly eloquent, and show that he had a clear conception of the magnitude of the contest. Had he lived, he might have become the war's best historian. We wish that all would read this narrative of his doings, containing so much as it does of his own strong and striking language, the words of a man w ho felt deeply, and expressed himself clearly and boldly. The pecuniary avails of the publication are devoted to the benefit of his family, and they should be large, so as to accord with his services and his sacrifices, his character and his deeds. A good portrait of its hero ornaments the work. [Published by Walker, Wise & Co.]-Boston Traveller.
THE PLANTATION BELL.
A correspondent of the New York Tribune, attached to the army of Gen. Banks in Louisiana, writes as follows:-
About nine miles back, increasing evidences of taste and culture about plantation residences announced the approach to some town or city. Soon a mansion surrounded by elegantly and tastefully arranged grounds was pointed out as the private residence of Gov. Moore. Here, as on several other large plantations through which we had passed during this and the preceding day, the fences and lanes were covered and filled with negroes jubilant even to ecstacy. The great plantation bells, heretofore used to call unwilling hands to unrequited toil, now rung out a more joyful peal, announcing to these poor creatures the passing away of old institutions, and the dawn of a new order and a brighter day.
When first I heard the plantation bell thus heralding the arrival of our troops, it was on a large sugar plantation, the property of a noted Rebel officers, whose family bad the day before fled to the pine woods for safety from imaginary danger, and whose quarters had the night before afforded shelter to about 300 Rebel cavalry, then on their hasty retreat. A large gang of negroes-few men, many women, and almost innumerable children-covered the little porches of the houses, between two rows of which enthusiasm of the <illegible> possible blessing was invoked upon our soldiers. Expressions of “Oh, how long I has looked for ye”-“You has done come at last”-“God Almighty bless you”-“Tank God for de Yankees”-and many others filled the air from every quarter. I heard one old dame saying she was too old, “but tank God for de sake of my children and grandchildren.” I think the men, many of whom have been taught to despise and abuse every negro, because he is a negro, and were encouraged by their officers to beat and maltreat them without provocation, were not unmoved toward better things by these scenes.
And it is not unworthy of mention here, that in all our march through the greater part of the State of Louisiana, and through sections supposed to contain more Union sentiment than any other, with one single exception, the only cheering, open manifestations of welcome have been from negroes. Others have been able to discover much latent Union sentiment cowed down by fear, yet springing up after our march, but I have not seen any of it.
The exception was at Opelousas. As our advanced brigade passed out of the town to the northward, I saw three ladies at a front window of one of the buildings connected with the Convent Seminary, two of whom cheered our troops by the waving of handkerchiefs and other demonstrations of joy. This, in a march of many hundred miles through the most populous regions and oldest settled parts of Louisiana, is the solitary instance that has come under my observation. Who were they? Perhaps two of those daughters of the North who came here to dispense an intelligence and education not indigenous to the soil; and who, for two long years, have been virtually imprisoned, cut off, at least, from all communication with home and friends, and who saw in the onward march of our troops to them also an army of liberation.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
VALLANDIGHAM.
We do not believe in the sincerity of a man like Vallandigham, who goes about the country stirring up opposition to a measure like the conscription law an act passed after full deliberation on the part of Congress, and with the strongest desire to render it impartial-and equal in its action, which it seems to us to be, as nearly as human imperfection will permit. When a man of ability and prominence like Vallandigham pursues the course he has lately adopted, making the most reckless misstatements in regard to the law, boldly defying it, stirring up others to oppose it by force, endeavoring to set at naught the authority of the Executive in carrying the law into effect, industriously poisoning the minds of the people in regard to it, exciting their passions and urging them to insurrection and bloody resistance, we find it impossible to believe in his loyalty. If not technically a traitor, he is so in fact and intention. He deliberately aids in bringing about the defeat of the national arms, and the permanent disruption of the Union. His professions are hypocritical and false. We have thought that he might have better been dealt with by the civil authorities, but we think the administration were the best judges of what course was wisest under the circumstances, and the punishment meted out to him is not half so severe as he deserves. There are a good many others whom we should like to have sent to share his present abode, and we hope he will never return to pollute the soil of a free State.
Nor have we any faith in, or sympathy with, those who are constantly haranguing and declaiming about the loss of our liberties, the usurpation and despotism of the administration. The men who do this are as insincere and as traitorous as Vallandigham. The little knot of scoundrels in New York who come out on every occasion of disaster to our arms, to attack the administration, and skulk into obscurity when all is going on well, are traitors at heart. They are aiding in the work which the rebels are so anxious to see brought about, of distracting and dividing the North, and thereby preventing its success. The administration has done some things which we consider unwise. But that there is any danger of a despotism being set up, is the wild vagary of a disordered imagination, or the reckless invention of a traitorous heart.
The good sense of the American people will pre-vent any great harm from coming from all this. No traitorous counsels can find a permanent lodgment in their hearts. They will persevere in the contest till the rebellion is crushed, and they will sustain the administration in its efforts to accomplish the task; or if it prove inadequate, they will choose another and a stronger one, and they will consign to perpetual political oblivion all those who, during its continuance, have by their conduct shown themselves the enemies of American nationality and freedom.-New Bedford Republican Standard.
GENERAL BURNSIDE.
Gen. Burnside, who ordered the arrest and trial of Vallandigham, is a life-long locofoco. Three years ago he was the regular locofoco candidate for Congress in one of the Rhode Island districts. In making the arrest, he acted on his own responsibility, without instructions from Washington. He felt that a military necessity was laid on him, and he did not hesitate. A majority of the members of the Court before which Vallandigham was tried were locofoco. Application for a writ of habeas corpus in behalf of the prisoner was made to the Judge of the U. S. District Court, and denied, on the ground that the arrest was strictly in accordance with the military law of the country. This Judge is a locofoco, and was appointed to the bench by Gen. Jackson. We do not see, under such circumstances, what cause of complaint the copperheads have against the republicans in this matter.
Undoubtedly, military law is summary in its operation, but it is as much the law of the land as is the civil law. It is as essential to the defence of the nation in troublous times as the civil law ever is to the defence of the rights of individuals. Locofocos, who have approved Gen. Jackson’s course at New Orleans, in first defying the authority of the Courts, and then arresting the Judges, should reflect twice at least before they growl.
More than this. The locofocos have not been celebrated for championing the rights of free speech for unpopular men, on unpopular subjects. For thirty years, they systematically mobbed the abolitionists for proclaiming ideas that they held to be <illegible> town of any importance throughout the Northern States. Remember the burning of Pennsylvania Hall in Philadelphia, the murder of Lovejoy at Alton, the sack of abolition printing-offices at Baltimore, Boston, New York, Utica, Cincinnati, and elsewhere. Remember the burning of anti-slavery churches in New York, the sack of the dwellings of Cox, Patton, Tappan and others. The party that has for more than one generation engineered these flagrant outrages on the freedom of speech, ought to be ashamed to complain now. See what laws these men proposed to restrict the utterance of men-what rules they made for searching the public mails-what orders they enforced for casting out of the mails, and the burning of all printed matter reflecting on the institution of slavery! Men who have such sins to answer for against the rights of their fellow-citizens, against the plainest principles of justice, against the most obvious dictates of charity, ought not to whine when the hand of military law is laid on some of their own number.-Honesdale Democrat.
FREE SPEECH.
Time brings strange whirligigs, and few of them are stranger or more ludicrous than the "change of base" adopted by the copperhead fraternity upon the liberty of speech. It is enough to move a grave man to mirth, to hear the men who mobbed the abolitionists, broke up their meetings, abused and maltreated their speakers, now shouting at the top of their lungs for "free speech"!
Not a ruffian that ever undertook to break up an anti-slavery meeting, not an aristocratical bully that ever urged them on, but that is now blatant with the rights of citizens to say what they please, when and where they choose. The newspapers of this serpent tribe are hissing the same sound. Take the Boston Courier, for instance. How long has that been an advocate of freedom of speech? How long since it has urged on the mob of Boston to break up the Anti-Slavery meetings, and abuse the speakers?
We believe in freedom of speech; we believe that truth need never fear the ordeal of words or writing. We think the miserable copperhead Vallandigham, about whose arrest these new advocates of "free speech" are in ecstasies of rage, had far better have been "let severely alone," as long as he contented himself with words, and committed no overt act of treason. His treasonable brawling could not hurt <illegible> arrest has done, however, and that is to make those men, who have been so forward to choke off all discussion that was disagreeable to them, come out and declare themselves as converts, to the liberty of speech. We trust the lesson will not soon be forgotten; but consistency is not a cardinal virtue with these people, and it would not be at all wonderful to see them encouraging a mob tomorrow, to hoot down an obnoxious speaker, or break up a meeting to which they were opposed.-Old Colony Memorial.
GARL SCHURZ.
The opposition papers are assigning as a reason for the disgraceful panic in the 12th army corps in the late battle, the cowardice of the commanding General. The Boston Courier unblushingly says, that "General Schurz was the first man to run, leading his men in their race from the field." General Schurz has written a letter to Major General Howard, commanding the 11th corps, asking for protection against these malicious accusations, to which General Howard, replies as follows:-
"I am deeply pained to find you subjected to such false and malicious attacks. I saw you just as the action commenced. You hastened to your post. I next saw you rallying troops near the rifle pits, upon the ground occupied by our corps. After this you were with me forming a new line of battle near General Berry's line.
I do not believe that you could have done more than you did on that trying occasion. The allegations with reference to your division is untrue, since your troops did not occupy the front on the point of attack."
Will the papers, which have been quick to circulate this libel of a brave man, be as ready to copy General Howard’s answer?-Blddeford Union.
<C02>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 12, 1863.
GERRIT SMITH AND THE COPPERHEADS.
It is an unfortunate thing for a good man so to express himself as to give the enemies of truth and righteousness seeming cause for exultation, as though he had thrown away his principles, and made himself as bad as the worst. But this is a liability to which even the most guarded is subject. What a monstrous perversion it was of the language of Jesus, when they said of him, "We have heard his blasphemy: what need have we of further witnesses?" An instance quite as flagitious is seen in the malicious construction placed by the "copperheads" and pro-slavery journals upon the language uttered by Gerrit Smith, in his recent speech at the imposing Loyal League Convention of the Empire State, held at Utica. The Albany Evening Journal, for example, makes the following comment:-
"The great feature of the day was the speech of Gerrit Smith. It was remarkable for its eloquence, remarkable for its conservative tone, remarkable for its uncompromising and unselfish patriotism. There was hardly a word in it which a true lover of the Union could not endorse. It declared that the great business before us was to crush the rebellion; that this should be done, even though slavery lived. What a refreshing contrast to the coarse diatribes of Wendell Phillips, and the idiotic ravings of Theodore Tilton!"
This is placing Mr. Smith in radical antagonism to Mr. Phillips and Mr. Tilton on the subject of slavery, and in harmonious affinity with one of the meanest and trickiest of the journals of the day! Its object is to represent him as caring little or nothing about slavery, whether it be weakened or strengthened, abolished or perpetuated, if only the rebellion can be crushed. It is a gross perversion of his meaning, and an insult instead of a compliment. The speech of Mr. Smith may be found on our first page. The Evening Journal says it was " " remarkable for its conservative tone." Was it indeed? Let us see. He boldly assumed that that immense meeting had not been drawn together to save "the Constitution, the Union, or the country," but simply to "put down this accursed and causeless rebellion." How long is it since that paper, or the conservatism which it represents, has made the preservation of the Constitution, the Union, and the country, a matter of comparative indifference? If this is to be conservative, what is it to be radical?
We admit that Mr. Smith uses language that can easily be misconstrued for an evil purpose; but to impute to him any such purpose, and to misname it "uncompromising and unselfish patriotism," is a very base and sneaking procedure. This is all he says in relation to slavery:-
"My only duty has been, from the first, the putting down of this rebellion. And hence, some old Abolitionists, perhaps, would ask me, Do you go for putting down this rebellion at all possible hazards, that slavery may survive and be stronger than ever?? I would. I run that risk."
But that risk, in his inmost conviction, is no risk at all. The rebellion ought to be put down because it is "accursed and causeless"-that is, causeless so far as any wrong done to the South by the Federal Government, or the people of the North is concerned. He has no doubt whatever that a vigorous prosecution of the war to crush the rebellion must terminate the existence of slavery; hence, he is willing to "run that risk." No man more clearly understands, or more sincerely believes, than himself, that rebellion and slavery are convertible terms. But he chooses to make the suppression of the rebellion the simple test of loyalty, leaving every thing else to take care of itself. Already, in seeking to do this, the Government has been obliged to decree the emancipation of more than three millions of slaves; and the remaining fragment of the slave system in the border States is rapidly disappearing. The man is stone blind who thinks he is ever again to see "the Union as it was," or a slave <illegible> are to be broken, and liberty and equal rights established throughout the land. As rationally talk of an iceberg, drifting from the North Pole towards the Gulf Stream, maintaining its origin-al dimensions, as to talk of slavery coming out of this fiery ordeal of a civil war of its own kindling unscathed, or with a single fetter left unmelted!
THEY STAND VINDICATED.
Of the multitudinous disparaging allegations that have been brought against the slave population by the enemies of impartial freedom, not one has been verified by the events of the war. Instead of not desiring their freedom, they have invariably shown the greatest eagerness to obtain it wherever our army has gone; and great has been their lamentation when, for any cause, they could not be admitted within the lines. Instead of using their freedom injuriously to themselves or others, they have behaved with marked propriety, and evinced no disposition to commit any outrage, however slight. Instead of wishing to indulge in idleness or vagrancy, they have exhibited the utmost readiness to work even for a very inadequate remuneration, and they are fast learning the lessons of thrift. Instead of being a burden upon society or the government, they more than pay their way when there is anything like a fair chance. Instead of indicating no wish to be taught, they manifest the strongest desire for rudimental instruction, and a remarkable aptitude to learn. Instead of being wild or intractable, none are so docile and obedient. Instead of showing a cowardly spirit when the heroic element is appealed to, they display as soldiers a courage for attack, and a disregard of danger and death, unsurpassed in the annals of warfare. Take, for example, the recent desperate assault upon Port Hudson by the forces under Gen. Banks. Read the following testimony of the correspondent of the New York Express as to the
CONDUCT OF THE NEGRO TROOPS. 
While an occasional shot was being fired, before the battle commenced in its more deadly fury, speculations were rife as to the manner in which the Second Louisiana black troops would act during the conflict. They had been placed in the rear, with white troops leading them. Gen. Banks, however, in order to test their military capacity <illegible> at office rushed to the assigned point, and is the midst of the battle they proceeded to storm the rebel portion opposite to them. They rushed in a body over the parapets and siege guns, and reached the interior of the fort, in despite of the opposition of a large number of rebels. The presence of the black soldiers, inside, not less than the probability that the pass they had made into the stronghold, seemed to create a spirit of fury in the enemy. They left their guns at all points, and rushed to the quarter where the negroes had prepared to make a vigorous struggle. The whites and blacks in a moment had a hand to hand conflict unprecedented for its ferocity.
The negroes in the conflict were soon disarmed, and in defending themselves they rapidly used the weapons of savage humanity. In every position in which the struggle placed them, they fought with their teeth, biting their assailants in every available part of the body, kicking and scratching them. Soon, however, they had to succumb; the bayonet, the trigger, the revolver, and merciless hands on their throats, doing the work for them with fearful fatality.
It may be here noted, as a key perhaps to other battles, that the presence of the black troops made the rebels in the fort almost as ferocious as the blacks. In the attack, the enemy did not content himself in wounding the Africans; of eight hundred, six hundred were at once killed; when one was wounded, the assault was repeated till he died. Finding themselves thus overpowered, about two hundred of the negro troops rushed to the siege guns, jumped headlong over the walls, and were saved.
Whatever of "glory" is to be gathered from a contest like this belongs in full measure to these dauntless colored soldiers, whose courage never was surpassed, and in view of whose sad fate even the most callous-hearted must feel a thrill of sympathy.
It seems too apparent, from the savage butchery of these liberty-loving men, that the rebels mean to give no quarter to layal negro soldiers. In due time, they will rue the day when they set such an example!
<C03>
"WE ARE THE REVOLUTION."
There are many indications that the government is weaker to-day than when Fort Sumter fell. One is, that certain of its acts which were then justified and applauded by acclamation, are now branded as tyrannous, combated and nullified by its foes, and but coldly, supported or even mildly censured by its friends. Or will some one tell us why a greater pother is made about Vallandigham than there was about scores of his fellow-conspirators who were deprived of liberty early in the war, and incarcerated in Fort Warren or Lafayette; or why it is a more shocking outrage, A.D. 1863, to deny the Chicago Times the benefit of the mails than it was the N. Y. News in the spring of 1861? Either the same or no justification attaches to all these instances of the exercise of a power above and in contravention of civil law. If the same, what means this furious indignation? if none, why so sudden the discovery and the protest?
Let us recur to facts. The people sanctioned in 1861 the arbitrary arrest of traitors, the rejection of treasonable prints from the post, the suppression of secession orators at the North. Why? The liberty of the person, the freedom of speech and of the press, these are the very basement of the Democratic sys-tem. Why did the people cheerfully relinquish them to the discretion of their rulers? Because a war had come in which the nation was assailed, in which its life was at stake; and without life, of what use were its rights and privileges, however ancient or important? Besides, they saw that the safeguards of peace may become the perils of war. War is swift, unhesitating, decisive; peace moves by complex and tardy machinery. Peace may deliberate; war must strike. Peace can trust to the long run; war must settle on the spot. The time had come, then, when words might be more dangerous than bullets, and the locomotion of certain persons more ruinous than armed invasion. "Save us!" cried the people to the Administration; "we are the law!" Salus populi suprema lex. Who says rights were violated or the laws infringed upon in 1861?
The fact is, the nation, or, what is the same thing, the government, now as then, must proceed on the assumption that it is in the right. It is this idea which has given strength to slavery and endurance to the rebellion; it is this that quickens their Northern abettors. We must not entertain a suspicion that we are wrong, or that liberty is an error. Forced into a conflict which we little relished and for which we were ill-prepared, our only safety lies in assuming the direction of events, Lately it was the South in revolt against the Union; to-day it must be we who are the revolution.
Laughable at once and monstrous are the outcries of the Copperheads against the treatment of Vallandigham and the Times. The pathetic appeals in behalf of free speech and a free press thus outraged, come from those who are identified with every mob against free speech for the past thirty years; who participated in the murder of Lovejoy and the sack of his office; who dragged the editor of the Liberator through the streets of this city; who burned to the ground Pennsylvania Hall, the temple of free speech; and who have, on hundreds of occasions, all over the North, visited the anti -slavery lecturers of both sexes with epithets and missiles equally vile and filthy, with brutal menace and bodily abuse. From such as these proceed the moral demands for unbridled license to defame and clamor down the Administration. But in whose be-half do they so strenuously urge this right? In behalf of a rebellion which established itself by drowning the voice of a majority of voters opposed to its inception; which has murdered thousands of loyal citizens for refusing to be dumb in the interest of the Union, or to be loud-mouthed in acknowledgment of the pseudo confederacy. In behalf of a system which puts under ban the school-house, makes a free press impossible, answers a free tongue with a halter, and attaches to every free vote the peril of property, life and limb. Was ever hypocrisy more transparent, more devilish than this?
It is useless to separate the editor from the orator by as much as the printed is more winged than the spoken word, by so much is the necessity greater of watching the press than the forum. Keep disloyal papers from the camps and armies, as has been done by repeated orders. Suppress them in their office of publication, and imprison their editors, if need be, or send them packing to keep company with Vallandigham. Burnside, it seems to us, was right, and the President weak in revoking his order. Why be frightened at the bugbear of a precedent, and of the return of the Democracy to power? Will they need, have they ever needed precedents for any kind of villany? Do we not know that they would hang us all to-morrow, as cheerfully as would Jeff. Davis himself? We must not admit the possibility of such a return, nor strive to mitigate its ferocity by ill-timed kid-glovery. The destruction of pro-slavery Democracy is now as much a necessity and an inevitable result of this war as that of slavery itself. Not by blood need such a consummation be reached, but by the display of firm-ness, undaunted resolution, and fixed policy in the treatment of Northern traitors. The people stand ready to say Amen, and let not the proper supporters of the Administration be knock-kneed at such an hour.-W. P. G.
THE DUMB WITNESS.
One of the fundamental beliefs of Pantheism is the sacredness of all animal life. The pious Hindoo not only refuses to take the life of any animal for food, but avoids even the lighting of a candle at night, lest insects should be drawn into the flames, and filters the water which he drinks, lest he should incautiously swallow some creature. A story is related of an English missionary in India, who was astonishing the natives by showing them the wonders of the micro-scope, and, in the course of his experiments, magnified: a glass of pure water, revealing therein living animal-culae invisible to the naked eye; whereupon an indignant Brahmin seized the instrument, and dashed it in pieces. An incident reminding us strongly of this recently occurred, not in Hindostan, but in Boston, in which the actor was not a Brahmin, but a Copper-head.
There has lately come to us, from Baton Rouge, the photograph of a former slave-now, thanks to the Union army, a freeman. It represents him in a sitting posture, his stalwart body bared to the waist, his fine head and intelligent face in profile, his left arm bent, resting upon his hip, and his naked back exposed to full view. Upon that back, horrible to contemplate! is a testimony against slavery more eloquent than any words. Scarred, gouged, gathered in great ridges, knotted, furrowed, the poor tortured flesh stands out a hideous record of the slave-driver’s lash. Months have elapsed since the martyrdom was undergone, and the wounds have healed, but as long as the flesh lasts will this fearful impress remain. It is a touching picture, an appeal so mute and powerful that none but hardened natures can look upon it unmoved. However much men may depict false images, the sun will not lie. From such evidence as this there is no escape, and to see is to believe. Many, therefore, desired a copy of the photograph, and from the original numerous copies have been taken.
 The surgeon of the First Louisiana regiment, (colored,) writing to his brother in this city, encloses this photograph, with these words:-
"I send you the picture of a slave as be appears after a whipping. I have seen, during the period I have been inspecting men for my own and other regiments, hundreds of such sights-so they are not new to me; but it may be new to you. If you know of any one who talks about the humane manner in which the slaves are treated, please show them this picture. It is a lecture in itself."
But we started to parallel the story of the Brahmin and the microscope with the story of the Copperhead, and, after this necessary explanation, we proceed.
An anti-slavery friend of ours had taken his seat in the horse-car, on the way to his home in a neighbor-
<C04>
ing town, and was looking at one of these photographs of the scourged back, which he had just purchased. A man by his side desired to buy it. Our friend, knowing where to get more, consented to the request. A satisfactory price was named and given, and the picture changed hands, when, suddenly, with malignant emphasis and manner, the purchaser tore the card into fragments, and scattered them on the car floor.
Ah! if he could only have destroyed the guilty fact when he tore its fragile witness, there would have been some warrant for that look of triumph. But as the animalculae still lived in the water, though the microscope was shivered in pieces, so the damning fact of slavery’s cruelty still remained when the harm-less card was gone.
Evidently, there was a troubled conscience in this case; and we wonder what past scenes the little picture conjured up in this man’s mind! Perhaps he was one of the patriots who assisted Marshal Tukey on that famous night, when, under the fitting cover of darkness, the Sim's brigade skulked to their dark work; or, may be, more shameless still, he walked in broad noon-day with the kidnappers of poor Burns. If such memories rushed upon him at the sight of this scourged back, no wonder that he wanted it beyond the reach of vision.
When we think of the daily torture which this man must undergo, we pity him sincerely, Copperhead though he be. Every evidence of advancing anti-slavery sentiment must cause him fresh pangs. The ghost of Banquo only vanishes to re-appear in unexpected shapes and places,-a very Proteus. Yesterday, it was the 54th regiment, marching with triumphant tread to John Brown’s hymn, through Boston streets; to-day, it is the news from Port Hudson, telling how the Negro regiment (those Indolent creatures who are too lazy to work, and too timid to fight, you know!) came out of its charge on the enemy’s works, leaving behind six hundred killed and wounded men out of the nine hundred that went in, to testify to its devoted heroism; to-morrow, it is the simple picture of a suffering slave that rises up to disturb his peace. Even the momentary satisfaction of supposing that he had effectually disposed of this "abolition device" was denied him; for our anti-slavery friend, with cruel serenity, remarked, "I sold you this picture for twenty-five cents; to-morrow I will let you have one for fifteen." So his apple turned quickly to ashes, as the unpalatable truth flashed upon him that the fountain head was not destroyed; but instead, his own money had gone to encourage the abolition photographer to circulate more copies. Thus the laws of nature work together for man’s good, and not an act of the Copper -head or the slaveholder is possible, that does not aid in the great work of slavery’s overthrow. It is the Divine economy.
How God’s sunlight is searching into the dark places of American slavery, revealing the infernal wick edness of the house of bondage! "Man’s inhumanity to man," the agonies of the nation are expiating to-day; and until these dumb wounds, maimed bodies and starved minds are avenged, can we expect peace?
When the power of the inquisition ceased, and the instruments and methods of torture were exposed, only then did the world fully comprehend the horrors of the institution. So with our national Inquisition. The war is bringing to light realities which dwarf in comparison the supposed exaggerations of the abolitionists. Welcome, then, the aid of art in exhuming the hidden barbarism of slavery! Daguerre shall henceforth be enrolled on the anti-slavery scroll of honor! It may be that his reputation will wane in the South, and Northern Democratic conventions pass resolutions against his "abolition invention"; but as the faithful photographs of slavery’s victims, its thumbscrews, branding irons, whips and shackles, come to us, shaming, humiliating, and converting the people, the blessings of all good men will rest upon the memory of the great inventor.-w. L. G., JR.
ENTHUSIASTIC WAR MEETING IN WASHINGTON
A meeting of the colored citizens of the District of Columbia was held on Monday night, May 4th, in Asbury Church, corner of 11th and K. streets, to open the ball in favor of a regiment of colored troops. By the time the appointed hour arrived, the house was densely crowded by one of the most intelligent colored! audiences ever assembled in Washington. In order to preserve decorum, and to prevent any unfavorable demonstration by the negro-hating, rowdy copper-heads who might be disposed to obstruct or defeat the objects of the meeting, the Provost-Marshal sent a detachment of the 39th Massachusetts, who were posted at the doors of the church and in the aisles. In consequence, there were no such demonstrations, and, beyond an unusual enthusiasm on the part of the audience, perfect order prevailed.
Col. J. D. Turner called the meeting to order, and offered a fervent prayer on behalf of the enterprise. An appropriate portion of the Scriptures was read by Lieut. Col. W. G. Raymond; after which, Mr. Guerden Snowden, one of the church-trustees, was called to preside, and Jas. L. N. Bowen appointed Secretary.
The chairman said the meeting was open for all to participate. While it was a meeting of colored people, and they were expected to participate, yet he hoped their white friends present would present their views. He congratulated his race on their present condition. He had seen the time when his people had few, if any, friends here. How changed now! We now have many friends, and the great events of the last two years have proved it.
Col. Turner explained the objects of the meeting. He had been laboring with the colored people for the past three months, to prepare them for this great step towards their elevation. He knew the colored people., He had sympathized with them. He had visited their churches, Sunday-schools, literary societies, and their celebrations. His object was to do that which was for the highest interest of their race. Commissioner Dole, of the Indian Department, at the request of several citizens, made a visit to the President, to lay this subject before him. A free conference was held. The President was anxious to do all he could for this people, but he had become somewhat discouraged. Prominent men would go to him, and ask authority to raise colored troops, and then go away and make a feeble effort, and return to ask for something else. "Now," said he, "what I want of you is to bring on your men, and I will find service for them. I want them now." (Loud applause.) Now let us take Mr. Lincoln at his word, and bring forward the men. ("Yes!" "That’s it!") He (Mr. T.) had prayed over this matter, and he felt it to be his duty to engage in this work. He had con-versed with the young colored men, and found them anxious to enter the lists for country and for manhood. Even though it should be through bloody battle-fields, he prayed God that this race might reach that destiny. He designed them to attain.
Rev. Mr. Winkfield (colored) was introduced. He was happy to feel that the time had arrived when they could enter on this work. He could not with-hold his hearty support to the enterprise. We have two noble leaders, (turning to Messrs. Turner and Raymond,) who have stood up for us, who have labored and felt for us, and who can appreciate our difficulties. No better men could be got. Many men desire to lead our people in battle, and it might be our lot to fall into the hands of others who do not know us so well. These are the men of our choice. We can safely rally under them. I am willing to give my life to my country, now that liberty and justice are with her. Life is sweet, but country is better. My home is secure in heaven, and I shall go, trusting to God; and if I fall. I shall fall doing my duty. Our people are free, and let us go and defend them. We now have an opportunity to be men. Shall we longer endure the scorn of that race which has oppressed us? (Great enthusiasm and cries of "No! No!") May the time speedily come when we shall see that flag, under which we have been oppressed, but which is now truly the emblem of freedom, float in triumph
<C05>
over the entire continent! (Applause.) It is now my flag, and I will die for it. (Loud applause.)
The choir here sung the "Star-Spangled Banner," the entire audience joining in the chorus.
Mr. Charles Tasco (colored) was called forward. He said that it seemed but yesterday when, at this capital, it was proclaimed to the nation that black men had no rights that the white man was bound to respect. But God had raised up Abraham Lincoln (loud applause) and his party to break down this infamous institution, and erect freedom in its place. Applause.) The black man’s blood reddened the soil of Bunker Hill, and shall it not be shed now? ("Yes, yes.") Our country now promises us "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." We have been negligent. Do we expect to sit down and enjoy these privileges without some sacrifices on our part? ("No, no; let us fight.") Without the shedding of blood there is no remission.
Mr. Samuel Wilson (colored) said that, when he looked to the door, and saw that the Union bayonet protected the black man, his heart was full. (Loud applause.) He had conversed with the man he hoped soon to call his colonel, and he believed him to be the right man. He should go with him. (Applause.) There were no black "copperheads." The copper-heads were of a lighter color than copper. (Laughter.) Shall we sit in ease, or go and fight? (Loud cries of "Fight, fight.") I will place my name on the roll to fight. (Applause.) Which looks the more manly-the colored man with an apron before him, or with a gun on his shoulder? When you get the gun, you will be a man. (Loud applause.) When we have (300,000 muskets, will they take our rights? ("Never.") They will not enslave us again. (Applause)
Mr. Bowen (colored) made some remarks. When we show that we are men, we can then demand our liberty, as did the revolutionary fathers-peaceably if we can, forcibly if we must. If we do not fight, we are traitors to our God, traitors to our country, traitors to our race, and traitors to ourselves. (Applause.) Richmond is the place for us, and we mean to go there. (Applause.) Our friend, Jeff. Davis, says we shall go there (laughter), and we will go; but they won’t be glad to see us.
T. H. C. Hinton (colored) was called on to speak. This is a great day in which we live. The occasion requires plain talk. The pall of death, and worse than death, hanging over us, will be removed, and we will come out in full manhood. We are a part of this government, and let us do our part in its struggle. He was willing to say he would go too. (Applause.) Let us show our appreciation of the labors of our friends in our behalf. We will stand by the President. ("Good.") While, on the one hand, a people stand ready to oppress us, on the other hand are our friends to hold us up. Then let us shoulder the musket, and do our duty. This duty is as, binding as the law of God. These men who are to lead us are the right men in the right place. We know them, and can safely trust them to lead us. There is no other way for our full deliverance but through the bloody sword and the leaden ball. (Applause.) Arise, and pro-claim with one grand voice, "Liberty or death!" (Great applause.)
Wm. Wormley (colored) was called on for a speech. He came forward, and said he was not a man of words but of action. (Suiting action to his words, he seized a pen, and was the first to put his name to the muster roll amid great enthusiasm:) "I want to go to South Carolina, get on the other side of the rebels, and drive them this way, so that you may catch them." (Laughter and applause.)
Mr. Green, a large, noble-looking colored man, came forward, and gave some excellent and practical counsel, in a clear and distinct manner. We have not space to give even a synopsis of his excellent suggestions.
Joseph Washington, a contraband, was introduced by the Colonel. He knew what it was to be a slave. He had no education, but he thought of these things. It was a serious time, and a serious, solemn subject. The outspoken language of this unfortunate victim of the curse was true eloquence, and had a touching <illegible>
Geo. Hatton, a very sprightly young colored man, brim full of wit and good sense, addressed the audience in a pleasant vein of humor and logic.
He was followed by Rev. Mr. Evans, of Maryland, (white,) who spoke of his sufferings because he had defended the African race.
Rev. Mr. Wilson (colored) gave some well-timed, practical advice.
During the latter part of the meeting, many of the most intelligent young men in the audience came for-ward, and enrolled their names.
A resolution of thanks to the Provost Marshal for the presence and protection of the Provost guard was passed unanimously, and to the guard for their efficient conduct. Also, a vote of thanks to the trustees for the use of the church for the meeting.
It was announced that one hundred and forty names were now enrolled for the new regiment. Adj.
ANTI-COLONIZATION MEETING.
A large number of emigrants have lately returned to their homes from Hayti. The colored citizens of New York, embracing the opportunity to again enter their protest against colonization and emigration, held a meeting in Zion church, corner of Church and Leonard streets, May 5th, 1863.
The Rev. Dr. Pennington occupied the chair, and Mr. J. V. Givens acted as Secretary.
After prayer by Mr. Martin, the President stated the object of the meeting.
On invitation, the Rev. William Jones gave an account of his experience, while in Hayti, as did also Mr. J. W. Duffin. These gentlemen were followed by Mrs. Jones, whose narrative of the troubles and sufferings of her own family, as well as those of the emigrants generally, was clear and distinct, carrying conviction and sorrow to the hearts of all her hearers.
The following preamble and resolutions, offered by the Rev. H. A. Thompson, and seconded by Mr. J. V. Givens, were adopted:-Whereas, we have in our midst a large number of emigrants, thrown back upon our shores by the intense suffering endured by them during their stay in Hayti, escaping there from with shattered constitutions and barely their lives, leaving husbands, wives, pa-rents and children in premature graves, victims of cupidity and deception; therefore,
Resolved, That we welcome these people to their native land again.
Resolved, That we are as ever opposed to all and every scheme, plan or plot, having for its object the colonization or expatriation of our people from their homes.
Resolved, That we regard every colored or white man, engaged in the nefarious work of decoying our people from their native land, as their unprincipled and mercenary enemy, deserving only their scorn.
Resolved, That we view with contempt, as our fathers nobly did, the old Hag, the "American Colonization Society," its pet daughter, the "African Civilization Society," also its, deformed child, the Haytien Emigration movement, and their efforts to remove the colored man from the United States.
Resolved, That the time long looked for is upon us; the decisive moment is come when every colored man is needed to watch the glowing fires of liberty in our land, and, under God, to strike a death dealing blow at slavery and slaveholders, who are trying to destroy the government.
Resolved, That we do now form ourselves into an Anti-Emigration League, for the purpose of assisting sick and unfortunate emigrants, who may escape to this city from Hayti; and also to counsel and deter by every honorable means persons deceived, and induced to colonize distant lands.
After some remarks by Mr. J. V. Givens, and the passage of a vote of thanks to the Trustees of Zion church, they adjourned, subject to the call of the committee.
J. W. C. PENNINGTON, Chairman.
J. V. GIVENS, Secretary pro tem.
<C06>
THE COMING NEGRO NATIONALITY.
EDITOR LIBERATOR-This nineteenth century of the man Jesus-Christos of Universal Love-has been specially impregnated by Divine intent. And amongst the coming prolifications whose irresistible advent we shall yet behold, is and will be an independent Negro Nationality. Nothing less than this, on this main continent, will afford the justified ultimate of the slave question.
Mr. President Lincoln’s forced Proclamation of Emancipation-forced from the Cabinet by the, steel points of necessitous circumstances-as it gets enforced, will unlock the door through which the black slowly walks, step by step, to the dignity and privilege and power of separate independent stateship. Practically, it is well that the four millions cannot immediately burst their bonds. Were it otherwise, even though this instinct for absolute justice should now be satisfied, we should, as a nation, be like the man who raffled for and got the elephant. And, as it is, the Government, the people, are bearing elephantine burdens that bend the back thereof, and threaten, by and by, to break it.
So I will gladly accept the slow working of the great new medicine, that is not only purgative but nutritive. In the meanwhile, for this very reason, the Southern black will be fitted for his now hidden but long predestined goal. No man jumps into manhood. A qualified nation must have some foreground of that education which is positively productive, as well as of that woe which is adequately disciplinary.
This war has killed many things besides men; and I suppose the Society for the transportation of the blacks to Liberia, to Hayti, or to any other country, is amongst the slain. Let us not mourn for this dead, at least. Out of the carcass of the bodied hopes of middle men shall come honey to nourish the expectations of absolutists for justice. Methinks the Aristides of the nineteenth century shall yet behold, ere he passes to the realm of glorified spirits, the construction, on American soil, of that African empire whose tread he heard in the realm of thought, thirty years ago.
How could it be otherwise? How in the name of the King of the North, King Gold, to say nothing of the Sovereign of the South, King Cotton, could the American people expect to get rid of the four million by exportation? Besides which, the negro now is on his native soil. What wisdom shall justify his removal? Would this Northern people strike at his so affluent affectional characteristic? Let them have care, too; it is a desperate undertaking to pull up and transplant a tree whose roots ramify so far, so deep, and so wide. What people love their own, their native land, more than the black? I say that, in this very striking affection, you have a strong guarantee of an orderly and progressive nationalism. The subtle magnetic which bind the negro’s mind to the soil that bore and nourishes him, may become one potent medium for the evolution of a great State.
No; he must remain. If other reasons are not adequate to indicate it, let a third from out the book of this Continent’s destiny settle the point. We are not simply in a Revolution, but in a Dispensation. The first is God’s fiery ploughshare; the other is His builder; and the solid foundation of the new edifice to rise after the storm-sweep of this triple political, religious and social revolution shall have done its missioned work, is fashioned from the substance of retributive as well as distributive Justice. So the very soil cultured is sweat of blood by the slave, must be his to till as a man. And thus another Nation rises on these Western shores.
The settlement of the slave question is not simply in the freedment of the slave. We who have profit-ed by the black business, even the people, must pay back now in coin of culture of them. We must all yield what we can: the South its land, all along the Gulf, and stretching thence North a hundred or two or three of English miles; the North a preparative military protection, and an education, in free labor and manhood, under it. We must give the black white contiguity and neighborhoodism-not such, in deed, as, bloated and haughty, makes the fifteenth or sixteenth century a great, lordly presence in the personal of Southern aristocracy, or, as debased and darkened, shows, if it does not shine, in the manners and life of "poor white trash" there; but such as may justify itself in the light of a New Age, in the characteristic and act of a purified and spiritualized, as well as civilized, North. The magnetic sphere and effluence of our independent, vigorous, inventive, go-ahead-ative, commercial, and generally industrial life, must stream down upon and into them in the Northern winds. Nay, we must first plant in their midst the seeds of all this. I shall trust much to the vital touch and breath of a living inspiration to call out the possibility of the black, just as I would have faith in the sun in Spring; but I do not forget the need of the husbandman. The North must furnish its tillers,-contiguous influence, positive instruction, military protection now, and in the hours of long need to come, and interchanges of mind and life. But these will not work alone. Nay, predestined men and women, who this day, even as it was with Toussaint L'Ouverture and Christophe in the past, bear the stamp and sign and seal of a splendid redemptive office to their black kind, shall come forth from the glooms of social obscurity and the house of slavery, blacker than they, into the fadeless light of historic act. Then shall rise other inspired Truths besides Sojourner; while heroic actors shall match the Haytian Liberator in thought, and deed, and transcendent life. A rising people must be led into promised lands, and established there by and through ones not only amidst but of themselves. The slave loves Lincoln since the proclamation, and will be gladly obedient to his Colonels and Brigadiers; but his own coming men will magnetize him. Liberty is an inspirator. Black embodiments of this life shall lead in triumph on by white inspirations flaming from them.
Let the war, then, go on for two or three years more, and, as I see it, it surely will. By that time, the proclamation and victorious Northern arms, of turned back, will have struck to the centres and secret and sacred fastnesses of Southern country and power. Then, if interest does not settle into its deep gruve the black institution, it will burst all barriers, and go out on the Gulf tier in insurrectionary blood and fire.
But what in the meanwhile? The hand of God is stretched clear across the full empire, and the Sword of Justice cannot go back into its concealed scabbard, till it has cut to the quick to that full extent. Do we fully apprehend the next necessity of an adaptive government? Wait a little longer. What is theoretic now with Abraham Lincoln, by act of Congress, will be the stern and forced practicality of his successor, if not before. In truth, the President has already been pushed from the Constitution by an advancing wall of steel bayonets-the iron of necessity; and he stands now not on it, but on Legislation. And that instrument which was damned at birth because of its defalcation to the magnificent spirit of the Declaration, is this day, in the exigency of the country, well nigh a blank. What we did not choose to take, we are compelled to accept; and, by and by, we shall be compelled to accept something more. It remains to be seen which of the two men, Banks or Butler, gets the almost dictatorial empower.
As for myself, I have faith in the new Nathaniel. Notwithstanding his late misunderstood application of the Proclamation, he is the only man that, in the military sphere, understands where he is as a Statesman, and what lies ahead. He is grappling with the Labor-Question, the pivot of this troublous affair, and the centre of its settlement. Should the late Governor of this noble Commonwealth be blamed for that which the inspiration and insight of Toussaint himself, once a slave, under almost similar circum-stances, though not so complicated, suggested and advised? What was not enacted, except to a limited extent, by his successors in Hayti, may possibly be found, practically, absolutely necessitous here; therefore, let the right arm of military power, wielded as a
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
parent and friend should wield it, be extended over the emancipated. As many of the blacks as have gone beyond its adaptation will readily, peacefully glide from it.
Freed men and women have bellies and backs as well as slaves. Every man must earn what he eats and wears. In these departments, the absolute of Liberty finds its relative adjustment. Think of it-if by any practical possibility it could so be-four millions let loose of a sudden-tens of thousands of idle, lazy, vicious, not to say imbruted, immixed and seething amongst the many willingly laborious, honest and flexible! No; this Government has something more to do than to free slaves. It must provide for them. It frees them by an issue of paper translated into an organic power, and made practically operative by the long and strong stretch of its marshaled strength. It must see to it that the black has every aid necessary to develop a sense of independent manhood, and how best to healthfully regulate and more and more develop it. We are responsible for the successful issue of a Negro nationality on the main land of this continent. We do not by any means get rid of this weighty affair as Christian did of his pack of sin-dropping it as a loosened load. If the providence of God, is in His hidden design, permitted this thing to endure so long, it was that, by the very ones who profited from it, commensurate instrumentality should be yielded to educe the long latent destiny of the American Negro race.
Here they are, and here they must remain-the blacks. Their affinities and retributive justice settle this point. Southern institutions and a National Constitution are both damned, because they were not considered men by them. Had the South, had the Constitution of the once United States, but made provision for a possibility even of attainable manhood, the bitter cup in, its present shape might have passed. But neither ever did. While, then, it must be admitted that animals, minors, criminals and the viciously idle may be compelled to forced labor as long as they remain such; on the other hand, not a single provision has been enacted to meet the case of the slave. Once such always such, said the two powers. Let the brilliant career of Toussaint, Banneker and Douglass speak for the black. Let even uncultured but majestic and inspired Sojourner tell from out her testimony against the wickedness of "this yere people"!
Well, all this possibility is to be developed, and crystallized into national power. And we are inescapably in to help towards the enactment of it. Let us see and say, at once, that no settled peace, no Union even on a new and justified basis between the North and South, can come or be till the boundary lines of the Negro nationality are defined and mapped. It may take from three to seven years to make the beginnings of this consummation. Let it come, though it take fifty! In the meanwhile, the war remorselessly goes on, depopulates whole districts of the South, distintegrates and bankrupts the North, and serves as the fire-chariot in the which shall ride out on the highways of this national existence most unexpected advents. Defeat and disaster, as well as triumph, alike avail. Suffering and the inspiration as well as logic of events shall lift the people to the high altitudes of this issue. Inspired as well as honest men and women shall yet lead us on.
For one, I am satisfied with the past, and rest secure in the assurance of the future. Why, let us even give orations, in memoriam, to the defunct McClellan! That man was a providentialism. Did he best embody and exemplify the how not to do it-giving us splendid exemplification of military negation, veiled behind a Napoleonic port and undeniable engineer-ship? Had it not been for him, I doubt if we should have had the proclamation yet. He kept things a- lagging along that other things might get born. For God's designs often seek the weaknesses of men-and profit by them.
And, for one, I shall trust that disaster, the instincts of an eager people rising from a long night of dalliance with this sin to better invitations-and last, but not least, may, greatest and most potential of all, the God-guidances over us, will give us the honest and inspired men of capacity fit to handle the wonderful events before us. All hail! Ye men of insight large and approbation small, worthy to head and lead on battle-fields, in solemn national councils, in the dread night of disaster or the more perilous morn of rushing victory, a nation not dead, but alive, magnanimous at last, as well as justice-loving!
Boston, 1863, L.JUDD PARDEE.
A DIFFICULT CASE OF SELF-CONTROL.
EDITOR LIBERATOR:
DEAR SIR-I once heard of a Dutchman who emigrated to our country, and squatted in a Yankee colony, where he soon learned our language, and could converse freely with his Yankee neighbors. It happened he was somewhat irritable, and when angry, terribly profane; and he always swore in Dutch. His Yankee friends inquired the reason. "Because," said he, "I can express myself so much worse." And when I read the account of how uncle Sam was shaking the bush, and Kentucky catching the bird; or, in plain English, how the latter was reënslaving those who had been set free by the proclamation of the former, my blood rose to fever heat, and I wished I could talk Dutch, or some other unearthly dialect, that I might give vent to my indignation! And if it had not been written, "Swear not at all," I should swear with a ten-fold vengeance that would put the Dutchman, above referred to, infinitely in the shade! Especially while our political journals, including the Tribune, are admitting the damnable absurdity of the right of a State to reestablish slavery, even where the proclamation has set the present bondmen free! State sovereignty with a vengeance!! For Heaven's sake, give us half a dozen rebel Carolinas rather than one Kentucky, with admitted power to enslave whom she will! A right to rob, steal, and murder in the Union, but no right to leave the Union, even to promote the cause of justice or the best good of men! O, if ever the attempt is made to describe these times, and all the conflicting absurdities of statesmen and politicians, methinks the historian will drop his pen, and the painter his pencil, in utter despair; the former for want of language, and the latter for want of colors to do justice to the picture! If angels ever weep over human folly, or good men look over Heaven's battlements to witness the calamities that have befallen us, which they have escaped by a life of righteousness, there never was a time when the tears of the former flowed more freely, or the truth flashed upon the minds of the latter more vividly, that "righteousness exalteth a nation, and that sin is a reproach to any people."
When this great contest commenced, all our journals were filled with boastings of our means in men and money; and though all very true, it has turned out with us, as with the hare and the tortoise in the fable in running a race. The former lost the race for the same cause that has delayed our success; and statesmen, politicians, journalists, people, all, all have attributed our want of success to any cause but the true one-striking at slavery, the soul of the rebellion. I cannot take up a journal that does not hint, and some even advocate, though manifestly with trembling nerves, the policy of arming the Negroes, and letting them fight, not for themselves but for us! Marvellous condescension that-to let "niggers" fight! The nation, knee deep in the mire, and sinking deeper every day, now, after two years of disaster such as has befallen no other nation for a thousand years, instead of imploring their assistance, and offering a bounty and good wages as we do to white men, begins to talk about letting them fight for us! As though it were a great boon on our part, demanding an equivalent on theirs.
If any body can calmly contemplate this conglomeration of stupidity, folly and meanness, without committing the Dutchman's sin, he must be almost a prodigy of self-possession. I confess, it has cost me a severe effort to escape it.
Now, I would not be understood as raising any ob-
<c02>
jection to arming the colored men,-aye, and women too, if need be-and telling them to defend themselves as best they can, and us too, and clothing, feeding and paying them; and thereby prove to them and the world that justice and humanity have not forsaken the earth. My greatest fear is, that this contest will end by some infamous compromise, and lead slavery to breed another quarrel in the present or the next generation. I do hope there is no abolitionist green enough to think of throwing off the harness, while one million are yet in hopeless bondage, and three millions more not yet any better off than before the proclamation. We have got about as far as Pharaoh had, after the seventh plague was visited upon him. Go ye; that are men, and serve the Lord, for that ye did desire. Leave your little ones, and flocks, and herds; let me hold the key for your return" If we progress as well as we have done, we shall soon be where he was after the ninth plague, and let all go but the flocks and herds. But that stubborn old abolitionist told him flatly, "There shall not a hoof e left behind." And if these were my last dying words, I would repeat with emphasis, Never, never yield an inch of ground in favor of enslaving one human being, black, white or red!     JESSE STEDMAN. 
Springfield, Vt.
The writer of the preceding letter has reached a patriarchal age, but his spirit is yet vigorous. Here is a still later communication from him:-
"I have read the proceedings at the New England Anti-Slavery Convention with the deepest interest, and I do assure you it would have given me the greatest pleasure to have been one of the number to enjoy so rich a feast. I can endorse every sentiment expressed in the thirteen resolutions, adopted by the Convention; and none more heartily than the two! last. Nothing is more opportune and important, in the present crisis, than the suggestion of holding Conventions in different parts of all the New England States, and, I may add, all the Free States. We may well regard the present as a most momentous crisis in the history of the anti-slavery cause; and while thousands are uniting with us in the great cause of emancipation from necessity, rather than from principle, it is no time to relax our efforts in a cause so vital to the interest of the slave and the welfare of the nation. With one million yet in bondage, and a million bayonets behind ready to crush the first symptoms of revolt, and ninety-nine out of every hundred of the three millions declared free yet in slavery, who would think of gutting off the harness, and laying the armor by? If I had seen but twenty-five winters instead of eighty-two, I should think that, to all appearance, an age of labor was before me. 
My greatest hope for the future is the arming of the freedmen; not because they are under any obligation, civil or moral, to fight for us, but because once trained to the use of arms to defend themselves, they will bid defiance to the master's authority and the overseer's lash; and some modern Toussaint may yet arise, and carry terror into the Southern Bastile, compared with which the armies of the Union are but a summer pastime.
I am now in my second childhood, and perhaps incapable of giving sound counsel; but it does seem to me that now is the time to put forth a mighty effort. Write! Print! Speak! LEAVE NOTHING UNSAID OR UNDONE.
A few Federal victories, and a strong probability that the rebel game was played out, and your 54th regiment, so loudly cheered on leaving for the fight, returned, would be nothing but " niggers." You will see that I have little faith in a death-bed repentance, and still less in the anti-slavery principles of the multitude, the Church, the State, and the rabble, when the scourge is removed, and the death-blow not given to slavery. We need half a dozen conventions in Vermont. There never has been a time when Anti-Slavery Conventions would be so acceptable. 
Very truly yours, J. S."
GENERAL WILDE AND HIS NORTH CAROLINA BRIGADE. 
This gallant soldier left our city, for Newbern, a short time since, to form the colored Brigade which he is authorized by the government to raise. Gen. Wilde is certainly the right man for such an under-taking. A tried patriot, a true soldier, brave, skillful, and energetic, a good disciplinarian, and having the cause at heart, he surely possesses all the requisites for success.
The matter of the enlistment of colored soldiers at the South is certainly a move in the right direction. It will eventually prove to be one of the most direct and telling blows which slavery has yet received; for it is doing the thing, not attacking it by paper proclamations merely. Its influence on the war, on the slave himself, on the country, and on the future of the white race, cannot but eventuate in the most glorious results.
It is nonsense to ask, Will the slave fight? The history of the world is full of facts bearing upon this point, and showing that the heart-power, which the Negro can claim above all other races, and which he is destined yet to incorporate into human character, has brightened the most brilliant pages of human history. One cannot but smile at the quibbles of copper-heads, when he remembers that that mighty genius of war, before whom the world trembled, and which it took all Europe to master, was met, conquered, and driven off, by an army of Negroes! What! not fight! Men, three fourths of whom, according to faithful statistics, have the best blood of the chivalry in them, (no great boast, by the way!) to say nothing about their own native energy, which has made the South whatever she is,-and who understand and feel perfectly their wrongs,-not fight for home, and fireside, and freedom! Nonsense! Butler says they will and shall fight, and hence, of course, they must! 
We are told that slavery has crushed all the energy and spirit out of the Negro, and that he is too ignorant to fight well. But no man who has ever traveled among them, and witnessed the concealed, though not crushed energy, enterprise, skill and intelligence, which characterize them, and which only wait the "sounding of the jubilee" to manifest themselves, can for a moment hesitate to employ them. But suppose they are ignorant. We have yet to learn that, in order to handle a musket, a man must be able to solve the mighty problems which required the genius of a Keplar to project and unravel. Sometimes ignorance is bliss. We remember a story told of the Revolution, when Washington was at one time sorely perplexed to know how to detect a hidden foe who picked off every sentinel that was detailed to guard a certain point. At last, he called a certain body-servant of his -a live Negro-and, after giving him instructions as to how he should treat any one who might approach the post - to wit, call out, "Who goes there??" three times, and if not answered, to fire-he dismissed him. After pacing to and fro until midnight without being disturbed, the swarthy sentinel at last heard the stealthy approach of some one, and caught sight of a glittering blade. Waiting only long enough to aim his piece, he sung out, "Who go dar-tree times!" and fired. The bullet sped through the tory's brain, and the post was saved. 
As a matter of policy, the enlistment of negroes is certainly sagacious, and worthy of a Talleyrand. As slavery is the cause of the war and the corner-stone of the Confederacy, and as the war is for the negro, it is fitting that the black race should aid in working out its destiny. As for the barbarous, though characteristic proclamation of the arch-traitor Jeff. Davis, it can, should, and must be met by retaliation. Where one white officer of a negro regiment is executed let one white officer of a negro regiment is executed, let five rebels of equal rank be hung; and where one black man is enslaved, let three rebels be thrown into prison, and put to hard labor, until such black man shall be set free. This must be done to vindicate the step and the policy which the government has undertaken.
Best of all, however, is the influence which this measure must have on the slave himself. It is the
<c03>
dawn of a better day to him, for it prepares him for his freedom. Put a musket in his hands, and show him; how to use it, and teach him his capability of defending himself; and that man can never be enslaved again. A man who has once stood in the ranks of freemen can never be a slave thereafter.
It has been considered a problem as to what should be done with the slave after he is free; but this measure is surely working out the problem-teaching him self-reliance, and calling out again the crushed man hood within him-while those who have been trained to arms will soon communicate their spirit to others, until the leaven shall leaven the whole lump, and 
"The race that long in bondage pined,
Hath seen the light of day."
Therefore we hail with delight the mission of Gen. Wilde. Brother, all hail! in the noble work which has at last become the problem of the day, and the march of the age!     G. G. F.
COL.WILDE'S COLORED BRIGADE.
NEWBERN, (N.C.) May 31,1863.
EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR:
SIR If you and your readers can look with charity upon a letter written in the open air, amidst clouds of dust and a fierce sun, I should like to commend to your notice a short sketch of the 1st N. C. Vols., which forms the nucleus of Gen. Wilde's Colored Brigade.
It is now only two weeks since the organization, was practically put in motion, and on this day we number more than eight hundred able-bodied and intelligent enlisted men. Recruits are furthermore expected from Morehead City; and as there is an abundance of men in this vicinity who have signified their intention of joining the service, I have little doubt that a week hence our regiment will have more than its complement. For our camp, we have one of the most eligible sites that could have been selected in this neighborhood. It is on the right bank of the river Neuse, about two miles down the stream from Newbern. Of course, matters are at present a little chaotic, but, considering our recent occupation of the ground, we have every reason to be thoroughly satisfied with what has been accomplished. On the part of the government, everything has been supplied to the men to make them comfortable, while the men cheerfully assume their share of the responsibility, doing their utmost to give satisfaction by attention to drill, and working cheerfully whenever it is requisite We are determined, officers and men, for we work together, that nothing shall be wanting in us to have our regiment a well ordered one, so that we shall be no whit below the elite of the army. I trust that now everything looks so prosperous in this quarter for raising a large force of colored men, that its disposition will be made a matter of serious consideration with the government. Why not place all the colored regiments together, and constitute them a distinct corps? I cannot conceive of a more appropriate situation for this object than Newbern. With all deference to my superiors, it seems to me much more preferable than sending a regiment hither and thither, to be tossed about like a feather. I do not think this is treating them fairly, and it certainly does not seem to me sound strategy. Consolidation and concentration have from the outbreak of this war been alien to us, and, despite the bitter result, we seem determined still to pursue the same suicidal policy. Only place us together, whether it be here, at Hilton Head or else where, and that is all we ask. Then, as a colored man expressed himself to me yesterday, "We can go ahead." But, Sir, I see that I have revealed weakness, and am wandering away from the topic of the N. C. Vols. into vagaries which must be with me monomaniacal; for I never can discuss any feature of the war without obtruding some theory of "concentrating" our troops-a principle in the science of war which belongs to the Bonaparte era, and has consequently become obsolete (?) Well, Sir, revenons a nos moutons-and here I will be presumptuous enough to endorse our General thoroughly in the selection of his " line" officers; by which, let me add, I do not compliment myself, not having been tested in this particular. Most of these gentlemen have been "privates" and non-commissioned officers in various Massachusetts regiments, and bear the sun-burnt features and scars which are incident to hard service. I have spent with them already several pleasant hours, and devoutly trust that their animus may be mine; that we are not merely here to make our men good soldiers, but to prepare them to become good citizens by precept and example. Does this sound to you, Sir, like the true John Brown spirit? It seems to me that the great Shade is present amongst us. Verily, I think his "soul is marching on." May the immortal echoes of his spirit-tramp be lost only to the 1st N. C. Vols. when it glides away into the silver tread of that other spirit, "proclaiming liberty throughout all the land"; and that this may be speedily, is the aspiration of your correspondent!  THUD.
Two days ago, I sent you a hasty account of the 1st North Carolina Volunteers. One thing I neglected to mention therein: it is, that we should be very glad if some charitable people in Massachusetts would send us some simple reading matter for our men. Many of them desire to learn to read, and, as I stated in my last, it is our intention to instruct them. Sometimes I come in contact with a group of seven or eight -only one book amongst them, which generally happens to be a child's pictorial alphabet or spelling-book. I trust that the country will not overlook Gen. Wilde's African Brigade as not included in the list of those, who need assistance from the public. In the first place, our soldiers being in the United States service, only receive $7.00 per month. Besides this, the government is already largely in arrear to them for labor done prior to enlisting. Numbers of them have twelve and thirteen months' pay due to them for work performed as nurses, and on roads and fortifications. 'Despite all this, however, Mr. Editor, our men have entire faith in those that they are now serving, and work just as energetically as though they had been paid regularly. Sometimes they are a little despondent, but it generally only extends to a "chew," or pipe of tobacco, which we commonly relieve from our own resources. By this, I mean, no sooner is their simple wish satisfied than they are once again happy and merry as ever.
Col. Beecher says he should be very happy to receive anything that the people would be disposed to send. Please state this matter earnestly to the Massachusetts people.
Newbern, N. C, June 2, 1863. THUD.
WEED THEM OUT.
FRIEND GARRISON-A few days ago, in one of our most popular hotels, a young man holding a 1st Lt's., commission in one of our best Massachusetts Regiments, expressed himself, with almost demoniac energy, to a group of listeners, as follows:- "If I had my, way, I would first make every nigger in Massachusetts a slave, and then pitch him into the army. Slavery is all that a nigger is fit for." Astonishment and indignation were expressed by every listener, such words. Are men of this stamp to be trusted in a war for liberty and free institutions? Are they, not doing exactly what the slave oligarchy are trying to do? Is not this "aiding and abetting "the enemy? Such creatures deserve, if not worse things, to have their straps torn from their shoulders, and their swords broken over their own heads. How long shall men, treacherous to the real issue of the war, be put in command over war-worn veterans, when better and truer men are either thrust into the ranks, or held back from the post of patriotism, duty and danger? Is this good policy for Massachusetts? Such men can not and will not fight with any spirit. They fight only for pay. They have been the cause of the discomfitures which have at times over taken our arms. It is said that "spades are trumps" on the Rappahannock. A few smart rapt of the hoe would, I think, aid marvellously. Weed them out!
CORRESPONDENT.
<c04>
COLORED SOLDIERS. An officer of one of the gun-boats off Charleston, who until recently has been opposed to the use of colored soldiers, writes as follows:-
I was a spectator of a fight on the field between the secesh and the Second South Carolina Volunteers, (colored.) The regiment is a credit to Wendell Phillips, and fought as the 8th Maine. They have one fault-they are great on the bayonet, and when they make a charge, nothing can stand before them. They will fight equally as well as the whites. Higginson and Kansas Montgomery are their colonels. The latter is a perfect dare devil, a splendid fighter, and one of the most mild gentlemen I ever met.
DEPARTURE OF GEN. GRANT'S ARMY FROM JACK-SON FOR VICKSBURG. A letter from Gen. Grant's; army says: 
"The inhabitants were apparently highly rejoiced over, our departure. The negroes, on the contrary, witnessed the departure with undisguised amazement, When assisting the day before in plundering the town, they supposed the Yankees would stay forever, and afford them unlimited protection. All at once they discovered their deliverers marching away, and they left most all the plundered property in their hands, and no chance of escape. One can easily imagine the treatment extended to them by the enraged citizens the moment they were relieved from our presence. Many a darky long ere this has had cause to regret his premature calculations relative to the arrival of the year of jubilee, and to wish that he had deferred celebrating its supposed arrival until a later period."
GEN. FREMONT TO HAVE A COMMAND. The Washington correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune says that a Committee from New York, endorsed by George Opdyke, William Cullen Bryant, and Daniel S. Dickinson, and others, are at Washington to request the Government to give a command to Gen. Fremont at some point where he can rally around him the colored men of the country. The President, in an interview with the Committee, "declared that he would gladly receive into the service, not ten thousand but ten times ten thousand colored troops; expressed his determination to protect all who enlisted, and said that he looked to them for essential service in finishing the war. He believed that the command of them afforded scope for the highest ambition, and he would with all his heart offer it to Gen. Fremont."
NEW YORK, May 26. The Tribune's Murfreesboro' dispatch says that Vallandigham has declared himself loyal to the United States, and his escort were taken as prisoners by the Confederate authorities. The correspondent deems it probable that the enemy would refuse to receive him. He was given to understand by Gen. Rosecrans, that should he arrange to return to our lines, the President's orders were to carry the original sentence into effect, which would be executed.
The Cincinnati Enquirer says so far as the details of Vallandigham's imprisonment go, his friends make no complaint. He was treated like a gentleman by Gen. Burnside. His place of confinement was humane and comfortable, and. his more intimate personal friends had access to him freely and at all hours.
THE VALLASDISGHAM MEETING IN NEW YORK, This assemblage was the most disgraceful one ever held in America. Its open and loud-mouthed treason was bad enough; but, in addition to this, the outrageous profanity of the speakers, and the disgusting obscenity of some of their remarks, were enough to cause one to shudder as he reflected what unrestricted freedom of speech might become. We have long believed that the experiment of self-government in New York City was a failure. This meeting fully confirms that opinion. The mob who control the politics of that city are scarcely better worthy to be trusted with power to make or administer laws than the inmates of a State prison. - Roxbury Journal.
The World says, the Richmond Dispatch of the 23d puts no faith in the speakers at the Vallandigham meeting in New York, and says Governors Seymour and Hunt are no better than Sumner-nay, not so good-not even as good as Burnside.
The Enquirer has no sympathy with Vallandigham, and says he ought to be sent at once beyond their lines.
The Cincinnati Commercial says that a gentleman of its acquaintance a short time ago conversed with some rebel officers on the Rappahannock about Vallandigham, then on trial. They were much disgusted at the idea of his being sent over into their lines, saying that they did not like him, and preferred those fighting openly against them. They closed the conversation by saying, "He does better where he is, for us. He is splitting you up, and is useful in the North. He would not pay for his keeping here."
COPPERHEAD DEMONSTRATION IN NEW JERSEY.
At a Vallandigham sympathy meeting in Newark, New Jersey, on Saturday, a delegation from a neighboring town carried a white flag inscribed with Vallandigham's name, encircled by rosettes, inside of which were seven stars. A wounded soldier, who happened to be on the ground, venturing to rebuke this cowardly manifestation, was set upon by the crowd, knocked down and severely injured. A number of his companions, at this hostile demonstration of the copperheads, ran to the City Hospital for help, and soon returned with reinforcements, some of the soldiers carrying muskets. The officer in charge of the hospital, hearing that a disturbance was probable, at once despatched a guard after the soldiers in attendance upon the meeting, who were quietly gathered up and marched away.
VALLANDIGHAM AND THE SOLDIERS. Our correspondent "Viator," with the army of Gen. Rosecrans, from whence we have a letter, for which we have not space to-day, thus speaks of the arrest of Vallandigham:
"I know of nothing which for a long time has cheered the hearts of these Western soldiers  so much as the arrest and sentence of Vallandigham. There are upwards of fifty Ohio regiments in this army, and the severest trial which they have been obliged to undergo was the treason of Vallandigham in their own State. Had he been taken here, I do not think he would have escaped so light a punishment, and when the news came of his sentence, a long and loud shout was given by the brave Ohio and Illinois troops. Burnside's order has as good effect with this army as a reinforcement of ten thousand men."-Boston Journal.
The Washington Star learns from an officer prominently connected with the army in Kentucky, that the loyal people of that State are much gratified with the arrest of Vallandigham, and will uphold every proceeding of the kind. They consider Gen. Burnside's order, under which he was arrested, as a movement in the right direction.
Both branches of the City Council of Baltimore have passed resolutions, stating that they heard with pleasure of the arrest and transportation beyond the lines of Clement L. Vallandigham, and that the best interests of the country justified the proceedings,&c. Also, requesting the Mayor to transmit a copy of the resolutions to the President of the United States, and to Gen. Burnside.
AID AND COMFORT.Vice-President Hamlin has received a-draft on London for a sum which amounts in our currency to over $600, given as an offering to the cause of emancipation by the colored women of the British colony of Victoria, to be applied to the benefit of the freedmen at and about Beaufort, S. C. The donors-who are in good part natives of the United States and graduates of the "peculiar institution"-had previously sent $170 to Philadelphia for a like purpose. 
THE SEVENTEENTH OF JUNE. There is every reason to expect that the Union Mass Meeting to be held in Concord, on the 17th of June inst., will be one of the very largest assemblages ever convened in the Granite State. The loyal men of New-Hampshire will not permit to pass unimproved so good an opporunity to spend profitably one day for their country.
Among the speakers who are expected to be present and address the Convention are Gen. John C. Fremont, Gen. B. F. Butler, Gen. John Cochran, Hon. Montgomery Blair, Hon. James Brady, Gen.., Gilman Marston, Hon. Daniel S. Dickinson, and Hon. Nathaniel B. Baker.
Railroad trains will run at reduced rates. There will be a display of fireworks in the evening.
NEW YORK, June 9. A Hilton Head letter of the 4th reports a raid by 200 of the 2d South Carolina regiment, under Col. Montgomery, into the interior and return without loss with 1,000 contrabands and a large amount of other property. It is stated that 5,000 might have been brought off had transportation been sufficient. Fifty secesh dwellings were destroyed.
The steamer De Molay, from Boston, arrived with the 54th Massachusetts (colored) Regiment . They would be united with the colored brigade at Beaufort.
COLORS FOR THE MASS. 56TH. The colored women of Ohio have had a magnificent stand of colors made for the 55th Mass, (colored) regiment. The flags are four in number-two guidons, a large regulation flag and a regimental banner. These are all of the very best material, and the work is splendidly executed. Upon a silver shield, which is attached to the staff of the banner is the motto, "God and Liberty." Upon the banner itself, which is of heavy blue silk, are the words," Liberty or Death" They will be presented by Mr. J. M. Langston, who has been recruiting for the regiment.
<c05>
FOURTH OF JULY. Boston is making large preparations for celebrating the coming anniversary of Independence. Dr. O. W. Holmes will deliver the oration, and William Everett will read the Declaration of Independence. Regattas, and perhaps yacht races, balloon ascension and fire-works fill up the day. They intend to make the light so strong, with which the State-house dome is to be illuminated, that a newspaper can be read by it anywhere, within a radius of three miles.
THOMAS SIMS. Thomas Sims, the slave, who has recently rescued his wife and family from Vicksburg, Miss, was advertised by his old master-who offered $500 for his arrest-in a Vicksburg paper, a copy of which has been received by a gentleman of Northampton, in this State.
NEGROES IN THE VICKSBURG BATTERIES. In the recent attempts of Admiral Farragut to pass the forts at Vicksburg, one battery was particularly noticed for its effective and precise firing, it doing more damage than any other battery. It has been ascertained that the guns of this battery were manned entirely by negroes.
A VALUABLE ORIGINAL PICTURE.
Photographs from a drawing just executed by Mr. Carlton, one of our resident artists, and teacher of drawing and painting, are now on exhibition and for sale at the photographic and print stores. It is called "Watch Meeting, Dec. 31, 1862-Waiting for the Hour," and represents a scene "way down South in Dixie," on last New Year's Eve, where some thirty or forty slaves seem to be waiting with great anxiety the hour which, by President Lincoln's proclamation of the 22d of September shall make them "hence-forth and forever free." On the right of the picture is a stalwart slave with one of those necklaces peculiar to the "peculiar institution" riveted around his neck; he holds a torch above his head, which lights the group, the light falling strongly upon the proclamation, which is fastened upon a door behind him.
The principal figure in the group before him is an old negro preacher or exhorter, who, leaning forward, rests one hand upon the open Bible before him, his pulpit or rostrum being an old army box, as it is marked Army Sanitary Commission-the preacher no doubt considering the proclamation as a sanitary movement; holds a large watch in his hand, upon which he is intently gazing; by the watch it wants but five minutes to midnight, the promised hour. Judging by the size of the anchor on the watch-chain, the old man's organ of hope must be large. On his right there is an old nurse, who, while anxiously gazing, supports upon the box, with its head resting upon her breast, a child asleep and unconscious of the exciting scene around it; the child's hand has fallen carelessly upon the Bible, with a finger against the passage, "Let my people go."
There are two other figures, a light and dark mulatto, leaning forward, anxiously waiting for the hour, and impatiently watching for the moment when they may own themselves. Sitting in front of the box, with clasped hands and upturned face, upon which the light falls strongly, is the whitest figure in the group, with a black babe in her arms; she has less of the negro characteristics than the others. Near her head are two faces, with the strongest negro marked features. The color of the faces ranges from the whitest to the darkest; and the black babe in the woman's arms, as well as the white one in the arms of the dark figure, are intended to show one of the barbarities of slavery. Back of her, and carrying the light and composition along, there is a kneeling figure with head bent to the ground, and supported by her hands; the eye is then led along to the figure of a person with a hand upon a half open door, anxiously leaning and looking out, eager to give to the breeze the "stars and stripes" which hang over his arm, as soon as the hour arrives which promises him protection under it; the artist wishing to convey the idea that the slave, if freed, would go for the old flag and the Union.
In an outer shed the moonlight falls through the broken roof upon another group. By chance the opening in the roof has taken the form of a cross, and in the clear sky beyond, from which the clouds are breaking away, a single star looks down; it may be the North star, which has piloted so many glares "to the land of the free." Upon the wall, back of the principal group, hangs a banjo, with fallen bridge and broken strings, indicative of sadness and sorrow; 'tis "the harp upon the willow." Of the three figures in the foreground: One with sorrowful face turned towards the central group gives suck to a white child. The dark face back, and in contrast with the whitest one and the dark face near her of the figure in the foreground, seem to express the idea of "good time coming"-the latter having upon her arm a bundle, from which hang sun-dry rib-bands, slippers, &c., while back of and near her is a bundle containing her household goods, and she is ready to move to a new home, and expects to have a good time when free.
An old cripple, leaning upon a crutch, seems as anxious for the hour as the others. There are other figures, which go to tell the story, and to make the grouping artistic.
 Photographs of this picture are on sale at the usual places. Mr. C. has not quite completed the coloring of his picture, but expects to do so soon, when it will be on exhibition at some one of our art repositories for the public view, when the effect of the torch and moonlight upon the groups will be more striking.
Large-sized photograph, suitable for framing, $2,00. Second size, ditto, $1.00. Card photograph, 25 cents.
For sale by R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery Office, Room No. 6, 221 Washington Street, Boston. 
THE "PECULIAR INSTITUTION" ILLUSTRATED. 
We have a photographic likeness of a Louisiana slave's back, taken five or six months after a terrible scourging, and exhibiting from the shoulders to the waist great welt and furrows raised or gouged by the lash, running cross wise and lengthwise-the victim himself presenting a noble countenance and fine physique. "This card photo graph," says the New York Independent, "should be multiplied by one hundred thousand, and scattered over the States. It tells the story in a way that even Mrs. Stowe cannot approach, because it tells the story to the eye." Price 15 cents. Sent by mail, by enclosing postage stamp Seven copies for one dollar, or $1,50 per dozen.
Address EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR, Boston, Mass.
OBITUARY.
FARMERSVILLE, Catt. Co., N. Y., June 1st, 1863.
DEAR MR. GARRISON-In sorrow I must tell you of the sudden death of Miss CHARLOTTE L. HILL, at her home in West Goldsboro', Maine, at the age of 30, on May 21st, of diptheria. Rev. A. Battles communicates this sad intelligence. "At the close of a lovely Summer day, as the setting sun was flooding the Bay, the sloping fields and distant hills with a golden light, the Angel took her." You will not forget her at your house, her frank, blue eye, her benevolent brow and sincere manner, when three years ago, New England Anti-Slavery Convention time, she made her only visit to Boston-a holy pilgrimage-to see and hear yourself and Wendell Phillips plead the cause of the slave. She had learned to reverence you, reading the Liberator. In the previous Autumn we made her acquaintance. The fulness and freshness of her love to the divine ideas of the Abolitionists attracted and rejoiced us exceedingly. She aided us generously in our work through Washington county, Maine-introducing us to homes and welcome of those who make the world sweeter and richer evermore. Her father's farm-house has a sea-side seat. A sojourn there is replete with the peculiar charm of the romantic shores of Maine, Mrs. Stowe so finely pictures in her Pearl of Orr's Island. Charlotte loved this spot with enthusiasm. It made her very happy to have Summer guests admire it, especially when, as last year, they were persons of appreciative genius, like Nathaniel Hawthorne And now the memory of her goodness embalms all the enchanting loveliness of Nature around.
While her departure leaves vacancy in the large and loving circle of family and friends, it is their consolation to believe that her sweet filial piety-noble affections-reverence for Truth and Right-aspirations after improvement-benevolent activities, have lost none of their unspeakable value: on them death hath no power. In this cherished faith we resign our dear friend to the infinitely wise Father, reverently trusting to join her again in successful efforts to accomplish the high ends of being.
SALLIE HOLLEY. 
[Most heartily do we endorse the tribute paid to the character and memory of the departed by Miss Holley. Hers was an active brain, a vital spirit, and a world-wide interest in the cause of liberty, progress, and suffering humanity. Her sudden removal is a severe loss to all knew her: to her it cannot be otherwise than a gain. Requiescat in pace!]-ED. LIB.
<c06>
"NOSES " -THEIR SIGNIFICANCE - Illustrated with engravings of Roman, Grecian, Indian, Negro, Celestial, Aqueline, Turn-up, and Pug Noses, with the Character revealed by each. EYES-blue, black, or gray. Lips-thin and pale, or full and red, prim or pouting, scolding or loving. Mouth-large or small. HAIR-light or dark, coarse or fine, straight or curly. CHEERS-thin or plump, pale or colored. TEETH-Regular or irregular. EARS large or small. NECK-long or short. SKINROUGH or smooth. All to be amply illustrated with engravings. The walk, talk, laugh and voice, all indicate character. We may know an honest face from a dishonest one, and we will show how. Besides the above, we have to treat on ETHNOLOGY, or the Natural History of Man; of PHYSIOLOGY, and the Laws of life and Health; of PHYSIOGNOMY, or signs of Character, and how to read them; of PHRENOLOGY, the philosophy of mind: and of PSYCHOLOGY, the Science of the Soul. MAN, with reference to all his relations of life, social, intellectual, and spiritual, and what each can do best, will be elucidated in the PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL AND LIFE ILLUSTRATED. New volume commences July 1st.. A handsome quarto monthly, at only $1 50 a year. Sample numbers, 15 cents. Please address FLOWER AND WELLS, 308 Broadway., New York.
AGENTS WANTED in every country in the Free States for the sale of Wendell Phillips's Speeches and Lectures. Large commissions allowed. The book will be issued June 15. Price $2. Sent by mail on receipt of retail price. Address JAMES REDPATH, 221 Washington st., Boston.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References. - Luther Clark, M. D.., David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
CATHOLIC CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, mercantile Building, 16 Summer Street, Hall No. 4. Rev. L. A. SAWYER, Translatore; of the Scriptures, will preach next Sabbath, at half past 10 o'clock, A. M. Subject-On the Gospel according to Matthew-its age, authorship, character, and objects.
ANDREW T. FOSS, of Manchester, N. H., will hold meetings in behalf of Freedom, and the Restoration of the Union on a secure and certain basis, as follows: -
Hyannis, Mass., Sunday, June 14; and in that vicinity during the week following.
Harwich,   Sunday,  June 21.
Brewster,   Thursday,  " June 25.
East Dennis,  Friday,  " June 26.
Dennis,   Sunday,  " June 28.
E. H. HEY WOOD will address the Twenty-Eight Congregational Society, at the Melodeon, Sunday forenoon, June 14, on  "The War Method of Peace".
COLLECTIONS- BY E. H. HEYHOOD.
West Cambridge, $4.57; J. G. Dodge, do, 1; S. G. Daman, do, 1.18; Oakdale, 1.21; East Princeton, 3.07; Boylston, 1.42; West do, 2.37; sterling, 1.26; Quincy, 10; John Sawyer, Grantville, 3.
MARRIED-IN Waterloo, (N. Y.) on Wednesday, May 20, by Friends' ceremony, LYMAN C. GARDNER, of Fayetteville, to SARAH M., daughter of the late Richard P. Hunt.
DIED-At his residence in New Lyme, Ashtabula Co., Ohio, May 8, from organic disease of the heart, RUMSEY REEVE, in the 74th year of his age. [obituary notice next week.]
EDWARD M. DAVIS,
STOCK & EXCHANGE BROKER,
No. 39 SOUTH THIRD STREET, 
(SECOND FLOOR,)   PHILANDELPHIA, PA.
I HAVE this day opened an office for the transaction of a general EXCHANGE and BANKING BUSINESS, and the sale of Bonds and other Securities on Commission.
Particular attention will be given to Government Securities, as the most reliable investments.
BONDS and stocks in general will be bought and sold.
Dividend,s Interests and Coupons will be collected and remitted.
Railroad, City, Country and Township Bonds negotiated.
Quartermaster's Vouchers and Yearly Certificates bought and sold.
Interest allowed on Deposits, and Loans negotiated. 
Special Collections made.
Coin and Currency bought.
Foreign Exchange sold.
As I have a prompt and reliable correspondent in New York, connected with the Broker's Board, I can execute orders there with dispatch.
Any business entrusted to me will be attended to promptly and faithfully.
E. M. DAVIS, 
SECOND FLOOR, 39 SOUTH THIRD ST., Philadelphia, Penn.
Philadelphia, April 1st, 1863-6m
5-20's The principal on these Bonds can be claimed April 30th, 1882, but is payable at the option of the Government any time after April 30th, 1867. They draw interest in Gold, semi-annually, at the rate of 6 per cent. Per annum, payable May 1st and October 1st of each year, at the Mint in Philadelphia. The principal is also payable in Gold. They can now, and until July 1st, be had for legal tender notes at par, thus making Green-backs draw interest in gold, and securing the principal in gold also. Interest begins the day the money is paid. The Bonds can be had "Registered," or with "Coupons." The first are drawn to the order of the buyer. The interest can only be collected by the person whose name is in the bond, or by attorney. For safety, the name and residence are registered in Washington and at the Mint. There is no a power of "transfer" on the back of each bond, to enable the original buyer to convey it. The ""Registered,," for permanent investments, are preferred. The "Coupon" Bonds are drawn to bearer, and have attached to each of them a small "Coupon" or check upon the Treasury of the United States, payable to bearer for each amount of interest due from the day of issue up to the 1st of November, 1881. The last payment of interest, May 1st, 1882, is paid with the principal when the bond is surrendered. By an act of Congress, they are not taxable, and no tax can be collected from the holder of them except under the law creating an income tax. Any person owning $10,000 or under will not have any tax to pay on the principal or interest, provided the parties have no other income. 
I am authorized, and shall be glad to supply these Bonds at par to the purchaser, until July 1st, 1863, my commission coming from another source.
Look carefully over your "Green-backs." Parties sometimes pass at par those that are equal to gold. They can easily be distinguished from the others, as they have printed on the face "Payable on Demand ." They were issued before the general suspension of specie payments, and as Government takes them for duties on foreign imports, they will bring as much as gold in the market. There are several millions still unredeemed . They cannot  be reissued.
My business is exclusively on Commission. All orders entrusted to me will be attended to promptly and  faith fully. Any inquiries answered.
E. M. DAVIS, 
EXCHANGE BROKER,
M22tJ1 No. 39 South Third St., Philadelphia.
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St. 
May 29 6m
S.M. PETTENGILL & CO.,
ADVERTISING AGENTS,
37 PARK ROW,  NEW YORK.
JUNE 5
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
For the Liberator.
"IN HOC SIGNO VINCES."
BY EARL MARBLE.
Eventful day! eventful year!
When the nation drops her galling chains-
When bondmen hear huzza and cheer,
For strength and might it thereby gains.
Slow, firm, but sure, the measured tread
Of Principle, the law of God;-
We knew it slept, e’en feared it dead,
But now it treads where martyrs trod!
It treads upon the serpent-shape
That looked and hissed in every door,
That hung each portal thick with crape,
At fields of sin and seas of gore,-
That trusting lips with treason kissed,
And cursed the land from year to year-
The same old Copperhead that hissed
In Eden, in Eve’s list’ning ear.
Tis but a score or more of years,
The mob almost to death’s dread gate
Dragged Garrison, with shouts and leers,
Their wicked thirst to satiate.
Upheld and fawned upon by men
In station high, with honor crowned,
Where now the spirit fell that then
In the very dust the helpless ground?
It skulks like wolfish foe when bright
The sun beams round and gladdens all;
Let Flagstaff Hill to-day in might,
In cheers and shouts proclaim its fall!
Oh, months of patience, months of toil,
To educate the Northern mind,
And teach it how the snaky coil,
That strangled it, it could unbind!
But now-thank God!-through years of gloom,
Its mind peers forth, a child’s no more:
It stands a man, and Treason’s doom
Writes with a pen replete with gore.
Tramp! tramp! tramp! tramp!
To the ground with scorn it thus doth tread
The worse than Treason-mould and damp
With which the ghouls would have us fed.
Shout! shout! shout! shout!
To the heavens send the loud acclaim,
That the world of treason is put to rout,
And flees like the swine at Christ’s dear name!
Weep! weep! weep! weep!
For joy, that Right at last prevails,-
That Humanity out of her dreadful sleep
Awakes and succeeds where all else fails!
Look down, O God! upon this throng,
This brave, deserving, thousand men,
And bless their lives, their lives prolong,
That they their homes shall see again!
Remember, God, that they who now
Go forth to meet the haughty foe,
But fight to make more clear Thy vow,
That men are one, from high to low.
Remember, God, they go not out
To face alone the Southern steel;
At home, to put a foe to rout,
They draw the sword, and to Thee kneel.
Boston, May 28, 1863.

The Liberator.
THE CONNECTICUT AND SHENANDOAH.
A TALE OF TO-DAY.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE BRANDED HAND.
A Chaplain without official papers; a supervisor and teacher of Contrabands without appointment; a helper in hospitals with no sanction but the blessing of the sufferers-such was Hugh Berkeley from the time the war began. To find and free the brother and sister of Adela, by whatever means, was his one definite object; around this clustered, through the various channels named, a round of efficient activities almost incredible. Now he was in his native valley-at all points from Harper’s Ferry to Cheat Mountain Pass and Port Republic; now identifying himself boldly and effectively with the interests of Liberty and Union in his own contested town of Winchester. Now he was passing like an inspiration through that well-ordered machinery of the distinguished Engineer-the Army of the Potomac. Again his beneficent presence manifested itself at Fortress Munroe and the other points of Federal occupation in South-eastern Virginia. Yet again he was in confidence with the leading champions of Equal Rights-many of whom were personal friends of his-at the capital and in the field. Seeking his two unfortunate kindred, wherever he went he found unsought, at every step, the suffering kindred of humanity, and stooped to raise to soothe, to comfort, to inspire.
Sometimes his fine person and benignant face suddenly presented themselves in the circle around some Federal camp-fire, where a group of soldiers were relieving the ennuie of inaction with cards and dice and coarse jests; not because these sources of entertainment were really preferred, but because there was nothing else within their reach. Even there, a mother’s picture, or sister’s or sweetheart’s token of remembrance, wholly or in part visible, shed a ray of better light on the scene, and told that the home influence was still alive, a saving power in the midst of the snares and wiles of sin. From these places he went not forth again until he had created the need of worthier gratification than their present pursuits; and furnished, from his own resources, the supply.
Sometimes he walked miles to obtain some delicacy coveted by the wayward appetite of a languid, home-sick sufferer, and found meat to eat for himself, that such offices alone supply, in the enthusiasm of gratitude with which it was received, and the eager relish with which it was disposed of. To receive, verbally, and transmit in writing, the last messages of the departing to the households no more to be reunited; to adjust a pillow; turn a helpless, dismembered body on its bed of pain; press a cool, soft hand on a fevered brow; to speak words of faith to the doubting, by reminding them of an immortality earned by a patriot-soldier’s death; to breathe forth’ their supplications for pardon, peace and acceptance, in tender, earnest words, such as they felt but could not frame. But why try to enumerate the myriad offices of the volunteer of Christ among the armed and disarmed volunteers of a nation at war for its existence? Better than all these, because so rarely ventured upon, was his influence upon the public sentiment of the army. Ignorance and prejudice alike disappeared before his firm, few, but fearless words. Treason to Freedom lurked beneath so many Federal uniforms, whose wearers would have fired to fury at the imputation of Traitors! Questions of expediency, probability, efficacy, in regard to measures and men-dissatisfactions engendered in the minds of the soldiers by a flippant, censorious, iniquitous Press-these were met and settled, forever, by Mr. Berkeley’s quick, clear logic, in a manner that brought conversion as well as conviction, and deepened, essentially, the sense of duty, the motive for exertion, and the earnest of success. The son of a Virginia slaveholder was a pass to many an audience in the army of the Potomac, that would have been inaccessible to the New England clergyman!
In how many of the scenes through which he passed did his heart and wishes plead for an affirmative response from his judgment to Adela’s often urged appeal to be with him! The time was not yet, however. Belmaine was a traitor in arms against the government. By the force of the war-power, through Confiscation, his claim upon Adela and her kindred was
<c02>
at an end forever; but the action of the Federal government, on that point, was still too vague and indecisive to warrant his safely withdrawing his treasure from her present certain security, as he thought. That decision must come inevitably and unmistakably, ere long, in the natural although slow progress of events; then, one and inseparable in the eye of the law as well as by the blending of perfect love, they would visit together the places of their birth and suffering, and help bring the order of resurrection out of the chaos of death. What language can tell how exultantly the patriot-lover looked forward to this hour? In the light and warmth of this blessed anticipation, words and deeds flowed forth in fervid eloquence and vital power.
Mr. Berkeley was in the vicinity of Winchester when the massacre of Ball’s Bluff occurred. With a gloomy sense of personal interest in the disaster, he made his way with all possible despatch to the scene of action. All, there, was hopelessly decided, and he hastened to cross the river to Poolesville. Unexpected difficulties and delays arose before him: more than once he was in danger of falling into rebel hands, and it was not until the fourth or fifth day after the battle, that he reached the neighborhood of the head-quarters of Brig. Gen. Stone. While our noble friend is interrogating every responsible person he can secure, for details of the fight, and penetrating every ward or nook where the wounded are sheltered, in search of something his heart tells him is not far distant, we will again betake ourselves to the couch of Edgar Horton.
The place whither his preserver bore him was a small house outside the town, deserted by its traitor occupants on the approach of the Union forces, and, up to this time, escaping the observation, even, of the soldiery. It was, therefore, still cleanly and comfortably furnished, and afforded much more desirable accommodation than the crowded tenements prepared by the military authorities. Here Harry, on the impulse of the emergency, had installed Huldah as mistress, and the impression seemed to prevail that they were the loyal proprietors of the small establishment. A far-reaching hand of the blessed Sanitary Commission had dropped needed supplies here, also, and Edgar Horton, together with one or two others that were so fortunate as to be admitted there, lacked none of the needed appliances for comfort and restoration.
The young officer was permitted this day, for the first time, to talk freely; his first use of speech was to acknowledge his deep debt of gratitude to the Branded Hand that had rescued him from death in the river, and nursed him, thus far, back to life. Nor was the assiduous though shrinking sister forgotten.
Edgar had awakened from a refreshing sleep, and lay observing Huldah intently, who, busy beside a window in repairs on some portion of his wardrobe, knew not, so still her patient lay, that he was awake. The impression of his first view of the young girl returned with added force. It must be-he said mentally, and the conviction flushed his pale cheek like fever. The excitement of his mind imparted itself to his body-his movement of unrest drew the attention of Huldah, who approached the bed to find her patient awake, feverish, and agitated as if by pain from his wounds. Stepping lightly to an open door, a movement of her hand brought Harry to the bedside.
“You are suffering, sir; has your wound opened anew?”
“I am suffering from intense curiosity-tell me who you are-who is that young girl?”
“Ah, sir, we have learned to distrust those who should be our best friends, for we are theirs-the Federal army. But I am sure I need not distrust you.”
“No, never! I fight that the slave maybe free. I would sacrifice my lift-a hundred times, rather than return one victim to his oppressor. Tell me, do you know Clara-do you know Adela Herman? Are you-“
“I am her brother.”
“God be thanked for my disaster, since it has brought me this! he said, fervently, grasping the branded hand. And that young girl just now in the room-“
“Is my twin-sister, Huldah.”
The wounded officer made a movement to sit erect, but was forcibly though gently put back on his pillows.
“You are right, my friend-thank you-but call your sister. There is something I must say.”
“I fear the effect of excitement on you, sir. You are feverish, now.”
“Speaking will relieve me. Call Huldah, I pray you.”
When both were at his bedside, he took a hand of each in his. “This is the happiest moment of a life I owe, under Providence, to you two. Harry and Huldah, from this moment you are FREE, forever. I call God to witness, that I will defend this promise, and I maintain it, with the life you have given back to me.”
Huldah’s only reply was a torrent of tears poured over the hand that held hers. Harry remained silent, with an aspect of unmistakable discontent.
“Do you not accept my gratitude, Harry?”
“If the simple act of humanity done by me calls for gratitude, I wish, sir, you had given me a choice in the gift it bestows.”
“Choose, by all means, my friend”, replied Edgar, in a tone of surprise. “What can you prefer to freedom?”
“The privilege of fighting for it, sir.” Attitude, lineament, voice, were all heroic, as he said this.
The young officer gazed at him a moment in intense admiration. Then an evening’s conversation at the Williams Cottage came rushing across memory, suggested by the likeness of person and spirit to her who spoke so fearlessly, then. A profound sigh shivered up from the very depths of his being-but he mastered himself, and replied,
“You shall have your choice, brave youth! I pledge you the opportunity your noble nature craves. Even pitiful Northern prejudice and equally pitiful political cowardice can find no scandal in that face and form. “Nay, heed not that-we will manage it,” he added, cheerily, as Harry glanced at his branded hand. “The opportunity you seek shall be yours, if God wills that I walk forth from this room. Your sister-“
“O, do not separate us, sir!” exclaimed Huldah, dropping on her knees, and raising her clasped hands and earnest eyes to the face of the young officer.
“We have suffered so long together-he has suffered so much for me! O, let us live together-let us die together! He will be wounded, perhaps, as you are-who will care for him? O, do not separate us!”
Tears, big, manly tears, coursed down the cheeks of him to whom this appeal was made. When he could command his voice sufficiently, he said, with great tenderness-“Huldah, you have a sister-a noble, beautiful sister-who longs to see you. Surrounded by every luxury, in the midst of perfect security, she still pines for her sister and brother. Will you not go to her, Huldah?”
“God be praised, sir, that she is safe! I love her much, but not as I love him. His lot must be mine, whatever and wherever it be. O, do not separate us!”
Edgar covered his face with his hands. Harry saw his agitation, with alarm for his safety, in the present condition of his body. He stooped, and whispered something in Huldah’s ear. Just at that moment the doorway was darkened by the entrance of a tall figure-an exclamation from Harry brought Huldah to her feet, and caused the wounded man to drop his hands from his face. Simultaneously, the eyes of the three turned upon Hugh Berkeley, standing at the foot of the bed.
One glance seemed to reveal everything to his quick perception. Extending his arms to the brother and sister, he held them a moment in a firm, affectionate embrace, then whispered-“I fear the effect of too great excitement on our friend. Leave us a little while, but don’t go beyond call.” His anxiety for their
<c03>
safety prompted this last injunction, since, as yet, he knew only that they were there in his presence.
“Not one word, my dear, noble friend, until you are rested,” he said, embracing Edgar as a mother might have done. He took the hot hands in one of his-with the other smoothed and soothed with gentle passes the excited brow, until sleep brought its benediction again. At a low signal from Mr. Berkeley, Harry and Huldah entered; he motioned them, silently, to be seated at a little distance, full in his view. Edgar was sleeping sweetly on his arm as an infant on the breast of its mother. The long quest of Hugh Berkeley was ended-he had found the three he sought.

THE METHODIST QUARTERLY REVIEW ON SAWYER’S BIBLICAL THEORIES.
CRITIQUE BY THE AUTHOR.
MR. EDITOR-Able and well-conducted Reviews are powerful organs for moulding public opinion. Religious Quarterlies are especially valuable, both on account of the difficult nature of many religious inquiries, and the broad field of discussion and debate which they occupy. The professed object of all religious Quarterlies is to serve the truth, and the respective orders under whose auspices they are conducted. Their legitimate methods of service are honest and manly discussion, and correct reports of the labors of others. Reviews may misapprehend and pervert truth, misrepresent facts, and become either insignificant and worthless or injurious, as they fall into commonplace shallowness, or sell themselves to the service of venerable and reputable delusions and superstitions.
The Methodist Quarterly for April notices Sawyer’s reconstruction of Biblical Theories as follows:-
I. “Mr. Sawyer interprets the old Hebrew documents according to the theories of development and limitless chronology. He accomplishes his object by first resolving the sacred writings into fragments of allegory and tradition, and from this plastic state he can of course reconstruct them to any eligible form.”-Review, p. 348.
Is this true? Nothing can be more false. If the critic exercised the extraordinary misjudgment which he pronounces, he is to be pitied, but he is not the less to be blamed for the improper use which he makes of it. It is demanded of Christian critics to see things as they are, and report them accordingly, and not either to see or report them as they are not. In this case, a false statement is both suspicious and unfortunate. It is an injury to the author and an imposition on the public, which is quite too credulous in respect to any thing denunciatory of new and progressive opinions on religious subjects.
The author does not resolve the sacred writings into fragments of allegory and tradition; he resolves them into integral parts down to the smallest possible, and examines the parts, chapter by chapter, paragraph by paragraph, word by word, and letter by letter, to determine, with the greatest possible precision, the character of each part, and what is meant and shown by the whole. He begs no questions, accepts no unproved assertions of previous interpreters, and admits no arbitrary principles of interpretation. He analyzes, takes evidence, judges, and pronounces judgment.
Analysis is the first step in interpretation. It is impossible to judge things correctly in aggregates-they must be taken singly, and reduced to their simplest elements. The critic is correct in saying that the author accomplishes his object by first resolving the sacred writings; but he is not correct in saying that he resolves them into fragments of allegory and tradition. He resolves them into integral and not fragmentary portions of the books, leaving their characters to be determined by evidence. His analysis is not a method of reaching one class of results more than another, except as they are demanded by facts.
Having analyzed the books and resolved them into their natural divisions, the reconstructionist does not assume the allegoric or fictitious character of any portion of a book without evidence; he investigates the character of each document, makes it a question of evidence, and decides it accordingly. If the evidence demands literalism, he decides for literalism; if it demands fiction or allegory, he decides for fiction or allegory; if it is indecisive, he makes no decision. He deems it as much the duty of an interpreter to determine facts respecting his documents, and report accordingly, as it is of an inquirer in other departments of knowledge. An interpreter is not a manufacturer, but simply a finder; and his findings ought to be correct. It is his business to find the true sense of documents, and to show what they show, and no more. There are legitimate methods of doing this, which lead directly to truth; these the author has carefully studied, and as carefully follows. The method which the critic imputes to him is that of impostors and pretenders-the method which he pursues is that of all true science. The author challenges the severest scrutiny, and defies the critic to sustain his charge. Had his methods been less thorough and less conformable to the principles of science, his results would have been less remarkable and less offensive to sectarian conservatism.
The author does not claim exemption from error, but steady and uniform adherence to scientific methods in seeking after truth. It is quite possible that he has misjudged some passages of the sacred books, and some documents; and not discriminated with unerring precision. He may, in some cases, have mistaken fictions for facts, and facts for fictions; if he has, this is not the effect of his method, but of an imperfect use of it. His method is that of all science, and of correct judging in all departments of inquiry.
The statements of the Review on this subject are a gross caricature and misrepresentation of facts, and a gross libel. They make the author not only beg the questions which he claims to prove, but pursue a systematic method of begging. He does no such thing. His solutions are conformable to undeniable principles of interpretation, and of all scientific inquiry.
II. “Ages pass, and men emigrate to the high lands of India, Armenia, on the head waters of the Euphrates and Tigris, which is commemorated by the legend of the Flood; and the ark was the dry goods box in which their effects were packed for travelling. The race was still further improved by mountain air. Through countless ages it has been advancing, until at last it has attained a true interpretation of its own genetic documents, as is presented in this book of Mr. Sawyer. The book, then, at the present moment, is the ultimate point of human attainment.”
This passage is ironical. If the critic had wished to honor the book, or conciliate any respect for it, he would have expressed himself differently. It may be true that the extrication of the human race from the meshes of fiction and allegory, in the Judaic books, is one of the highest attainments of human reason, and that it is only possible with the severe and exact methods of reasoning attained in modern times, through the discipline of the printing-press and the advancement of science and art; but the statement of this article is not a recognition of the fact.
Irony and ridicule are cheap and safe methods of dealing with an adversary; but they are not evidence of truth, and may serve the worst cause. There is a question of truth involved in this matter: Is the author correct? The Reviewer professes to be a judge of books, and a book is brought to the stand for judgment; the Reviewer has paid some attention to logic, language, and the interpretation of the Scriptures, and the book to be judged is a book of argument and interpretation. Has the Reviewer examined the positions of the book, and the evidences on which they are based? If he has, be can tell something about them, and tell the truth. How does he find them? Not as he reports. The book claims that the first document in the Bible describing the creation of the world in six days is a fiction, and proves it by internal evidence of facts that are undeniable. Is the Reviewer satisfied with that argument? If not, what fault does he find with it? Is not the firmament a 
<c04>
figment of the imagination, with no place among the works of God? Did God make the world by words of command like a mighty magician? Did he first make the earth and all kinds of vegetables, and then the sun, moon, stars, and animals? Is this the order of creation? Of course it is not; no man of science can pretend it is. The narrative, then, is not a relation of facts, but a fiction, and must be so judged. It is not in the power of the human mind, in view of the premises, to judge it differently; nor is the judgment uncertain. It is a part of knowledge, it expresses a conclusion that is irresistible and invincible, and is repeated and verified as often as the premises are reviewed.
Is it necessary to stultify ourselves by ignoring and denying facts? Are venerable and fallacious theories to be saved at the expense of reason and truth? Does Christianity require such humiliation, not to say degradation, of its subjects? Does it permit men to resist truth, and accept delusion? We think not. Is it an offence to teach the truth, and to correct misconception and falsehood? Are delusions adopted into Christian creeds thereby rendered invulnerable? And are the correctors of accepted delusions to be struck down by the shafts of remorseless and deceptive criticism? It is no justification of the critic that the author had been previously assailed with injustice and misrepresentation. Unjust precedents are not examples to be followed, but injuries to be disapproved and repaired.
The author solicits first attention to his results, and the methods by which they are reached, and then a hearty cooperation and Christian sympathy in serving and promoting the truth; but if this is refused, he abandons the attitude of the petitioner, and assumes that of the champion; and defies his adversaries to put him in the wrong in regard to any of the essential principles for which be is contending.
Animals in the forest are accounted lawful game in their most retired recesses. Some imagine that an author in the service of new ideas, yet to prove their divine character and immortal vigor, is cast equally helpless and unprotected on the wild, to be struck down with impunity on the battle-fields of science. It is sometimes so; in the course of ages, many Christs have suffered, and the blood of the martyrs of Progress has fertilized the world. But this is not the order of justice, nor the normal method of grace; nor is it the policy of modern civilization to demand such a sacrifice.
Yours, most truly,
L. A. SAWYER.

SPEECH OF JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.
Delivered at the New England Anti-Slavery Convention, in the Tremont Temple, Friday Evening, May 29.
MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:-Our occupation is almost gone. Formerly when we came together, we had a wide field and plenty of room to complain, to denounce, to criticise, and to advise. Now we are in such a fix that complaints, denunciations and criticisms seem to be somewhat out of place. That there are things wrong, and grievously wrong, no one pretends to deny. But you know it is much easier to see a mistake than to rectify one. If we could have known the form and magnitude the rebellion would have assumed, we could probably have crushed it in embryo; or could we have known the Gen. Pattersons, the Fitz-John Porters, and the McClellans, our brave soldiers, ere this, would have put the enemy hors du combat. (Applause.) We did not learn, until too late, that many men whom we regarded as brave and true, were, while remaining in the Union army, fighting the battles of the enemy. (Hear, hear.) The war, and everything connected with it, has deceived our greatest statesmen. We have all had our opinions, but no one could tell what was best. Our nation was divided by faction, and the people had first to be united. The policy of the government, in this respect, was preeminently successful. We can all see now where it has failed. After the event, everybody is wise. But view the war as you will, all must see that we are continually gaining. Our nation is flying onward with the swiftness of Mercury. The march of events is so rapid that every day seems almost to be an era in the history of our country. Republican institutions are now on trial. The despotisms of the old world are rejoicing in what they hope will prove the utter fallacy of democratic institutions. You are the jury, and it is for you to say whether or no they shall triumph. I have no doubt that you will render a just verdict. Your civilization, your patriotism, and your Christianity, all tell me that you have already decided in your own minds, that this country must and shall be free. (Applause.) This is truly a trying time, and I have found many stout men wavering. This ought not to be. The misfortunes that thicken around us are so many tests of our manhood, our courage, and our capacity for self-government. (Hear, hear.) Our afflictions try us, and prove us. It is not fair weather and pleasant breezes, but storms and tempests, that give reputation to pilots. Our republic is not yet established; the metal, such as it is, has been put in the crucible, and the refiner’s fire is now working upon it. If it proves to be all dross, it will be consumed; but if it is made of. the imperishable materials, liberty and justice to all, the gates of hell will not be able to prevail against it. (Applause.)
There are men who talk of compromise and peace. It is now useless to talk either of compromise or peace. There can be no compromise between right and wrong. There are but two parties in the country to-day; the one is for the republic, and the other is against it. (Applause.) Those who are not for freedom are for slavery. To sit on the fence, and watch which way the current runs, will not answer-there can be no neutral or middle ground in war. The friends and the enemies of the country must be defined, and the one or the other must triumph. It is contrary to common sense to suppose that two systems of government, so innately hostile to each other as those of the North are to those of the South, should occupy the same soil. We should be like the Romans and Carthagenians, among whom, says Paterculus, there always existed either a war, preparations for a war, or a deceitful peace.
I believe the people of the North are in earnest, and mean that this question shall be patched up no more, but finally settled now. There is no use in crying peace. The enemies of the republic must be subdued, or annihilated, and it is of but little consequence which. (Applause.)
You must not look beyond the lines for all the traitors, for they who dip in the dish with you are legion. I do not propose to speak particularly of them now. America is financially controlled by a set of gambling speculators, who go for slavery because it pays, and they go for the war because it pays. They would sacrifice slavery to-day, and end the war to-morrow, if they thought liberty and peace would pay better than slavery and war. While the loyal millions are true to liberty and to right, patriotism has, in many instances, proved to be a scandalous game played by public men for private ends.
This nation, determined to get rich at any cost, has made the negro both lever and fulcrum, and through him a vast amount of wealth has been obtained. They have established and perpetuated slavery-an institution which vilifies honest industry, which is the source of true wealth, and without which there can be neither riches nor social happiness. The enslavement of the African race has opened the gate to every kind of moral confusion, and has let loose the wildest and worst passions of man. For the sake of an infamous profit, this nation has been for more than two centuries adding fresh barrels of powder to the mine which has finally exploded, and come near blowing as all up together. The American people, instead of being wise, have been otherwise. They have not perceived that, as they sowed, so they must reap. “Men do not gather grapes from thorns.” No nation or people can set aside moral virtue and humanity, without entailing upon themselves and their posterity the fearful consequences of their wrong. Jefferson saw this,
<c05>
when he said, “I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just, and that his justice cannot sleep forever.” (Applause.)
It is argued that, after emancipation is fully established, the freedmen will not work, and that we shall have less cotton and sugar. Suppose it should prove that the blacks of the South are as lazy and worthless as their white masters, what then? Do you believe that it is the chief end of the negro to raise cotton and sugar? On the same principle, burglars and pickpockets may complain, and with equal justice, too, that State’s prisons and jails prevent burglars and pickpockets from becoming the richest men in the community. (Applause.)
There are many men who don’t desire success to the Union arms, because they say it is a negro war; that Mr. Lincoln’s proclamation places the races on a social equality; and that it is nothing more nor less than a grand amalgamation scheme.
Some three or four years ago, I discussed this question before this Convention, and I do not intend to refer to it now farther than to show you how ridiculous and silly these assertions are. So far as the social relation is concerned, that must regulate itself. There may be those colored men who have a morbid desire to mingle socially among the whites; but I do not think the desire is greater on our part than it is on yours. (Laughter and applause.) I have no serious objection to any man’s prejudices, because I believe there are legitimate prejudices existing in all communities. (Hear, hear.) These prejudices, however, do not depend on the accidental distinctions of color or race; such prejudices are simply the result of ignorance. They are deeper, and founded on the natural sympathy of mind and morals. If a man feels that I am his inferior, I do not see why he should be expected to associate with me. All men prefer to associate with their equals. The rich prefer to associate together, the learned together, the moral together, and the vicious together. And to attempt to associate the refined with the vulgar, the moral with the vicious, the anti-slavery with the pro-slavery, or the loyal with the disloyal, is to attempt to mix oil with water. (Applause.) Every man has a right to choose his own company, or to fancy this color more than that. If any one is not pleased with my color, that is his business, and I have no right to complain because he lacks good taste. (Laughter.) I desire the society of no one, unless I feel that it is mutual. If a gentleman takes a seat beside me in a lecture-room, a concert, or a rail-road car, before he discovers that I am a colored man, and then shows his ill breeding by appearing uneasy, and finally seeking a seat elsewhere, we are both pleased-he because he has avoided the presence of a negro, and I that of a blockhead. (Laughter and applause.) We are thenceforward kept apart by the force of mutual repulsion. There are both truth and poetry in the remark of Swift, “If a man makes me keep my distance, the comfort is, he keep his at the same time.” (Applause.)
It is said that emancipation necessarily elevates the black to a social equality with the white man; and some pro-slavery men have a contemptuous way of attempting to silence our friends by saying, “Why, would you be willing to have your daughters marry a nigger?” Just as though your daughters, their daughters, and every other white man’s daughters, were crazy to marry niggers; and the moment you gave the black man his rights, that moment they would seize upon and take him, nolens volens! (Laughter.) If this is to be the result of freedom to the blacks, it is indeed sad, (continued laughter,) and especially so to the blacks themselves, who are still to be the victims, (laughter,) first, of avarice-then, of mad love. O, I am almost tempted to complain of the Creator for first giving us such a beautiful complexion, and then placing us among a people who are always trying to extract the virtues from it! (Laughter and applause.) Do you not really pity those fathers who have daughters with such strange affections? (Laughter.) Only to think if this outrage were permitted, the prejudice against the race would disappear like dew before the morning sun! The blacks would die out with the first generation; the mulattoes with the second; the quadroons with the third; and in the fourth generation, O, horrible to relate! the twain would be one flesh. (Renewed laughter.) Our agitating friends would have no occupation; and you could then say of the negro, what we all hope soon to say of Jeff. Davis and his deluded followers, that the time and places that know them now, will shortly know them no more forever. (Laughter and applause.)
It is hardly fair that these men should judge the women by themselves. (Hear, hear.) They tell us that there is a natural repugnance between the white and black races. You may believe this, but they do not believe it. That there are many ignorant white people who believe all they have heard against us, I do not pretend to deny; but the intelligent portion of the people understand this thing pretty well. Proslavery men have a strange kind of prejudice against us. The most bitter pro-slavery man in this country, who would send me to the mountains of the moon today, would insult my daughter, if I had one, by the time my back was turned. The prejudice is only against the men in freedom. One million of mulattoes in the South, where neither the colored girl, wife, nor mother, dare say her soul is her own, is an unanswerable argument to the men who charge amalgamation to abolitionists. (Applause.) This prejudice is not natural. In the South, where the white children are brought up by colored servants, they always prefer them. You know how common it is there for the white child to call after its black wet nurse, and refuse to be comforted by its mother. The mulatto child is dandled on the knee of its white father until he gets “hard up,” then he barbarously sells it! This is our civilization!
If it should prove true that we are sought after by both sexes, I can well understand it. The colored people have been shut out of almost every avenue to elevation-our only enjoyments have been those of a social character. Slavery and prejudice have caused us to develop our affectional natures, and we are without doubt kinder and more affectionate than any other race. What lady would not desire to be loved by one who regarded her life as part of his own, rather than as a necessary convenience of his? We are kindly drawn towards animals that show an affection for us; and I kindly caution you that, in spite of what we have said to the contrary, pro-slavery men may, after all, be right when they warn you of the bewitching love of black men! A word to the wise is sufficient. (Laughter.)
Since the commencement of the rebellion, the tone and spirit of the government have been conciliatory towards its enemies. Neither subjugation nor conquest seems to have entered the hearts of our human rulers. The war has really been on the defensive. Important and available substantial aid, that was ready and anxious to serve the government, was declined in deference to the prejudices of race. The black men who were acquainted with the main-spring of the rebellion rushed forward at the commencement, and claimed their right as native-born citizens to lay their lives on the altar of their country. Their power and influence were despised; they were always rejected, and often insulted. After pressing their claims for two years, it ought not to be surprising if many should have become discouraged and disheartened. Many, however, have continued to press on. Some, impatient for the conflict, rushed into the navy; while a considerable number, determined to see the thing done even if they could take no part in it, have gone out as servants to officers.
I think the government has made a mistake in checking our patriotism. (Applause.) It needed the help that belonged to it, and desired to come to it, and yet was feeding the rebellion, and giving aid and comfort to the men who were shooting down your fathers and brothers, your relatives and friends. (Hear, hear.) Had you allowed us to have taken hold at first, you would have seen the rebels long since flying in every direction, and calling on the rocks and mountains to hide them from our virtuous anger and wrath. (Applause.)
<c06>
The zeal and fidelity with which we have served our country, and are still willing and anxious to serve it, and which have prompted many to go as servants, after having been insultingly thrown aside while pressing their claims as soldiers, ought forever to seal the lip of prejudice, and silence the <illegible> of slander.
Recently, there has been an effort to raise colored regiments; and there are many who wonder why the colored people have not been more eager to seize this golden opportunity to strike. These are times when it will not do to be too exacting. But if you will consider, for a moment, how reluctantly the government has taken hold of this matter; how nearly every post of honor and profit is denied us; how unwilling our own legislature has been to strike the word “white” from the militia laws; and when you add to all this the fact, that many colored men is the service of the government have been taken prisoners and sold into slavery, without even a protest from the Federal Government, you ought not to be surprised why we have hesitated, and not rushed pell-mell into the service, and urged others to follow us.
It will not, I think, be according to us too large a share of common sense to say, that we know that the man who offers to sacrifice his life on the altar of his country has rights which the government is bound to respect. (Applause.) What are we fighting for? Certainly not for the sake of killing and being killed; we could have done this in a time of peace. It is a noble thing to fight for posterity, but it is sensible to use well the present; the future many never come to us.
I think the proficiency of drill and manly bearing of the soldiers of the 54th Massachusetts regiment, that passed through here yesterday, ought to convince you that the colored man is deserving of something more than promises-though these serve as food for fools, but the man who lives on them has a slim diet; he is always sowing, never reaping. I think it common sense to have a few of the honors as we go along, and to teach our children that we know how to enjoy that which we are hoarding up for them. Many of our grandfathers fought in the revolution, and the battles of the revolution we are obliged to fight over again to-day.
I think it is high time that this deference to the hateful prejudice against the black man were set aside, and men were measured by their merits. I hear a great deal said about all being right in the end. I believe it. But how is it to come right? Certainly, not by forever yielding to the prejudices of those who would sacrifice the country to preserve slavery. This living entirely for posterity sounds well from the rostrum, but a loaf of bread to-day is worth a barrel of flour next year.
Patriotism is, after all, a selfish thing. We fight for our country because it is our home; we have a pride in it, and love it for its liberty. Ambition and the love of fame are as common to man, black or white, as horns are to the ox. Shakspeare says, “We all hunt after fame.” And ambition has, no doubt, played a greater part in the world than any other passion. Indeed, the motive to praise worthy action has been the germ from which great men have been produced. There is a disposition in man to rise, and to lord it over his fellows. When ten thousand men a year, of all races, press our Governor for places in the army, and many of them for places in the colored regiments, it proves, at least, that the love of power, if not natural, has acquired an iron hold on man. Honorable ambition is an honorable thing. What is a man without ambition? If he is satisfied to remain where he is, he does not deserve promotion. The Germans say, Wer man sich nicht, macht ist nicht. “When a man makes himself nothing, he is nothing.” I do not blame those Irish gentlemen who have sought and obtained commissions in the colored regiments. The Americans believe that you had “better rule a negro than serve a white man;” or as the maxim has it, “better be the head of a rat than the tail of a lion.”
We do not seek commissions as such, but we ask for those rights which belong to us as loyal men; and we would be false to our duty, false to our race, and false to posterity, if we did not contend for them as men, while offering to defend our country with our lives. (Applause.)
We have not been treated right. When you raise regiments among the Irish, you give them Irish officers; and when you raise regiments among the Germans, you give them German officers; but when it comes to the colored people, their men of talent are disregarded so much that they are not even consulted. And this, I assure you, is a modest statement of our case.
I have not one word to say against colored men enlisting now. I think we must fill the ranks, and learn the art of war. All I ask is, that the avenues to elevation shall be open to us as to white men-our honors we are willing to fight for.
I have advised, and do advise, all those colored men who can conscientiously go into the army to go. There is to be a great harvest, and those who sow first must reap first. We cannot get all at once. Some things may be had by asking, some by working for, and some only by fighting. Bullets are wonderful things to bring men around, and, I confess, my faith is that great miracles may be wrought by gunpowder and lead. (Applause.) I say to my people, if we cannot get what we want, we must get what we can, keeping our rights uppermost and always in view. If Providence will not send turkeys already roasted, we will take them as they are, and roast them ourselves. If the mountain will not go to Mahomet, let Mahomet go to the mountain; that is, if the government will not come to us, we will go to it. We will leave no excuse for those who would deprive us of our rights. We ask, in return, that the government receive us as its loyal friends, and treat us accordingly.
We are not indifferent observers of this contest. Every bone in our bodies is loyal. We are not lukewarm. Who dares be lukewarm when the liberty of his country is in danger? To be moderate is to be little better than a coward. The rebels dread a black army; we will be a terror to them, and realize all their fears. (Applause.) Some fear an insurrection. All I fear is, that the slaves have been so long repulsed, and so often thrust back, that they have become so disheartened that we shall have no insurrection. (Hear, hear.) Insurrection! I tell you, fellow-citizens, there is magic in that word; and if ever the slaves do take hold, you will soon see the rebellion crushed. They will hang on like badgers, and never give over until they feel their teeth meet, and the bones crack. (Applause.)
I am greatly encouraged. The National Capital is free-the colored man is recognized as a citizen-and slavery is declared forever abolished in all places in open rebellion. This is glory enough for one day. For all this, I thank you, and all others who have contributed their influence to make this a free country. (Applause.)
We are passing through terrible times. Two years ago, our country, hitherto regarded as stable and steady, was found rocking and shaking on its ancient foundations. We all seemed to be in doubt as to whether or no we had a government. The enemies of this country had become violent and insolent, and it seemed as though the Constitution, if not overthrown, must be written again, and with the sword, in blood. Old and tried patriotic soldiers and statesmen, affrighted at the apparition of a true republican government, precipitated themselves into the torrent, and stretched forth their arms, giant-like, for the purpose of guiding it, so that it might the more surely sweep away this, the brightest hope of democratic institutions. Then ABRAHAM LINCOLN stepped forth, and called for 75,000 men, saying in deeds what Louis XII. said to one of his knights at Aignadel, Let him who is afraid take shelter behind me,-and we all breathed freer when we found that the hour had produced a man.
I have often been in doubt, but I now believe Mr. Lincoln, though not up to the anti-slavery idea, is true to his convictions, and is the man whom Providence has chosen to unite the American people, and lead them from an ignominious thraldom to glorious liberty! God bless Abraham Lincoln! (Applause.)
