THE LIBERATOR
 IS PUBLISHED 
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
 AT 
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS  Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania is, Ohio and Michigan Anti Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz: WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIV. NO.37. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1864 WHOLE NO. 1753.
<C01>
Refuge of Oppression.
A SAMPLE OF REBEL BILLINGSGATE.
Whatever may turn out to be the meaning of the fact, the fact itself begins to shine out clear  that Abraham Lincoln is lost; that he never will be President again:; not even President of the Yankee remnant of States, to say nothing of the whole six and thirty or how many are there, counting "Colorado"and "Idaho," and other Yahoo common wealths lately invented? The obscene ape of Illinois is about to be deposed from the Washington purple, and the White House will echo to his little jokes no more, It is in no spirit of exultation we contemplate this coming event; for Abraham has been a good Emperor for us; he has served our turn; his policy has settled, established, and made irrevocable the separation of the old Union into nations essentially foreign; and we may be almost sorry to part with him. He was, in the eyes of all mankind, an unanswerable argument for our secession; he stood there a living justification, seven feet high, of the steadfast resolution of these States to hold no more political communion with a race capable not only of producing such a being, but of making it a ruler and king.
Certainly his elevation to that position astonished the world; but it amused nobody so much as the creature himself. He knew he was neither rich nor rare, and wondered how the devil he got there; or, as he expressed it himself the other day to a Canadian editor, "It seems to me strange that I, a boy born as it were in the woods, should be drifted into the apex of this great event." Why strange? One may be drifted into any apex, if he only embarks upon a chain of circumstances; and those who sneer at Abraham's figure are desired to observe that Noah's ark did actually drift to an apex; and it contained, together with every other beast after his kind, a pair of baboons., If they drifted to an apex, so may be. However that may be, he is certainly now about to come down, even to be dragged or kicked down. The prognostications of last Spring were infallible  that "the rebellion" must be crushed this year  at least, very signal and decisive results must be gained over it  or else the war could no longer be carried on under Lincoln's Government; let what might come of the war and the Union, he would get no more armies to fling into the red pit of Virginia for slaughter.
Now, to put aside, for the present , the total loss of what Yankees fondly believed to be their conquests in the trans Mississippi; petermitting, also, the dead lock to which Sherman's army has been brought, with all 
Kentucky, Tennessee, and the half of Georgia lying between him and his own country  and looking only to this most colossal invasion of Virginia with three huge armies all bound at once for Richmond  the thing is over. Grant's army is rapidly going away from our front at Petersburg, and returing to Washington and elsewhere. Of course, Grant will not put up a notice on the shore of the Appomattox that he hereby abandons his enterprise; neither will Stanton officially notify that the armies of "the Union" are found wholly unable to advance one yard out of the protection of their ships, and therefore they discontinue the campaign with a loss of one hundred and fifty thousand killed, wounded and missing. This would be unreasonable to expect; nevertheless, the enterprise is abandoned; and this is necessarily, so far as Lincoln is concerned, afinal abandonment; Richmond is no more to hear the roar of Yankee siege guns under that potentate's reign.
One cannot but arrive at this conclusion from several indications; from the greatly increasing ex excitement at the North touching the Chicago Convention, which is to nominate a Democratic President; from the daring violence with which some newspapaers countenance resistance in arms against a draft of half a million of men; and from the singular movements of some of Lincoln's own Black Republican supporters in the Washington Congress, as yesterday detailed in the Examiner. They waited for the moment when their sovereign's fortunes were declining from their "apex" to give him a treacherous shove down the hill. Two of his most efficient and vebement allies, chairmen respectively of the Senate and House "Committee on the Rebellious States," Wade, of Ohio, and Winter Davis, of Maryland, give him this blow under the fifth rib. They present, in their official capacity, what almost amounts to a legal impeachment, save in matters of form, against their fond and too indulgent master, now torrering to his fall; charge him with arrogance, usurpation, knavery, in withholding his assent to a bill touching the future status of these Confederate States  a matter which, though of small importance to us, is of the deepest moment, it seems, in that country; inasmuch as he has a plan of his own for readmitting States to the Union on the application of one tenth of her population:; and this would, they say, give him the control of the Presidential election. So they informed him that and election carried by this artifice must be resisted; and that he is inaugurating a civil war for the Presidency. If Grant had only taken Richmond, would they have dared to set their names to such a document as this? All the world suddenly, within one week, in short, since the blow up of the campaign at Petersburg, seems to feel instinctively that Abraham's game is played; and the New York Herald at once calls for a National Convention, at Baffalo, to nominate some other men instead of the baboon of Illinois and the tailor of Tennessee; and finds that "the very winds have been whispering it for weeks" " that is for two weeks, since the Petersburg blow up. Ah, the Emperor is a fallen tree; no bird of the air will every again feather its nest under his branches; a dying gorilla, against whom the smallest cur can lift up its leg.  Richmond Examiner, Aug. 22.
A REBEL VIEW OF THE SITUATION.
The following article, which appeared in the Richmond Sentinel, (the organ of Jeff. Davis,) is an interesting specimen of Southern speculation, and shows the interest felt by the rebels in the action of the Chicago Convention: 
We have arrived at a very critical stage of the war, and calm circumspection, caution and patient endurance are needed to carry us successfully through it. To weather the next six weeks will be a most difficult task for the North. She is well aware of this, and will no doubt be very busy in endeavoring to entrap us into hasty compromises, concessions, or admissions that may deprive us of the vantage ground which we are likely to attain in less than two months. WithWith in that time it is not at all improbable that the arimies of Grant, Sherman, and sheridan, by losses in battle and by other causes, will have been almost annihilated., Within that time it is almost certain that the approaching Chicago Convention will have thrown its apple of discord and destruction, into the already distracted and discordant ranks of the North. It may suggest terms
<C02>
of honorable peace. At least it will be sure to endeavor to baffle rather than promote the peculiar war policy of Lincoln, because it believes that his war policy is equally directed against the liberty of the North and the independence of the South. Let us await patiently the results of that Convention before finally committing ourselves to any specific terms of peace; for they have much to fear from that result, we nothing to apprehend from it. It may impede, thwart or embarrass the plans and purposes of the war party at the North. It may make their situation worse, but cannot affect ours. 
Let us await, too, the experiment of the impending draft. If it fails, the North will be almost without an army, and we should be sure of better terms of peace than we could now even hope for. That it will fail, at least partially, seems to be expected or apprehended by all parties, even among themselves. It may give rise to mobs, riots, revolutionary outbursts and civil war in that section. It will certainly increase and exacerbrate the hatred of New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and the Northwest towards New England.
The former States and sections sustain this war as a matter of honor, New England as a source of wealth. She is growing richer and richer every day by its prosecution, while they are being impoverished by it. We believe, according to the duello code, the requirements of honor are satisfied when blood (however little) has been drawn. These. States and that section have shed whole oceans of it. Neither the code of honor nor the dictates of the most generous magnanimity require that they should shed more. To do so would be savage brutality, not generous chivalry. 
They should say, and might say , and most truly to New England, " You brought on this war. It is your war. You have made millions of money by it. We made common cause with you, for we felt that the storming of Fort Sumter was an insult to the whole North. But it was a mere insult, and one which New England men and measures compelled the South to offer us. We have shed enough blood, and lost or expended enough treasure, to wipe off a thousand such insults. We can bear and suffer no more to satiate your hatreds and build up your wealth, whilst by so doing we are wasting our own lives, wasting our own treasure, ruining ourselves, and entailing hopeless poverty on our posterity. This draft we will not bear!"
 Even if any one State should take the stand we suggest, the further prosecution of the war would be hopeless, for other States would soon follow the example. 
But suppose the draft succeeds. It will only put in raw, undisciplined, reluctant recruits and mercenary substitutes to supply the places of volunteer veterans. We shall be better situated to treat for peace after the draft than now, even if it succeed. There will be a long interval or gap of time between the enlisting of drafted men and the making soldiers of them, wherein we may carry on the war to advantage, or treat for peace on fair and equal terms. 
In the meanwhile the expiration of the terms of service of their three years' veterans and one hundred days' men will be continually weakening them, and relatively strengthening us. Their currency, too, is sure to grow continually worse; and without money  money that is readily current  they cannot long prosecute the war. Our currency is fast and steadily improving, and Congress, at its next session, has only boldly to proceed with the stringent measures it has already inaugurated, to relieve us in a short time of all difficulty as to money matters. 
Six weeks hence, we are almost sure to be in a much better condition to treat for peace than we are now, and our enemy in a much worse condition. Within that time it may be that we shall have defeated and gotten rid of the armies of Grant, Sherman and Sheridan, capturing part of them and expelling the balance from our territory. Six weeks hence, instead of waging defensive warfare, we may be invading the enemy's soil, and carrying on offensive warfare. We have little to apprehend and much to hope for within that period. Time is victory to us, and death to our enemies. We are heartily sick and tired of this long, bloody and cruel war; so are all of our people. But let us cautiously beware, lustlest our anxiety for peace should give our cunning and wary enemyenemv the opportunity to overreach and entrap us into improper concessions. 
At no lime time during the war have we stood on such high vantage ground. At no time have we had so good reason to insist, on all we have ever askedaskeil: untrammelled, unconditional independence. In the meanwhile, let us be ever ready to listen to propositions : silions for peace, however preposterous the terms proposed; provided these terms, like all other matters that either party may propose, shall be open to free discussiondiecustton and negotiation, and not laid down as ultimata. Let us be ready to open negotiations for peace at any time as equals treating with equals, j but in no other way. Every day that the negotiation proceeds, we shall be growing relatively stronger, our enemy positively weaker. 
As to the matter of the. armistice, the subject is surrounded with great difficulties, and we are not prepared to venture an opinion. It may be proposed as a mere trick to get Sherman's and Grant's armies out of their embarrassing situation, and safely home. All along each side of the Mississippi, too, the enemy has troops that, in returning home, would have to run the gauntlet of thousands of our raiders and guerilla troops, that would harass and decimate them from either bank of that long and tedious river. We hold the enemy in a tight place, and probably should rather press our advantage than relieve him of his difficulties by consenting to an armistice. 
ABOLITION FIRST AND FOREMOST. 
What power has been given to Mr. Lincoln to superadd this vast demand to the objects of this war?  a demand which not only proposes to impoverish the South, but to take away the property of Union men, firm friends and defenders of Union and Constitution,. and which also overthrows the whole system of State law and State power guaranteed by the Constitution. The Abolitionist answers by a sneer, and thinks it sufficient for his purpose to shout, "You are pro slavery." If it so happens that to be a defender of Union, Constitution and law is being pro slavery, why, any American may easily bear the accusation. But it matters little now what the Abolitionists call the Union savers. They accept the issue tendered by Mr. Lincoln. They are willing to negotiate for peace without any conditions about slavery, or any conditions precedent to negotiation whatever. They insist that all war in civilized countries can best be brought to an end by negotiations. They believe the American Union can be restored to peace, prosperity, and ultimate happiness, by negotiations to be commenced now. They would rather negotiate for three years than fight for three years; assured that the result at the end of that time would be vastly better for Union, for humanity, for liberty, if reached by the consultations of American citizens in council, than if arrived at with cannon and bayonets. . Jour. Com.
<c03>
Selections.
THE DEMOCRATIC ADDRESS.
In the Address to the People of the United States, on which we recently commented, the Democratic party, which is now bidding for office, has come forward with certain pro slavery principles, which were once dominant in America, but which will never, we trust, be dominant there again. Those who imagine that something would be gained by the defeat of Mr. Lincoln, and the accession to power of a Democratic Administration, should read that Address. We are very far from thinking that Mr. Lincoln's Government has acted in all respects as it ought to have done. But, at any rate, it has assumed an attitude towards slavery which ought to command the profound sympathies of the British people. Within the past three years, it has directed against this foul system every force which it could find in the Constitution, and every weapon which the war has put into its hands. It began by abolishing slavery in the only part of the States which properly belonged to the Central Government. Subsequently, it decreed the. exclusion of slavery, for ever, from the Territories of the United States; it ratified a treaty with this country for the suppression of the slave trade; and it was the first Administration in America to put the righteous law in force that condemns the slave trader to be hanged as a pirate. It also devised a plan for getting rid of slavery by making compensation to the slaveholders in any State that might adopt it. Finally, it issued the great Emancipation Edict of 1863, which converted every Federal force into an army of liberation, and has already been the means of emancipating tens of thousands of slaves. No doubt this way of precipitating freedom upon the slaves is about the worst form that emancipation can assume. The , history of our West India Colonies has taught us that. But it happens to be the only way open to the Federal Government; and it is due to the people of the north to say that they have exerted themselves actively and generously in attempting to mitigate its evils. Moreover, if sudden abolition has its dangers, what shall we say of slavery? It were surely difficult to find a cure worse than that disease. Of two evils, the. Washington Government has wisely preferred the least. The very latest manifesto that Mr. Lincoln has issued breathes the same spirit of inflexible adherence to the policy of emancipation. "The integrity of the Union and the abandonment of slavery”are the two terms which, in reply to the Confederate Envoys writing from Niagara Falls, he bluntly prescribes as the basis for any conference on peace... In the meantime, the status of the negro in the North has been perceptibly improved. Nearly 100,.000 blacks are said to be now enrolled in the Federal armies; and a movement has begun in the Washington Senate with the object of extending the franchise to negroes, as has been done already in Vermont, and one or two other of the free States. 
Such have been the spirit and action of the Republican party in regard to negroes and negro slavery. What are the principles of the Democrats who are seeking to take its place, and are asking the people of the States to entrust them with the reins of Government for the next four years? Let us look into their Address. First of all, we find the efforts that have been made to elevate the negro race condemned as most dangerous and offensive. "Our Governments," says the Address, "were established by white men, and for white men and their posterity for ever; and it is for the common advantage of all States and conditions of human beings that the exclusion of the inferior races from suffrage should be permanently continued." It has a curious effect to put this language side by side with the first paragraphs of the Declaration of American Independence, which these very Democrats read sonorously every 4th of July  and which lays it down as a truth "self evident," that "all men are created equal." How one is tempted to put the thing in syllogistic form, and invite the Democrats to draw the conclusion  
All men are created equal; 
Whites and negroes are men; 
Therefore, whites and negroes are  
What? Created equal? Then what are we to make of the doctrine of "inferior races," and the necessity of excluding them for ever from the suffrage? Perhaps the Democrats may escape from the argument by denying that negroes are men. At any rate they declare, in another part of their Address, that the negro race "is manifestly unfitted to participate in the exercise of political power, and that its incorporation, socially, and on a principle of equality, with the mass of our countrymen, constitutes a danger compared to which all other dangers are insignificant." Accordingly, the new candidates for office pledge themselves to keep the nigger down in his proper place. "It is of the highest policy, it is of the greatest necessity, that the races should be. kept distinct socially; that they should not blend to their mutual corruption and destruction." Accordingly, under the Democrats, if the North will only hand over to them the reins of government, "there will be no recognition of the doctrines which tend to the social debasement and pollution of the people. The profligate and pernicious theories which would overthrow the natural barriers between races. . . will not be promoted or favored." These are the sentiments of the Democratic Address. Abundance of invective against the "pernicious theories" that would elevate the negro to the dignity of citizenship  plenty of eloquent language about "the social debasement and pollution”of allowing the two races to amalgamate; but in six columns and a half of closely printed type, not one word against the pernicious theories that reduce the negro to the condition of a thing to be bought and sold, whipped, hunted with dogs, branded with hot irons  not one syllable about the social debasement and pollution of a system that allows the planter to gratify every brutal passion upon his helpless slaves, and tempts him to sell his own children to infamy and bondage!
 With such principles in regard to the negro, perse, the Democratic views in regard to the interference of Mr. Lincoln's Government with Southern slavery can readily be inferred. The policy of emancipation is evil and odious; it is the work of short sighted, passionate, and fanatical men. How the Democrats will act, if they come into power, is but dimly shadowed forth. The following paragraphs, however, are darkly significant; 
"Let the false and guilty doctrine that the President of the United States, by proclamation, or the Congress thereof by statute, can prescribe, alter, add to or diminish, the conditions of union between the States, be discarded at once and for ever...... . . . . Additional securities for union should be established in the fundamental law. But these securities must consist of limitations rather than extensions, of Federal authority, and must not invade those fields of power which were left sacred to the State jurisdiction in the original scheme of union"
<c04>
It is not difficult to discern in such language a design to clear the way for the return of the Southern States into the Union, by cancelling, as far as possible, the emancipation policy of the Republican party, and offering fresh securities to slavery. The South, however, is fighting, not for concessions but for independence; and as the Democrats, equally with the Republicans, seem resolved on the restoration of the Union, both parties, unhappily, are committed to war. The world is wearying for peace. But, if we must have war, let us at least have it conducted by men who recognize in slavery the tap root of American discord, and are determined on its eradication. It is sad enough to see a slaveholding Confederacy in the South. Shall we desire now to see the North also governed by a party committed to the degradation of the negro, committed to the protection of slavery, and avowedly favorable to the extension of this accursed system into the Territories of the United States? Glasgow Herald,. 
"PEACE."
It is evident that the copperheads and democrats are proposing, in the coming presidential campaign, to conjure with the word "Peace." Availing themselves of the hardships, discontents and high prices incident to the war, they hope to secure a sufficient support for their candidate, by spreading the impression that we cannot have peace under Mr. Lincoln, and by promising it, more or less explicitly, under some other candidate. The plan is well devised, and the fathers of it probably could not place themselves on any stronger basis. Poor men, who are paying twice and three fold what they ever paid before for the necessaries of life, who are little used, perhaps, to reflect upon the causes of things, and who are apt to think that any change, in these times, is likely to be an improvement, may, possibly, be only too easily led away by the seductive word "Peace." But it would be a pity, indeed, if any such wretched sophistry as this could succeed. There is no man in the country, probably, more heartily desirous of peace than Mr. Lincoln, unless it be Gen. Grant or Gen. Sherman. The loyal people of this country are, and, throughout this war, have been eager for peace. What then is meant by the copperhead or the democrat when he calls himself a friend of peace? He means, if he means anything in particular, that he is in favor of conceding to the rebels the right of secession, or of laying down arms like the king of Denmark, and making such terms as we can with the enemy. Mr. Lincoln, on the other hand, is in favor of compelling the rebels to lay down their arms, and of forcing them to make such terms as they can with us. One advocates peace through surrender; the other advocates peace through victory. Both are peace men, seeking a common object by the use of different means. If the party of Mr. Lincoln is to be called the war party, , designating it by the means which it advocates to secure peace, , then the copperheads and democrats should be called, not the peace party, but the surrender party. 
Look at the resolutions of these so called peace democrats, and see the kind of peace which they contemplate. They propose, plainly, to abandon all the fruits ot the war, and either submit to see the country divided as the rebels wish, or to reinstate the rebels, if they can, under a Union which shall secure all that they ask. The war, as many of them say, is unconstitutional: "you cannot coerce sovereign States." That of course means disunion. 
Are the people ready for that? Does that mean peace? What said Jefferson Davis the other day to Messrs. Gilmore and Jaques? Assuming the success of the rebellion, he told them, there probably could be no peace in this generation; there was too much bitterness, too great an "ocean of blood”between the North and the South to allow of peace in this generation. Does this look like peace and low prices? Which party offers to the country the best likelihood of an early peace, , the one which comes before it with a practical endorsement of Jefferson Davis and a policy which promises war for a whole generation, or the one which has placed Grant before Richmond, Sherman before Atlanta, and Farra gut in Mobile Bay, which offers to give the country peace by blotting out the pretensions of the rebels altogether, by pulling up the very roots of discord, and by establishing and confirming the authority ot the government? 
It is nonsense to talk of the impossibility of reducing the rebels to obedience. Break their military power, and the work is done. Courage and persistency for a little while longer, , a spirit on the part of those at home which is equal to that of the brave soldiers who are in the field, , nay, a spirit which will bear half the hardships which they endure, will prove more than enough. The rebels bluster about holding out forever: was there ever a man or a body of men who did not do the same thing when in the heat of a quarrel? Men who are in earnest know how much importance to attach to these hysterical exclamations, , such utterances, for example, as many of those made by Jefferson Davis to Gilmore and Jaques. We shall beat the rebels, nevertheless, and bring them to obedience, just as other rebellious and passionate bodies of men have been beaten and brought to obedience before, ever since wars began. 
The issue is the same now as at the outset. Will it bring peace to suffer the establishment of a separate government, animated by hatred of the North? Will not fresh causes of war constantly spring up? Will not these rebels, whose staple is cotton, speedily make an alliance with England or France? And then, in our next quarrel, , not far off, we may be sure, , we shall have to fight not only the rebels, exhausted, with no navy, shut up in their two strongholds, and reduced to a separate policy of defence, but we must meet them reinforced by the army and navy of a powerful European nation, elated with the prestige of a former triumph over us, and replenished in all their resources. 
Will it bring peace to allow the doctrine of seces sion to be incorporated into our constitution, so that any fretful community, acting upon any whim, may control the policy of the government? Is it possible that there can be peace under such a constitution? 
Will it conduce to peace to suffer the institution of slavery to be reinstated, with new guarantees for its continuance and its extension? Certainly not, as the history of our own politics shows, unless at the same time that we make peace with the rebels, we can work a radical change in the moral sympathies and antipathies of the human race. 
It is to be hoped that the American people are in no danger of committing the blunder made by England and France, and supposing that a genuine peace can come in any way but by the defeat of the rebels. To falter now just as success is within our grasp, after all the labors and sacrifices already made, would indeed be a shameful disgrace. It is not possible that the spirit of the American people can be so treacherous to the memory of the brave men that have fallen in this war, as to leave their work unfinished or to surrender their sacred cause by base con 
<c05>
cessions to traitors, , merely because they begin, for the first time, to be pressed by hardships not one quarter so severe as those which our heroes of the army and navy have borne with joy and pride for more 
than three years. . Boston Daily Advertiser.
THE LATE PEACE INTERVIEW CIRCULAR FROM THE REBEL STATE DEPARTMENT.
The following circular from the Rebel State Department will explain itself: 
DEPARTMENT OF STATE, RICHMOND, Va., Aug. 25, 1864. . SIR: Numerous publications which have recently appeared in the journals of the United States on the subject of informal overtures for peace between two Federations of States now at war on this Continent render it desirable that you should be fully advised of the views and policy of this Government on a matter of such paramount importance. It is likewise proper that you should be accurately informed of what has occurred on the several occasions mentioned in the published statements.
You have heretofore been furnished with copies of the manifesto issued by the Congress of the Confederate States, with the approval of the President, on the 14th June last, and have, doubtless, acted in conformity with the resolution which requested that copies of this manifesto should be laid before foreign Governments. "The principles, sentiments, and purposes, by which these States have been, and are still actuated, "are set forth in that paper with all the authority due to the solemn declaration of the legislative and executive departments of this Government, and with a clearness which leaves no room for comment or explanation. In a few sentences it is pointed out that all we ask is non interference with our internal peace and prosperity, "and to be left in the undisturbed enjoyment of those inalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, which our common" ancestors declared to be the equal heritage of all parties to the social compact. Let them forbear aggressions upon us, and the war is at an end. If there be questions which require adjustment by negotiation, we have ever been willing, and are still willing, to enter into communication with our adversaries in a spirit of peace, of equality, and manly frankness."
The manifesto closed with the declaration that "we commit our cause to the enlightened judgment of the world, to the sober reflections of our adversaries themselves, and to the solemn and righteous arbitrament of Heaven."
Within a few weeks after the publication of this manifesto, it seemed to have met with a response from President Lincoln. In the early part of last month, a letter was received by General Lee from Lieutenant General Grant, in the following words: 
"HEADQUARTERS ARMIES OF THE UNITED
 STATES, CITY POINT, Va., Aug. 8,1864, 
GENERAL R. E. LEE,. commanding Confederate forces, near Petersburg, Virginia: 
GENERAL: I would request that Col. Jaques, 73d Illinois Volunteer Infantry, and J. R. Gilmore, Esq., be allowed to meet Colonel Robert Ould, Commissioner for the exchange of prisoners, at such place between the lines of the two armies as you may designate. The object of the meeting is legitimate with the duties of Colonel Ould as Commissioner. 
If not consistent for you to grant the request here asked, I would beg that this be referred to President Davis for his action. 
Requesting as early an answer to this communication as you may find it convenient to make, I subscribe myself,. 
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, 
U. S. GRANT, 
Lieutenant General U. S. A."
On the reference of this letter to the President, he authorized Colonel Ould to meet the persons named in General Grant's letter; and Colonel Ould, after seeing them, returned to Richmond and reported to the President, in the presence of the Secretary of War and myself, that Messrs. Jaques and Gilmore had not said anything to him about his duties as commissioner for exchange of prisoners, but that they asked permission to come to Richmond for the purpose of seeing the President; that they came with the knowledge and approval of President Lincoln, and under his pass; that they were informal messengers, sent with a view of paving the way for a meeting of formal commissioners authorized to negotiate for peace, and desired to communicate to President Davis the views of Mr. Lincoln, and to obtain the President's views in return so as to arrange for a meeting of commissioners. Col. Ould stated that he had told them repeatedly that it was useless to come to Richmond to talk of peace on any other terms than the recognized independence of the Confederacy, to which they said that they were aware of that, and that they were, nevertheless, confident that their interview would result in peace. The President, on this report of Colonel Ould, determined to permit them to come to Richmond under his charge. 
On the evening of the 16th of July, Colonel Ould conducted these gentlemen to a hotel in Richmond, where a room was provided for them, in which they were to remain under surveillance during their stay here, and the next morning I received thet following letter: 
"SPOTTSWOOD HOUSE, RICHMOND, Va. 
July 17,1864. 
Hon. J. P. BENJAMIN, Secretary of State of Confederate States of America: 
DEAR SIR: The. undersigned, James F. Jaques, of Illinois, and James R. Gilmore, of Massachusetts, most respectfully solicit an interview with President Davis. They visit Richmond as private citizens, and have no official character or authority; but they are fully possessed of the views of thet United States Government relative to an adjustment of the differences now existing between the North and the South, and have little doubt that a free interchange of views between President Davis and themselves would open the way to such official negotiations as would ultimate in restoring PEACE to the two sections of our distracted country.
They therefore ask an interview with the President, and, awaiting. your reply, are,
Most truly and respectfully, 
Your obedient servants, 
JAMES F. JAQUES,
JAMES R. GILMORE."
The word "official" is underscored, and the word "peace”doubly underscored, in the original. 
After perusing the letter, I invited Colonel Ould to conduct the writers to my office; and on their arrival stated to them that they must be conscious they could not be admitted to an interview with the President, without informing me more fully of the object of their mission, and satisfying me that they came by request of Mr. Lincoln. 
Mr. Gilmore replied that they came unofficially, but with the knowledge, and at the desire, of Mr. , Lincoln; that they thought the war had gone far enough; that it could never end except by some sort of agreement; that, the agreement might as well be made now as after further bloodshed; that they knew by the recent address of the Confederate Congress that we were willing to make peace; that
<C06>
they admitted that proposals ought to come from the North, and that they were prepared to make these proposals by Mr. Lincoln's authority; that it was necessary to have a sort of informal understanding in advance of regular negotiations, for if commissioners were appointed without some such understanding, they would meet, quarrel, and separate, leaving the parties more bitter against each other than before; that they knew Mr. Lincoln's views, and would state them if pressed by the President to do so, and desired to learn his in return. 
I again insisted on some evidence that they came from Mr. Lincoln; and in order to satisfy me, Mr. Gilmore referred to the fact that permission for their coming through our lines had been asked officially by General Grant in a letter to General Lee, and that General Grant in a letter had asked that this request should be preferred to President Davis. Mr. Gilmore then showed me a card, written and signed by Mr. Lincoln, requesting Gen. Grant to aid Mr. Gilmore and friend in passing through his lines into the Confederacy. Colonel Jaques then said that his name was not put on the card for the reason that it was earnestly desired that their visit should be kept secret; that he had come into the Confederacy a year ago, and had visited Petersburg on a similar errand; and that it was feared if his name should become known, that some of those who had formerly met him in Petersburg would conjecture the purpose for which he now came. He said that the terms of peace which they would offer to the President would be honorable to the Confederacy; that they did not desire that the Confederacy should accept any other terms, but would be glad to have my promise, as they gave theirs, that their visit should be kept a profound secret if it fail to result in peace; that it would not be just that either party should seek any advantage by divulging the fact of their overture for peace, if unsuccessful. I assented to this request, and then, rising, said: "Do I understand you to state distinctly that you come as messengers from Mr. Lincoln, for the purpose of agreeing with the President as to the proper mode of inaugurating a formal negotiation for peace, charged by Mr. Lincoln with authority for stating his own views and receiving those of President Davis?”Both answered in the affirmative, and I then said that the President would see them at my office thee same evening, at 9 P. M.; that, at least, I presumed he would; but if he objected, after hearing my report, they should be informed. They were then recommitted to he charge of Colonel Ould with the <illegible> that they were to be reconducted to my office at the appointed hour, unless otherwise directed. 
The interview, onnected with the report previously made by Col. Ould, left on my mind the decided impression that Mr. Lincoln was averse to sending formal commissioners to open negotiations, lest he might thereby be deemed to have recognized the independence of the Confederacy, and that he was anxious to learn whether the conditions on which alone he would be willing to take such a step would be yielded by the Confederacy: that with this view he had placed his messengers in a condition to satisfy us that they really came from him, without committing himself to anything in the event of a disagreement as to such conditions as he considered to be indispensable. On informing the President, therefore, of my conclusions, he determined that no question of form or etiquette should be an obstacle to his receiving any overtures that promised, however remotely, to result in puttingan end to the carnage which marked the continuance of hostilities.
The President came to my office at 9 o'clock in the evening, and Colonel Ould came a few moments later, with Messrs. Jaques and Gilmore. The President said to them that he had heard, from me, that they came as messengers of peace from Mr. Lincoln; that as such they were welcome; that the Confederacy had never concealed its desire for peace; and that he was ready to hear whatever they had to offer on that subject. 
Mr. Gilmore then addressed the President, and in a few minutes had conveyed the information that these two gentlemen had come to Richmond impressed with the idea that this Government would accept a peace on a basis of a reconstruction of the Union, the abolition of slavery, and the grant of an amnesty to the people of the States as repentant criminals. In order to accomplish the abolition of slavery, it was proposed that there should be a general vote of all the people of both federations in mass, and the majority of the vote thus taken was to determine that as well as all other disputed questions. These were stated to be Mr. Lincoln's views. The President answered that as these proposals had been prefaced by the remark that the people of the North were a majority, and that a majority ought to govern, the offer was, in effect, a proposal that the Confederate States should surrender at discretion, admit that they had been wrong from the beginning of the contest, submit to the mercy of their enemies, and avow themselves to be in need of pardon for their crimes; that extermination was preferable to dishonor. 
He stated that if they were themselves so unacquainted with the form of their own Government as to make such propositions, Mr. Lincoln ought to have known, when giving them his views, that it was out of the power of the Confederate Government to act on the subject of the domestic institutions of the several States, each State having exclusive jurisdiction on that point, still less to commit the decision of such a question to the vote of a foreign people; that the separation of the States was an accomplished fact; that he had no authority to receive proposals for negotiation, except by virtue of his office as President of an independent Confederacy; and on this basis alone must proposals be made to him. 
At one period of the conversation,. Mr. Gilmore made use of some language referring to these States as "rebels" while rendering an account of Mr. Lincoln's views, and apologized for the word. The President desired him to proceed, that no offence was taken, and that he wished Mr. Lincoln's language to be repeated to him as exactly as possible Some further conversation took place substantially to the same effect as the foregoing, when the President rose to indicate that that interview was at an end. The two gentlemen were then recommitted to the charge of Colonel Ould, and left Richmond the next day.
 This account of the visit of Messrs. Gilmore and Jaques to Richmond, has been rendered necessary by publications made by one or both of them since their return to the United States, not withstanding the agreement that their visit was to be kept secret. They have, perhaps, concluded that, as the promise of secrecy was made at their request, it was permissible to disregard it. We had no reason for desiring to conceal what occurred, and have, therefore, no complaint to make of the publicity given to the fact of the visit. The extreme inaccuracy of Mr. Gilmore's narrative will be apparent to you from the foregoing statement. 
You have no doubt seen in the Northern papers an account of another conference on the subject of peace, which took place in Canada, at about the same 
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. ... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hustile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory." J.Q.ADAMS.




 
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
date, between Messrs. C. C. Clay and J. P. Holcombe, Confederate citizens of the highest character and position, and Mr. Horace Greeley, of New York, acting with authority of President Lincoln. It is deemed not improper to inform you that Messrs. Clay and Holcombe, although enjoying in an eminent degree the confidence and esteem of the President, were strictly accurate in their statement that they were without any authority from this Government to treat with that of the United States on any subject whatever.
We had no knowledge of their conference with Mr. Greeley, nor of their proposed visit to Washington, till we saw the newspaper publications. A significant confirmation of the truth of the statement of Messrs. Gilmore and Jacques, that they came as messengers from Mr. Lincoln, is to he found in the fact that the views of Mr. Lincoln, as stated by them to the President, are in exact conformity with the offensive paper addressed to “Whom it may concern," which was sent by Mr. Lincoln to Messrs. Clay and Holcombe by the hands of his private secretary, Mr. Hay, and which was properly regarded by those gentlemen as an intimation that Mr. Lincoln was unwilling that this war should cease while in his power to continue hostilities.
I am, very respectfully,
Your obedient servant, J. P. BENJAMIN,
Secretary of State.
Hon. JAMES M. MASON, Commissioner of the Continent, &c., &c., &c., Paris.
[From the London Evening Star, Aug. 17.]
MR. LINDSAY, M. P., ON AMERICA.
Mr. Lindsay. M. P., met his constituents at Sunderland on Monday evening. After a brief allusion to home politics, the honorable gentleman went at length into the question of the American war. After showing that he had predicted that the Union would never be restored, and that American politicians had declared that when once dissensions arose in the States, the Union was gone, he proceeded as follows:—
Now, the first impression of the Northern people, and of many in this country, was, that this rebellion, as it was called, would soon be put down; that the slaves would rebel, and the Northern people would obtain a large supply of cotton; and that the insurrection or rebellion was not general. Now, in regard to the first question, the stoppage of the rebellion. There have been now three years and more of the most terrible war the world ever saw, and the slaves have not rebelled. I wish you to understand that I for one would like to see the slaves obtain their freedom. (Hear, hear.) Not that I would like to see them obtain it by rebellion, by the massacre of their masters and mistresses. God forbid that that day should ever arrive! (Hear, hear.) But I have said more than once to those gentlemen who represent in Europe the Southern Confederacy, that I wished they could devise some means whereby this institution of slavery-which I for one could not uphold-that some means might be devised whereby this institution might in time be abolished. (Cheers.) Now, while I do not and cannot approve of that system, I would say that the state of the slaves cannot have been so bad as it has been described. (Hisses, and cries of "Put him out!") If it were so, (renewed hisses and uproar, which continued for several minutes. Mr. Lindsay being interrupted again and again when he attempted to proceed)—if it were so, (he continued,) they would long since have rebelled. (Cheers, and renewed hissing.) Therefore it is not right to give us exaggerated pictures of what these men are suffering. (Put him out! The masters are tyrants.) But if I saw Northern men as earnest as some of them profess to be for the abolition of the institution of slavery-and I am anxious to see that institution abolished-I would support them, because there would be no Fugitive Slave Law then, (Cheers,) and the oppressed slaves would find a way across the frontier into the land of freedom. The Southern people would be brought into direct communication with this country, and they would thereby learn that it was not for their interest to maintain this institution. They would find that if they were desirous of living on "good terms with Europe, it would <illegible> interest to abolish that in institution by degrees. (Cheers.) But it is not the abolition of slavery that the Northern people desire. (Loud applause.) It is empire, and nothing but empire. (Hear, hear.) The North asks our sympathy with them, but we say, "We know you too well." ( Laughter and cheers.) You cannot have our sympathy, because you are not in earnest in the object you profess to have. Well, as I have said, the object of the war was the restoration of the Union, and the subjugation of the South. Now, what does the subjugation of the South mean? Well, it is dreadful to contemplate. It means, in fact, because it has come to this the massacre of eight millions of white people, to give liberty to three millions of black. That is what subjugation practically means.
Well, then, as to the restoration of the Union. The first call of Mr. Lincoln was for 70,000 men. You know what these 70,000 men effected at Bull's Run. (Laughter and cheers.) I need not go into the details of this question, for we have in the correspondents of the London press able men who furnish us with all particulars, more especially the able correspondent, residing at New York, for the London Times-(hisses)—who has displayed an ability, an honesty-(hisses)-and a love of truth-(renewed hissing)—considering that he resides in New York, and that his articles are republished in that country -I say that he has conducted himself in a manner which commends itself to our admiration. Hissing and cheering.) Well, then, 70,000 men did not restore the Union; and since that time, Mr. Lincoln has called out no less than 2.300.000 men, in addition to 450.000 militia men, who have been enrolled and on pay: but the subjugation of the South is as far off as ever. He has raised in money for that object something tremendous. I saw an estimate the other day, and the sum which had been raised was somewhere between three thousand four thousand millions of dollars. (Hear, hear.) Now, from the information which I receive, I would say this, that if the war were to close on the 1st of September next, and all the accounts were brought in-taking into consideration the funded debt which appears in the books of the United States, the liabilities of the Government to the army, to contractors and others-I should say that it is not an exaggeration when I put the amount down at four thousand millions of dollars, or upward of eight hundred millions sterling. (Hear, hear.) And yet after that vast sum has been raised, and that mighty army has been called forth, the restoration of the Union is further off than ever. In fact, is there any appearance of the Union being restored? (No.) In truth, at the present moment, the capital of the North seems to be in greater jeopardy than that of the South. Is it not in more danger of being captured than Richmond is? (Hear, hear}.
Now, I think it behooves all men to take their opportunity of calling attention to these facts, for every thoughtful man must see that this war is not only doing a great injury to the people of America, but also doing an immense amount of injury to the people of Europe; and when they see this vain war, it is their duty at every opportunity to protest against the continuance of it. Why, sir, if no other motive ought to actuate us. the feelings of humanity ought to do so, considering the horrible sacrifices" of life. But if this war continues, great as the sacrifice has been, I fear that it is nothing to what it will be. (Hear, hear.) Now, sir, it is very dreadful to contemplate; but I have reason to believe that if the South be driven to extremities, they will-but only when driven to extremities-arm the slaves and call them out. (Hear, hear.) But it is awful to think about. Bear in mind that most of these slaves have been brought up on the estates of their masters, and their fathers before them. Their young masters are now fighting under arms for the South; and if these masters go down to their estates and train their slaves in companies or divisions, these slaves will follow their masters wherever they lead. I say it is awful to think of the sacrifice of life which will follow. The very rivers will run with the blood of thousands; but we. in the name of humanity, ought to lift our voices against this terrible state of things. (Hear, hear.) 
I am glad, however, to find that there is throughout the Northern and Western States, a feeling arising that this war is in vain for the objects it has in view; that thoughtful men are beginning to think and speak openly about this. Various meetings are being held at present throughout the Northern States, and I will read a resolution which was passed last month in Ohio, where a very large meeting was held. The words are these:-" That in the further prosecution of the war, by whomsoever conducted, or from whatsoever object in view, we behold noth-
<c02>
ing but a fruitless waste of life and treasure, accumulated debt, overwhelming taxation, and national ruin to both sections." In sending to me that resolution, a member of the Federal Congress writes to me that meetings are being held through the West and adjoining States, for securing peace and separation, and he asks me to make known these meetings in this country; and he adds, "There must be a Western as well as a Southern Confederacy, for the party who advocates this course grows stronger and stronger every day."
I am glad to see that feeling arising in the Southern States, and the feeling is increasing in the West. A very distinguished statesman, a member of the Senate, writing to a friend of mine-a statesman who occupies a very high position in Europe, and was a Minister of the United States Cabinet- writes:—" We are tumbling to pieces fast, and unless Europe steps in and saves what is left, we shall go headlong to destruction.” These words are too true, and I do hope that their statesmen will see it in time, and use their best exertions to restore peace. It is perfectly true that there are still a number of gentlemen who believe that the Union can be restored. For instance, I was reading the other day a letter from a gentleman in high position in the Western States, and president of one of the most important lines of railway, who was writing to a friend of mine in regard to the war, and he writes to my friend, whom he must have supposed to be a very good-natured and simple-minded man, "It is quite true that Grant has not gone so well as one anticipated; but the truth is, Grant never intended to take Richmond. His sole object was to get to the South and cut off the supplies; but, as to taking Richmond, that was preposterous. You would be surprised at the exchange, but I hope it will be up to 500. When it is, we will have no imports from foreign countries." Now, that is the rubbish which that man wrote to a member of Parliament. I hope you don't believe it. At least, there are very few in this country who do believe that Grant had very little hope of taking Richmond.
Now, it is quite true that our Government has taken no part in the war, and very properly. (Hear, hear.) I, however, regret that they have not at least offered their friendly offices-simply offered- because. I fear that the North and South are so exasperated with each other that they will never be able to settle the question amongst themselves. The Government of France has long been of opinion that the friendly offices not only of England France, but of the other great European Powers, would be acceptable, and would aid the Government of America in solving the difficulty and restoring peace. (" Hear, hear," and applause.) Lord Pal merston, however, thought differently, and he no doubt acted on the opinion and advice he received from Lord Lyons, who would no doubt say to him that America was not prepared to receive the advice of Europe; and although the Government might not be prepared to receive the good offices of Europe, I believe the people are. (Applause.) If such an offer had been made by England, it would greatly strengthen the position of the peace party, and would influence the return of a President at the ensuing election. My fear is, that if either Mr. Lincoln or Colonel Fremont is elected, the war may continue for many years to come; but I believe that if another were elected, who was not pledged to war, this year would see an end of the war and all its miseries. (Applause.) Now, by Britain refusing to express an opinion, the Northern people were led to suppose that the Union could be re-established, and Britain thus encouraged them to continue the war, and we dishearten them by not expressing an opinion to the peace party in the Northern and Western States.
Now, as I have said, I have no interest in this war; and my sole interest is my desire for peace. (Hear.) I have lost by the expression of opinion on this question to which I have referred in my speech. I lost many friends in the North whom I esteem, and who were all very angry with me. I know that it has been said that I am engaged largely in the trade with the Southern ports. (Hear, hear, and laughter.) Mr. Adams himself wrote a dispatch to Lord Russell in which he mentioned a list of twenty-four suspected blockade-runners, and he actually put down twenty of them as belonging to me. (Hear, hear, and laughter.) I went to Lord Russell and said this was a most extraordinary statement, as I had never even heard of one of those vessels. I declared that I had no interest, directly or indirectly, in anything connected with the Southern States. It was perfectly true that I had been offered a very large amount of business with them, but considering my position as a member of Parliament and as a public man, I felt it would have been very wrong in me to take any steps contrary to the proclamation that had been issued by my Queen. (Hear, hear.) That proclamation forbid my rendering any material aid to any of the belligerents. Therefore I felt it would be setting a bad example to the people if I had aided either the Northern or the Southern States. (Hear, hear.) Consequently, I have refrained from all transactions of a commercial! or pecuniary character with the Southern or the Northern States of America. (Hear, hear.) So much so, that more than twelve months ago, when the firm of which I was the head did engage as brokers for one or two vessels, the object of which, I believe, was the running of the blockade, I warned my partners, and said that I could have nothing to do with this; and, as you are all aware, I retired from the head of that firm more than twelve months ago. I have now no interest whatever, either directly or indirectly, in any of their transactions. I wish to have no other interest, because it lowers me as a public man, it lowers me in your estimation-(applause)—and I prize that estimation-(cheers)—it must lower me with you if it is supposed that I have advocated the South for any object of my own.
Now, sir, as I have said, the sole object with me was peace. (Hear.) Many of you here know how urgent I have been for peace-many of you know that during the Crimean war, though my ships were largely employed in that war, and though I was a large gainer by it-I must own that in the war against Russia I ever protested against it-that in the House, and out -of the House, I spoke against that war-though it was for my interest as a ship owner to see that war continued. The feeling that has actuated me is a detestation of war and all its horrors; and that has induced me to express myself as I have done with regard to this American question. I have expressed myself so not merely in regard to the interests of the South, but also of the North; for I cannot but sympathize with people who have sprung from the same land with ourselves, who speak the same language as ourselves, whose history -is our history, and who worship the same God. (Hear, hear.) We must have kind feelings for them, although they may speak angry words against us and I, for one, shall never speak an angry word against them. (Hear.) I may use words of regret and sorrow, but I will not return the words that they too often send across the Atlantic to myself; and I would particularly say to their President:-” Remember the words of your namesake, Old Abraham, to Lot Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between thee and me, and between thy herdsmen and my herdsmen; for we be brethren. Is not the whole land before thee? Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me. If thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right, or if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left." (Applause.)
At the conclusion of his speech, a vote of thanks was given to Mr. Lindsay.
The efforts of various persons to create ill-will between the friends of Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Chase, or to produce the impression that Mr. Chase is party to some movement for a new Union Presidential Convention, or to bolster up the crazy story that Mr. Chase is privy to the negotiation, for the overthrow or withdrawal of Mr. Lincoln, are conclusively met and answered by a private letter from Mr. Chase to friends who asked his advice. This important letter bears date Aug. 12, and the portion of public interest is as follows:—
"I do not see any reason for believing that the great cause to which we are all bound can be promoted any better, or as well, by withdrawing support from the nomination made at Baltimore, and no cause of dissatisfaction, however strong, will warrant any sacrifice of that cause. What future circumstances may require or warrant, cannot now be foreseen and need not be considered. I particularly desire that my friends should do nothing and say nothing that can create the impression that there is any personal difference between Mr. Lincoln and myself, for there is none. All the differences that exist are on public questions, and have no "private bearing."
An officer from the Army of the Potomac says, that when the rebels heard of Mc Clellan's nomination, they were distinctly heard to give three cheers.
<c03> 
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1864.
AN ENGLISH "PEACE-PARTY" COPPERHEAD.
Mr. Lindsay, an English member of Parliament for the town and port of Sunderland, has recently addressed a meeting of his constituents on the subject of the rebellion and war in America. We give the speech a place in our columns, and bespeak for it the attention of "our readers. It was, we have reason to believe, intended for the edification of the House of Commons, on the occasion of a motion in favor of mediation in the struggle, now convulsing this country. That motion, however, was not discussed; and the member for Sunderland , reluctant that his rebel friends at the South and their sympathisers at the North should lose the benefit of the oration he had prepared in their behalf, took measures to secure for himself a hearing before another, though less distinguished audience. Accordingly, on the 15th of last month, Mr. Lindsay stood before an assembly in the town he represents, and spoke as elsewhere reported.
What special object, it may be asked, did the ex-ambassador to the Emperor Napoleon propose to himself in seeking to induce the British government to make an offer of "their friendly offices" to the two contending parties on this continent? Mr. Lindsay, with great ingenuousness, answers the question. "If such an offer were made by England, it would greatly strengthen the position of the PEACE PARTY, and would influence the return of a President at the ensuing election."
"The people of America now know, upon the testimony of one of the staunchest English allies of Jefferson Davis, with what purpose the motion that was so long upon the Notice paper of the House of Commons was brought forward. It was to aid the Democratic peace party in the United States-that party which combines within itself all the disloyal, Negro haling, pro-slavery and mobocratic elements of the States not actually in open rebellion. Mr. Lindsay frankly confesses that he greatly fears that, if Mr. Lincoln should be reflected, the war will be indefinitely prolonged; but he believes that, should another man be elected-that is to say, the nominee of the anti-Lincoln party” this year would see an end of the war and all its miseries."
Mr. Lindsay, it seems, is in friendly and close communication with a party in this country who are not only in sympathy with those who are in armed rebellion in the South, but who are plotting and promoting the further dismemberment of the Union by the separation of the Western States. The Hon. gentleman read to the meeting a resolution which had been passed by a Peace meeting in Ohio, and then said:-” In sending me that resolution, a member of the Federal Congress writes to me that meetings are being held through the West, and adjoining States, for securing peace and separation, and asks me to make known these meetings in this country; and he adds, There must be a Western as well as a Southern Confederacy; for the party who advocates this course grows stronger and stronger every day. I am glad to see that feeling arising in the Southern States, and the feeling is increasing in the West".
Mr. Lindsay is good enough to favor his audience with one more very interesting item of transatlantic intelligence; to wit, that " a very distinguished statesman, a member of the Senate," has written a letter to a friend of his, (Mr. Lindsay's,) which same friend is also" a statesman, who occupies a very high position (not in Paris or London, merely, but) in Europe, and was a Minister of the United States Cabinet," to say” We are tumbling to pieces fast; and unless Europe steps in and saves us, we shall go <illegible> to destruction." This impending fate Mr. Lindsay professes to deprecate, while at the same time he expresses his satisfaction in the prospect of a new secession, and the existence, before long, of a Western as well as a Southern Confederacy. We should like to hear Mr. Lindsay explain the method by which he reconciles these opposite feelings.
To propitiate his audience, many of whom appear to have been sensitive on the subject of slavery, the speaker deems it necessary to say” I wish you to understand that I, for one, would like to see the slaves obtain their freedom;" but, he adds, "the state of the slaves cannot be so bad as it has been described," because, "if it were so, they would long since have rebelled. Therefore it is not right to give us exaggerated pictures of what these men are suffering." Mr. Lindsay would like to see the slaves obtain their freedom; yet he avows his desire to see the government of this country transferred to the hands of men amongst whose first acts, if in power, would be the acknowledgment of the right claimed by the rebels of the South to their property in the bones and sinews, the souls and progeny of those who have been declared free by Proclamation of the President and the statutes of Congress. "Slavery is not as bad as it has been described to be, because the unhappy victims of slavery have not rebelled." Is Mr. Lindsay ignorant of the nature of the fate that awaits the slave in the South, if but suspected of a desire to be free? Has he heard nothing of the brutal massacre of slaves for the crime of being in possession of a copy of Mr. Lincoln's Proclamation of Freedom? "Exaggerated pictures" of slavery! We commend to Mr. Lindsay's perusal the evidence taken by the Commission recently appointed to collect evidence touching the true character of American slavery, as revealed in the experience of those who have been made free by the Union army. Let him learn from the Report of those Commissioners that slavery" has been darkening in its shadows of inhumanity and moral degradation from year to year, exhibiting more and more increased cruelty, a more marked crushing out of the humanizing relations of civilized" life, and a closer approach, in practice, to the monstrous maxim laid down by a slaveholding judge, that the negro has no rights which the white man is bound to respect!"
If, says Mr. Lindsay, "I saw Northern men as earnest as some of them profess to be for the abolition of the institution of slavery, I would support them, because there would be no Fugitive Slave Law, and the oppressed would find a way across the frontier to the land of freedom." If this be so, we ask, in the first place, how it happens that Mr. Lindsay is the companion and coadjutor of the author of that infamous law, and the friend and indefatigable agent of those who profess to have gone into rebellion on account, amongst other things, of the opposition of the people of the North to the execution of that law? We ask, in the second place, how it is that he is ignorant of the fact, that since the war brake out, that law has been a dead letter; and further, how he came to conceal from his hearers the additional and important fact, that every trace of a fugitive slave law had, been obliterated from the statute book before the adjournment of the late session of Congress? But, admitting the possibility of his being uninformed on these matters, we now call upon Mr. Lindsay to support those Northern men whose earnestness he has- suspected. We take him at his word, and leave him, by his acts, to prove whether he is an honest man or a hypocrite.
Knowing, as we do, the abundant and rare opportunities this gentleman has had of ascertaining the true state of politics and parties in this country, his speech appears to us a glaring instance of the suppressive, and a most unworthy attempt to pervert the judgments of those whom he addressed. Mr. Lindsay has been more than once in the United States. In England, (and we do not speak without authority,) he has been long and constantly in contact with men who have repeatedly supplied him with the amplest and most trustworthy evidence relating to the principles and designs, the policy and the plans, both of the supporters and opponents of the present administration.
<c04>
Few men in Great Britain understand better than himself what are the sympathies and aims of men like Vallandigham and Wood, and the party of which they are the principal leaders; and what are the principles and objects of men like those who have supported Mr. Lincoln in his anti-slavery measures, and are now seeking with all their influence and energies to consummate the great work of human freedom, by obtaining such an amendment of the Constitution as shall abolish and prohibit slavery for ever. Mr. Lindsay must, therefore, have known at the time he delivered his speech, that the citizens of the Northern States are divided into two great political parties:- that one of those parties is seeking the utter, universal and perpetual extinction of slavery and is for the prosecution of the war until that great object shall be achieved; and that the other is a party favorable; to a reestablishment of the Union upon the basis of recognizing the rightfulness and constitutionality of slavery. He must have known that the former party embraced all the true friends of human liberty, while the latter were in favor of an indissoluble league and covenant with men who hold slavery to be the normal condition of the laboring class, and the corner-stone of the republican edifice. Yet, knowing this, Mr. Lindsay proclaims himself the advocate of the latter, and the opponent of the former. Such proceeding on the part of a British legislator-shameful and base though it be-is what may be expected from one who deems it expedient to conciliate the London Times, by bestowing praise upon its correspondents in America, and especially upon " the able correspondent residing at New York, who has displayed an ability, an honesty, (!) and a love of truth, (!!) which commends itself (the grammar is Mr. Lindsay's) to our admiration"(!!!)
To the Lindsays, Gregorys, Roebucks, id genus omne, of the British Senate, we would respectfully commend the couplet of Darwin,
"Hear it, ye Statesmen! hear this truth sublime: He who allows oppression shares the crime!" 
G. T.

THE DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM.
The resolutions adopted by the Convention, lately assembled at Chicago, of the party calling itself Democratic, were printed in last week's Liberator. They gave remarkable and instructive evidence respecting the political, intellectual and moral condition of the American people.
The Democratic party, so called- let it be said here once for all, that there is neither accuracy nor justice in its use of this name-has generally represented the majority in this country. Perhaps it still represents the majority in the States that remain loyal to the Union. It is therefore discreditable to the intelligence and moral sense of the country at large, that a document so false, shallow and base, should be put forth as the political platform of so large a proportional part of its population. To many of the adherents of the old monarchical! governments of Europe the first thought must be, on reading it is this what comes of popular education, universal suffrage, freedom in religious opinion, and freedom of political action? Do these Northern Democrats deliberately prefer slavery and oppose themselves to the providential movement that has gone so far towards overthrowing it?
The pervading spirit of the whole document is partisanship with the rebels, plainly expressed by censure of the United States government for what it has done against the rebellion, with no censure whatever against the rebellion itself.
The criticism frequently made by Abolitionists upon this same government is on the ground of its not having done enough against the rebellion; on the ground that, interfering with slavery on the plain dictate of military necessity, it interfered enough only to maim, not to crush, only to limit, not to extinguish it; that, having used a small proportion of blacks as soldiers, it did not use more; that, having given to this small proportion of colored men the dress and the arms of soldiers, it did not give them the immense additional stimulus to efficiency of such pay, such respectful consideration, such protection against special barbarities on the part of the enemy, and such guardianship against the ill-treatment of unfriendly commanding officers, as is usually given to white troops; in short, that, by the recklessness of its dealing with a black Southern population large enough to have furnished four hundred thousand acclimated soldiers for the war, it has left that population so in doubt whether it could safely come over to our side, as to have secured only one quarter of that number for the United States, leaving the rest to do immensely efficient compulsory service for the rebellion.
The censure directed by the Chicago Convention against the Administration is the very opposite of this. It means, if it means anything, that we ought not to have interfered with the rebels at all. Its complaint of the government seems to include what it has done against the armies of the rebels, as well as its action in regard to their slaves. While a war of unparalleled magnitude is waging, begun by the South in flagrant violation of the Constitution, this Convention has no complaint to make except of the Government of its country. Judged by its standard, the rebels should have been met with proposals of peace, and nothing else, when they attacked Fort Sumter, when they menaced Washington, when they invaded Pennsylvania, as well as now, when they are three -quarters conquered.
The language and the purport of the Chicago Convention are as absurd in regard to the rebels as they are monstrous in regard to the Government. They seriously propose to reckon without their host, and to prove that two can walk harmoniously together in absolute disagreement.
They are entirely satisfied with the old Union under the Constitution, declaring it to have been "equally conducive to the prosperity of all the States, both Northern and Southern." And they propose a Convention, for the restoration of that Union, to the very persons who resorted to aggressive war, nearly four years ago, as the means of escaping from that Union, who have ever since been cursing and reviling it, and whose highest authorities have just declared their irrevocable determination never to reenter it. Even if they succeed in ousting Lincoln and electing Mc.Clellan, how will they compel the South to return to the Union? Can they force the Southern mule to drink, and to drink water instead of whiskey? It may be a question (supposing McClellan to be elected) whether the Democratic North will wish, and will be permitted, to join the Confederacy. It is no longer a question whether the Southern rebels will voluntarily join the Union. They have thoroughly decided that question in the negative. They may be compelled to succumb to Northern arms; they will never again form a fraternal union with Northern flunkeys.
Advancing even at the slow rate (slow compared with our possibilities and duties) of the last three years, it seems probable that we shall have taken Richmond before the fourth of March next. Suppose McClellan to be elected; suppose his first act, as President and Commander- in-Chief, to be a request to the rebels to dictate the terms of peace; and suppose the reply of Jefferson, Davis to be” Withdraw your army and navy; acknowledge our separation and independence; and pay our debt” what will our Democratic administration do next? Will they concede these points? Will they give up that "unwavering fidelity to the Union under the Constitution," of which their first resolution boasts? If they have not given it up, what have they gained and what will be their next step? If they are ready to give it up why not say so now, and reveal the true position of the party called Democratic?
The next most noticeable thing in the mass of absurdity called the Chicago platform is that the every specifications it makes of alleged wrongs on the part of the Administration namely-the usurpation of extraordinary and dangerous powers not granted by the Constitution, the subversion of civil law, the arbitrary arrest, imprisonment trial and sentence of American citizens under laws not known to the Constitu-
<c05>
tion, the suppression of the freedom of speech and of the press, the denial of the right of asylum, and the open and avowed disregard of State rights-are precisely the offences which were habitually committed before the war, in the interest of slavery, and by private citizens and public officers in every one of the slave States, against the constitutional rights of the free States and their citizens. The most outrageous wrongs against the liberty, property and life of Northern men have been habitually committed by the people and functionaries of the slave States; and these unjust and injurious acts have been perpetrated In time of peace, by just such persons<illegible> as are now fighting in the rebel armies, and against just such persons as now fight in the armies of the Union; they were perpetrated with open and audacious disregard both of the individual rights of the sufferers. and of the rights of those Northern States to which they belonged; and even where the Constitution and laws; of the country clearly offered indemnity or retribution by legal process, that process has, been forcibly prevented. Against all these things, systematically perpetrated by their Southern allies in time of peace, these Democrats make no objection, and never have made any. But when a great war, originated by these very allies against the legitimate government of the country, obliges that government to make military movements, and substitute martial for civil law, these sympathizers with rebellion raise a howl of protest against it.
An appropriate culmination to the absurdity of this platform is made in the last resolution, where "the sympathy of the Democratic party is heartily and earnestly extended to the soldiers of our army." (Our army! The impudent rascals!) Be it noted that these soldiers, most of them volunteers, are the very persons who have been carrying on the war for which the Administration is complained of. They wish, and for many years have been trying, to conquer the rebels. The Chicago Convention proposes to stop the process of conquest, and substitute alliance with the rebels. The soldiers have taken Newbern and Port Royal, New Orleans and Vicksburg, Chattanooga and Atlanta, and are far advanced towards the capture of Mobile, Charleston and Richmond. The Chicago Convention wish to sue for peace to an enemy three quarters conquered, and by the act of swing to give him opportunity to demand the immediate surrender of those trophies of Northern valor, gained in a just cause. The soldiers were patient with McClellan while he kept them inactive before the enemy, or set them to digging instead of fighting. What will they say now, when he proposes to them to give up the contest? to withdraw from the field, and ask Jefferson Davis to dictate terms of peace? To speak of sympathy with the soldiers in connection with such a plan for undoing their work, and sacrificing that which the lives of their comrades were given to save, is a mere addition of insult to injury.
I repeat it. The concoction of such a platform by the leaders, and its acceptance by the members, of a party so large as the one in question, cannot fail, in the eyes of intelligent foreigners, to injure the cause of free government, and put back the tide of political reform. But the success of such a party upon such a platform, the acceptance of such a position by an actual majority of the Northern people, would be a disgrace deep and irreparable, as far as the present generation is concerned. If a century's toleration of slavery shall prove to have brought the nation to this depth of infamy, it will be a specimen of God's retributive justice not less conspicuous than His punishment of Egyptian oppression.—C. K. W.

UNDER WHICH KING?
Whatever of doubt may have existed in the minds of loyal men concerning the candidate to be supported  in the coming Presidential election, it must have vanished since the Chicago Convention. The first phase of the contest, with its conscientious differences and divided duties, has passed, and the second presents itself with unmistakable clearness, indicating but one course, definite and inevitable. The discussion is now transferred from men to principles. It is lifted by events above the bewildering level of personality to the clear atmosphere of ideas.
Two men are offered for the suffrage of the people next November. It matters little who they are. The accident of this great revolution has raised them to conspicuous places, and from it, alone, they derive their significance. Doubtless, abler and better men than Mr. Lincoln walk in the shadow of humble life, but uncontrollable circumstances make him, at this hour, the representative of human rights, and in his person, Liberty is to be exalted if he succeeds, debased if his opponent triumphs.
Since the foundation of the government, there has been no election so momentous as the pending one- never a canvass in which the lines were so distinctly drawn as in this. At the inception of the campaign, there was room for honest differences of opinion regarding the fit leader to be chosen; it was properly a question of individuals, and no complaint is to be made that zealous friends of the slave advocated other candidates in preference to Mr. Lincoln. But the loyal people to whom the question was referred have decided in his favor, and from them there is no appeal. The issue is simple and direct. It is Baltimore or Chicago. Free government, universal freedom, equal rights, hope for the future, rest on the triumph of the first. If the latter shall prevail, hell from beneath will rejoice. It promises new life and bounds to slavery, the subversion of republican institutions, anarchy long years of fearful strife.
There is no doubt that, numerically, the loyal people far exceed the traitorous allies of Jefferson Davis who were represented by the Chicago conclave, but let it not be forgotten that while the latter are desperate, indomitable, united, there is apathy, division, indifference in the loyal ranks, and the contest, therefore, is not unequal. The danger is imminent, and no time is to be lost. While we indulge in personal preferences and delay cooperation, the enemy is working with satanic energy. The safety of the nation demands that everything but the commonweal be forgotten. It is idle to dream of electing a third candidate, and to labor for any other man than Mr. Lincoln is to serve McClellan, and make glad the South. Divide and conquer is the Democratic programme, and to this end the Democratic journals have, with adroitness and hypocrisy, Postured every symptom of a breach among the Republicans. It is time to block that game. He will have much to answer for who throws his political weight into the adverse scale in such a crisis.
And were there ever grander issues to be met? Never before could anti-slavery men go into a presidential canvass with unfettered tongues, discuss the sublimest moral truths, and be welcomed by multitudinous gatherings with eager attention. The harvest is ripe for the sickle; the people hunger for education and light. What scope for anti-slavery speeches! What opportunities for missionary work! Principles are to be explained and enforced, arguments refuted, sophistries unveiled. Eloquence, Logic and Reason could wish for no worthier themes.
We urge the election of Mr. Lincoln, not for his personal merits, (many though they unquestionably are,) but because Liberty has chosen him for her standard bearer, and Slavery, with sure instinct, singles him out for her in tensest hatred. Around him the shock of battle is to meet. In his front lies "the imminent deadly breach." To transcend personal preferences and support him with aggressive strength is a duty, and "the path of duty is the way to glory."—W. L.G., JR.
The U. S. frigate Brandywine, the store-ship for the North Atlantic squadron, and containing more articles of value than any other of our ships, to the amount of. perhaps, $l.000,000. was entirely destroyed by fire, at Norfolk, on the 3d instant. Cause of the fire unknown.
<c06>
THE FANEUIL HALL MEETING.
On the evening of Tuesday, the 6th inst., a large and enthusiastic meeting was held in Faneuil Hall, to celebrate the recent decisive victories of our army and navy at Atlanta and Mobile. The galleries were filled with ladies and others at an early hour, and the Brigade Band entertained them with patriotic airs until the time of opening the meeting, and in the intervals of speaking afterwards. So great was the interest excited by the occasion. that many ladies, arriving too late to find places in the gallery, on the floor below through the protracted exercises. The hall was densely crowded long before the opening of the meeting, and thousands outside vainly sought admission.
Prolonged applause followed the entrance of the officers and speakers of the evening. The meeting was called to order by Hon. Alphens hardy, who announced the officers of the occasion, and introduced John A. Andrew, Governor of the Commonwealth, as the President. Governor Andrew was received with enthusiastic shouts, and the warmes applause followed his mention of the brave officers whose exploits had given occasion to the meeting. In closing his pre history remarks, the Governor called for three hearty cheers for the President and the flag of the United States of America, which were vigorously given. 
Letters of congratulation and sympathy from Hon. A. H. Bullock. John W. Bowen of Kentucky, and Hon. Edward Everett, were then read by Charles W. Slack Esq.
Resolutions prepared for the occasion were then read by Hon. Edward S. Tobey, Present of . Board of Trade. They express the exultation and joy which the recent victories of our army and navy are suited to excite in patriotic hearts declare that the thanks of the whole nation are due to the brave officers and men who have won these victories express the firm conviction that the only road to peace is by victory over the authors of the war; declare that Massachusetts pledges to the Federal Government her utmost resources of means and men, until the rebellion shall be up pressed; condemn as vicious and fatal the doctrines set forth by the Chicago platform, platform , and especially the idea of an armistice in our present circumstances, and declare that the unconditional advocacy of peace at once injures the nation's cause, and give aid and comfort to the enemy. The last of these resolutions, relating to the President's Emancipation and proclamation, is as follows:—
Resolved, That the President's Proclamation of Emancipation was sanctioned by the usages of civil war, by the law of nations, and is in <illegible> accordance with the spirit of the Constitution of the United States, which contains full power for the preservation of the government in time of war as of peace; that it recognized in those to whom it applied" an alierable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,” and pledged the whole power of: the Federal Government to maintain that right; that that pledge cannot be forfeited without bringing down upon us national humiliation, the execrations of the Christian world, and, as we reverently fear, the judgments of Almighty God!
The President of the meeting then introduced Hon. Mr. Rice, of the Massachusetts delegation in Congress. His reference to the fixed determination of the Government to maintain "Liberty and Union, now and for ever," was received with immense applause.
George Sennott, Esq., a member of the Suffolk bar, I was next introduced by the Governor as a member of the War Democracy.
While Mr. Sennott was speaking, three cheers for McClellan were, called for by some one in the audience , and given with vigor, by a considerable number of voices, and afterwards three cheers for the Democracy.
Mr. Sennott assured those who had raised these shouts that he had evidence, from an extensive knowledge of the Southern people, that the men most despised by those people are the Peace Democrats.
Hon. George S. Boutwell, of the Massachusetts delegation in Congress, was the next speaker. He read a resolution of the Chicago Convention, recommending immediate peace, and, declaring that the rebels of the South and their sympathizers in the North approved that resolution, offered his time upon to the platform to any one of that class who was disposed to defend it.
Referring to the claim that negotiation should be commenced with the rebel government Gov. Bout well thought that the only safe negotiators were Generable Grant and Sherman. This sentiment received great approbation from the meeting.
Hon. Henry Wilson, the next speaker, was received with immense applause, followed by three hearty cheers. He declared himself to be among those who go for " our country, right or wrong," and he felt confident that the country must be saved by war, and only by war. Gen. Wilson made a vigorous and telling speech, and closed by introducing to the audience Gen. Cutler, a native of Massachusetts, but a citizen of Wisconsin, an officer who has taken an active part in the war, and whose face bore the marks of recent encounter with the enemy.
Gen. Cutler's appearance was the signal for enthusiastic and prolonged cheering. He represented that although Mc.Clellan had been very popular with the army of the Potomac, they could not and would not vote for him on the Chicago platform. He spoke of the absurdity of supposing that permanent peace could come from the acceptance of the doctrines of that platform, and said that we could send back to slavery neither the brave colored soldiers who have been fighting our battle, nor the fugitives who in the event of our battles, nor the fugitives who, in the event of our close proximity to a slaveholding Confederacy, would be all the time crossing our Southern border. Peace with the rebels, he was assured. could be obtained in no possible way but by subjugating them. The peace which he wished for was one which would guarantee freedom to all; which would be no disgrace to us and our children.
At this point a telegram, just received from Edwin M. Stanton, Secretary of War. in response to one sent to Washington by Gov. Andrew at the commencement of the meeting, was read to the audience. It contained news of the death of the rebel guerrilla, Morgan, and the capture of a portion of his force, and reciprocated the patriotic sympathies of Boston.
Hon. Charles Summer was next introduced and received with great cheering, and the prolonged waving of hats and handkerchiefs. We make the following extract from his speech, as reported in the Journal:-
"As the wise Solomon clearly saw that the woman who was ready to see her child divided in two was a false mother, so we may all clearly see that those who are ready to see their country divided in two are false. Fellow-citizens, these Northern criminals, I like to call things by their proper names and I think my honored friend who preceded me for his exposition on that subject, telling how near they came to being traitors)-these Northern traitors are nothing else than unarmed guerrilla bands of Jefferson Davis, marauding here at the North. (Loud cheers.)
They cry out Peace, but, fellow citizens, are we not all for peace? Sir, are you not for peace are not all of the honored gentlemen by whom i am surrounded for the peace? For myself, peace is the longing sentiment and passion of my life. Not Falkland in the bloody days of the English civil was cried out “Peace, peace, peace," more fervently than I do now. The day begins with me, continues and ends with this aspiration; but it is precisely because I am thus determined for peace that I now insist at all hazards that this rebellion shall be crushed and trampled out totally , entirely and utterly, so that it shall never again break forth in blood. (Loud cheers.) Therefore, in the name of peace, and for the sake of the "good will among men” promised us by the angelic choir, do I now insist that this rebellion shall be so completely annihilated that it shall leave behind norelic or remnant which may become the seed of any future war.
But fellow -citizens, let me be frank with you, for that is my habit here or wherever else. I have the honor to speak. It is vain for you to except to crush the rebellion unless you crush slavery, (applause,) for slavery, let me tell you is but another name for this rebellion. The two are synonymous; they are convertible terms. If you please, then, rebellion, as I have often said, is slavery in arms; it is slavery it is belligerent slavery, on horse back; or if you please it is belligerent slavery, warning to establish a wicked empire. If you are against one, you must be against the other. If you essay to strike rebellion, you must be ready to strike 
SEPTEMBER 9. THE LIBERATOR. 147
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
slavery; if you are ready to strike slavery, you must! be readly too strike the rebellion. Therefore the President was clearly right when, in a recent letter, he declared that he should accept no terms of peace which did not begin with the abandonment of slavery.
(Good,' and cheers.)
The Union cannot live with slavery. If slavery dies, the Union lives; if slavery lives, the Union does And now, fellow-citizens, it only remains that you should comprehend the grandeur of the cause and of the occasion. Consider well the Thermopylae pass in which you now stand battling for liberty- are only here at home, but every where throughout the place; and do not forget that, if you take care of liberty, the Union will take care of itself-or, better with, do not to get that, if you save liberty, you save everything. (Loud cheers.)"
Mr. Ticknor, of St, Lonis, a native of New England, was the next speaker. He spoke with great beartiness, in the Western manner, testifying that the only peace measures to which Missouri would consent were such as would be obtained by conquering the <illegible>
The last speaker was Mr. C. C. Coffin, more widely known as "Carleton," one of the war correspondents of the Journal. He gave an interesting account of the movements of Gen. Grant, and of the present position of his forces on the Weldon Railroad, from which he augured our speedy possession of Richmond.
After voting the passage of the resolutions, the meeting adjourned at a late hour, the hall remaining crowded till its close.-C.K.W.
LETTER FROM MISS HOLLEY.
Rochester. (N. T.) Aug. 29,1864, DEAR MR. GARRISON,-Last evening, I heard So- journal truth. It is thirteen years since I used to hear her in Ohio- She must be seventy years old. I was surprised and delighted to see her still so vigorous her voice deep and strong and rich as when I last heard her. There "she stood, calm and erect as one of her own native palms, waving alone in the desert." We called on her this morning; and as I <illegible> these words of Mrs. Stowe, describing her at her house in Andover among the ministers, Sojourner said," Mrs. Stowe got it all mixed up-making me born in Africa. I suppose she forgot; but I told her my grandmother came from Guinea, and my grandfather from Africa, and she thought it was me." I do not at all wonder Mrs. Stowe should have so identified her with the land of shadow and mystery, she is so unlike anything American. Original, yet representative enough to suggest to an artist a modern <illegible> 
How beautiful genius is! First, here is this arrange, powerful woman - Africa transplanted in America, hardly naturalized Then there is poet-occupied authoress of "Uncle Tom," with her Hebrew Scripture taught imagination and feeling, perceiving the singular, mystical nature of this queenly woman, and reporting it with such captivating power to the <illegible> Mr. W.W.Story, over in Rome, that he moulds and chisels these wonderful depths of being and feeling into the beautiful symbolic marble of the Lybian Sybil! The statue goes to the London Exibition, and an admiring Englishman's gold welds in to some British estate. We will hope with Mrs. Stove, that a copy of it will some day adorn the Capital at Washington.
So she held us last night by the spell of her rude, native eloquence-full ot wit, pathos, pungent common sence, and an awing, prophetic cast of thought. We felt it was a rare privilege to hear her. She began by telling how her mission " was n't so much to back people as out of pity for de white people, and to keep 'em out of degradation." And as she told over their crimes to her people, some of which she said she hated to take into her mouth to name, you field she was right in being thankful that she did not
belong to their race, so guilty and cruel to a long-suffering, patient, inoffensive people. She spoke with withering scorn of the Northern churches that had welcomed slaveholders to the communion-table in past years. She said, " I would sooner eat with de hogs not of de through dan sit down at de sacrament with dem Southerns-dem devils, dat have been whippin", and burnin, and huntin' and tearin' wid bloodhounds, my own brodders and sisters for a century! 
She thinks, yes, she is full of assurance that, after the blood and smoke and storm of battle are gone, this country will be beautiful with justice and freedom. She seemed, as Mrs. Stowe said, " to impersonate the fervor of Ethiopia, wild, savage, hunted of all nations, <illegible> burning after God in her tropic heart, and stretching her scarred hands towards the glory that is to be revealed." She is on her way to Washington, to visit Abraham Lincoln.
After her, there arose a great call for " Douglass! " "Douglass!" He spoke grandly, responding to So- journer's thankfullness that she wasn't white. He had always said he would rather be the most whip-scarred slave in all the South than the haughtiest slave-master; and then he recited, in his rich-toned voice, that exquisite verse of Cowper's-
" I would not have a slave to till my ground, 
To carry me, to fan me while I sleep, 
And tremble when I wake, 
for all the wealth That sinews bought and sold have ever earned. 
No; dear as freedom is, and in my heart's 
Just estimation prized above all price, 
I had much rather be myself the slave, 
And wear the bonds, than fasten them on him."
He faithfully entreated the colored people to help themselves- to improve their own minds-to strive for knowledge, and a better condition in every respect. He told them how gradually their cause was gaining. The time was when, in Boston even, a colored man, though he might have the intellect of Webner, the literature of Channing, the piety of Fene- <illegible> on the eloquence of Clay, could not ride in the <illegible> or railroad car with the white man. He paid a splendid passing tribute to Wendell Phillips, who, he said, was always true. He had known him come down from Andrew Robeson's handsome coach in New Bedford, take the arm of a black man, and walk into the Jim-Crow car. That was the way this unjust proscription was broken up in Massachusetts. He thought the slaves had made a mistake in staying so long in rebel lines. They misapply Moses' command to the Israelites, under different circumstances- "Stand still, and see the salvation of God." He feared they had waited too long, and that a peace would be made, and they remain slaves to the end of their days. He remembered when, some years ago, be was saying, in an anti-slavery meeting, he felt that about all had been converted by moral suasion who would be brought to accept anti-slavery truth; and there was no other way that for the slaves with their own right arms to take their freedom in blood; when Sojourner, who was present, said, "Frederick, is God dead?" He asked Sojourner what she thought it now. Was n't he right then?
SALLIE HOLLEY.
Mr. Goldwin Smith, Professor of Modern History in Oxford University, England, and author of a valuable work entitled "Does the Bible sanction American Slavery?" has recently arrived in this city. Professor Smith is one of the firmest and most <illegible> of the English friends of this country. The cause of freedom and our national cause have a liked been promoted by this influences at home; and it may be hoped that such things as he may observe and express here will have a further influence in forwarding the same great ends. Whoever can aid his purposes or contribute to his comfort here, will be but paying a part of the national debt-C.K.W.
The Journal of Commerce publishes, with strong commendation, the prayer with which Bishop White-house of Illinois opened the sessions of the Chicago Convention, and says-" It adds solemnity to the de-<illegible> of any body to command itself, at the out-set to Divine guidance in its consultations."
No doubt; and this is the very reason why such a body, assembled for such a purpose, found it indispensable to adopt, in advance, the attitude and the language of piety. The pursuit of evil ends by evil means needs an aspect of solemnity to make it pass current.-C.K.W.
<c02>
THE CHICAGO CONVENTION.
CHICAGO, Aug. 30,1864. 
WILLIAM L GARRISON:
MY FRIEND,—This city, since Friday, the 26th, has swarmed with men gathered from all parts of the land to attend the Convention of the Peace Democracy, that began its sessions here yesterday, with a view to nominate a candidate for the Presidency. On Friday night, the 26th, speeches were made till past midnight to crowds in the street, by Rynders, Seymour and Wood, of New York, Vallandigham, Cox, and others, of Ohio, and by many others. Saturday, an ex parte Convention, headed by Amos Kendall, was held, to forestall the action of the general Convention, and compel, it to nominate McClellan. Saturday night and Sunday night, till past midnight, the leaders of the Peace Democracy, as they call them-selves, were making speeches to the crowds assembled round the various hotels, and in Court-House yard. I heard many of their speeches, and have read them all, as far as they were reported by the Chicago organ of that party, The Times.
Yesterday, the 29th, the Convention met in a building holding some thousand, at noon, and in due time chose Horatio Seymour, of New York, President. To-day, they have been at work on the platform, drawn up by Vallandigham, and on the candidate. The McClellan party had imported about one thousand of the Roughs of New York city, headed by Isaiah Rynders, to clamor for McClellan. Some five hundred of the same class were imported from Philadelphia, headed by the same Rynders, to aid in compelling the Convention to nominate McClellan.—Many leaders of guerrilla bands in Missouri and other Slave States are here, brought on to see to it that the Convention is true to the Southern rebels, and also to see what can be done to relieve the rebels now held as prisoners in Camp Douglas.
I have just come from the Convention. I have witnessed many public gatherings in various cities in Europe and America, but never before have I witnessed 
a gathering of so large a number of brutal, drunken, ferocious men as I have seen gathered from all parts of the nation in this city the past four days. Multitudes of them are armed with revolvers and bowie knives, and they make no secret of the fact.
 It is computed that there are fifteen thousand here from abroad. The watchwords that have been put forth in speeches made in and out of the Convention, and which have been endorsed by silence and otherwise, 
are such as the following—" Down with Lincoln by ballots or by bullets!" "Subjugation of the North to slaveholders and their allies by ballots or by bullets!" "The government shall be placed in the hands of the Democratic party by ballots or by bayonets " " Burn, desolate and devastate, wherever a partisan of Lincoln dare show his head! " "Cut the throat of every d-d Lincolnite! " This was repeated over and over in speeches made in front of the Tremont 
House, and the question was put to the multitude, 
" Will you help us ?" " Yes, yes, yes, we will! " was the response made by many in the crowd. " A free ballot or a free fight.!" This has been the favorite motto put forth by all the leaders, and as they have explained it, the simple meaning is, " The election 
of our candidate, or a civil war at the North." This has been avowed in words by many of the speakers, and this idea pervades all that has been said in and out of the Convention. " A free ballot ! " is the cry, when the majority is for slavery and the Democratic party ; but if the majority is in favor of freedom and loyalty, then they will have " a free fight!" This has been the cry of the South for thirty years. " So long as the free ballot gives the majority to slavery and slave-breeders and slave-traders, we will accept it; but if the free ballot is in favor of freedom and free institutions, then we will have a free fight." So when by a free ballot, liberty triumphed over slavery in the election of Lincoln, this Peace Democracy (which is but the debris or sediment of the old Compromise party) started for a free fight; inaugurated a war of bullets, solely, as Jeff. Davis says, " to get rid of the rule of the majority." While the majority was for slavery, the Democratic party, as a party, submitted to it. So soon as it turned in favor of freedom by excluding slavery from all free territory, that same Peace Democracy flew to arms, and began a bloody and exterminating war. So in Kansas, the same party, headed by Pierce and Buchanan, went for " a free ballot or a free fight." By a free ballot they meant the destruction of the ballot-box, forged votes, and any and every thing necessary to get a majority for slavery ; and when they were defeated, they called in the border-ruffians, and had "a free fight; " i. e., plundered and murdered as they could. So, if this Peace Democracy, headed by Seymour, Rynders, Wood, Vallandigham & Co., are defeated at the election in November, they are determined on a civil war in the North, aided by Missouri, Kentucky, Virginia, and Maryland border-ruffians.
A " FREE SPEECH " party, headed by Isaiah Rynders! At three different times have I met this New York bully and ruffian, on a platform of the Anti-Slavery 
Society, revolver in hand, to prevent all discussion of the question of slavery. This is the man who, side by side and cheek by jowl with Horatio Seymour, Governor of New York, is pleading for free speech ! But who is Horatio Seymour? The very man who, one year ago, hounded on the New York rioters, all reeking with innocent blood, by calling them his dear good friends, and " honored constituents "; the very man who said in Utica, if the Republic cannot be saved without abolishing slavery, let the Republic die; and who said, The Constitution of the Confederacy is preferable to the Constitution of the Republic, and we had better keep peace by adopting it. And this man is President of this Convention 
of traitors ! A fit man for such an office ! And Fernando Wood, who refused to protect freedom of speech in New York—who as Mayor of the city gave up conventions to the tender mercies of Isaiah Rynders and his gang of cutthroats—who proposed to the city of New York to secede from the State and adopt the Montgomery Constitution—who wrote a letter to Robert Toombs, of Georgia, saying if he had the power, he would send him guns and ammunition to aid the rebellion—who proposed to Congress to divide the Union into four Confederacies, leaving all the Slave States a unit, that they might make the others an easy prey ; Vallandigham, who escaped the traitor's doom by the clemency of Lincoln—who now stands before the world with the stamp of Ben-edict Arnold on his brow—these are the men who, with the rest of the leaders and speakers of the Peace Democracy now assembled in Chicago, have declared their fixed purpose to resort to civil war, to plunder and murder, to prevent a draft in favor of freedom and free labor.
By the way, there was a practical definition of Democratic freedom of speech given to-day on the platform or floor of the great Convention of the Peace Democracy. Ex-Governor Harris, of Maryland, made a telling and unanswerable speech against McClellan, holding him up as the man who had inaugurated arbitrary arrests by scooping up and imprisoning the entire Democratic Legislature of Maryland, and who had struck down habeas corpus, free speech and free press, and trampled on the people's rights. The Mc-Clellanites hooted, yelled, roared, hissed against him, and insisted he should be thrust out of the Convention. One man called Harris a d-d traitor. Harris knocked him down. The Plug Uglies from Baltimore rushed forward to sustain Harris; the Roughs of New York, headed by Rynders, rushed forward to sustain “ Little Mac "; but a large body of policemen present saved the Convention from becoming a regular slaughter pen of the Peace Democracy, at the hands of Peace Democrats.
Some ten or twelve thousand United States troops are in Chicago, or within a few hours' ride of the city, to meet the occasion should an attempt be made to get up a riot and to release the prisoners at Camp Douglas. Many of the citizens of Chicago are armed 
<c03>
and organized to meet the Peace Democrats in a death struggle, should they attempt a riot and a release of rebel prisoners.
One spirit has pervaded all the speeches and proceedings of the Peace Democracy, of all parties and opinions, ever since they began to assemble in this city, to wit, a spirit of hostility to the present Administration and its policy to save the Republic by crushing the rebellion and abolishing slavery, and a determination to overthrow it, if not by ballots, then by BULLETS. If they cannot gain this end at the ballot-box in November, they have determined on a civil war at the North. This has been the animating spirit of this Convention of Peace Democrats. It has been repeated over and over in their speeches. It is their fixed purpose to aid the slave-mongers to subjugate the North to slavery and slave labor, by a war of bullets at the North, if they fail in their attempt to secure their end by ballots. The Democracy has no hope but in once more subjugating the nation to slavery and in the triumph of the rebellion. So surely as the rebellion and slavery are put down, the Democratic party dies. Its only, hope of life is in the triumph of the rebellion, and in the subjugation of the North to the slave-mongers. Hence their motto— "A free ballot or a free fight!" i. e., " Give us victory at the ballot- box, or we will seek it on the battle-field." " RULE or RUIN " is the one single cry of the Peace Democracy ! " Victory by ballots or by bullets !" They may fail in both.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.
ERRATA.
DORCHESTER, Aug. 29, 1864.
MR. GARRISON :
DEAR SIR—The articles I have offered for the Liberator, though sometimes altered, have usually been so promptly and accurately published, that I have had more reason to rejoice than to complain. But, in my last, on the fourth page of last week's Liberator, the sense is so blurred, and a meaning given so different from my own, that I am sure you will not think me captious if I ask for a correction.
Thus, in the fourth line of the fourth paragraph, the word restitution is substituted for restoration. Again, in the last line but three of the same paragraph, the same error occurs. You will make ample restitution by restoring the word used in the manuscript.
In the sixth line of the sixth paragraph, the word invasions is substituted for insurrections. The change is not trifling. It kills the whole paragraph. It wounds the cause in which I was writing, and me with it. The Constitution, in enumerating the powers of Congress, speaks of repelling invasions and of sup-pressing 
insurrections. Had Franklin Pierce been half as ready to repel invasions of border ruffians as to suppress insurrections of Free State men, the town of Lawrence had never been sacked. I was speaking of the power of Congress to prevent as well as to suppress internal disturbances, and the folly of allowing a State to cherish institutions which breed insurrections, while Congress was bound to suppress them ; and I am sure I could not have used the word invasions in that connection .
Very respectfully, your friend and servant, 
H. W. C.
Our esteemed correspondent, " H. W. C.," is assured that the alterations which he points out in his last communication were not designedly made. We regret that they should have so marred the sense of his argument.—Ed. Lib.
ANTI-SLAVERY LEOTURES IN MAINE.
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, will spend a short time in the State of Maine, speaking on the great questions of Emancipation and a Free and Just Union. He will be glad to receive calls to lecture from any of the Anti-Slavery friends in Maine.
His address, for the present, is, Care of S. Water-house, Esq., Ellsworth, Me.
WM. WELLS BROWN, an Agent of the American Anti-Slavery Society, has gone to the State of Maine, where he will spend four or five weeks. His ad-dresses on the entire emancipation of the slaves, and the recognition of the rights of men without regard to color, will no doubt interest the people.
NEW BOARDING SCHOOL FOR YOUNG LADIES.— Dr. Dio Lewis, as will be seen by reference to our advertising columns, is about to open a Boarding School for Young Ladies, at Lexington, Mass. He will be assisted by Theodore D. Weld, for many years the revered Principal of the Eagleswood School in New Jersey, and by I. N. Carleton, A. M., for several years Professor of Classics in Phillips's Academy at Andover, Mass. Mrs. Lewis, Mrs. Carleton, and several other capable ladies, will act as teachers in the new school. Our friends having daughters of delicate health, who seek for them the best mental, moral and physical training, are referred to the advertisement. 
THE PRESIDENT'S VIEW OF THE DEMO-CRATIC POLICY.
The Grant County (Wis.) Herald contains a very interesting letter from Hon. John T. Mills, Judge of the Fifth Judicial Circuit, giving an account of a recent interview with Mr. Lincoln, with a report of the remarks of the latter in regard to the consequences which would follow the adoption of the war policy, urged by the friends of Gen. McClellan. We give the President's expressed views, omitting the preliminary account of the interview :
" I don't think it is personal vanity or ambition, though I am not free from these infirmities, but I cannot but feel that the weal or woe of this great nation will be decided in November. There is no programme offered by any wing of the Democratic party, but that must result in the permanent destruction of the Union."
" But, Mr. President, General McClellan is in favor of crushing out the rebellion by force. He will be the Chicago candidate."
" Sir," said the President, " the slightest knowledge of arithmetic will prove to any man that the rebel armies cannot be destroyed with Democratic strategy.
It would sacrifice all the white men of the North to do it. There are now in the service of the United States near 200,000 able-bodied colored men, most of them under arms, defending and acquiring Union territory. The Democratic strategy demands that these forces be disbanded, and that the masters be conciliated by restoring them to slavery. The black men who now assist Union prisoners to escape, they are to be converted into our enemies in the vain hope of gaining the good will of their masters. We shall have to fight two nations instead of one.
You cannot conciliate the South if you guaranty to them ultimate success ; and the experience of the present war proves their success is inevitable, if you fling the compulsory labor of millions of black men into their side of the scale. Will you give our enemies such military advantages as insure success, and then depend on coaxing, flattery and concession to get them back into the Union? Abandon all the posts now garrisoned by black men, take 200,000 men from our side and put them in the battle field or corn field against us, and we would be compelled to abandon the war in three weeks.
We have to hold territory in inclement and sickly places ; where are the Democrats to do this ? It was a free fight, and the field was open to the War Democrats to put down this rebellion by fighting against both master and slave long before the present policy was inaugurated.
There have been men base enough to propose to me to return to slavery the black warriors of Port Hudson and Olustee, and thus win the respect of the masters they fought. Should I do so, I should deserve to be damned in time and eternity. Come what will, I will keep my faith with friend and foe. My enemies pretend 
I am now carrying on this war for the sole purpose of abolition. So long as I am President, it shall be carried on for the sole purpose of restoring the Union. But no human power can restore this rebellion without the use of the emancipation policy, and every other policy calculated to weaken the moral and physical force of the rebellion.
Freedom has given us 200,000 men raised on Southern soil. It will give us more yet. Just so much it has substracted from the enemy, and instead of alienating 
the South, there are now evidences of a fraternal feeling growing up between our men and the rank and file of the rebel soldiers. Let my enemies prove to the country that the destruction of slavery is not necessary to a restoration of the Union; I will abide the issue.”
<c04>
MODERN DEMOCRACY.
At a “ Peace Meeting " held in the northeast corner of Franklin County, a short time since, the proceedings of which the Crisis publishes with its approval, among other bright and shining democratic lights who addressed the meeting were George L. Converse, and J. G. Edwards, members of the Legislature from Franklin County, from whose speeches we give samples below:
JOHN G. EDWARDS. " If I am arrested for speaking my opinion to day as becomes a free American citizen, will you go home to your workshops and your fields as if nothing had happened ?—[‘No’, No !]—or will yon shoulder your guns, take knives and pitch-forks and fight ? [Cries of ‘We will’.] I believe you will, and I will stand by you until the last drop of blood flows from my veins. [Cheers.]
* * * There is courage in the masses, and the great hope is that the people will rise in their strength and hurl the despots from their places. [Immense applause.] Go home fully impressed, fellow-citizens, that the hour has come that you have got to strike for your liberty. Are we going to allow Vallandigham to be torn from his home again as he was once ? [Cries of ‘No, never.'] Five hundred thousand more men are called for ; are you ready to go ? [Cries of ‘No, No.’] I am satisfied you are not. I am satisfied you will resist with your lives, and to your death all further encroachments on your lives and liberties. The spark thrown out to-day, notwithstanding it may be ridiculed as Lord North ridiculed the first efforts of our Revolutionary sires, may spread and burn until the last vestige of despotism is blotted out. It must start at some place, and I believe it will start to-day. I see in your faces the stern determination to put an end to the oppression. Petition, remonstrate, denounce, but when all possible means fail, be prepared to defend your rights with your strength. * * * * The people are sovereigns, and if we don't assert our sovereign rights, we are cowards. Everything remains for the people to be set right. You know how, and if you don't do it, you are only fit to be slaves. [Cheers.] Don't let another man be taken out of your county by despotic power."
GEO. L. CONVERSE. " Men, do not think of sending your sons to the army ! Women, do not allow your husbands to be taken to augment the slaughter ! Make up your minds to have peace, take nothing else, and under all circumstances keep your powder dry. [Cheers.] There are mad dogs in the country, or sheep killing dogs, and plenty of burglars. He who would steal away a man is to be treated like any other thief or robber. I must put one question to you,—Shall President Lincoln again be allowed to take Vallandigham from his home, as he did before ? [Prolonged cries of ‘No, never! we'll fight first.'] I thought you were of the right temper-let it always be so.—Akron (Ohio) 
Beacon.
CAPTURE OF ATLANTA.
WAR DEPARTMENT,
WASHINGTON, Sept. 4, 1864-8 P. M.
Major General Dix :
Gen. Sherman's official report of the capture of Atlanta has just been received by this Department. It is dated twenty-six miles south of Atlanta, 6 o'clock yesterday morning, but was detained by the breaking of the telegraph lines, mentioned in my dispatch of last night :
“As already reported, the army withdrew from about Atlanta, and on the 30th, had made a break on the West Point road, and reached a good position from which to strike the Macon road, the right (Howard) near Jonesboro', the left (Scofield) near Rough and Ready, and the centre (Thomas) at Couch's.
Howard found the enemy in force at Jonesboro', and intrenched his troops, the salient within half a mile of the railroad. The enemy attacked him at 3 P. M., and was easily repulsed, leaving his dead and wounded. Finding strong opposition on the road, I advanced the left and centre rapidly to the railroad, made a good lodgment and broke it all the way from Rough and Ready down to Howard's left near Jonesboro', and by the same movement, I interposed my whole army between Atlanta, and the part of the enemy intrenched in and around Jonesboro'.
We made a general attack on the enemy at Jonesboro', on the 1st of September, the 14th corps, General Jeff. C. Davis, carrying the works handsomely with ten guns and about a thousand prisoners. In the night, the enemy retreated South, and we have followed him to another of his hastily constructed lines near Love-joy Station.
Hood, at Atlanta, finding me on his road—the only one that could supply him—and between him and a considerable part of his army, blew up his magazines in Atlanta and left in the night time, when the 20th corps. Gen. Slocum, took possession of the place. So Atlanta is ours, and fairly won.
Since the 5th of May, we have been in one constant battle or skirmish, and need rest.
Our losses will not exceed 1200, and we have pos-session of over 300 rebel dead, 250 wounded, and over 1500 well.
(Signed) W. T. SHERMAN, Maj. Gen."
A later dispatch from Gen. Slocum, dated at Atlanta, Sept. 6, 9 P. M., states that the enemy, on evacuating Atlanta, destroyed 7 locomotives, and 81 cars loaded with ammunition, small arms and stores, and left 14 pieces of artillery, most of them uninjured, and a large number of small arms. Deserters are constantly coming into our lines.
(Signed) EDWIN M. STANTON,
Secretary of War.
PRESIDENT LINCOLN AND THE PEACE COMMISSIONERS.
The National Republican says :—" We are authorized and requested to announce that notwithstanding all that has been said on the subject, neither Mr. Gilmore nor Col. Jaques on the one hand, nor Mr. Greeley on the other, ever have been or are now authorized to express any desires, views or opinions of the President of the United States, either in Canada or Richmond, on the subject of negotiations for peace, beyond what he has plainly and carefully written over his own signature ; that the mission to Richmond was initiated and executed by Messrs. Gilmore and Jaques on their own private account; that they had no authority to speak for the President of the United States officially or unofficially, or for Abraham Lincoln unofficially or privately.
If Mr. Benjamin's report of the sayings of Messrs. Gilmore and Jaques while in Richmond is correct, they assumed a responsibility not given them, and made statements wholly untrue.
While on this subject, it is proper to state that the President, after repeated solicitations, consented to give Messrs. Gilmore and Jaques a pass through our military lines.
He did not request Gen. Grant to open a correspondence with Gen. Lee to give them a safe conduct to Richmond and return. Gen. Grant did that upon his own responsibility. 
The President's request was merely that General Grant would pass them through his military lines, nothing more."
IMPORTANT OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 2,1864.
To Major Gen. Dix, New York:
It is ascertained with reasonable certainty that the naval and other credits, required by the act of Congress, will amount to about 200,000, including New York, which has not yet been reported to the Department, so that the President's call of July 18th is practically reduced to three hundred thousand men, to meet and take the place of, first, the enlistments in the navy, second, the casualties of battle, sickness, prisoners, and desertion, and third, the hundred-days’ troops, and all others going out by the expiration of service this fall.
One hundred thousand new troops promptly furnished, is all that General Grant asks for the capture of Richmond, and to give a finishing blow to the rebel armies yet in the field.
The residue of the call would be adequate for garrisons in forts and cities, and to guard all the lines of communication and supply, free the country from guerrillas, give security to trade, protect commerce and travel, and establish peace, order, and tranquillity in every State.
EDWIN M. STANTON,
Secretary of War.
SEIZURE OF THE PIRATE GEORGIA. The frigate Niagara seized the rebel pirate steamer Georgia, twenty miles off Lisbon, put a prize crew on board, and sent her to New York. The Niagara landed the captain and crew of the Georgia at Dover. The Georgia when seized was under the British flag, and her captain entered a protest against the seizure. The event excites much controversy. It was rumored that the capture was effected under the consent of the British Government.
DEFEAT AND DEATH of JOHN MORGAN. An unofficial dispatch received by the War Department, Sept. 6, from Lexington, states that Gen. Gellen had officially reported the surprise and defeat of Morgan at Greenville, that Morgan was killed and his staff captured, that from fifty to one hundred rebels were killed, seventy prisoners taken, and one gun captured. This report being confirmed by the Richmond Examiner, there is no room to doubt its truth.
Benjamin Boardley, once a slave in Maryland, having attracted the attention of some gentlemen by the ingenuity displayed in constructing a miniature steam-engine of about six fly power, was purchased and emancipated by them, and now has the sole charge of the philosophical apparatus of the Naval Academy, at Annapolis. Scientific American.
<c05>
McCLELLAN AND HIS PLATFORM. The New York Herald says:
"For three years past the Herald has sustained and defended the hero of Antietam. We have done full justice to his generalship, his statesmanship, his honesty, and his patriotism. But when McClellan takes his stand upon a cowardly peace platform, we are at a loss how to follow him and defend him. This the general has not yet done, and we hope that he will never be foolish enough to do it. We advise and urge him to come out boldly and declare that his only plat form is his past record as a Union general, and that his sentiments are those expressed in his letter from Harrison's Landing, and his oration at West Point. If he hesitates to do this he is lost. There must be no prevarication nor equivocation."
The New York Tribune says:
" We learn that Gen. McClellan declares privately among his friends that he cannot and will not indorse the Peace platform constructed for him at Chicago. What is the use of such humbug ? He was nominated on that platform ; he was nominated after that platform had been adopted with but few dissenting votes, and those mostly of men who wished it made more abject than it is; and he would not have been nominated if it had been understood that he would not accept that platform. The candidates and the platform are indivisible ; the principles are of far more consequence than the men."
In the vicinity of Paducah and Mayfield, Ky., there are over 100 widows and families of Union men murdered by guerrillas. Gen. Paine intends appropriating from the funds assessed on rebel cotton and tobacco for that purpose five thousand dollars each for these people.
Official reports show that one hundred and fifty female recruits have been detected, and made to resume the garments of their sex.
The New York State Inspector General estimates the number of persons killed in New York city, during the riots, last year, at fully 1000.
THE RHODE ISLAND SOLDIERS' VOTE. Complete returns of the voting on the Constitutional amendment extending the suffrage to the Rhode Island soldiers in the field show its passage by three-fifths majority.
The official list in the office of the Commissary General of Prisoners indicates that we hold an excess of rebel prisoners rising 40,000 men.
The vote of North Carolina for Governor shows 54,323 for Vance, Jeff. Davis's war candidate, and 20,488 for Holden, whom the rebels call a submissionist—making a total vote of 74,771.
A sarcophagus of marble, after the old English style and cruciform in shape, is to be placed over the grave of the late Rev. Thomas Starr King by the Unitarian parish in San Francisco. The transfer of the remains and the erection of the monument will take place during the stay of Rev. Dr. Bellows in California, and the services on the occasion will be conducted by him.
A Republican Convention at Ravenna, Ohio, passed a resolution censuring Senator Wade, and requesting him to vacate his seat in the Senate.
It has been decided that the heirs of men who die or are killed while in the three months' service are entitled to pensions the same as the heirs of those who enlisted for a longer term.
PERSONAL, Madison University gives the degree of LL.D. to Geo. Wm. Curtis.
Negro soldiers are to be paid the same wages, bounty and clothing as white soldiers, in accordance with the late decision of the Attorney General.
A treaty of amity, commerce and navigation between the Netherlands and Liberia, has just been ratified.
DEATH OF ANDREW L. RUSSELL. The community were surprised and deeply saddened at the sudden death of Andrew L. Russell, on Friday of last week. He had been sick with dysentery, but partially recovered from the attack. His system, however, was too far reduced, and he continued to sink calmly to his final rest. Mr. Russell was born in Plymouth, May 16, 1806, and was, at the time of his death, 58 years of age. He was graduated at Harvard in 1828, and for many years was connected in the business of N. Russell & Co. He was a man of most genial sympathies, generous impulses, and charitable spirit. Not a few are indebted to him for pecuniary aid and that cheering encouragement that gives the young man confidence in himself, and courage to act in life. He was deeply interested in all the interests and associations of Plymouth, and especially was his whole soul absorbed in the great principles of liberty and free government, for which the nation sacrifices its dearest idols. A beautiful harmony existed in his family, softening all its relations with a benign influence of most touching, confiding affection. Yet he kept not back the cherished ones from the battle-field and the frightful carnage. The friend of everybody, and without enemies, he has passed away, not only overshadowing his family with the deepest grief, but his constant presence in the street and kindly word for all will be greatly missed.
A large concourse gathered at his residence to pay the last respects to the departed friend and Christian citizen, and as we looked out on the beautiful lawn and shrubbery, and the bay beyond, calm with its ebbing sunset tide, we could not but think that the tranquil spirit of him who loved the scene was still present, though the hand that gathered such beauty about his home was palsied forever. Of him, in a special and particular sense, may it be said, When the good man dieth, the people layeth it to heart.- Plymouth Memorial.
A CALL
FOR A NATIONAL CONVENTION OF COLORED CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES.
FELLOW-CITIZENS : The present state of our country, together with the claims, of humanity and universal freedom, and the favorable developments of the Providence of God, pointing to the liberation and enfranchisement of our race, demand of us to be united in council, labor and faith.
The nation and the age have adjudged that the extinction of slavery is necessary to the preservation of liberty and republicanism, and that the existence of the Government itself is contingent upon the total overthrow of the slave-holders' oligarchy and the annihilation of the despotism which is inseparably connected with it.
Brethren, the present time is immeasurably more favorable than any other period in our history to unite and act for our own most vital interests. If we are to live and grow, and prove ourselves to be equal to the exigencies of the times, we must meet in council, and labor together for the general welfare of the people. Sound morality must be encouraged ; education must be promoted ; temperance and frugality must be exemplified, and industry, and thrift, and everything that pertains to well-ordered and dignified life, must be exhibited to the nation and the world. Therefore, the strong men of our people, the faithful and the true, are invited to meet in a National Convention, for the advancement of these objects and principles, on Tuesday, the 4th day of October, A. D. 1864, at 7 o'clock, P.M., [place will be named at an early day,] in the city of New York. The progressive and liberty-loving people of the loyal States are invited to send delegates, properly and regularly chosen. Let them come from the cities, towns, hamlets and districts of every section of the country, and lay the foundation of a superstructure, broad and deep, which in the future shall be a stronghold and defence for ourselves and our posterity.
[Signed by Henry Highland Garnet, Washington; Robert Hamilton, New York ; Amos G. Beman, Jamaica; William Rich, Troy ; J. W. Loguen, Syracuse; Wm. H. Johnson, Albany ; J. W. B. Smith, Williamsburg ; Louis H. Putnam, Brooklyn ; Moses Viney, Schenectady ; O. C. Gilbert, Saratoga Spa ; Geo. Weir, Jr., Buffalo ; George H. Washington, George Henry, John T. Waugh, James Jefferson, Providence ; Peter H. Nott, Hartford ; Robert J. Cowes, New Haven ; Jno. F. Floyd, Middletown ; Abraham J. Morrison, New Milford : Charles Lenox Remond, Salem: Alexander W. Wyman, William E. Matthews, H. H. Webb, Baltimore : J. D. Harris, M. D., Portsmouth, Va. : Sampson White, Hiram H. Arnold, Alexandria. : James Lynch, Abraham Murchison, Jacob Robertson, Beaufort, S. C. : Charles Heads, Vicksburg, Miss.: Wm. Steward, Florida: Clinton B. Pearson, Newborn, N. C. : A. H. Galloway, Beaufort, do. : J. W. Ellis, Adrian, Michigan : James L Campbell, Saginaw, do.: Joseph .Ferguson, M. D., Detroit, do. : L. Gross, John Waugh, Uniontown, Pa. : Hiram S. Fry, Grayson S. Nelson, Reading, do. : Wm. H. Riley, Alfred M. Green, Ebeneser D. Bassett, Philadelphia: Peter D. Hedges, Newark, N. J.: Joseph H. Barquet, Illinois : Ransom Harris, Alfred Menefee, Peter Lowry, Naskville, Tenn. : and many other representative colored men in the various States.]
<c06>
MASON & HAMLIN’S
CABINET ORGANS.
Every Church, Sunday School and Private Family
MAY HAVE 
A GOOD ORGAN
AT a very moderate cost—$85, $100, $110, $135, $165, $260, and upward, according to number of Stops and style of case.
They are elegant as pieces of furniture, occupying little space, are not liable to get out of order, and every one is warranted for five years.
THE CABINET ORGANS,
introduced about a year since, and manufactured exclusivesively by MASON & HAMLIN, have met with success unprecedented in the history of musical instruments. Supplying a long-felt want, they have been received with the greatest pleasure by the musical profession and the public,and have already been very widely introduced, and the demand for them is still rapidly increasing, and must continue to increase as their merits become known. They are to private houses Sunday Schools, and smaller churches, all that the larger pipe organs are to large churches. In addition to this, they are admirably adapted to the performance of secular as well as secular as well as sacred music. 
The Cabinet Organ is essentially different from and a very great improvement upon all instruments of the Melodeon or Harmonium kind. Its superior excellence consists in many important characteristics, among which are :
1. The more organ-like character of its tones. Indeed, it is asserted with confidence that it has not yet been found possible to produce a better quality of tone from pipes than is attained in these organs.
2. It has greatly more power and volume of tone in proportion to its cost.
3. By the employment of a very simple and beautiful invention, its capacity for expression is made vastly greater than has ever before been attained in such instruments. This invention is especially valuable, because scarcely any practice is necessary to render it available. Any ordinary performer can master it in an hour or two.
4. It admits of great rapidity of execution, adapting it to the performance of a great variety of lively secular music.
5. No instrument is less liable to get out of order.
6. It will remain in tune ten times as long as a piano forte.
It may be reasonably said, that if these instruments have the great and obvious superiority thus claimed for them, they must have received very warm recommendations from professional musicians, who would naturally be most interested in the introduction of such instruments, and who are the best judges of their excellence. Such recommendations already have been given tot hem, to an extent unparalleled.
Among those who have proffered written testimony to their admirable qualities and great desirability, and that they regard them as unequalled by any other instrument of their class, are such well-known musicians as Lowell Mason, Thomas Hastings, William B. Bradbury, George F. Root, &c. ; the most distinguished organists in the country, as Cutler of Trinity Church, N. Y., Morgan of Grace Church, Zundel of Mr. Beecher's Church, Braun, Wels, Wilcox, Tuckerman, Zerrahn, &c.: such celebrated pianists as Gottschalk, Wm. Mason, Mill, Sanderson, Strakosch, etc.: in brief, more than two hundred musicians, including a large portion of the most eminent in the country, have testified to this effect. Each Cabinet Organ is securely boxed, so that it can be sent safely to any part of the country
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES, with full particulars, free to any address.
WAREROOMS, 274 Washington Street, Boston, 7 Mercer Street, New York.
MASON & HAMLIN
Feb. 26-6m
Young Ladies' Boarding-School.
DIO LEWIS, A. M., M. D., will open a Boarding School at Lexington, Mass., on the first day of october, 1864.
Isaac 
ISAAC N. CARLETON, A. M., for several years teacher of Latin, Greek and Mathematics in Phillips's Academy, Andover, Mass., will be the Resident Principal, and will devote himself wholly to the work of instruction. Mrs. CARLETON, a tried and successful teacher, will instruct in French.
MR. THEODORE D. WELD, for many years Principal of the Eagleswood School in New Jersey, will have charge of an important department.
In all the approved features of the best schools nothing will be wanting, while it is Dr. Lewis's special aim to illustrate the possibilities in the department of physical training.
Parents having daughters of delicate constitutions to educate are invited to send to Dr. DIO LEWIS, Lexington, for a Circular.
Lexington, Sept. 8.
GAS FIXTURES.
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co's, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood &Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
n the most careful manner. New Fixtures Furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also, Gas Burners of all the approved kinds.
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties.
Shop under the Marlboro' Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell's Provision Store, 132 Charles street,
Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co.
Oct. 30-ly
The True Temperance Platform.
BY R. T. TRALL, M. D.
THE best and most scientific temperance document ever published. 
The errors of Temperance Reformers and the medical profession, and the effects of alcohol on plants, animals and man, are here for the first time plainly pointed out. 
Price, per mail-paper, 60 cents ; cloth, 85 cents.
MILLER & BROWNING,
15 Leight Street, New York.
July 15. 3m
Portrait of Mr. Garrison.
JOHNSTON'S Crayon Portrait of Mr. Garrison is on exhibition at the store of Williams & Everett, 234 Washington street, and elicits warm approval. It will be lithographed by Mr. Johnston, and published early in September. Price $1.50 per copy.
C. H. BRAINARD.
Subscriptions received by R. F. WALLCUT, Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington street. July 29.
Proclamation of Freedom.
FINE Photographs, 18 by 13 inches, of Paine's pen and-Ink Drawing of the Emancipation Proclamation, handsomely illustrated. The original was donated to the Brooklyn Sanitary Fair, and by a subscription of $500 presented to the President of the United States. A single copy sent by mail on receipt of $3.00 A liberal discount allowed to dealers or canvassers. It is a beautiful and artistic work.
Canvassers wanted for every section of the country. Copy-right secured. Apply to 
ROWLAND J0HNSON, 
54 Beaver st., New York, 119 Market st., Phila. August 19.
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW, ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA.
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants.
References :
WENDELL. PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston.
A. L. PAINE, Esq., Suffolk Bank, do.
FARWELL, FIELD & Co., Chicago, Illinols.
STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D. C.
May 20 tf
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No. 4, seven cents. Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 now ready, 22 cents.
Address ANDREW J. GRAHAM,
491 Broadway, New York.
June 24. Dec.1
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
THE BATTLE-FIELD OF TRUTH.
Be true, be strong,, the battle rings around, 
The forms of fallen warriors strew the ground; 
Martyrs and victors, slain but not to die, 
They give to us the noble rallying cry, 
Be true to death, and more.
No fiery charger shakes the quivering sod, 
The marshalled forces are the soul and God;
Nature and Right 'gainst Error fierce at bay, 
The powers immortal yield not, but delay, 
Eternal Truth can wait.
No bannered host does mighty Truth display, 
No armies drawn in serried, strong array;
But solitary warriors, with her shield 
And shining sword, made ready for the field; 
These, and no more.
Thus to the field against the phalanx strong, 
Error's great army, drawn in columns long, 
Countless, unnumbered, bristling to the front 
With motley armor and with clanging trump, 
Victory is theirs to-day.
But whose to-morrow, when with swords in rest, 
The silent soldiers pass the solemn quest? 
The inquest of the future, when the hours, 
Clear and impartial, call the warring powers 
To judgment and to sentence?
And who is worthy of the tested shield, 
The proven sword, the arms that cannot yield? 
They, and they only, who, forswearing all, 
Present and future, at the battle-call, 
Seek God alone and right.
For none but such could dare so dread a fight, 
Where victory waits not upon hope or life; 
But dimly gleams remotely and afar;
When with the dead its faded champions are. 
But so to die is life.
‘Twas here the sons of science strove and fell;
How nobly let ourselves and children tell;
Facing the world's stern ignorance they fought, 
Contending aidless, inch by inch, and bought 
Our light with worse than death.
'Twas here the patriots, earnest of their time, 
Invoked the children of their race and clime 
So oft in vain to freedom ; here they led 
Where few would follow, for no victor's tread 
Wakes the silent field.
'Twas here the sages, prophets of our race, 
Piercing the shadowy future, sought to trace 
The heights and depths of knowing, and thus kept 
Watch on the outposts while the nations slept 
Untroubled sleep, but dark.
Nobly and worthy then to perish here, 
Though seeming vanquished in the combat sere, 
The holocaust to duty bravely done, 
The conflict waged till death, though still unwon, 
And ages kept the rest.
WRITTEN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY, 1864,
BY ALICE CARY.
Once more, despite the noise of wars, 
And the smoke gathering fold on fold, 
Our daisies set their stainless stars 
Against the sunshine's cloth of gold.
Lord, make us feel, if so thou will, 
The blessings crowning us to-day, 
And the yet greater blessing still, 
Of blessings thou hast taken away.
Unworthy of the favors lent, 
We fell into apostacy;
And, lo! our country's chastisement 
Has brought her to herself and Thee!
Nearer by all this grief than when 
She dared her weak ones to oppress, 
And played away her State to men 
Who scorned her for her foolishness.
O bless for us this holiday 
Men keep like children loose from school, 
And put it in their hearts, we pray, 
To choose them rulers fit to rule;
Good men, who shall their country's pride 
And honor to their own prefer;
Her sinews to their hearts so tied 
That they can only live through her!
Men sturdy-of discerning eyes, 
And souls to apprehend the right;
Not with their little light so wise 
They set themselves against thy light;
Men of small reverence for names, 
Courageous, and of fortitude 
To put aside the narrow aims 
Of faction for the public good ;
Men loving justice for the race, 
Not for the great ones and the few;
Less studious of outward grace 
Than careful to be clean all through ;
Men holding State, not self, the first;
Ready, when all the deep is tossed 
With storms, and worst is come to worst, 
To save the ship at any cost ;
Men upright, and of steady knees, 
That only to the truth will bow;
Lord, help us choose such men as these, 
For only such can save us now !
A PORTRAIT OF SHAKSPEARE.
BY HIMSELF.
[At the recent fete for the benefit of the Dramatic College in London, the following ingeniously prepared card was sold in the stalls:]
A sweeter or more lovable creature, 
Framed in the prodigality of nature, 
The spacious world cannot contain again. 
His life was gentle, and the elements so mixed in him, 
That nature might stand up and say, 
To all the world, This was a man!
He was ever gracious, had a tearop, fruity
And a hand open as day for melting charity!
His bounty was as boundless as the sea, 
His love as deep; the more he gave, the more 
He had, for he was infinite. 
Hear him but reason in divinity, 
And all admiring with an inward wish, 
You would desire to see him made a prelate;
Hear him debate on commonwealth affairs, 
You'd say it hath been all in all his study. 
List his discourse on war, and you shall hear 
A fearful battle rendered you in music. 
Turn him to any course of policy, 
The Gordian knot of it he will unloose,
Familiar as his garter. And when he speaks of love!  ! 
The air, a chartered libertine, is still ;
And the mute wonder lurketh in men's ears 
To steal his sweet and honeyed sentences. 
Our poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling, 
Did glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven; 
And as imagination bodied forth 
The form of things unknown, our poet's pen 
Turned them to shapes, and gave to airy nothing 
A local habitation and a name; 
Found tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, 
Sermons in stones, and good in everything.
THINGS REQUISITE.
Have a tear for the wretched—a smile for the glad;
For the worthy, applause—an excuse for the bad;
Some help for the needy—some pity for those 
Who stray from the path where true happiness flows.
Have a laugh for the child in her play at thy feet;
Have respect for the aged, and pleasantly greet 
The stranger that seeketh for shelter from thee- 
Have a covering to spare if he naked should be.
Have a hope in thy sorrow, a calm in thy joy;
Have a work that is worthy thy life to employ;
And, oh! above all things on this side the sod, 
Have peace with thy conscience, and peace with thy God
<C02>
THE CURRENT OF EVENTS AND THE DRIFT OF THE ADMINISTRATION.
[CONTINUED.]
MORE WORK FOR ABOLITIONISTS.
DORCHESTER, Aug. 28, 1864. 
As we have already said, the right of the majority to rule is acknowledged to be the fundamental principle of republican government. Each of the rebel States wheeled out of the Union in sufficient numbers to control the loyal men within their respective borders. Let them return to their allegiance in sufficient numbers to hold in check the rebels in each, before they claim the right to be reinstated as members of the Union; and, if the legal voters of 1860 are to be the basis of reconstruction, the people of the loyal States have a right to demand, and ought to insist upon it, that at least a majority of the voters within its limits shall constitute the nucleus of the new State. On what authority or on what principle has the President proclaimed that one tenth of them may do so? Surely there was no military necessity for it; and it was a palpable violation of the fundamental principle of republicanism, even on the basis of legal voters. Why, upon this principle depends the validity of Mr. Lincoln's own election, and his legitimate right to exercise the functions of President of the United States, which the people of eleven States "rose in rebellion to oppose "!
But I object to the quality of the basis, which would be the same, whether the nucleus were composed of ten per cent. or one hundred per cent, of the legal voters of 1860. Even supposing them to be thoroughly loyal, (a most violent supposition, of course,) still all the black men, including many intelligent and wealthy individuals, who are taxed without representation, and in many of the States, a large majority of white men, would be wholly disfranchised.
But of the two plans for reconstruction which are before us, we much prefer that of Congress. It is at least republican in form. Both, however, propose to reconstruct the rebel States upon an aristocratic basis. Neither of them looks to the enfranchisement of the colored man; both are opposed to it. On either plan, he is to be left to the tender mercies of those who, from his toil and sweat, have hitherto wrung the means of luxurious self-indulgence, and only wait the opportunity to renew their customary extortions and oppression; and wherever they shall be restored and installed as the constituency and exclusive legislators for the new States, however they may disguise themselves under the name and forms of republicanism, who can doubt that the subject race will continue to be lawful prey ?
And what power shall interpose to save them from the disastrous results to which, on either plan, they will be imminently exposed? What but the power of the Federal Government, vested in Congress, the Supreme Court, and the President of the United States? But the views, sentiments, will and purposes of the President and of Congress are sufficiently indicated by the measures we have just been considering. The disposition of Congress is perhaps still more strongly manifested by the late bill organizing the Territory of Montana. In that bill, so far from providing for, they carefully exclude the right of negro suffrage. Only white male citizens are allowed to vote. And these views and purposes can be changed or swayed only as public sentiment and the will of the people are brought to bear upon them.
But the difficulty is, public sentiment and the will of the people, even in the loyal States, corroborate and sustain, or substantially coincide with, those of Congress and the Executive; and to move them, the people must be moved. While the people of Kansas, who have won a place in the galaxy of Free States, through the stern discipline of war, retain among them a Constitution and laws which were intended to exclude the colored man from their soil, and while the whole range of border Free States,-Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and New York,-,—forbid by statute his right to vote, tax him without representation, exclude him from their schools, leaving him to grow up in ignorance, doomed, almost, to drudge through weary life in a condition only less degrading than that of slavery itself, it were hardly reasonable to expect their representatives, much less those of the Border Slave States, to go for his entire enfranchisement in the new States, whether established in Territories now free, or in those which are to be reclaimed and conquered from the rebel States.
Here, then, it would seem, a new field of labor is opened to us. In truth, it is a very old one; only the time has come when the energies which for years have been devoted to the abolition of slavery should be turned, with fresh earnestness and zeal, to the destruction of some of its bitter fruits. The demon of Oppression has planted his thorns and sown his tares upon it, and from their tangled roots has sprung a tough and sturdy growth, which calls upon us, without delay, to break up the soil anew, and turning under the prejudice and hate of former years, to plant and nurture in their place the generous seeds of righteousness and peace.
It is an imperative duty, we think,-one which patriotism and philanthropy conspire to urge,-that, with all the power we can command, we call upon the people,-legislators and their constituency alike,-and first of all upon those of the nominally Free States,-to expunge from their statute-books the unjust and wicked enactments which impose special disabilities upon colored men, as incompatible alike with the great charter of republican equality, the Declaration of American Independence, and with the laws of Christian brotherhood, as revealed by the New Testament.
Whether we agitate for the prohibition of slavery by an alteration of the Constitution, or for the repeal of the infamous Black Laws, which are so common in the Free States, our field of labor for the present must be the same. We must encounter the senseless prejudice and hostile feelings of the people in the Border Free States, or of their representatives in Congress, at every step. Here, then, the moral conflict must go on. For the present, we must " fight it out on this line." Let this be done, and, in the regeneration, the people of the rebel States will have no occasion to say to those of the free, " Physician, heal thyself!" but, stimulated by their example, will make haste to purify themselves as those are pure. Till this be done, with what face can we insist upon equality before the law as an indispensable condition of reconstruction in the rebel States? H. W. C.
LOYALTY OF THE ARMY. "The army will be faithful to the end," writes an officer from the extreme front, who adds-" I wish I could believe the same of the whole North." He may well speak thus doubtingly as he reads the resolutions of the Copperhead Conventions, denouncing as atrocious tyranny the Government of the country, and having not one strong word to say in condemnation of the treasonable military despotism of Richmond, or one generous word of commendation for the brave and devoted soldiers of the Federal army. Shame on such home cowards!
The money article of the New York World every day is devoted to attacks upon the financial policy of the Administration, and to attempts to destroy public confidence in the solvency of the nation. That is the Democratic way of serving one's country.
Postmaster General Blair, in a letter to Hon. A. Wakeman, denounces at a falsehood in every particular the statement that a regular espionage has been kept on letters of Democrats passing through the Post Office. "Roorbacks " of this kind will multiply until the day of the election, and may not always mee with so prompts denial.
<C03>
GEORGE THOMPSON.
About twenty-seven years ago, if our memory serves us right, George Thompson, the friend of universal humanity, and the eloquent champion of freedom throughout Europe, first came to this country. How was George Thompson received in this boasted asylum of the oppressed of all nations ? Scorn and reproach were his portion. Northern institutions were in the interests of slavery. Wealth and position paid homage to it, and bowed low in the dust for its pretended favors. It reigned supreme in civil offices and in the sanctuaries of religion. No place so high, none so low, that it did not reach. The mob spirit, the willing tool of slavery, was everywhere rampant, and England's apostle of freedom was forced to leave our shores, in order to save his life. The bloodhounds of slavery were on his track, and he could find no safety in all our borders.
The Governor of New Hampshire, Hon. Isaac Hill, who ruled that State democratically for more than twenty-five years, declared George Thompson a "fugitive from justice." Charles G. Atherton, a Senator from that State, ever ready to do the bidding of slavery, pronounced him a "miscreant who had fled from the indignation of an outraged people." Rev. Wilbur Fisk, D. D., who gave to slavery much "offered" service, said that he was "bankrupt in character and in purse." And it is to be remembered that Dr. Fisk was then President of Wesleyan University, where not long ago George Thompson received the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws. How unlike the time when the Moloch of slavery reigned supreme in the land, and he was hunted from city to city, from town to town, with no place in all this fair land, like Noah's dove, to rest the soles of his feet! How changed was the scene! The venerable President, with all the dignity of his position, rose in his place, and for once made a dead language eloquent, in praise of him who, for long years and in a righteous cause, had received nothing but opprobrium and proud scorn!—humanitatis et hominis amicus, apostolos libertatis eloquens, catenorum ruptor, oppressorum loetilia the friend of humanity and of man, the eloquent apostle of liberty, the breaker of chains, the joy of the oppressed.
In 1850, George Thompson visited this country again. It was our good fortune to hear him speak. It was in a Hicksite Quaker meeting-house in Farmington, New York. Garrison was there, and spoke most eloquently for the down-trodden and oppressed. George Thompson, the poor man's friend in England, followed him. His theme was most eloquent, and yet he was more eloquent than his theme. Never shall we forget how our heart was moved, as he pleaded the cause of the poor slave. That broad brimmed synagogue was filled by its hundreds to overflowing, and a spirit moved the hearts of every one of them, until they swayed to and fro like the mountain oak in a tempest.
George Thompson has come again, for the third, and mayhap for the last time. What wondrous change time has wrought in our affairs! Where once were peace and plenty, civil feuds are now distracting the land. Evil spirits are striving to rend the government in twain, that they may build upon its ruins a Republic whose corner-stone is human slavery.
George Thompson is with us once again, and instead of being hunted for very life, as in days of yore, he is honored and respected by all liberty-loving hearts. Cabinets and courts seek to do him homage. Oh that he could behold us a happy, united people, with no stain of slavery upon our fair soil! Then joyous songs of freedom would rise on every breeze, and the eloquence of George Thompson would be heard throughout the length and breadth of a land delivered from the thraldom of slavery.- Galesburg Free Democrat.
WHAT FRANKLIN DID.
The following compact summary of the actual fruits of Dr. Franklin's varied career, taken from the life of this distinguished man by Parton, just published by Mason Brothers, is a striking illustration of the amount of beneficent achievement that may be crowded into a single life-time:-
Franklin was one of those who had the force to earn his own leisure, and the grace to use it well. At the age of forty-two he was a free man ; that is, he had an estate of seven hundred pounds a year. He became, successively, the servant of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the Colonies, England, France, the United States, and mankind. It was a proof of unusual ability that he should have fairly won his leisure at forty-two; it was an evidence of his goodness and good sense,that he should have made a free gift of it to the public. If nothing is more demoralizing than philanthropy pursued as a vocation, for money, nothing is nobler than the devotion to it of well-earned leisure. Howard inherited an estate, Franklin earned one, and the Master of both had an equivalent in being able to dispense with a place wherein to lay his head.
"It is incredible," wrote Franklin once, "the quantity of good that may be done in a country by a single man who will make a business of it, and not suffer himself to be diverted from that purpose by different avocations, studies, or amusements."
As a commentary upon this remark, I will present here a catalogue of the good deeds of Franklin himself, beginning at the time of his regeneration.
He established and inspired the Junto, the most sensible, useful, and pleasant club of which we have any knowledge.
He founded the Philadelphia Library, parent of a thousand libraries, an immense and endless good to the whole of the civilized portion of the United States, the States not barbarized by slavery.
 
He edited the best newspaper in the Colonies, one which published no libels and fomented no quarrels, which quickened the intelligence of Pennsylvania, and gave the onward impulse to the press of America.
He was the first who turned to great account the engine of advertising, an indispensable element in modern business.
He published Poor Richard, by means of which so much of the wit and wisdom of all ages as its readers could appropriate and enjoy was brought home to their minds in such words as they could understand and remember forever.
He created the post-office system of America; and forbore to avail himself, as postmaster, of the privileges from which he had formerly suffered.
It was he who caused Philadelphia to be paved, lighted, and cleaned.
As fuel became scarce in the vicinity of the colonial towns, he invented the Franklin Stove, which economized it, and suggested the subsequent warming inventions, in which America beats the world. Besides making a free gift of this invention to the public, he generously wrote an extensive pamphlet explaining its construction and utility.
He delivered civilized mankind from the nuisance, once, universal, of smoking chimneys.
He was the first effective preacher of the blessed gospel of ventilation. He spoke, and the windows of hospitals were lowered; consumption ceased to gasp, and fever to inhale poison.
He devoted the leisure of seven years, and all the energy of his genius, to the science of electricity, which gave a stronger impulse to scientific inquiry than any other event of that century. He taught Goethe to experiment in electricity, and set all students to making electrical machines. He robbed thunder of its terrors, and lightning of its power to destroy.
He was chiefly instrumental in founding the first high school of Pennsylvania, and died protesting against the abuse of the funds of that institution in teaching American youth the language of Greece and Rome, while French, Spanish and German were spoken in the streets, and were required in the commerce of the wharves.
He founded the American Philosophical Society, the first organization in America of the friends of science.
He suggested the use of mineral manure, introduced the basket willow, and promoted the early culture of silk.
He lent the indispensable assistance of his name and tact to the founding of the Philadelphia Hospital.
Entering into politics, he broke the spell of Quakerism, and woke Pennsylvania from the dream of unarmed safety.
He led Pennsylvania in its thirty years' struggle with the mean tyranny of the Penns, a rehearsal of the subsequent contest with the king of Great Britain.
When the Indians were ravaging, and scalping within eighty miles of Philadelphia, Gen. Benjamin Franklin led the troops of the city against them;
<C04>
He was the author of the first scheme for uniting the colonies; a scheme so suitable that it was adopted, in its essential features, in the Union of the States, and binds us together to this day.
He assisted England to keep Canada, when there was danger of its falling back into the hands of a reactionary race.
More than any other man, he was instrumental in causing the repeal of the Stamp Act, which deferred the inevitable struggle until the colonies were strong enough to triumph.
More than any other man, he educated the colonies up to independence, and secured for them in England the sympathy and support of the Brights, the Cobdens, the Spencers, and Mills of that day. 
He discovered the temperature of the Gulf Stream.
He, discovered that northeast storms begin in the southwest.
He invented the invaluable contrivance by which a fire consumes its own smoke.
He made important discoveries respecting the causes of the most universal of all diseases-colds. 
He pointed out the advantage of building ships in water-tight compartments, taking the hint from the Chinese.
He expounded the theory of navigation which is now universally adopted by intelligent seamen, and of which a charlatan and a traitor has received the credit.
CAPTAIN SEMMES, THE PIRATE.
Semmes, the infamous, has published a book, entitled "The Cruise of the Alabama and the Sumpter," from his private journals. A notice of it, from the London Athenceum will be found on another page. The Alhenceum, which hitherto bestowed its sympathy upon the rebels, alters its tone in this article. It denies the possibility of making a creditable story of Semmes' career. It denies that his conduct has been that of a gentleman, far less of a hero. It shows him to be a cowardly, shuffling, lying braggadocio. It exhibits him as "a rebel in his own city, a deserter from the service, a traitor to his country." It denies, on personal knowledge, his assertion that the Kearsarge had any armor; "over a part of her side hang a few common chain cables, affording her engines a slight protection, not much more than a man would find in action from having hung a dozen watch chains round his neck." It shows how, in the action off Cherbourg, the Alabama really was "slightly superior to her rival, having one gun more in battery." It denies that Semmes could have become a rebel out of patriotism, and asks, "Can it be an insane hatred of the negro race, as such, and a monstrous desire to found a new Slave Empire?" Such a criminal scheme, it affirms, would 
"put the men who entertained it out of the pale of social laws."
The Athenceum is purely a literary and scientific journal of high character and very large circulation. It is chiefly read by persons of education and a certain station. Among its writers are some of the keenest intellects in Europe. Here is what it says, with earnest emphasis, on the true issue involved in our civil war: "We can have no toleration of slavery, in any shape, under any excuse. We can have no friendship with slaveholders. We can have no peace with a slave empire." It affirms that, should that empire try to revive the trade in human beings, it would be the duty and the right of England to resist it with all her force. This remarkable article concludes with these words: "It is only on condition of the Confederate States abandoning the principle for which Captain Semmes appears to be an ardent advocate, that England can ever consent to admit them into the fellowship of nations." We firmly believe that this is the opinion of the thinking portion of the British nation. They cannot submit, having smitten down Slavery in their own colonies, to see it dominant in this great country. We commend the Athenceum article to the careful attention of our readers.-Philadelphia Press.
COLORED TROOPS.
Among the eleven hundred prisoners taken by our forces last Saturday before Petersburg, two hundred were negroes, many of them, perhaps all of them, stolen or runaway slaves. If any advertisement has yet been published in the papers, calling upon persons who have lost slaves to come forward and identify their property and take it away, we have not observed such advertisement.
Lately, there were many negroes recovered from the raiding party of Kautz and Wilson; their names were very properly published, and their owners informed where they could come and take them. The two hundred black rascals taken alive in the Petersburg trenches, (most improperly taken alive, as they proclaimed "No quarter,") now that they are in our hands, are worth half a million. It may be hoped that strict examination will be made among them, and due notice given to such as have lately been robbed of such property, with a view of making restitution of such of them as are slaves.
 
The right of the Yankee Government is undoubted to enlist, or to draft, or to procure how they can, free negroes whose residence is at the North. They would have a perfect right to make war upon us with elephants, or to stampede us with wild cattle, or to set dogs upon us-and our men an equal right to kill them; a perfect right, therefore, to employ negroes as soldiers.
But they have no right to steal a man's negro, and arm him against his master; and his master, wherever he may find that stolen or runaway negro, is entitled to reclaim him. On this point, our Government is happily committed; and it can by no means evade the plain duty of restoring recaptured slaves to their owners, unless, indeed, it recognizes the validity of the Emancipation Proclamation, as well as of the Confiscation Act; but this is not to be supposed.
It was not, however, making a good beginning to march up these two hundred negroes along with nine hundred white men, as prisoners of war, through the streets of Petersburg, instead of separating them, and driving them into a pen by themselves until their status could be ascertained, and their owners, if any, found.
"Two hundred genuine Ebo-skins sprinkled among the crowd of prisoners," and placed on the same footing, was a sight, the moral effect of which on the slaves of Petersburg could not be wholesome; and it is mainly upon that ground we disapprove of the exhibition-not because they were not good enough company for the Yankees they marched with.
Without, however, going further into that matter at present, it is enough to remark that we have not, as yet, heard of any of those two hundred negroes being restored to their owners, nor met with any advertisement that they await identification.
Any one who has lost slaves, however, need not await the invitation, but ought to go at once, demand to pass the whole squad in review, and if he recognizes a stolen or runaway slave of his own or any neighbor, to reclaim him or take possession of him. Any such planter going to reclaim his slave, if he meets with any difficulty, had better not be discouraged, but demand to see one superior officer after another until he comes to General Lee. If, after all, he cannot get back his slave, or if he is not allowed to examine the "prisoners," to see whether his slave is among them, then let him communicate all the facts to the public, through the newspapers.-Richmond Dispatch, Aug. 5th.
TREATMENT OF PRISONERS.
Four representatives of the Union soldiers, now prisoners of war to the rebels and concentrated at Anderson, Georgia, have just proceeded to Washington, to state their condition to the Government, and see if some measures cannot be instituted for their speedy exchange. In their memorial, our soldiers state that 
"Col. Hill, Provost Marshal General, Confederate States Army, at Atlanta, stated to one of the undersigned that there were thirty-five thousand prisoners at Andersonville, and by all accounts from the United States soldiers who have been confined there, the number is not overstated by him. These thirty-five thousand are confined in a field of some thirty acres, enclosed by a board fence, heavily guarded. About one-third have various kinds of indifferent shelter; but upwards of thirty thousand are wholly without shelter, or even shade, of any kind, and are exposed to the storms and rains which are of almost daily occurrence; the cold dews of the night, and the more terrible effects of the sun, striking with almost tropical fierceness upon their unprotected heads. This mass of men jostle and crowd each other up and down the limits of their enclosure, in storm or sun, and others lie down upon the pitiless earth at night, with no other covering than the clothing upon their backs, few of them having even a blanket.
<C05>
Upon entering the prison, every man is deliberately stripped of money and other property; and as no clothing or blankets are ever supplied to their prisoners by the rebel authorities, the condition of the apparel of the soldiers, just from an active campaign, can be easily imagined. Thousands are without pants or coats, and hundreds without even a pair of drawers to cover their nakedness.
To these men, as indeed to all prisoners, there are issued three-quarters of a pound of bread or meal, and one-eighth of a pound of meat per day. This is the entire ration, and upon it the prisoner must live or die. The meal is often unsifted and sour, and the meat such as in the North is consigned to the soapmaker. Such are the rations upon which Union soldiers are fed by the rebel authorities, and by which they are barely holding on to life. But to starvation and exposure, to sun and storm, add the sickness which prevails to a most alarming and terrible extent. On an average, one hundred die daily. It is impossible that any Union soldier should know all the facts pertaining to this terrible mortality, as they are not paraded by the rebel authorities. Such statement as the following, made by —— —— speaks eloquent testimony. Said he:' Of twelve of us who were captured, six died: four are in the hospital, and I never expect to see them again. There are but two of us left." In 1862, at Montgomery, Alabama, under far more favorable circumstances, the prisoners being protected by sheds, from one hundred and fifty to two hundred grew sick from diarrhcea and chills, out of seven hundred. The same per centage would give seven thousand sick at Andersonville. It needs no comment, no efforts at word-painting, to make such a picture stand out boldly in most horrible colors.
Nor is this all. Among the ill-fated of the many who have suffered amputation in consequence of injuries received before capture, sent from rebel hospitals before their wounds were healed, there are eloquent witnesses of the barbarities of which they are victims. If to these facts is added this, that nothing more demoralizes soldiers and develops the evil passions of man than starvation, the terrible condition of the Union prisoners at Andersonville can be readily imagined. They are fast losing hope, and becoming utterly reckless of life. Numbers, crazed by their sufferings, wander about in a state of idiocy; others deliberately cross the 'dead line,' and are remorselessly shot down."
THE LATEST "TRAP TO CATCH GULLS."
The Boston Post of the 6th inst. has a leader, stating that " There is one thing of which our people may be assured,-the leading rebels of the South do not desire anything more than the re-election of Abraham Lincoln. They wish the republican party to remain united, and to re-elect their candidate."
Do the copperhead leaders seriously expect that this canard will take with the people? Bah! Every intelligent citizen knows that the rebel leaders are in sympathy with the northern leaders who oppose the administration of Mr. Lincoln. The Atlanta Appeal of July 20th (a leading secession paper) says:
"The greatest battle of the war will probably be fought in the immediate vicinity of Atlanta. Its result determines that of the pending northern presidential election. If we are victorious, the peace party will triumph, Lincoln's administration is a failure, and peace and southern independence are the immediate results."
Notice here the rebel grounds of hope-a rebel victory-the "triumph of the northern peace party" (democratic)-the "failure of Lincoln's administration" -"  peace and southern independence."
There is a wonderful coincidence in the language of the rebel papers and the copperhead journals. Both denounce Mr. Lincoln as a usurper-both denounce his administration as a failure. The copperhead papers speak of the despotism of the administration-the rebel papers represent Mr. Lincoln as a tyrant.
The rebel journals insist that they are fighting for their independence-the Boston Post of August 3d says, " The country is beginning to realize that it has undertaken a bigger job than it can perform, -it is beginning the realize that the rebels have rights which we are bound to respect, and which we must respect before we can bring them to their allegiance." Bold assumptions!
"The rebels," who are guilty of the greatest crime known to the laws of God or man, who have waged and prosecuted a cruel war against their rightful government, who have made themselves obnoxious to the provisions of the Constitution which declare in such case a forfeiture of all civil rights, and of life even-—yes, according to the above assertion, " the rebels have rights which we are bonud to respect."
RATIFICATION MEETING IN NEW ORLEANS,
A large and enthusiastic meeting was held in New Orleans on the 16th, to ratify the nomination of Abraham Lincoln. The meeting was held in Lafayette square, which was thronged long before the hour of opening. The New Orleans Times says of the meeting:
"The square was thronged, and that portion over which the voices of speakers could be heard was packed as herrings are packed in a barrel. The crowd surged to and fro; hats were crushed like eggshells, and corns crushed with impunity. Men never suffer such personal inconvenience in a cause they have not at heart. One thing about it struck impartial spectators as worthy of comment; it was composed of men-civilians-voters. The taunt so often hurled at loyal men that their meetings are composed of soldiers and women, received a straight out and out, square denial. We did not know there were half so many voters in the city. They were all there, and with heart and soul ratified the nomination of Abraham Lincoln and Andrew Johnson."
E. H. Durell presided, and the list of Vice Presidents was largely composed of natives and old residents of New Orleans. Capt. John L. Swift, now Adjutant General of Louisiana, made the speech of the evening. The following extract will show the character of his speech, which was warmly applauded:
"This is the golden moment to take the initiative. We have hedged and higgled on this matter of slavery until continued hesitation would be the height of folly. The immutable decrees of fate, the unyielding logic of events, call upon us to trifle no longer with God or our own welfare. We have purred the backs of semi-secessionists, have dandled the phantasm of the South returning to its sense and allegiance, till no man, fit to be outside of a lunatic asylum, now entertains the delusion. Governmental offers of pardon have been haughtily rejected, its amnesties have been grossly abused, and all attempted movements in favor of peace have been juggleries on the part of the South, and puerile inanities on the part of the North. It is time to stop the play. Independence is the fixed and iron purpose of the leaders of the South. Invincible and inviolable nationality is the war-cry of loyalty. If the South are to fight for their object at the risk of extermination, we are as inflexibly determined to march our last man and spend our last dollar for the integrity of the Republic. When the South is tired of fighting, it will be as tired of slavery; when it is ready to lay down its arms, it will be "ready to lay down slavery with them. The path of freedom is the only highway to an indestructible Union-a hearty co-operation between the sections and the immeasurable glory that awaits a common government and a common destiny,"
We publish elsewhere a singular correspondence between several worthy radical, gentlemen and Mr. Fremont. It is sufficiently ludicrous to see the way in which Mr. Stearns and his comrades seek to elevate the Fremont movement into importance by gravely proposing the withdrawal of Mr. Lincoln, and, as an offset and sort of quid proposing <illegible>, the withdrawal of the infinitesimal small claims, and chances of Mr. Fremont. It seems, however, that the latter is disposed to carry the joke still farther, and accordingly, with all the soberness in the world, he declines to withdraw his name, but proposes a new Convention.
This would be all very good and refreshing as matter of joke in this warm weather, if the election of a President for the next four years were not so serious a matter. We cannot bear such trifling at the hands of men who ought to be earnestly at work supporting the chosen candidate of the loyal men of the country. The party represented at Baltimore and the party to be represented at Chicago are the only parties whose candidates demand any man's serious attention. Indiscreet, digcon-
<C06>
tented, and ambitions persons,-the disloyal and the factious, may increase or lessen the chances of one or the other of these candidates by the course they may pursue. They can do nothing more. This is the simple matter of fact.
Mr. Lincoln was the choice of a <illegible> fairly representing the loyal men of the country. He is supported with enthusisastic approbation by the great body of the loyal people of the country. It is mere folly and factiousness in loyal men to promote the disorganization of the Republican party and the success of their opponents, by attempting to spread the impression that Mr. Lincoln is to be abandoned, or by doing anything but striving earnestly to secure his reelection.-Boston Daily Advertiser.

"LAY OF THE MODERN KONSERVATIV."
I go for the vigorous conduct of war, 	
(Of course with a decent regard tu figgers, 
So ez not tu inkresse aur national debt,)
And, abuv all, not to free the niggers. 
I'd rather the North hed not pulled a trigger,
Than see a traitor shot down by a nigger.
Yes, I am a real Konservativ; 
I stand by the Konstitushun, I du! 
Ef enny wun sez I'm friends with the Saouth, 
I'll swear by hokey it isn't true! 
I an't a rebel; but he-m!—speak low-
I kinder believe in Vallandigham, though!
A PARODY-AFTER LEIGH HUNT.
BY UPSON DOWNS.
Jefferson Davis (may his tribe decrease!)
Awoke one night with ague in his knees;
Seeing within the moonlight of his room 
A female form resplendent as the moon; 
Columbia, writing in a book of gold, 
Exceeding brass had made Jeff. Davis bold, 
And to the presence in the room he said; 
"What writest thou?" The vision raised its head, 
And with a look all dignity and calm, 
Answered: "The names of those who love our Uncle Sam."
" And is mine one? " said Davis. "Nay, not so," 
Replied Columbia. Davis spoke more low, 
But cheerily still, and said: "I pray thee, then, 
Write me the names of those who hate their fellomen."
Another parody on the same poem reads as follows:-
ABOU BEN BUTLER.
Abou Ben Butler (may his tribe increase!) 
Awoke one night down by the old Belize,
And saw, outside the comfort of his room, 
Making it warmer for the gathering gloom, 
A black man shivering in the winter cold, 
Exceeding courage made Ben ButlerBulter bold, 
And to the presence in the dark he said: 
" What wantest thou?" The figure raised its head, 
And with a look made of all sad accord, 
Answered-"The men who'll serve the purpose of the Lord." 
" And am I one ?" said Butler. "Nay, not so,"
Replied the black man. Butler spoke more low,
But cheerily still ; and said: " As I am Ben, 
You'll not have cause to tell me that again!"
The figure bowed and vanished. The next night 
It came once more, environed strong in light, 
And showed the names whom love of Freedom blessed, 
And, lo! Ben Butler's name led all the rest.
GLIMPSES OF LIFE AT THE SOUTH. Among a party of forty-five rebel prisoners, who arrived at New Orleans from Mobile Bay, was an intelligent rebel officer, whose statements are thus reported in the New Orleans Era:
That officer states "that many of the officers as well as private soldiers were heartily sick and tired of the rebellion. He has a wife and three children, and the last time he heard from them, his wife had sold her last valuable dress to obtain bread for the children. He says the people are suffering terribly, and that Georgia, his native State, is almost ruined by the rebellion. He was satisfied that if Jeff. Davis and those acting with him as leaders in the rebellion were only made to suffer one half what the people of the rebel States have had to undergo, they would have long since ceased their diabolical work of inciting and driving a portion of our people, whose authority they have usurped, into a state of cruel and hopeless rebellion against the Constitution and laws of the land."
THE MONITOR TECUMSEH. The following is a list of persons saved from the monitor Tecumseh, when she sunk in the harbor of Mobile Bay: Acting Master Chas. F. Langley, Acting Ensign G. Cottrell, Acting Ensign Chas. H. Pennington, Captain's Clerk Josiah Conley, Quartermaster's mate Samuel H. Shinn, Quarter Gunner James Guield, seaman Wm. O'Brien, ordinary seaman Richard Collins, landsman Peter Parker.
Captain Craven succeeded in getting out of the vessel before she went down, but is supposed to have been drawn into the downward current produced by the sinking vessel.
The survivors of the iron-clad Tecumseh, sunk by a torpedo near Mobile, unite in a statement, as follows:
"Our gallant captain's intention was to butt the ram and fire the two solid shot at the same time, but ere he could give the order to revolve the turret, a trope do or infernal machine exploded under us, causing the water to rush up into the berth-deck and turret chamber, where nothing but confusion and despait reigned., The gun's crews and those that were in the pilot house succeeded in getting out before she settled down beneath the waves. We had three boats towing alongside, two of which were immediately filled and swamped. We succeeded in cutting the painter of the third one, and commenced to pull as fast as we could for the fleet."
Guerillas have been fearfully active all along Gen. Sheridan's recent line of march. Mosby is making his name more and more atrocious. Several of our men shot by his band were found hung by the legs, and others with sheep-skins stuffed in their mouths. About a hundred men, belonging to the 1st. 9th and 7th Michigan Cavalry, and the 6th New York Cavalry, were literally murdered by Mosby's gang on Thursday night of last week, some having been found with their throats cut. Mosby has raised the black flag, and woe to those who have to be retaliated upon, as our soldiers declare that shall be the rule whenever chance or opportunity offers.
PIERCE'S PATENT SLATE SURFACE. A new blackboard surface has lately been very extensively introduced into the schools of the Commonwealth, which the 
" Massachusetts Teacher"—the best authority-says is a great improvement, and bears a perfect resemblance to real slate. It can readily be applied to any smooth surface, hardens speedily, does not crack or peel off, cannot be softened by any known liquid, receives readily crayon or pencil marks on its perfectly dead surface, which will allow marks made on it to be seen clearly from any angle of position, and never becomes glossy. A thorough test has satisfied the authorities of Cambridge that over 2000 square feet of it must be used in the new high school-house there.-Boston Journal.
The aggregate amount of all the real estate in Boston for 1864 is estimated by the Assessors at $182,072,200; amount of personal estate, $150,377,660 -total amount of real and personal estate , $332,449,900. The number of polls is 32,832, or 786 less than last year. Augustus Hemmenway is the largest taxpayer, being taxed for $161,400 real estate, and $2,000,000 personal estate, making a total of $82,161,400, 
and being $61,000 more than the amount he was taxed for last year.
It is charged upon some of our black soldiers that, in a recent raid, they didn't even respect the persons of Southern white women. Very wrong in them, and they should have been shot ; but, alter all that was done or can be said, wherein was their conduct worse than that of Southern white men, who have n't respected the persons of white women for these two hundred years and more? The black soldiers only followed the chivalric example of the "superior race." Slavery is not a school in which to learn forbearance and fairness.-Traveller.
RAISING THE PRICE OF NEWSPAPERS. The price of the Boston daily newspapers has been raised from three to five cents per copy, and to yearly subscribers a corresponding increase. This has been rendered necessary by the great increase in the price of paper, and other materials used in the making of them, as well as in the price of labor. The papers published weekly in that city have also been increased in price, as they have also in many other cities and towns in the country.
John A. Lewis of Boston, who has recently visited Hilton Head, has reported to Gov. Andrew the sanitary condition of the 54th and 55th regiments. He says that nowhere in the rebel States as regiments He says that nowhere in the rebel States are regiments better located, and the number of sick in camp hospitals is smaller than in other departments. The scurvy, however, is manifesting itself, and a great increase is feared unless vegetables are furnished.


