THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT. 
TERMS—Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISION, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our Country are all mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 48. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1660.
<c01>
REFUGE OF OPPRESSION.
From the London Morning Star of Nov. 1.
MR. G.W.P. BENTINCK, M.P., ON AMERICAN AFFAIRS.
 KINGS LYNN, Oct. 31.
The annual meeting of the Marshland Agricultural Association was held last evening at Terrington, St. Clements's, near this town. The chair was occupied by Mr. G. W. P. BENTINCK, M. P., for West Norfolk, the honorable gentleman being supported by several of the leading inhabitants of the district.
 After the usual loyal and patriotic toasts, Mr. P. PITCHER proposed "The County Members." (Cheers.)
Mr. BENTINCK, M.P., in acknowledging the compliment, alluded to the rule by which party politics were excluded from discussion at the meetings of the society, and then proceeded to observe: But there are questions which interest, and which I may say are convulsing the whole world, upon which it would be disrespectful to those whom I have the honor of addressing if I should be silent upon the present occasion, and perhaps the most prominent of these questions is that most marvelous and most melancholy state of things which exists on the other side of the Atlantic. (Hear, hear.) There is nothing probably in history which can be compared in point, neither of the marvelous or the horrible, with what is going on in that country, which formerly used to be called the United States of America. How far they at present deserve that designation, I leave it to you to decide. The interest felt in this country upon the subject is immensely increased by the deep stake which we ourselves have in the solution of the question, and in the wide-felt misery now prevailing in various parts of the country, from the existing condition of things in the United States. But there is one view of the question upon which I would venture to express a very decided opinion, and to which I would venture to call our most especial attention. Whenever any question has been raised in public meetings or elsewhere, upon the state of things on the other side of the Atlantic, the attempt has always been made to introduce into the discussion the elements of the merits or the demerits of the institution of slavery. Now, I beg to begin by stating, as far as my individual opinion may be of interest in the matter, that no man in the kingdom loathes more sincerely than I do that institution. I believe it to be barbarous. Believe it to be anti-Christian. I believe in to be everything that is detestable; but I for one am not prepared to be blinded by my feelings—or, if you choose to call them so, my prejudices—against the institution of slavery, into looking at events in America through what I contend is a thoroughly false medium. I contend that the question of slavery has nothing whatever to do either with the feud which is now going on between the Northern and the Southern States; nor has, nor ought it to have, anything to do with the light in which that fend ought to be regarded by the people of this country. And I will tell you why I hold that opinion. In the first place, let us take the conduct of the Northern States? Premising that they are now upholding what they call the standard of the abolition of slavery, what has been their conduct? Why, in the first place, they have invariably upheld and maintained, up to the outbreak of the present civil war, the institution of slavery; and they have gone further—they have declared that the black man is unfit to exist within the precincts of civilization. They deny him the rights of a human being; and yet these men now arrogate to themselves the title of Abolitionists. Why, there never was a ranker, or grosser, or more monstrous farce than their so attempting to designate themselves. (Hear, hear.) So long as slavery was profitable to them, they were perfectly prepared to support it; the moment they saw a pecuniary advantage in declaiming against slavery, they began to declaim against it, and that is the "abolition" feeling in the Northern States of America. But they have gone further; they have issued within the last few weeks—almost within the last few days—a proclamation, not against the institution of slavery, but inciting the slaves in the South to acts of murder and arson, which at once describes the feeling with which they originally looked upon the institution of slavery—viz., as one which was only to be dealt with for political or for profitable objects; and they have, at the same time, shown that they are utterly divested of the common feelings of humanity. (Hear, hear.) Let any man for a moment figure to himself what would be the effect in the southern States, if the proclamation of Mr. Lincoln on the subject of slavery were acted upon. Why, it would lead to a wholesale massacre of human beings, black and white, so extensive and so horrible that I will undertake to say there is nothing in the history of the known world which could be compared to it. And yet these are the men who new turn round, and ask for the sympathy of Englishmen, in their newly assumed character of the abolitionists of slavery! But, gentlemen, I am afraid there is a still darker side to the picture. I may be right or I may be wrong, but at all risks it has been my habit, not only here but elsewhere, to say what I thing—(cheers)—and to take the chance of what anybody else may have to say in reply. Now, I for one—and I say it with grief and deep regret—am bound to assert that even our own beloved country does not come out scot-free in point of reputation upon the question of slavery. I only advert to this because the attempt is being constantly made to enlist the sympathies of Englishmen on behalf of the Northern States of America, upon the plea that they are sincere Abolitionists—which I thing I have succeeded in proving they are not. But I go further, and I say that this country is not in a position to take that high line—I say it with deep regret, but I challenge contradiction when I assert that this country is not in a position to take up the high line of saying that, at all costs, and at all risks, we will stand out for the abolition of slavery. What has been the conduct of this country? It is perfectly true that many years ago we spent 20,000,000/- for the purpose of emancipating our West Indian slaves. The spirit in which that was done was admirable, and no man probably within the four seas of Britain will be found to dispute the good intentions of those who promoted and who carried that measure. The manner in which it was carried out was melancholy; for the result of it was, that you spent 20,000,0000/- For the simple purpose of deteriorating the position of the slave whom you meant to benefit. But that is not the question. The point to which I want to come is this: Some years subsequent to that, a controversy arose in this country, upon the merits of which I am not now about to enter, but which must be extremely familiar to those whom I have now the honor of addressing—the controversy of free trade and protection. Among the points fought and argued with reference to that question, a motion was made in the House of Commons, calling upon the 
<c02>
Parliament of England, after they had sanctioned, the outlay of 20.000,000/. for the abolition of slavery in the West Indies, further to evince their detestation of that institution by putting a duty upon slave-grown sugar. as opposed to sugar the produce of free labor. That was a clear and distinct issue raised, " Will you or will you not confirm the verdict which you have given by the expenditure of 20.000,000., by putting upon sugar the produce of j slave labor a differential duty which shall give in the market a preponderance in favor of sugar produced by the labor of free men? " Well, what was the answer of the House of Commons? They said, "No; we think we have a higher duty to perform; we will not do anything even for the purpose of putting a stop to the institution of slavery which shall militate against the great principles of free trade'." I am not going to enter into the merits or the demerits of that financial measure, but I ask—" Are we, after such a decision, given by the Parliament of this country, and with the consent of this country, to put ourselves forward, and to say that we are champions of the abolition of that institution?" Why, the things is simply absurd. But what was the sequel to that? We went on, up to two years ago —the Manchester mill-owner, the country generally. Great Britain and Ireland united—accepting, without hesitation and without remorse, slave-grown or slave-produced cotton as long as it was profitable, and as long as it was convenient to work that cotton, and it could be done beneficially: but the very moment the supply of cotton failed, up rose all those gentlemen in arms and said, " Oh, we must support the North, because we cannot submit to this frightful atrocity, this enslaving of our fellow-men; and we must support the North, who are the honest abolitionists of that system." Why, did it never occur to these gentlemen before that all this cotton was produced by slave labor? As long as they could benefit by it, and filled their pockets by the produce of slave labor, their mouths were shut; but the moment their pockets were shut, their mouths were open—(laughter)—and we have heard nothing ever since but the shouts and cries, and cheers of abolitionist meetings, in order to explain that we Englishmen are all brutes if we do not unite, in the cry for the abolition of slavery. Well, we all join in that cry; but I can say this, that I would have voted, if I had been in Parliament then, against that very vote which preferred slave-grown sugar to interference with the principles of free trade; and I would now give my vote against it most cordially and most honestly, because I was never an assenting party to it as long as I could put money in my pocket by the transaction. But that is not the case, with those who are most open-mouthed in this matter.
What I come to, then, is this,—in the name of common sense and reason, before we begin to discuss the question of the feud on the other side of the Atlantic, let us drop the question of slavery, and as Englishmen let us be thankful if nobody revives it, for it is a downright mockery to introduce that question into the discussion. (Hear, hear.)
Having told you frankly my own feelings, as one detesting slavery, and asked you to put that question aside altogether" and having, I think, given you fair reasons for that request, let us for a moment, since this war is convulsing and exciting the whole world, consider what was the design of this marvellous war —for marvellous it is for its magnitude and its results. There is a very distinguished statesman who now holds the portfolio for foreign affairs, who on a former occasion, in talking of the feud between the Northern and the Southern States, described their position in these words,—"that the North was fighting for empire, and the South for independence." I quite accept the latter assertion, but I deny that the North is fighting for empire. The men of the North an- fighting for what most men fight, and for what, unfortunately, most men fight with the most zeal,— they arc fighting for dollars. (Hear, hear.) Their position now is exactly the converse, in my humble opinion, of what their position was in the days of what was called the American rebellion, when they were themselves fighting to evade the taxes imposed by the mother country. They were described in those day? by one of the greatest poets in this country—a man equally remarkable for his talents as a poet, and for the extreme liberality of his opinions. He went over to America fully impressed, as many others have been, with the perfection of American institutions. He remained there a few mouths, and he described them in these few short lines:—
"Those vaunting demagogues mho nobly rose
From England's debtors to be England's foes;
Who could their monarch in their purse forget,
And break allegiance but to cancel debt." 
(Laughter and cheers.) That was the opinion of an ultra-Liberal poet a good many years ago; and therefore you will not wonder, perhaps, that people less liberal may not think very highly of their position at present. But what is the relative position of the North and the South? Why, the Northerners owe their very existence to a successful rebellion. But for the results of that successful rebellion, they would have been like any other colony of this country subject to the Government of England—subject to the taxation of England—and virtually subjects of England, as I am happy to think we all are. I don't envy their separation; but if the North—if the United States of America wen1 justified, as doubtless they conceive that they were at the act of rebellion which successfully separated them from the dominion of this country—1 would ask in the name of common sense and reason upon what ground can the Northern States object to the Southerners following precisely the example which they themselves bad set not seventy years ago? (Hear, bear.)
What is the meaning of Federal institutions? What is the meaning of republicanism? I am not, I confess, partial to that description of Government: I am an Englishman, and then-fore I hope I have other feelings and other views. But what is its meaning, if it has a meaning? Why, it means in
plain English this:—If you take it as a question of states. it means that every State is at liberty, whenever the time arrives that it is no longer convenient to be a member of the federation of which it has hitherto formed part, to take its own line and set up for itself. I am inclined to think that republicanism means even more—that every individual who has the means and power, has a perfect right to set up for himself. (Laughter.) I know no limit to it. I confess 1 know no limit to the length of the tether ' which ought to be given to those who uphold republican institutions; and therefore I am at a loss to understand upon what grounds the North can have any cause of complaint against the Southern States, for exorcising a right which is admitted and almost ' inculcated both by Federal arrangements and Republican institutions. (Hear, hear.) Bat why is it that, whenever one goes in all parts of England, one; always finds—thoroughly as 1 believe that the institution of slavery is detested in this country—every: man sympathizing strongly with the Southerners, and wishing them all success? (cheers.) I do not beg, the question; but all 1 can say is, that, as far as my 1 experience goes, throughout the length and breadth I of the land, wherever 1 have travelled, I never yet it have met the man who has not at once said, "My
<c03>
wishes are with the Southerners." Why is that? I think there is more than one reason for it. In the first place, the good sense of Englishmen has shown them that the question of slavery must be entirely eliminated from the discussion, that it is altogether a thing apart, and that it is mere hypocrisy and fraud to try to introduce it. There is no reference to the question whatever in considering the relative position of the North and the South, or the relative position of this country with reference to these two belligerents. Then why is it that we sympathize with the South, as I venture to think, from the way in which you have received my remarks, you agree with me that we all do? We do so for these reasons—First, they have fought—to do them justice— with a degree of gallantry almost unexampled, under circumstances of the utmost difficulty, under every description of privation; they have fought like heroes for their homos, their wives, and their children. (Cheers.) That alone is enough to enlist the sympathies of Englishmen, and I trust in God the time will never come when it will not enlist their sympathies.
But there is a still stronger feeling. The turn of events has resolved into this—the Englishman loves liberty, and the Southerner is fighting no longer for his life, but for that which is dearer than life—his liberty. (Hear, hear.) He is fighting for his home, for his liberty; he is fighting one of the most grinding, one of the most galling, one of the most irritating attempts to establish tyrannical government that ever disgraced the history of the world. (Cheers.) I venture to think that that, in itself, is a sufficient ground for what I believe is the universal sympathy, with one or two exceptions, which is felt on the present occasion towards the men of the South.
This frightful struggle has been going on for nearly two years, and I would ask whether it is possible in history to find records of such attempts at the establishment of an undivided tyranny as is to be found in the history of the last two months of the Northern States, or whether we have not had sufficient proof that, of all tyranny, the most odious and the most galling is the tyranny of a Democracy? (Hear, hear.) I, for one, loathe all tyrannies; but if I was bound to undergo the greatest amount of suffering morally that any man can be called upon to endure—namely, that of writhing under a tyranny—at least defend me from the tyranny of a Democracy! But there are exceptions to everything, and men have been found in this country whose, business—I might almost say whose trade—it has been to praise American institutions. I am happy to think that, for the honor and the credit of old England, the number of those men is very few; and I believe those attempts have been chiefly confined to democrats working for their own selfish purposes, and to hired spouters who are deputed to speak in the name of some so-called "association," and who are afterwards remunerated for their services in so speaking by handing a begging-box round the country, and by attempting to dignify that begging-box by the appellation of a testimonial. ("Hear, hear," and laughter.) There was an association of this kind a good many years ago—I am not going into the merits or demerits of the views which they held, but they practised this system most successfully. They endeavored to persuade the laboring population of the agricultural districts, that the best thing for them was to depreciate the price of the produce of their labor; and they endeavored to persuade the people of England that they were struggling to obtain cheap food for the people, when their one object was to obtain cheap labor for themselves. (Hear.) Those are bygone days; but a new association has been shadowed forth lately, and the professed object of this association, coming out under very similar auspices, is to persuad the people of England, that the best turn they can do themselves is to set to work at once to destroy those means by which they have hitherto maintained that maritime superiority, which, for centuries past, has constituted the pride and the security of this country. I have no doubt that, when the proper time comes, the begging-box will again make its appearance (laughter), and that we shall have appeals made in the name of the country for those disinterested patriots; but I have so much faith in the good sense and the honesty of Englishmen, that I believe these stipendiary patriots will be met as they deserve, and that all the wretched compound of trash and treason which they have poured forth will meet with the contempt which it deserves. (Cheers.)
But, gentlemen, there is one comfort,—that the praise of Northern institutions is confined to that class of men to whom I have ventured to advert. It is a distasteful subject, and happily there are few of them; but I am glad I may venture to think that you agree with me in my appreciation of them. But, at all events, there is no doubt that the great mass of Englishmen loathe tyranny in all shapes, but they loathe more especially the description of tyranny which has been practised on the inhabitants of the Southern States during the last two years by what is called a Republican Government. And if that alone were not sufficient to explain the. strong feeling in favor of the South which exists in this country, there is a tenfold stronger reason for it, and that is in the downright barbarism and brutality—I use strong words, but I contend that they are justified by the circumstances, and am prepared to abide by them—which has characterized those who have had the conduct of affairs in the Northern States. I have already adverted to the proclamation which was lately issued as a tardy and lame attempt to induce the people of this country to believe that this is an "abolition" war; because, after all, all their legislation and all their acts have reference to us and our opinion of them; they think of nothing else; the only idea they have is what is said of them in England, and they have not heard much that will please them, I should think, for some time past. (Laughter.) That proclamation, which really was a piece of clap-trap in the first place to catch the people of England.—look at its real meaning and its real bearing. The object of it was to encourage and arm the blacks, to infuriate these unfortunate I and misguided people, to put arms into their hands, and to generate, merely for purposes of aggression, upon men whom they cannot defeat in fair fight, one of the most horrible massacres of old men and women and children, that ever disgraced the annals of the world. That is the proclamation that has made such a sensation during the last few weeks, and that is enough in itself to disgust every honest man with the author of such a document. But there is worse than that. I ask you, is there anything upon record that can be compared to the barbarities practised by a certain General Butler—(hear, bear)—upon the defenceless inhabitants of New Orleans? Recollect that the inhabitants of that unfortunate town are reduced to the old men, and women, and children. Surely in the nineteenth century, and in a country! that claims the slightest right to call itself a civilized nation, the position of old men. women, and children would have established some claim to sympathy, and to tolerance at least, if not to kindness. But what has been the effect upon this barbarian? Why, there is no act of brutality which be has not been prepared to advocate and to practise against defence-
<c04>
less women; and be has followed that op by encouraging, in every possible way, the butchery of the whites by the blacks. This has been done in cold blood, and in open defiance of all humanity and of all civilization; and I say that, so long as such acts are performed and are avowed by the Government of the Northern States, they cease to have a claim to be ranked among civilized nations. (Hear, hear.) I am not asserting that there are not hundreds and thousands of men in the Northern States who are men of education—of right and of Christian feeling—of civilized habits and ideas. Far be it from me to make so unfounded an assertion. But there is a farther lesson to be learned. The result of these much-vaunted institutions which we have heard praised before, and which we shall again hear praised by the hired spouters of associations, is this, that the nation becomes so brutalized that the civilized man disappears—he is afraid to put himself forward—he is ashamed of his country—he has no voice in the conduct of her affairs—and the whole nation is turned over to men such as Lincoln and Butler, whom I do not hesitate to denounce after their conduct in the last few months as men who are a disgrace to civilization. (Hear, hear.) But, gentlemen, if we look as every man of right feeling must with regret upon these horrible scenes, it is always wise at least to profit by experience. I cannot help thinking there is a grave and serious and valuable lesson to be learnt by every man in this country, and I think we have seen the fruits of that lesson. I am speaking in no party sense, and I think you have known me some years now, and know that I am not a blind partisan—that. I always say what I think without reference to party or men, and that I only uphold measures—but I see a change in the mind and feeling of the me people of this country upon the question to which I am going to refer. I think the lesson which has been taught us by the state of affairs in the Northern States of America has not been lost upon this country. I think we have learned to estimate, in latter years, more fully than we did formerly, the blessing of those institutions under which it is our good fortune to live. (Cheers.) I think no man who has given the commonest attention to the progress of the history of Europe and of the world generally, can have failed to observe that under Providence this country for many years past has been most signally and remarkably blessed; that speaking with due humility as to the dispensations of Providence in the future, up to the present time we have been indebted mainly to our political institutions—I may say to our monarchical institutions, for that happy state in which we have lived for so many centuries—that absence alike of foreign and of civil war, the parallel of which is not to be found in the history of any other country. I am quite aware that, strongly as I for one feel in favor of the monarchical institutions of the country, circumstances have of late years given to those institutions a position and a hold upon the feelings of the people which under ordinary circumstances they might not have had. It has been the happy fate of this country to have been for nearly a quarter of a century reigned over by a sovereign whose public and whose private character have alike tended to endear her to her subjects, and to adorn those institutions and that Government of which she has been the head. (Cheers.) But making every allowance for the tendency which the virtues of the sovereign, both public and private, have had upon the minds of men to endear them to monarchical institutions, I believe the feeling of loyalty and attachment to those institutions is one of the deepest and strongest feelings in the hearts of Englishmen; and that so long as that feeling continues to exist, under Providence, we may defy fate, and confidently hope for the welfare and prosperity of the country. (Cheers.) But, gentlemen, we may at least derive a lesson from this. We have our party views and party objects. We have our party fights. I wish I was keener about them, but that does not matter; but those who take a deeper interest than I do in party feuds will, at all events, not think me presumptuous if I ask them— whenever those questions which are happily now in abeyance are again brought before us, and we are called upon to discuss the merits or demerits, or the possible improvement of the constitution of this country, of its government, and of its representation—to pause and to think carefully before they tamper rashly with those institutions which up to the present time have made this country the envy and the admiration of the world. (Cheers.) But it is impossible to leave this question without touching upon the only remaining subject, in reference to the state of affairs in America, which really, after all, is the most important one. There is a very old saving, that there is no use in crying over the past. What are we to do for the future? That is the position in which this country, and much of Europe, finds itself in reference to the state of affairs in America. What is to be done? I have ventured to think that there is but one rational, one just, one beneficial course for this country to pursue, and that is at once to recognise, publicly and officially, the independence of the Southern States. (Cheers.) I am not speaking now under the impression of the events of the moment, because, however unimportant the fact may be (and I do not ask you to lay any stress upon that), I ventured to urge in the House of Commons the opinion which I am now venturing to put before you. I urged it to the best of my ability, and, like many other good intentions, it failed in its effect, and produced no result whatever. But I then held, as I now hold, the opinion that the attempts of the North to reconquer the South must be futile and hopeless. And all I ask you to consider is this, whether, if I was justified in holding that opinion which I held and expressed in March last, the present position of affairs in the Northern States does not at least confirm that opinion tenfold. (Hear, hear.) It appears now to be perfectly hopeless that the North should ever conquer the South. There is no prospect of a termination of this horrible sacrifice of human life, except by the recognition of the Southern States by this country and by France; and therefore upon that ground alone I venture to urge it. The only argument I have ever beard against it is this; we are told by learned men that it would be an outrage upon what they are pleased to term international law. That is a subject much too abstruse to enter upon. I do not understand it—I am not equal to it—but all I know is this, that as far as international law is concerned, there is ample precedent for the recognition at the present moment, and even at a much earlier period of the war, of the independence of the Southern States by the Government of this country. Recollect what we did with respect to Belgium—recollect what we did with respect to Greece. Those in themselves are precedents perfectly sufficient to satisfy in my humble opinion all those who choose to argue the question upon the point of international law. But there is a much more serious view of the question than that. What has been the effect of the war on America upon an immense portion of the population of this country? What is the amount of distress which is now being endured, and that with an amount of patience, forbearance, sound judgment, and good feeling, which, I say, reflects honor upon the people of this country general-
<c05>
ly,-what is the amount of distress which is feeing, endured, and which can be attributed solely to the effects of this war? Why, it is incalculable. We are told day after day that the numbers of those who are suffering are increasing. There seems to be no limit to the extent of it. We are told that if cotton were once introduced, that distress would cease. I say again—with precedent in our favor, with the existence of enormous distress in this country, and putting aside as I do as a mere piece of hypocrisy and absurdity the introduction of the element of slavery into the discussion—I say, without reference to party, without reference to anything but what I believe to be indispensable to the welfare and character of this country—that we are bound at once to recognise the independence of the Southern Stales of America. (Cheers.)
The proceedings of the remainder of the evening were of an ordinary character. 

SELECTIONS 
REMOVAL OF GEN. MCCLELLAN 
Gen. McClellan has been removed from the command of the army of the Potomac. Not because of his demonstrated incompetence, which has brought the country to the verge of ruin, but because of' insubordination and wilful disregard of the orders of his superiors in authority. A letter published from Gen. Halleck, Commander-in-Chief. reveals the fact that on the 1st of October, Gen. McClellan having delayed for two weeks to follow up the battle of Antietam, was " urged to cross the potomac," and prosecute the war so as to bring about some decisive results, but did not do so. On the 6th of October, "he was PEREMPTORILY ORDEREO to cross the river, give battle to the enemy, or drive him South. Your army," continued the order, "MUST MORE WHILE The roads are good." Still Gen. McClellan persisted in his traditional policy of inaction. It has been alleged that he could not move from lack of supplies, but his allegation is disproved by the highest official evidence, and by Gen. McClellan's own confession. There were no greater obstacles to his movement than are, incident to the operations of any large army whatever, nor any which a competent General would not have despised and set aside on the instant. The consequence has been, the complete waste of the best portion of the year for operations in the field, the advent of winter", and the escape of the rebel army from the Valley of the Shenandoah —involving new operations on a distant base, under difficulties a hundred fold greater than McClellan was called on to encounter.
For this result, and the consequent prolongation of the war, with all its train of evils at home and dangers from abroad, Gen. McClellan is directly responsible. For this disregard of the solicitations of the President, urged in person, and for his disobedience to the peremptory orders of the Commander-in-Chief, (by no means the first offence of the kind of which he has been guilty,) he has been finally removed from a position which he was incompetent to fill, and in which he has been so long and fatally retained by the weakness of a President conscious of his incapacity and thoroughly acquainted with his military derelictions. His long retention in command will be a puzzle to posterity, for which human ingenuity will fail to discover an adequate reason.
That after the defeat of Bull Run, planned by an antediluvian General, who did not believe in repressing the rebels by force, the nation should turn to the first officer who had acquired some prestige of success, is explicable enough. Gen. McClellan was that man. He had the eclat of a campaign in Western Virginia, a very small affair at best, but successful. And albeit he never commanded in a single one of the skirmishes or battles, and was never within hearing of a single gun fired in anger, in all that campaign; and albeit that Rosecrans fought the battle of Rich Mountain, and Morris and Benham that of Carrick's Ford, Gen. McClellan received the credit of the campaign, and, in consequence, the command of the defeated army at Washington.
Great credit has been given him for having reorganized that army, and converted it from a defeated mob into a disciplined force. But the single truth is, it was the lesson of Bull Run which reorganized the army. It taught the Government and people that the war was no holiday parade, and that organization, discipline and discretion were indispensable to success. The soldiers appreciated the necessity of all these, and conformed themselves willingly to the requisite conditions. That Gen. McClellan and his officers gave the technical directions in the case, is undoubted; but any officer schooled at West Point could have done the same without mistaking himself for a Napoleon.
On the 1st of November, 1861, the disordered fugitives from Bull Run, whom it was gross burlesque to call an army, had been converted into a well-organized, splendidly-equipped, high-spirited army of 200,000 men, eager for action, and impatient to wipe out the disgrace of July. The time had come, the enemy was in front, the weather was superb, and there was no conceivable condition wanting to make action imperative, and to insure success. Then came out the fatal defects in Gen. McClellan's character—indecision, lack of confidence, hesitation and a moral cowardice which has ever sought to postpone until to-morrow the responsibility of to-day. Then became manifest—and all competent observers were slowly and painfully compelled to admit—that Gen. McClellan lacked all of the great and most of the essential qualities of a Commander, and that the splendid army of the Potomac had at its head an officer whose capacities fitted him for nothing higher than the chief of a bureau in the Department of War!
We have not the heart to refer to the waste of the month of November, and of the fine month of December, during which God staved back the winter that our army might move. Nor can we refer, except with a sickening sensation, to the blockade of the Potomac, and the retention, all the weary winter in quarters only fit for summer, of the magnificent army of the Potomac, while the Capital was beleaguered, as the result has proved, by an illyprovided rebel force of not exceeding one-third of the numbers which Gen. McClellan had under his command. Nor can we recall with patience the miserable fiasco of Young Napoleon, when, after being almost literally driven out of Washington, be advanced on Manassas, to find its fortifications ridiculous impostures, with the brilliant concomitant of wooden guns, and the enemy snugly quartered in Richmond!
Then came the next illustration of McClellan's genius in the advance on Richmond. When the bulk of his army landed at Fortran Monroe, the rebels had bat 8,000 men at Yorktown, prepared for retreat, and our army might have walked over Its boasted fortifications without firing a gun. But the Commander wasted fifteen precious days in waiting for the driblets of his force to arrive, while
<c06>
the enemy, whom object, as well as clew policy, was to gain time, reinforced Yorktown, and reoccupied the batteries at Gloucester Point, which they had abandoned from unnecessary fear of Young Napoleon's energy and promptitude!
Then came the long siege of Yorktown, in which an army of fighters was converted into an army of diggers, and the energy which would have glorified a charge was exhausted in the trenches. One cool morning, while the miniature Napoleon was planning new parallels, and learning new lessons from the mole, calling for more men and heavier cannon, lo! the sun rose on Yorktown deserted. An inadequate pursuing force was thrown forward, and the main army kept back, while McClellan telegraphed far and wide as a victory what was practically a defeat. Eight hours was allowed to intervene between the advance and the supports which should have been close behind it; and during those eight hours was fought the bloody fight of Williamsburg— that bloody and indecisive fight, which, had McClellan known, or acted in conformity with the elementary rules of war, might have been converted into a glorious victory, and sealed the fate of Richmond. But Young Napoleon was then as ever far in the rear; and when he did come up, after all was over, he sent forth, a flaming dispatch, which ignored utterly the terrible fight of Hooker and Heintzel- man, and glorified the skirmish—and a brilliant one it was—of his relative Hancock.
The enemy, a second time within his grasp, escaped to Richmond, and McClellan planted his army in the reeking and pestilent swamps of the Chickahominy, and kept it there for two months after the sole obstacle to his making the James river his base of operations (the Merrimac) had ceased to; exist, and until Jackson had fought a campaign n the valley of the Shenandoah, and Beauregard escaped from Halleck', and both concentrated their forces in his front! There he waited, in those deadly marshes, until the rebel army had swollen from 75,000 to 120,000 men, and until disease hail decimated his own ranks, and sent upwards of 40,000 of his men to the hospital. There he waited until attacked at Fair Oaks, coming in gallantly in person at the close of the fight in the second day. In that fight the National troops, in spite of their General, won a victory, and the road to Richmond was open, through a rapid pursui of the panic-stricken rebels. So says Kearny, and so says Hooker, and above all, so say the soldiers who fought that glorious fight.
It is well known how, after prolonged inaction, to which the ingenuity of his friends have afforded no explanation, and after the rebels had been permitted to swell their ranks until they became superior in force, Gen. McClellan achieved his " masterly change of base." Nor is it forgotten at what fearful cost of blood that achievement was effected; nor how when effected it only amounted to imprisonment on the banks of the James river, where the before splendid but now wrecked army of the Potomac was paralyzed, until relieved by the brilliant advance and persistent fighting of Gen. Pope on the Rapidan and Rappahannock, which, by occupying the enemy, allowed McClellan to escape from the military checkmate in which his incapacity had placed him.
How he requited the services of Gen. Pope, how he betrayed the man who had rescued him from the consequences of his own ignorance and folly, the world will one day learn. He deliberately permitted him, directly and through his satellites, of whom Fitzjohn Porter is chief, to be assailed in his rear, and compelled to fight superior numbers in front, while he sat moodily at Alexandria, disobeying the orders of his superiors at Washington, and organizing that infamous plot which, by threatening the existence of the Government, resulted, through the weakness of the President, in his reinstatement in command of the army, and the banishment of the man who probably saved him from a Richmond prison to the wilds of Minnesota!
Next came the campaign in Maryland, in which, after a vigorous pursuit of six miles a day, he ultimately overtook the main rebel army in its chosen position at Antietam. The field of Antietam was won not through, but in spite of McClellan, who permitted the enemy to throw the whole weight of his army on each division of the National force in detail; and, after the field was won, permitted him to escape across the Potomac in face of a soldiery eager to fructify their victory, and anxious only to escape the leaden grasp that restrained them. The result was announced in a phrase which tingled every American cheek with shame, for its characteristic puerility and weakness: u Gen Lee admits publicly that he has been shockingly whipped!'"
The battle of Antietam was fought on the 17th of September, and for nearly six weeks, comprising the whole period in which our advance was possible, Gen. McClellen lay obstinately quiet on the banks of the Potomac, with only the pleasant incident of a second march of Stuart's cavalry around his lines, and into the loyal Slates behind him. Neither the urgent appeals of the Commander-in-Chief, the personal appeals of the President, (who humiliated himself and the Nation by soliciting his subordinate to move.) nor yet the "peremptory orders" of the Government, were sufficient to rouse the General to action. And when at the last hoar, just as the snows began to whiten the hills, and the rains to soften the roads and make them impassable, a snail-like advance was ordered, which in due time disclosed that the enemy bad again escaped, and that the campaign of 1862 was over!
After fifteen months of time wasted, $300,000,000 squandered, and 80,000 lives sacrificed, the incubus which has so long weighed down the army of the
Potomac, the incompetence which has thwarted it, and the insubordination which has demoralized it, all combined in the person of Gen. McClellan, have been thrown off, and the Nation breathes freer! A soldier is at last at the head of oar gallant army. Burnside in the East, and Rosecrans in the West,
revive the hope of the people. They succeed to responsibilities not their own. under circumstances of greatest difficulty. But they are patriots as well as soldiers. Neither their associations nor their sympathies have been with traitors in arms, as were McClellan's and Buell's. Unlike the latter, May know "what the war is about." May Heaven, hitherto insulted by the instruments which we have put forward for our salvation, aid their arms and strengthen their judgments!
And now one word for ourselves, and our alleged " hostility " to Gen. McClellan. None more loyally than ourselves concurred in his appointment to the command of the army of the Potomac. Circum-stances seemed to indicate bin as the man far the occasion. We knew that he had been a favorite of Jeff. Davis, who sent him on the commission to Sebastopol. We knew that he was the intimate friend of Beauregard, Lovell and South, and was implicated with them and Quitman in their filibustering designs on Cuba. We never doubted that had he been in New Orleans instead of Cincinnati when the war broke out, he would have taken command in the rebel army, or have maintained " a dignified neutrality.- But with the honors of the North cast adventitiously full upon him, and with a
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT or THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES.... From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaver taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power.... It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to <illegible> on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hustile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."—J.Q.ADAMS.<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
command of a grandeur rarely bestowed on one so young and never on one so undeserving, we thought the Nation had purchased his fidelity and secured the utmost exertion of his capacities. It was left to experience to prove how Barrow these capacities were, and to develop that dogged conceit which have since made him impervious to remonstrance, oblivious to censure, and indifferent to orders. His delay in the autumn of 1861, his cruelty in keeping his army in summer quarters all through the winter past, his imbecility in permitting the enemy to escape from Manassas, illustrated again before York-town, and on a scale surpassing belief before Richmond, his base ingratitude towards Pope, and the later development of the same deficiencies, super-added to insubordination on the Upper Potomac, have all contributed to weaken and destroy our confidence, and convince us that, while hit appointment was a Mistake, his retention has been a crime.
In the progress of the war we have freely expressed our opinions, never from a personal consideration but with reluctance, as a public duty. Their expression has subjected us to remonstrance, to censure, and occasionally to abase. So did our arraignment—and we were the first to arraign them—of Stone and Buell, et id hoc genus omne. Public reprobation has overtaken them all. Our criticisms have been justified, and our predictions, as our readers will bear witness, have been fulfilled.
It only remains to purge the army of the Fitz-John Portent, Griffins and Sumners, and all those who make the personalities of command a condition of service, and the reform will be complete. Thank God, neither fools nor traitors have compassed the destruction of the nation, notwithstanding they have brought it into imminent peril!
With the final removal of McClellan commences the earnest prosecution of the war. We shall no longer be compelled to ask,— 
"Have our troops awaked?
Or do they still, as if with opium drugged,
Snore to the murmurs of the Potomac's wave?"
—Frank Leslie’s Illustrated Newspaper.
GENERAL McCLELLAN REMOVED.
It cannot be denied that Gen. McClellan has disappointed the hopes and just expectations of the people. For more than a year, be has had the command of one of the-finest appointed armies the world ever saw, and what has he accomplished? Let tin-present position of our national affairs answer. Giving him all due credit—and much is due him for his skill in defensive operations, for his ability displayed in organizing his army, and for those" qualities of mind and heart which have secured the love and respect of his troops, it yet remains true that his excessive caution and lack of demonstrative energy have proved his unfitness for the high position he has held. He has always failed to strike at the right moment. He allowed the enemy to steal away from Manassas when he was weak" and our army was strong; he failed to improve the golden opportunity at York town, and thus necessitated the disastrous campaign of the Peninsula, and lie most inexplicably and mysteriously neglected to follow up the advantages gained on the bloody field of Antietam. Why the battle was not renewed on the following day, and the whole rebel army routed, as all authorities agree it might have been, has never been, and we fear never can be. satisfactorily explained.
We have never been of those, if such there be, who have desired the downfall of Gen. McClellan. We have believed in him and earnestly desired to see him win all the laurels with which victory could crown his brow. But we are free to confess that while we deeply regret the necessity, we cannot deny the justice of his removal. Others will think differently: many will charge his removal to unjustifiable motives. But whatever may be our own opinions upon this matter, the true course for every patriot and well-wisher of his country to pursue is plainly apparent. It cannot be the part of a good citizen to make this event the occasion of intensifying political prejudices and hatred. One of our dailies speaks of "the storm of indignation from soldiers and people," which is to greet the ears of the President in consequence of this act. But we trust there is to be no attempt to encourage insubordination in the army. It is to be remembered that the power of appointing the commanders of our armies rests, according to the Constitution, with the President, and not with the soldiers. Neither is the fact of Gen. McClellan's popularity with his troops any proof of his possessing the highest military qualities The General who has gained the love of his troops has certainly secured one element of victory, but he may be lacking in other qualities essential to success. Nor are soldiers the best judges of a General's military abilities. They move in the dark, they execute without understanding what has been planned, and love for the man easily becomes admiration for the General, even when the commander, to the eye of the more distant and impartial observer, has failed to display the qualities indispensable to success. But we have no fear for the loyalty of our brave troops. They will follow on to victory the gallant and able General upon whom the chief command has now devolved, and who has never yet been defeated. It is no time now to elevate any individual into an importance greater than the perils of the country. In the midst of this great struggle, we must not commit the suicidal act of turning our attention from the common enemy to engage in a bitter quarrel about the merits of an individual. Individuals may rise or fall, but the great cause of liberty and national unity must not be imperiled by factious adherence to their fortunes.—Portland Transcript.

GOOD NEWS.
The removal of Gen. McClellan, which has been long and anxiously looked for by nearly every one who was in favor of a vigorous and earnest prosecution of the war. is at last a fixed fact, and with this stumbling-block removed, it is probable that the last obstacle in the way of a general and decisive onset of our forces is out of the way, and we hope that the nation will soon sec the war prosecuted in earnest, and with a view to hurt somebody. Our campaigns thus far have been almost entirely shams and failures, and with the most magnificent armies in the world, and unlimited supplies of all descriptions, we have accomplished nothing worthy of the gigantic efforts put forth by the people, owing to the imbecility or treachery of our leading Generals; and the consequence is that the people have almost entirely lost faith in the Administration, and well they might, with the meagre results accomplished by such powerful, disciplined and well-equipped forces. We have heard it often proclaimed that the Administration was fully alive to the necessity of a vigorous prosecution of the war; but the only satisfactory evidence we have thus far seen of such knowledge, is in the dismissal of Buell and MCClellan, both of whom were retained months and months after they had demonstrated their utter incapacity to successfully lead our armies to battle.
If it indeed prove that the Administration is really alive to the necessity of speedy and decisive action, it will soon regain the confidence of the people, which has been well-nigh lost to them, owing to the dilatory and indecisive manner in which they have allowed the war to be prosecuted. We sincerely trust that our anticipations in regard to a change of views on the part of Government may nut again be disappointed, as has been the case always heretofore when a change of policy has been announced with a flourish of trumpets.—Freedom's Champion, Atchinson, Kansas

THE REMOVAL OF McCLELLAN.
The whole country will rejoice that, at last, McClellan it removed. By whatever standard he be measured, he is a failure, and one of the most costly ones that any country ever endured. He has been the evil genius of the war. Delay, indecision, hesitancy, defeat, have attended his "footsteps. Placed at the head of the choicest armies of the Republic, afforded every possible facility for brilliant achievement, an accepted hero before' he had fought a single great battle, and a predetermined Napoleon before winning any victories, he has most signally and miserably failed. Teas of thousands of our brave soldiers fie in their graves as the victims of his in-competency. Gloom and disaster have settled upon the country because of his incapacity the rebellion, which, long ago, would have been crushed, had he been the man far the place he was in, has grown into fearful proportions and gathered tremendous strength. No better example than he furnishes could be given of the terrible evils which an incompetent commander may inflict upon a great country.
The President has at last been aroused to the absolute necessity of a change. He has been len-
<c02>
ient, too lenient, to McClellan, and given him the amplest opportunity to achieve success. But it was not in the man. His military abilities have evidently been vastly overrated. "For the General of a brigade or a division, under some great leader, he would probably do well; but he is not the man to wield such mighty armies, or direct such vast campaigns as characterize this war. But such military talent as he has. has been crippled and hampered by his political ideas. He has had no heart in the war, and has conducted it as a democratic politician, rather than as a great General determined to crush the enemy. By a natural and unerring popular instinct, all the compromising, half-loyal elements of the North have gathered round him. His name was on the tongue of every democratic demagogue in the late political campaigns, from Maine to Kansas. His praises were chanted by the Woods, the Seymours, the Vallandigbams, the Medarys, and the whole chorus of pro-slavery doughfaces. McClellan was their man. And be did them good service. His execrable method of making war disgusted and disheartened the country, and filled the mouths of democratic stump-speakers with denunciations against the Government for its imbecility and failure in the work of crushing the South. McClellan refused to move or to fight, and democrats charged it upon the Administration. Thus the thing has gone on, until the Government finds itself, as the fruit of the McClellan policy, on the very verge of destruction.
We are glad that boldness and decision at last rule the hour, and that the President has taken the bull by the horns in dismissing this oft-demonstrated military incompetent. We hail it as a sign of happy augury-for the future.—Lawrence (Kansas) Republican.

McCLELLAN’S DISLOYALTY.
The Chicago Tribune makes the following statement in regard to Gen. McClellan:—
"As long as Gen. McClellan was at the head of the Army of the Potomac, our loyalty forbade that we should weaken the confidence of the country and of his soldiers in him by the publication of the facts which have been long in our possession. But now that he has been displaced to make room for a better and more earnest man, there can be no objection to saying that when the war broke out, and before a Major-Generalship was tendered him by a too indulgent government, he frequently and unreservedly expressed the opinion that ‘the South was right and ought to succeed.' We ourselves have read a letter from one of the most truthful and excellent gentlemen of Cincinnati, a frequent visitor in Gen. McClellan's family, in which the charge of former disloyalty is made, and supported by proof that not the most ardent of the McClellan worshippers could doubt. It is, in fact, notorious in Cincinnati, where his home was when he was called to a command, that the sympathies of the General were wholly in favor of the rebellion, and that he never used any care in concealing them from his associates, upon whose discretion he could depend. Many of these, while wondering at the revolution, of opinion that impelled him to accept a commission when it was tendered to him by Mr. Lincoln, have never been at any loss to account for his failure to achieve success. We state nothing but facts."

AN ORACULAR PRINCE.
If anything is wanted to add weight to the testimony of Prince de Joinville, in favor of McClellan, we have no doubt that it could be had for the asking. Any other prince, as ignorant of American affairs as he was, if taken into the tent, and placed on the staff of the Commander-in-Chief, allowed to see only one side of the case, and to know nothing unfavorable, to hear no vigorous criticism, would perhaps do just what this fat and ruddy Frenchman has done—put McClellan's side of the case quite as strongly and just as honestly as he has put it. But no testimony of that sort is worth a button. The General is to be judged, not by what a French Prince was told. what he saw, what he guessed, or what he thought, but by the results of his campaigns. What did he do? Did he, wielding the whole power of the Republic, beat the enemy at 'Manassas, a year ago, or did that enemy first humbug and then escape him? Did he take Richmond by his Peninsular campaign? Did he beat and pursue the rebels on the Upper Potomac? These are the points of interest in the matter, not what any wandering scion of bastard royalty says or fails to say. These questions the President and Gen. Halleck, with the concurrence of the whole Cabinet, have decided. They know as much about it as any vagrant Johnny Crapeau, be he prince or peasant, ' and in their decision we are sure the country will be content to abide. So let the sympathizers howl! —Chicago Tribune.
General McClellan had no personal enemy in the whole North, when decked in stolen and borrowed renown from Western Virginia, he came down to assume the command of the Potomac. One shout of welcome, unwisely as we see it now, proclaimed him the young Napoleon, and passed him unchallenged to the highest place at the military council board.
Nor can be complain of a hasty verdict. The fidelity, and patience, and confidence with which loyal hearts followed him for months after thousands of hearts were sick with deferred hopes, is a witness that he had a fair trial, or only unfair in trenching too dangerously upon the interests of the country. He had such an army as no earthly leader ever before looked upon. He had at his back the wealth and courage of a nation. He squandered, wasted, trifled, with all. The historian will have no slight task to sift the evidence which shall set down his failures cither to incapacity, cowardice, or treachery. He kept himself for months on the defensive, in the presence of an enemy less than one-third as strong as himself. With balloon reconnoissances of daily occurrence, the enemy have come and gone undiscovered and at will. When apparently in his power he never struck them, or striking, forebore to crush. The net result of McClellan's connection with the command of the Potomac is a gloomy budget of disappointment, anguish and shame, relieved by not a single victory. The graves of our brave soldiers have followed his imbecile marches, and mark where his camps for months have lain rusting in idleness. The indictment to be drawn against him will charge him with the ruin of the best army the world ever saw enrolled, the sore imperiling of the holiest cause in which sword was ever drawn. That indictment is not yet written. His crime against the republic is one that may have no mortal hearing, but it is none the less real. It is a mild punishment that tears from him the baton he has disgraced, but it saves the Government. Better days are dawning— yea, are here.—Ibid.
MCCLELLAN IN THE WEST. Our advices from Gen. Grant's army at Holly Springs say that the news of the removal of McClellan was received by our soldiers there, and elsewhere in the Southwest, with the greatest joy. "Now," say the boys, "we see a prospect of a termination of the war, and of our return home!" The boys are right; and though they may not have very accurate notions of the particulars of McClellan's failure, they have what Sherman's friends claimed for him, " great instincts," which in this case, as in most other cases, have not deceived them.—Ibid.
THE REMOVAL OF GEN. MCCLELLAN. Gen. McClellan has at last been compelled to retire from a position in which he failed to meet the just demands of the Government and the people. No General ever entered the public service under happier auspices; with ever needed aid at his command, with the superadded confidence of the army, the people and the administration,—and yet he has failed to achieve any considerable degree of success. Month after month the country has patiently waited, putting aside alike the fulsome adulation of those who sought to find in him a military and political idol, and the carping criticisms of those unskilled in the toils and trials of a soldier's life, willing to give him every opportunity of proving that their early confidence had not been misplaced. But he has failed, and failed too at a time and in a cause in which success was a duty.—Dedham Gazette.
 Several of the journals are lauding General McClellan for his manly conduct since his removal. All right, gentlemen! We give him all credit for his course. But was not Gen Fremont's course equally as manly when be was removed from his command on the eve of battle? Yet those same papers could not say a word in his favor, but spoke most contemptuously of him.—Bath Sentinel.
<c03>
THE LIBERATOR.
No Union with Slaveholders! 
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 28,1862.
MR. G. W. P. BENTINCK, M. P, ON AMERICAN AFFAIRS.
In that deportment of pro-slavery infamy, on our first page, the " Refuge of Oppression," we give, unabridged, a speech made by Mr. G. W. P. Bentinck, a member of the British Parliament, upon American affairs, delivered a few weeks ago before the Marshland Agricultural Association. It deserves a careful perusal as exhibiting, we are reluctantly constrained to believe, a widely prevalent feeling in England toward this country—a feeling adverse to the American Union and Government, and, consequently, favorable to the rebellion and Southern independence. It is a conglomeration of personal inflation, undisguised and self-complacent toryism, impudent denial of the plainest truth, consummate ignorance of the matters treated upon, intense hostility to republican institutions, and ardent sympathy for the cause of the secessionists. If such a pretentious blockhead is deemed qualified to be a member of Parliament, what must be the character and condition of his constituents?
In the first place, he deems it necessary to begin by stating, that no man in the kingdom loathes more sincerely than he does the institution of slavery; that he believes it to be barbarous, anti-Christian, every thing that is detestable. Yet he is wholly with and for the South, in no section of which, under secession control, could such a testimony be given against slavery, except at the peril, and, in all probability, the summary loss of life! What he found so easy to utter before the Marshland farmers, on British soil, let him, if he dare, attempt to utter in any part of that slave-holding confederacy whose independence he desires to see quickly recognized by England! He will be a lucky adventurer indeed, if he is ever again permitted to see his native land.
But it is to be neither uncharitable nor uncivil to declare that his anti-slavery profession is a sham, to be scouted with honest indignation; for the whole tenor of his bungling, disjointed, audacious harangue shows that he is an ingrained tory, whose contempt for democratic equality of rights is as intense as his love of hereditary power is absolute, and who cares as little for the thraldom of the negroes in America as he does for the whistling of the wind. Were he at the South, the first thing he would do, as a speech-maker, would be to burn incense on the blood-reeking altar of slavery, to denounce abolitionism as the wildest fanaticism, and to extol the humanity of the traffickers in human flesh. This is apparent from the fact that he has the effrontery to tell the people of England, " You spent 20,000,000/. for the simple purpose of deteriorating the position of the slave whom you meant to benefit." Is this Bentinck an Irishman, that he makes a purpose to deteriorate the slave tantamount to a purpose to benefit him?
Again—the hollowness of his anti-slavery protestation is manifest in his affected horror of mind in view of President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation. " It would lead," he says, " to a wholesale massacre of human beings, black and white, so extensive and so horrible that I will undertake to say there is nothing in the history of the known world which could be compared to it." Contemptible dissembler! False and cowardly alarmist!
Next, with an assurance scarcely credible, he says: " I contend that the question of slavery has nothing whatever to do either with the feud which is now going on between the Northern and the Southern States, nor has nor ought it to have anything to do with the light in which that feud ought to be regarded by the people of this country." He undertakes to prove this by declaring that, up to the time of the rebellion, the Northern States " upheld and maintained the institution of slavery." This is true, so far as the pro-slavery guarantees of the Constitution are concerned; but this incidental support of slavery, reluctantly wrung out of the North in order to prevent national dismemberment, at last proved neither strong nor direct enough to answer the rapacious demands and growing necessities of the South. Hence, despairing of longer controlling the destiny of the country, and deeming it indispensable to her safety to establish a confederacy based upon slavery as its corner-stone, she perfidiously seceded from the Union, and declared war against the Federal Government.
This charge, that the Northern States " deny the black man the rights of a human being," is grossly untrue; for in none of them is he or can he be held as a slave, if a resident therein. It is true, in some of them there are unjust enactments, by which he is politically proscribed, or forbidden to enter for settlement from abroad, but the passage of these is owing! solely to that spirit of caste which is invariably engendered by slavery. These, however, are exceptional cases. In every New England State, except Connecticut, we believe, the black man is the equal of the white man before the laws and the Constitution, entitled to the same protection, enjoying the same political privileges, and eligible to any and every office in the gift of the people. In some other States, though disfranchised, he has accorded to him all the rights of a human being, as much as any non-voting laborer or operative in England.
He utters an untruth when he asserts that those who proscribe the black man at the North, or who are engaged in suppressing the rebellion, " now arrogate ' to themselves the title of Abolitionists." That title comparatively few are even yet found willing to assume: the great mass of the people continue to repudiate it. To be sure, this is not to their credit; but it renders pointless the sneers and gibes of this English libeller.
He is equally disregardful of the truth in his unqualified declaration—" The men of the North are fighting, for what most men fight,—they are fighting for dollars." Dollars! When did a people ever before make such liberal donations and large pecuniary sacrifices in the service of their country? Theirs is not a mercenary object, but a struggle in good faith to maintain free speech, a free press, and free institutions, against a treasonable slave oligarchy seeking to destroy them all. They are actuated neither by selfishness on the one hand, nor by a vindictive spirit toward the South on the other, but by patriotic motives, a desire to promote and secure the general welfare, and true love of country.
But the climax of this Bentinck's effrontery is reached in the assertion, that "the Southerner is fighting for that which is dearer than life—his liberty; he is fighting against one of the most grinding, one of the most galling, one of the most irriting attempts to establish tyrannical government that ever disgraced the history of the world "!!!
No better reply to the blockheadism and mendacity of this speech of a tory member of Parliament than the lucid, truthful, and admirable lecture of George Thompson, Esq., on the same subject, which may be found on the third page.
"WAR IN AMERICA." We have copied, on our fourth page, s characteristic article with this title from the London Herald of Peace—characteristic, we say, for ever since the rebellion broke out, that journal has industriously and persistently assailed the American Government, President Lincoln, and the people of the North—placing the worst construction upon their purposes and acts, berating them for not allowing the rebellious South to have her own way and to do with them whatever she pleases, and exerting its influence to facilitate the dismemberment of this republic, with a zeal that mast excite the wonder and admiration of Jefferson Davit and his perfidious, plundering, man-stealing, slavery-perpetuating crew. Such obliquity of vision and perverseness of understanding indicate anything rather than a candid and peaceful disposition.
<c04>
LETTER FBOM GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
JEFF. DAVIS’S EX-COACHMAN IN LONDON.
8 Clayton Place, Kennington Road LONDON, NOT. 7,1862. 
MY DEAR GARRISON—Very early yesterday morning, I was aroused from my bed by the announcement that an "American gentleman" had arrived, and was below. A letter, also, was handed to me. I got up, and read yours of the 23d October, introducing William A. Jackson, lately the coachman of the Confederate President, Jefferson Davis. For your sake, as well as for his own, I welcomed the fugitive from Virginia, and he was soon seated by a good fire in my study, relating to me, while he took his breakfast, his adventures, both as a slave and a freeman. From 8, A. M. till 2, P. M., I was engaged in taking notes of his history from his birth until his reaching my dwelling. While I was attending a public meeting in the evening, Jackson was in my study writing to you, and I enclose the result of his three hours' cogitation. I shall do the best I can to obtain for him opportunities of addressing the people of this country. It has yet to be proved, whether there exists a sufficient amount of curiosity to draw the people out to hear him. He will, however, derive benefit from his sojourn here, and, if I may judge from what I have seen of him, there will be no lack of either capacity or disposition to improve his advantages. He will remain my guest for the present, and Mrs. Thompson, and my daughter Edith, will have sincere pleasure in being his preceptors. I will write-you again respecting him, when his prospects here are more defined.
And now, what can I say of the conflicts through which you ore passing? What can I say of my own country, and the attitude which our journals and public men have assumed in reference to your great struggle? All through the contest, my sympathies have been with the true friends of liberty at the North. What I could do, I have done, to correct public sentiment. As far as my strength would permit me, I have written and spoken with a view to the enlightenment of the public mind on the real merits of the question at issue. Towards the dose of last year, and at the beginning of the present, I delivered a large number of lectures in Lancashire and Yorkshire, including eight in the city of Manchester (six of which were in the Free Trade Hall). I also gave lectures in Edinburgh, Glasgow, and elsewhere in Scotland. I formally proposed to the Union Americans in London, to give the whole of my time, gratuitously, to the work of agitation in this country, if they would raise a fund for the payment of the necessary expenses; but there was no response. But, alas! the only agency they employed was the London American, which has done far more harm than good to their cause, by being the vehicle for the envenomed outpourings of G. F. Train, and the slanderous attacks upon the Abolitionists of their New York correspondent. Again—the Committee of the B. and F. Anti-Slavery Society has done nothing, and is only now thinking of saying a good word in behalf of the Proclamation. Thus, I have stood alone. The Star and Daily News have done good service among the daily London papers; and the Spectator and Dial, among the weekly journals, have promulgated sound views; but what are these among the multitude of papers that have gone wrong? The tenor of my public addresses may be judged of by a report of one of my recent lectures, which I enclose. 
Ever most sincerely yours,
GEORGE THOMPSON.
We have placed the report of the excellent lecture alluded to by Mr. Thompson on our third page. Though his letter was written for our private perusal, we take the liberty to print it, ns it gives fresh proof of his friendly regard for the United States, and his disinterested efforts, under trying circumstances, to sustain the cause of free institutions on this side of the Atlantic. He deserves something more substantial than mere thanks for the important service he has rendered.]— Ed. Lib.
LETTER FROM WILLIAM A.JACKSON.
LONDON, November 6,1862. MR. EDITOR:
DEAR SIR—I now take the friendly opportunity of writing to you. I know that you and the friends of liberty would like to know of my arrival in Europe. I haste to tell you. I come on my own responsibility, which you and the friends all know. I arrived in Liverpool on the 5th inst. at one o'clock, P. M., by the steamship City of New York, making the voyage eleven days and four hours. She brought over a good many passengers. They put off a good many at Queenstown—a good many of Irish—all of which were anxious to go home, and sec their mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters, and some of their friends that had been sick and Lime for years. But they never thought of them at all till Father Abraham commenced drafting, and then they began to take off to Ireland, and think of their friends that they had left behind! There was one who said, "Faith, I have a bounty, and I will go and see my father."
I have often wondered why the Irish had such a prejudice against colored gentlemen and ladies. I say colored ladies and gentlemen, because I am under the flag of Queen Victoria; because I know a colored man can come here, and in this land be free. Here you do not hear the word "nigger," like you do among the low, degraded Irish of the North, who pretend to support the Constitution and the Union, and get their! bounty, and go off till the war is over. Then they all will want to come back, and then they will talk about the Constitution bigger than George Francis Train. He had better not come over here where I am now. He might have to write his speech in a station-house here in London. If I had my way with him, and all such men as the Irish which I refer to, I would send them all to Central America, along with all the rebel prisoners, and make George Francis Train king over them all.
I would write more about myself, bat I have to think of those who are in bondage-As for me, do not be discouraged, for Jesus is my friend; he has given me grace to conquer, and will bear me safe through with all my undertaking, if I do not forget God; for I do believe when I forget God, I will certainly fall—I will be done forever. But I am happy to say to nil my friends, I feel more like serving God than I ever did before. I feel that I will be sure to get along, if I look to God, and do not forget to pray; though I would rather be with the Union army, if I could help to kill some of the rebels, and my people all go free. I have done all that I could to get a chance to go, before I left the United States, but the Government would not accept the regiment that Gov. Sprague was raising at Providence, Rhode Island, which I joined. But, nevertheless, I hope it will all come right by and bye. I know my people will be free. 1 was offered the chance to go to Washington, the day that I arrived in New York from Boston to take the steamer; but then it was too bite, for I had made my arrangements to sail for Europe. That being on a Friday, the steamer sailed on Saturday; therefore, I would not break my arrangements, because I think a man without his word of principle is nothing.
I have more to write, but it is getting late. I will
always stand up for the Constitution and the Union as it ought to be. 
Very respectfully yours, 
WM. A. JACKSON,
Ex-Coachman of Jeff. Davis.
We give this epistle verbatim as written by this self-emancipated bondman, and trust that it will prove edifying to the rebel President in special, and the slaveholding traitors in general. It indicates a sodden and wonderful change in the condition of the writer—from a mere chattel in Richmond to a recognized freeman in London. Making his appearance there as "a swift witness" against slavery and the rebellion, we have no doubt he will do good service at this crisis.
<c05>
B. GRATZ BROWN.
The name of this gentleman, now m resident of Missouri, and who»e powerful support of the emancipation policy in that State it well known to us f the East, stands next on the list of lecturers in the Fraternity course of this city, for Tuesday evening, Dec. M. For the benefit especially of such of our readers as are wont to attend those excellent lectures, we subjoin the following estimate of Mr. Brown from the St. Louis Neue Zeit, of Oct. 19, a paper alike devoted to the good cause he has at heart:—
" Rarely enough ha» a man without position acquired so decisive an influence on the politics of the day as Mr. B. Gratz Brown. We say this of our follow-citizen with satisfaction and pride, though we are certainly no worshippers of Brown. On the contrary, since we happen to be speaking of him, let us say here, that we hare scarcely had so much to take exception to in any one, as in this very man. 'Noblesse oblige,’ says a French proverb, and its application belongs, if to any one, to our Gratz. For who, in these stormy days of general bewilderment was summoned as he was, to take the helm of public affairs in St. Louis County? No one approached him in greatness of intellect, clearness of principle, pithy and convincing eloquence No one, especially, could with such playful ease vanquish Blair, whom he overtopped, head and shoulders, as a leader of the people, a parliamentary speaker, a statesman, an economist, and a financier; in knowledge, heart, and every other respect. But then came in relationship and regard,—then came business, family, and care for the future between them. Yet is Gratz Brown a man of action though living only in the conflicts of the tribune, and of the spirit of ideas. Yet is he now, as then, the great, the undisputed champion of the cause of emancipation. Yet often a word, hurled by him into the confusion, gives to the whole movement a new, or at least a steady direction, while it brings light to chaos. Such is B. Gratz Brown, with all his brilliant idiosyncracies and deep shadows. He holds a proud place, among us as an intellectual Titan. Who knows, though, whether a prouder, according to current ideas, is not reserved for him? "
We notice in a more recent number of the tame newspaper, that the people of Missouri are beginning to consider whether the Senate of the United States is not that " prouder place reserved for him "by the State Legislature; apropos of which, the St. Joseph Journal, " a conservative sheet," expresses itself as follows:—
" B. Gratz Brown comes of a stock that richly contains in itself the stuff for a United States Senator. His grandfathers, on his father's and mother's side, were men of conspicuous talent and tried patriotism. Though in politics opposed to Mr. Brown, we nevertheless regard him as a man of eminent endowments, and if we must for once be blessed with radical Senators, we prefer those of capacity and character, of whom we consider B. Gratz Brown one of the most distinguished."
Mr. Brown deserves, and we doubt not will secure, I a large and appreciative audience, brought together j not only in his honor, but for their own profit.—W.P.G.
[In consequence of pressing duties and engagements connected with the state of the emancipation cause in Missouri, Mr. Brown will not be able to speak in Boston, and Hon. Richard Busteed bas consented to take his place.]
THE TWO CAPITALS.
Rev. M. D. CONWAY gave his best and most telling lecture, on the above subject, last Friday evening, at Lyceum Hall, Milford. The inclemency of the weather and bad travelling curtailed the number of hearers. But those who faced the storm were amply repaid, and left the hall with more enthusiasm and satisfaction than we arc wont to witness. According to my judgment, this is one of Mr. Conway's best efforts—in its delivery, he is truly M. D. Conway—only a little more so.
There are several striking points which be puts with an original force, suited to the hour, and which fasten to the memory of the hearer. His scathing rebuke of the servile cry, that our present struggle is not a war for Emancipation, is capital, worth more than "two capitals," unless they get rid of slavery. His reference to the precious saints of New York, under the leadership of Fernando Wood 4 Co. is rich and caustic. "These fellows," says Mr. C," are continually oscillating, like the pendulam of a clock, between Washington and the Penitentiary." The classification of those represented by the President's Proclamation—" hunkers, neutrals, and weak-kneed and thin-skinned Republicans," as we Yankees say, hit the nail on the head.
Then there were pathos and sympathetic power that reached the heart. Curses upon a system so foul and unnatural as American slavery were inwardly rising, as our friend narrated the paltry meanness of our Generals and others to the oppressed. The first of January, we were told, has hitherto been denominated by the slaves as the "heart-break day." It is on tins day, go pleasant to most of us in receiving and imparting tokens of affection and friendship, that the victims of oppression are assembled in shambles, to be let out, sold, and separated. No sun of brightness shines in their lonely path. But, thank God, Abraham Lincoln proposes to let in a little light on the next new year's day! O, may it be to the suffering, toiling millions the coming of that glad hour for which they have so patiently waited, saying—"Am I not a man and a brother?"
I am glad to announce that Mr. Conway proposes to re-cast the lecture on the Two Capitals, and bring it out under the significant title of the "National Equinox." This lecture he will deliver at Milford, on Wednesday evening. Dec. 10th. No better service can be done the Anti-Slavery cause than for our friends in various places to secure his services.
G. W. S.
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
If Mr. Phillips continue to make speeches, we beg him to consider that he may yet be the death of the editor of the Boston Courier, who, whenever Mr. P. gives utterance to his opinions, is sure to fall into spasms, froth at the mouth, convulsively roll up his eyes, and present a most agonized appearance. Here is what the truly patriotic, philosophical, statesmanlike, and highly eloquent lecture delivered by Mr. Phillips at Music Hall, on the evening of the 19tli inst., at the opening of the annual course instituted by the Mercantile Library Association, extorted from the aforesaid editor of the Courier the next morning:
"Wendell Phillips, last evening, in the Introductory Lecture before the Mercantile Library Association raved, we learn, even more than his wont. We do not take the trouble to report the rantings of a madman. But it is all the better that this set of hair-brained desperadoes should let out all their fury and folly; for so much the sooner will they come to the end of their rope. Mr. Sumner, who now attends upon their exercises to assure the public of his personal approbation of them, was ready, last night with his expressions of hearty concurrence in the malignant extravagancies of his equally flighty associate; and no doubt is fool enough to imagine that he, and such as he, are to rule in a country, which only awaits the fitting and fast-coming opportunity to teach them what they are, and what is the indignant will of an abused people."
Seriously, it requires no brains to write columns of such low blackguardism as this. Not content with this vomit, however, this malignant Thersites in a subsequent number, ejects the following:—
"There is nothing surprising in the fact that a nor son like Wendell Phillips should talk treason, and the most absurd treason, too, so long as he can get an audience to hear him, and gets his pay for his discourses; but it is amazing that men and women in decent stations in society should be willing to hear him, and should even buy the chance of listening to him. And yet, in this cultivated city of Boston, they heard his balderdash through, heard the Secretary of State and the hero to whom they owe their past safety, by whomsoever it may be saved hereafter, called traitors—and, we dare say, ‘wiped their mouths and said, we have done no evil.’"
How Mr. Phillips "raved," what were the "malignant extravagancies" and "rantings of this madman," the kind of "balderdash" and "treason" in which he indulged, may be seen by a perusal of the reliable report of his lecture made by Mr. Yerrinton for the Post, and to be found on our fourth page. The Courier reviler habitually mistakes disgusting billingsgate for smart criticism.
<c06>
MR.F0SS’S REPORT AS AGENT. Nov. 15.1862 Dear Mr. May _ last report of field labor left. me at Peacham, Vermont. My next appointed was at Groton, Vt. On my arrival, I found that your letter-through neglect of the mail-had only arrived the previous evening. It was due four days earlier. The matter was referred to the minister, who, with friendly promptitude, gave was notice he could of the meeting. The evening was rainy. Nevertheless, a very good meeting came together, and – gave me earnest attention. 
The next day I went to wells River. Judge gave me a hearty welcome to his home. It had been arranged that I should speak in the Orthodox meeting house in the evening. The meeting was large and attentive, but I failed to inspire them with anything like enthusiasm. The next morning, judge wood called upon me, and said mine was first lition lecture he had ever heard. He professed to is deeply interested, and made a donation to help me a my way. 
My next appointment was at Topsham. Here a sides an old and faithful friend, Rev.N.R. Johnston of course, every thing was done needful to seems good meeting. Owing to the fact that a number of our friends had gone to the war, and to the fact that the Congregational clergyman did not read the notice the meeting was some what smaller than the one held there a year ago. Still, it was a good hearing, and I by no means thought it a lost opportunity. 
My next was at west Topsham. A note had been sent, by friend Johnston, to a major bill, requesting him to give notice of the meeting. He paid no regard to the matter, and, of course, no meeting was held in the place. I had had, a few years before, precisely the same is <illegible> of this place and Major Bill. If the Major had sent our friend Johnston word that he would me appoint the meeting, there would have been no case of complaint. 
 My next engagement was at Barre, Vt. I was heartily greeted by our devoted friends, Rev. Mr. <illegible> and wife. The meeting here was well attended at the people seemed deeply interested in the condition of the country. The audience was mostly composed of young people, who seemed highly intelligent, and possessed of strong moral feelings. I put down this fact as a credit-mark for Bro. Bliss, whose fidelity to truth and the rights of humanity has herin its natural fruitage; and here, too, finds its great reward. 
My next engagement was at west Brookfied! came form Barre to Braintree, to the home of James and Abby Hutchinson, and was taken by them at Sunday morning to West Brookfield. Here lives one devoted friend, Elder Jehiel Claflin. He, as used had made all necessary arrangements for a good meeting. He generously gave me his pulpit for the whole day, giving me also valuable assistance in my vote. The meeting was very large. I enjoyed it very meet Alas! how little I knew of the wave of sorrow that bad rolled over my family and me, in that never-to forgotten Sunday morning! The next day I received the sad news of the death of my son. 
On my return to Vermont, my first meeting was East Bethel. Our friend John Hands had <illegible> me the Baptist house for the day and evening. Spoke in the morning to a small audience In the afternoon, a funeral occurred in the house. So I will not speak again till evening. The evening came to very rainy; so once more my audience was sad. 
On Monday, friend Hanks took me to East <illegible>, where I held a small meeting. It was meet disturbed by some noisy Sunday school boys. The Free-Will Baptist minister dodged in and out at times, but gave the meeting no aid or encouragements. Such a course is not usual with ministers of this nomination. 
From Bethel I came down to Windsor. Here! found our friend, H.H. Huntly, fully prepared is my coming. He had made every provision in his power for my present comfort, and for a successful meeting; and the result was, we had a good meeting. 
My next meeting was in Cornish, N.H. My <illegible> was with an old friend, Benjamin Comings. He was on of the earliest and most faithful laborers in the Anti-Salvery cause. He is now wholly through with all earthly work, and will soon pass on to has ward. His son Charles and wife are true friends to the slave, and did all that I could desire to make up labor pleasant and successful. I held one meeting the place, which was not large, but was attended by a substantial class of men and women, who were able to appreciate what they heard, and make good as of it. 
From here I crossed the mountain to Croydon. Here I was to have spoken all day in the Universtist meeting –house on Croydon Flat. But a <illegible> occasion of more than usual interest occurred, Which took the attention of the people during the day, and did not speak. An appointment was made for Monday evening: but a violent rain storm occurred, and the meeting was a failure. 
Wednesday evening. I spoke in Newport, N. H. to a large but not very impressible audience. This Newport is, and has been, so long that " the memory at man runneth not to the contrary," one of the <illegible> and most hunker towns in the state. When came out of the meeting, I heard some loud talk <illegible> to tolerating a man who endorsed <illegible> " who had said " – but as I was passing on, I did not hear what the wicket saying was which Mr.P. had uttered. When all the rest of the world at saved, Newport, N.H., will probably " come in with the fullness of the Gentiles." 
On Friday evening, I spoke in claremont, to a large and apparently deeply interested audience. Frain Weber, of the Northern Advocate, with friend sperry, made all needful arrangements for the meeting man freedom. 
_ The change in the command of the army of the Potomac in hailed with joy by more than six-eights of the people in these rural districts. The people are longing for the first of January. If on that day the freedom of the four millions of slaves shall begin, what a glorious epoch in the world’s history it will be! oh! never did I pray half so earnestly before, 
"Fly swifter round, ye wheels of time, 
And bring the welcome day!" 
Yours, truly, A.T. Foss
THEODORE D. WELD AT MUSUIC HALL. On Sunday last, Mr. Weld again addressed the Twenty eighth Congregationl Society of Boston, giving as excellent discourse on Truth. His admirable exposses a fortnight before, of the Lying Prestences of the Pro-Slavery Conspirators had so made known the rare powers of the speakers as to attract a large audience on this occasion. There is reason to hope that be may again, before many weeks, be induced to speak there, and many have expressed the wish that be would discourse on the duties of the present house subject which no man could handle better, and which in now of preeminent importance. 
Mr. Weld’s speech and manner are in the highest degree impressive. Both his thought and style every high culture, yet refinement has not taught him to discard energy of expression, nor the most through plainness of speech. He is able to interest and instruct any audience, whether in city or country, and though his discourse is read, it receives such aid from <illegible> and gesture, as to produce the effect of an animated extemporaneous speech. But every town in the state ought to hear one who understands so well, and describers with such moving eloquence the dangers and the duties of this critical period – C.K. W.
CONGRESS. The next session of congress commences on Monday next. There will probably be no delay in the delivery of the president’s message, to which all eyes will be turned with absorbing increase Intelligence form Washington gives the pleasing assurance that president Lincoln will stand by the Proclamation uncompromisingly.<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LECTURE ON THE AMERICAN QUESTION.
BY GEORGE THOMPSON, ESQ.
On the 27th ult., George Thompson, Esq., the well known friend of the slave, delivered a lecture in the Town Hall, Leigh, “On the present most interesting and critical aspect of the Anti Slavery Cause in America.” The hall was well filled by a respectable audience, who repeatedly cheered him throughout his lecture. The Rev. Wm, Moore, minister of Bethesda Chapel, Leigh, occupied the chair, and after a few marks on the question, introduced the lecturer.
Mr. Thompson said: -It is somewhat more than twelve months since I last addressed an audience in this town upon the subject of the pro slavery rebellion in America. On looking back to what I then said, I am bound to confess that in many of the anticipations which I then indulged, I have been disappointed; nevertheless, I am as confident now as I was then that the fearful war which is still raging will issue in the overthrow of slavery. (Cheers.) Let us contrast the state of things which existed in America three y ears ago, with the state of things as we behold it to-day. Three years ago, the Slave Power of the United States was supreme. Mr. Buchanan was the President, and he was altogether sold to do the bidding of his masters at the South. His cabinet was mainly composed of men who were slave holders, and traitors to the very Constitution they had sworn to support. One was a slaveholder from Mississippi, another a slave holder from Georgia, and a third, a slaveholder from South Carolina. These men saw the approaching overthrow of the party to which they belonged, and had resolved upon disunion, rebellion and the establishment of a slaveholders’ confederacy. Three Years ago, the Constitution was understood, universally, to contain the most sacred and absolute guarantees for the right of the Slave States to control the question of slavery within their own limits. Three years ago, the Fugitive Slave Law was in force in every part of the Union, and even the leading members of the Republican Party were in Favor of its execution. At that time, it was punishable with heavy fine and long imprisonment to afford aid and comfort to any slave who escaped from his master, and sought an asylum in the Free States, or assistance in his flight to the British dominions in Canada. Three years ago, the Executive at Washington was the exponent of the will of the slaveholders, the abject instrument of accomplishing the grasping and ambitious designs of the South. Three years ago, the great and powerful Democratic party of the North was in close league and covenant with the slave oligarchy of the south and together, as with a rod of iron and a whip of scorpions, they lorded it over all who dared to dispute the constitutionality of slavery, or to talk of circumscribing or abridging the right claimed by the South to established slavery in any and every part of the State and Territories of the Union. Three years ago, the dictum of Judge Taney, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, was accepted as the constitutional law of the land-that a colored man, whether bond or free, had no rights which a white man was bound to respect. Three years ago, the Slave Power commanded a majority in the House of Representatives at Washington, and in the then impending struggle between the Republican party of the North and West, and the allied political forces of the Pro-slavery party, North and South, the distinctive difference was, the assertions by the, Republicans of the right to prohibit and prevent the extension of slavery into the Territories of the Union, North and West of the Ohio river. The great contest of 1860 ended, as you know, in the election, by the Republican Party, of Abraham Lincoln, to the Presidential chair. Let us trace the growth of that party. In 1834, when I first visited the United States, both the great political parties were alike pro-slavery. The dissemination of anti-slavery principle led to the formation of a new political party, which in 1840 nominated a gentleman for president on principles opposed to slavery; but out of more than two millions of votes, he obtained only 7000. The same gentleman was nominated in 1844, and then received upwards of 60,000 votes. In 1848, the Anti-Slavery party combined with a section of the Democratic party, and altogether they obtained 291,000 votes for their candidate; and in 1852, when they again stood alone, they obtained 156,000 votes, In the interval between 1852 and 1856, a great change had taken place in the sentiments of the people of the Free States on the Subject of slavery. This change was owing to the aggressive measures of the South. The North had become alarmed by the rapid strides of the South towards universal supremacy. Slave soil had been extended over 800,000 square miles of new territory. The slaves had increased from 600,000 to tour millions. The barriers to the extension of slavery had been thrown down-the Fugitive Slave Law had converted the  Free States into the hunting grounds of the infamous slave-catcher-the Missouri Compromise had been repealed-there had been a violent attempt to make Kansas a Slave State-the Dred Scott decision had declared the right of a slave holder to carry his slaves into every part of the United States territory, and the representatives of the Free States had been insulted and brutally assaulted within the walls of the national Capitol. These things had aroused the spirit of the people at the North, and had determined them to combine for the purpose of throwing off the yoke of their Southern task-masters, and resisting the further encroachments of the Slave Power. The result was, that in the great contest between Mr. Buchanan, the candidate of the pro-slavery party, and Mr. Fremont, the nominee of the Republican or Anti-Slavery party, Mr. Fremont received 1,341,533 Vote from the non-Slaveholders of the free North and West, white the votes for Mr. Buchanan were 1,838,169-made up of the consolidated vote of all the Southern States, and the votes of all the Pro-slavery Democrats in the Free States. This election placed the pro-slavery party in power for four years: but the strength displayed by the Northern party convinced the South that the period of their domination was drawing to a close, and they therefore determined to use the four years’ lease they had obtained in making preparations for a dissolution of the Union, and the establishment of a separate confederacy, in the event of their not securing the election of a candidate of their own, at the next presidential contest. The traitors in Mr. Buchanan’s cabinet resolved that, if the Republicans should elect their candidate, he should not have the means of successfully resisting the rebel movement of the South. They corrupted the United States army-they scattered the United State navy-they robbed the national treasury-they emptied the arsenals and armories of the North, and transferred their contents to the south, to be used against the loyal people of the North, and they with drew the garrisons from the fort in the south, that they might the more easily fall into the hands of the rebels. On the election of Mr. Lincoln, the traitors in the South seized every sub treasury –every mint- every custom house-every arsenal-every dock yard and ship-every revenue cutter and Government store-house-together with every fort, and all other descriptions of national property. They organized a Confederate Government-they proclaimed a Constitution, the leading feature of which was the maintenance, extension and perpetuity of slavery, and they declared the subjection of the black race to the white to be the corner-stone of their new republican edifice. Never before was human Government founded on principles so detestable, in human, or so contrary to the dictates of justice and the rights and happiness of mankind. What, in these circumstances, could Mr. Lincoln do? When installed in office, he could not collect more than 1,000 men for the defence of the capital. Of all the navy of the United states, he had but two vessels-one mounting 25 guns, and a store ship with two. The traitors had emptied the treasury, had plundered the military depots of the North had corrupted the army, and had filled all the offices of the Government with their coconspirators. The President had nothing to do but to 
<c02>
invoke the loyal feeling of the North, which nobly responded to the appeal. He could, however, avow only such objects as were of a strictly constitutional character; for had he been disposed at once to proclaim the emancipation of the slaves, he was not in a condition to carry out his purpose. He could not enforce his authority in any part of the slave States. The South was in a state of military preparation, and he was not. He was without money, without arms, and without men; and he could obtain resources only by avowing objects in which he would be supported by the voice of the people. Besides the South,—united against him as one man,-he had arrayed against him the entire Democratic pro-slavery party of the North, many of whom were disunionists; while the rest would only support him in his efforts to restore the Union upon the condition of its recognizing the right to maintain slavery. Then, again, the anti-slavery principles of his own party went no further than the limitation of slavery to its present limits, and embraced a very large number of persons who had belonged to the old political parties, and who still held to the right of the slaveholders to their human property.
The war, therefore, was declared to be for the restoration of the Union, the reestablishment of the authority of the Constitution, and the enforcement of the : laws of the United States. One party alone had resolved that the war should, if possible, be made the means of overthrowing slavery, and that party was the abolition party. Most nobly have they done their duty. If the war shall, as I believe It will, issue in the utter extirpation of slavery, the credit will be due to the labors and perseverance of the uncompromising friends of the slave. If the war should cease at this moment—if the Union should be restored as it was— or if the rebel States should be permitted to establish their independence — much has been done by the friends of the negro, which cannot be undone, and which calls for thankfulness and joy. In the progress of the war 100,000, or 150,000 have been set free. Great numbers have escaped from slavery in Missouri, Tennessee, Maryland, and Virginia. Thousands have been made free in South Carolina; and on both sides of the Mississippi, below New Orleans, there are hundreds of free negroes who can no more be reduced to slavery. (Cheers.) Consider, too, the acts of the President, and the measures of Congress, since the war broke out. A few years ago, the District of Columbia, the seat of Government, was polluted with slavery, and filled with slave pens and slave auction marts. Alexandria was a nest of slave-traders. Slave auctions were of daily occurrence. Coffles of slaves, linked together by iron chains, were marched by the capitol on their way to the far South. There is now not a slave prison, a slave auction, a slave coffle, or a slave to be found, in all the District of Columbia. (Cheers.) At length, the national brand of reprobation has been put upon the infamous traffic in slaves, and upon slavery itself, and the city and neighborhood of Washington is as free from pollution and crime of slavery as the city of Westminster. (Loud cheers.) The President and Congress have recognized the black republics of Hayti and Liberia, and now those negro communities are in diplomatic relations with the United States as are France and England. Two years ago, the city of New York was in the habit of fitting out large numbers of slave vessels; now, no slaver dare enter the noble bay of that city; and recently, and for the first time in the history of the nation, a slave-trader has been condemned at a capital felon, and executed as such. (Cheers.) When the Slave Power ruled the country, the American flag was the protection of every scoundrel slave-trader, and the right of search was denied; but now, we have a treaty with the President of the United States, conceding the mutual right of search, and the British cruiser can seize a slaver under the American flag as well as under any other. The Stars and Stripes afford no immunity to the infernal trade. (Cheers.) Amongst the laws passed by the late Congress was one forbidding any naval or military officer to return a fugitive slave to his master —(cheers) —another, declaring shivery illegal and abolished in all the territories of the United States —(cheers) —another, giving freedom to all slaves coming within the lines of the Federal army—(cheers)—and another, confiscating the slave property of all the rebels in all the Southern States; so that, in fact, the rebels at this' moment have no property in slaves, which is recognized as such by the laws of the Federal Union. (Loud cheers.) We know, also, that as early as March last, Mr. Lincoln proposed the abolition of slavery in the Border States, and that the Congress agreed to indemnify loyal slaveholders for the losses they might sustain by adopting measures of emancipation. That measure will be again submitted, and 1 have little doubt will be ultimately carried out. Surely, these acts have been such as to entitle the Northern States and the United States Government and Congress to the sympathy and moral support of Great Britain. Yet, to the shame and disgrace of our country, many of our public men, some members of our Government, most of our leading journals, and a great part of the people in the upper and middle classes, have given their sympathy and support to the South, and are laboring to secure the recognition of the rebel States as "a nation."
I come now to notice the President's proclamation. This document, so pregnant with important issues, as affecting the future status of the colored population in America, is dated the 22d of September. Mr. Lincoln begins it by announcing the office and authority; to which he has been raised by the constitutional votes of the people of the United States—he is President of the Republic, and Commander-in-Chief of the army and navy. He re-asserts the constitutional object for which he has called upon all loyal citizens to take up arms—the restoration of the constitutional relation between the several States of the Union. In decreeing the future emancipation of the slaves, Mr. Lincoln exhibits his usual caution and forbearance, and his considerate desire that the enemies of his government should have an opportunity of escaping the ruin with which they are threatened. He does not declare instant emancipation, but says, “ Though you have traitorously overthrown the Constitution you had sworn to defend—though you have lighted up the flames of a desolating civil war—though you have been the cause of a bloody death on the battle-field to thousands of the loyal citizens of the North—though you have filled the land with the emblems of bereavement and woe, I give you a hundred days to consider in what position you will stand on the first day of January—whether in a position of submission and loyalty, or in that of treason and red-handed rebellion." These are his words—" On the first day of January, in the year of our Lord 1863, all persons held as slaves within any State, or designated part of a State, the people whereof have been in rebellion against the United States, shall be then, thenceforward and forever free—(cheers)—and the executive government, and the naval and military officers thereof, shall recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons, or any of them, in any efforts they may make for their actual freedom." (Cheers.) Such is the decree which has gone forth under the hand and seal of Abraham Lincoln, with the authority of the members of his government, and which will soon be ratified by the people of the United States. Such is the decree which it will be the duty of every man in the army and navy of the United States to maintain and enforce. Such is the decree which has been hailed with joy and satisfaction by the friends of the slave throughout the Union, mingled only with regret that it did not proclaim immediate emancipation. I care not to inquire by what motives, or under what influences, Mr. Lincoln has been led to send forth this proclamation of liberty to the oppressed. I accept it, and exult in it, as the manifestation of the will of the people. You may tell me Mr. Lincoln has yielded to external pressure, and I believe he has; but pressure from whom?  Why, from the millions of the North and the West, who have demanded with an omnipotent voice that the accursed system of slavery shall perish amidst the flames which the hand of treason has kindled. On the first of January next, I nearly four millions of men will be invested with the
<c03>
right to assert all the privileges and protection, in personal freedom, secured to all the free-born citizens of the United States. (Cheers.) By one course, only, can the people of the rebel States avert the execution of this decree. It is by laying down the weapons of their unholy warfare—by disbanding their rebel armies—by returning to their allegiance, and by electing to the Federal Congress, through the votes of a majority of the qualified electors of their States, men who will take the required oath to maintain and support the very Constitution which they are at present in arms to destroy—and all this must be done before the expiration of the year, or in two months from this time. That they will avail themselves of this day of grace there is no ground for expecting; on the contrary, there is every evidence that they will, with the energy of despair, pursue a course of butchery, until they fall between a conquering foe in their front, and an emancipated people in their rear. Such appears to be their doom.
While these things are being done on the other side of the water, where, let me ask, should England be found, and on which side should her hopes and prayers and sympathies rest? Where, but with the North, with the slaves, with the cause of justice and freedom? What fellowship hath light with darkness, or Christ with Belial, or the spirit of liberty with the demon of despotism? England's sympathies should have been with the North from the beginning. For the first time in the history of the United States, the election of Mr. Lincoln was the triumph of a party whose watchwords were—" No more slave States—no more slave soil—freedom national, slavery sectional." Granted, that the war, originally, was for the Union of the States and the supremacy of the Constitution. It was a war of non-slaveholders and the friends of free institutions, against slaveholders and the founders of A despotic, slaveholding, oligarchical government. It was a war to prevent the spread of slavery and the revival of the slave trade. It was a war, on the part of the North, for the preservation of national life, for the maintenance of a Constitution founded on the principles of liberty, as against a Constitution; with slavery for its object, end, and corner-stone. Where was England's place in such a conflict? England, with her glorious history, full of the records of struggles for freedom and the right! England, with her marble monuments to Fox, and Wilber-force, and Granville Sharp, and Romilly, and Buxton, and Joseph Sturge! England, that toiled for thirty years for the abolition of the slave trade—that toiled for thirty years more for the abolition of slavery—that paid twenty millions to ransom her sable  bondsmen! Was it for England to sympathize with those who have always hated her, and most, (or that she liberated her slaves? Was it for England to sympathize with those who seized and incarcerated her free colored seamen, and then sold them to pay their jail fees? Was it for England to sympathize with those who, when in power, sought by every means to foil her in her efforts to check the internal slave trade? Was it for England to sympathize with those whose slave codes are written within and without with laws forbidding marriage, promoting concubinage, and encouraging soul-murder? And where should England now be—now that the war is one for emancipation—now that the war is one for the uprooting from the soil of America the inhuman institution of slavery—now that the decree giving liberty to the oppressed has gone forth—now that the handwriting flames upon the wall, and the day of deliverance is named? Where, if not, with all her sympathies and all her prayers, on the side of the North?
I thank God, that whatever may be the future course of our statesmen, our journalists, our merchants, or of the people, it is not in the power of this nor of any other country, nor of all the powers of Europe combined, to stop the progress of events in America. (Cheers.) There is One who sits above cabinets, and councils, and principalities, and thrones, who has issued his decree, and it is this: "Let my people go. I have seen their affliction, and have come down to deliver them." That divine Being will cause the madness and wrath of the oppressor to work out his purposes of mercy to the slave, and will visit a terrible chastisement upon all who have been the abettors of his bondage. Let those who innocently suffer from the derangement of trade and commerce, consequent upon the present state of things, bear with patience and hope the adversity that has come upon them. Let those who are happily exempt from the pressure extend a liberal hand to relieve the necessities of their poorer brethren ; and let us, together, with fortitude, await the time when the cotton fields of America shall bloom again; but not again bear the fruits of the uncompensated labor of slaves, urged to their thankless task by the lash, but the harvests which have been produced by the willing industry of freemen, who have received the wages due to their exertions. God bless Abraham Lincoln, the President of the United States! and when the time shall come for him to retire into the ranks of private citizenship, may this be his glory and this his lasting renown—that he found the Union shattered, that slaveholders might make slavery eternal, but quitted office with the Union restored, the Constitution vindicated, and slavery utterly and forever abolished ! (Applause.)
On the motion of Mr. Moore, seconded by Mr. Boyd, it was unanimously resolved, "That this meeting, while deploring the distress at present prevailing in the manufacturing districts, owing to the suspension of the supply of cotton, would express its condemnation of the slaveholders' rebellion in America, which has caused it, and its sympathy with the efforts that are being made by the friends of impartial freedom in the United States, to effect the abolition of slavery, and the establishment of a system of free labor and just compensation."
Votes of thanks to the lecturer and chairman were also unanimously carried.
THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY for December is one of the choicest numbers yet issued. The contents are : The Procession of the Flowers, by Higginson; One of my Clients, an interesting story ; The Cumberland, a patriotic poem by Longfellow; The Fossil Man. by C. L. Bruce; Life in the Open Air, by the lamented Tin lore Winthrop; A Woman, by Rose Terry ; About Warwick, by Hawthorne ; The Charitable Visitor, a Lyric of the Street, by Mrs. Howe; Mr. Axtell, Part V.; My Hunt after the Captain—a true story of the war, by Oliver Wendell Holmes; Waiting; Reviews and Literary Notices.
The number for January begins a new volume, being the eleventh of the series. The Atlantic Monthly stands confessedly at the head of its class of periodicals, and is an honor to American literature.
"POOR ROSY, POOR GAL,” one of the Songs—words and music—of the Port Royal freedmen. Arranged by Miss LUCY MCKIM, for sale at the Anti-Slavery office, 221 Washington Street. Price 25 cents. Sent wherever ordered, free of postage.
The Boston Post denies that Charles Sumner can be viewed as a representative man. Very well. Let it regard him henceforth as a Senatorial man.
Excelsior!
A correspondent of the Boston Courier says that "never was Mr. Webster so popular in Massachusetts or had so much influence as Mr. Sumner at this moment." That is about so.
Brigadier-General Saxton, Military Governor of South Carolina, has offered to Captain Thomas Wentworth Higginson the Colonelcy of the First Regiment of South Carolina Volunteers.
Francis Daniels, of Grafton, Vt., illuminated his house in honor of the removal of Gen. McClellan. There was a general illumination of countenances in all parts of the North.
We are indebted to Hon. diaries Sumner for bound volumes of the Congressional Globe, Part I., 2d Session 37th Congress, 1861-2. Also, Part III- U. S. Senate.
<c04>
GENERAL McCLELLAN AGAIN.
HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF THE POTOMAC WARRENTON, Tuesday, Nov. 11, 1862
The last echoes of the cheers from a hundred thousand throats that yesterday rang from camp to camp, and were borne out on the pulsing air, hare died away; Gen. McClellan has gone, and the army turns again to the work before it. It was necessary for the late Commanding General to leave. He had his election of modes of doing so, and lie has chosen to cause the trembling fates of the nation to stand still, while he has filled up four days with an elaborate spectacular and dramatic farewell. May I be pardoned before thee, austere Nemesis! O, sacred Truth! if the phrase maligns the man, it is the conviction which facts have forced upon my mind. A watchful observer of all that has been said and done since the order of removal came, I have been unable to escape the constant impression that what passed before my eyes was of the nature of scenic effect, prepared by the hand of the cunning artificer. I have seen the priest of Do-dona that pulled the strings that made the Oracle to speak as they wished. Men whom the authorities should know and mark, have busily circulated among the soldiers—dropping poisons—misrepresenting the action of the Government, and inflaming the feelings of the troops. Officers still holding command have, by hundreds, blatantly threatened to resign, and stirred up their men to mutiny. Heaven forefend that I should say the late Commanding General instigated these proceedings, but he has remained while they went on, and he has used the passionate elements thus evoked. Yesterday the grand farewell was made— thaumaturgy again! The General and Staff rode from camp to camp; the salutes, the shouts, the caps tossed high in air—all went off as per programme. The formula, "Now, boys, three times three for your favorite General," was repeated at each division with such curious iteration that one had to laugh at the artifice. "It's all played out now, boys!" exclaimed a master claqueur. “Never mind," remarks a General still in command of a brigade, (how long will he re-main?) "we have only two or three days more to serve in the Army of the Potomac." "Why," insinuates another," does he not take us down with him to Washington, and clean out the abolition crew, as Cromwell did the Rump Parliament? "—Corr. of the N. Y. Tribune.
The incidents of McClellan's withdrawal have already been given you; and the dead past can bury its dead. It was a spectacle worked up to its utmost dramatic effect. The men were drawn up in line fur the last review. The Farewell Order was read to them. The out-going and in-coming Generals, with their long retinues, rode by; salutes were fired; colors were dipped; officers swung their hats, and gave the order to cheer, and the men cheered right vigorously. In Franklin's corps, which was caught without preparation, they rushed down to the road, and did it spontaneously and enthusiastically.
But there were whole brigades, mainly of new troops, which stood in stolid silence. In spite of the injunction of irrepressible staff officers in the cavalcade to "Give a good one for Little Mac," they did not send up a single cheer. And did you notice that Burnside's old corps (the 9th) was not visited at all, while every other was? A few days before, Burnside and McClellan chanced to ride through that corps, and an officer who was present assures mo that while the cries and cheers for "Burnside "were deafening, he did not hear a single voice shout" McClellan." That may explain the neglect.
The leave-taking, in many particulars, reminded me of another which I witnessed a year ago—the withdrawal of Fremont from his Missouri army. On the whole, the exhibition of affection toward McClellan was one of which he may justly be proud; but it fell far short of that displayed for Fremont. Still, the two cases had several features in common. Both Generals were removed unexpectedly, while their armies were in motion, and in the face of an enemy.
But there were sharp contrasts as well. Fremont had been tried three months, McClellan seventeen. Fremont steadfastly refused to bid adieu to his army, .lest the ceremony should promote disaffection and disorganization; but stole away at daylight. McClellan took his leave with the most impressive and imposing display. Fremont was relieved by an antagonist; but in his touching Farewell Order to his soldiers he said: Continue as you have begun, and give to my successor the same cordial and enthusiastic support with which you have encouraged me." McClellan was relieved by a warm personal friend, his most highly-esteemed lieutenant; but in his Farewell Order, .modeled in every other respect upon the first, he could not devote a line, or even a word, to the new commander.
McClellan's principal strength was with the rank and file. He had the affections of the men—not without exception, or to any unparalleled extent—but still in general. But so far as I can judge, a vast majority of his brigade, division, and corps commanders are gratified at his removal. I never heard so severe reflections upon him out of the army as I have in it, day after day. Again and again I heard the opinion expressed, by officers of high rank, not only that McClellan was disastrously slow and timid, but that the country was dying of McClellan.
Personally, all held him in warm regard. In his high office he bore himself modestly and fitly; and though his removal took away a paralyzing incubus, probably there is not a single man in the Army of the Potomac who cherishes aught but personal good wishes for its late commander.—Ibid.
FAREWELL OF THE GENERAL OF THE MACKEREL BRIGADE. Orpheus C. Kerr thus writes to the Sunday Mercury:—
But the whole body of Mackerels, sane and insane alike, unite in a feeling of strong anguish blended with enthusiasm, at the removal of the beloved General of the Mackerel Brigade. He has been so much a Father to them all, that they never expected to get a step farther while he was with them.
There's a piece of domestic philosophy for you, my boy.
When the General heard of his removal, my boy, he said it was like divorcing a husband from a wife who had always supported him, and immediately let fly the following address :—
HEADQUARTERS OF ARMY OF ACCOMAC, FOOT OF THE BLUE RIDGE.
My Children,—An order from the Honest Abe divorces us, and gives the command of all these attached beings to Major-General Wobert Wobinson. (Heartrending and enthusiastic cheers.)
In parting from you, I cannot express how much I love your dear bosoms. As an army, you have grown from youth to old age under my care. In you I have never found doubt nor coldness, nor anything else. The victories you have won under my command will live in the nation's works of fiction. The strategy we have achieved, the graves of many unripe Mackerels, the broken forms of those disabled by the Emancipation Proclamation—the strongest associations that can exist among men—still make it advisable that you should vote for me as President of the United States in 1865. Thus we shall ever be comrades in supporting the Constitution, and making the Constitution support us.
THE GENERAL OF TUE MACKEREL BRIGADE.
[Green Seal.]
GENERAL MCCLELLAN AND THE ARMY. The Bath Sentinel publishes the following extract of a private letter from an officer of one of the Maine regiments in the Army of the Potomac:—
"McClellan is not so popular with the army as the newspapers would have you believe. We get few papers, except the Herald, which happens to praise McClellan most indiscriminately. Occasionally, a Philadelphia Enquirer comes into camp, and often a Baltimore paper, but the Herald has the largest circulation. You are not to suppose, however, that the extent of circulation is any indication of popularity. Papers are circulated here on horseback, and the men buy what they can get. I don't pretend to say how it happens that the paper which deals the most in panegyric comet into camp, but I don't believe that it is owing to any real popularity on the part of McClellan. Porter'* men speak highly of him. I do not know of an officer, (though very likely there may be some,) who does not censure him. Of course, they speak cautiously. The men will hurrah for a General, and sometimes for McClellan, when he happens to come near. It strikes me that he will be pretty certain to gain battles when he makes the attack, but he certainly does not profit much by victory. Notice the point of land near Black-ford's Ford, where the rebels bagged themselves after the battle of the 17th. The defile to the ford is narrow, and the path on the other side steep. There was no other place of passage. Why did we not take them all? Nobody here knows, unless that flag of truce which the rebels sent in on the morning after the battle was an insurmountable obstacle. Everybody praises Burnside."
A SERIOUS CHARGE. In another letter of the late Gen. Kearney, just published in Wilkes's Spirit 'of the Times, that dead hero charges upon Gen. McClellan that—
"He incarcerated Gen. Stone, one of the ablest men of the army, on the plea that it was done on the pressure of the Abolitionists, when it, in reality, was to damn, past being listened to, one who he knew, if questioned by a military committee, would not avoid bringing to light the incapacity (and subsequent contrivances to smother it) which had exposed Col. Baker, and then left him, helpless. doomed and unsupported, at the battle of Ball's Bluff."
And further on he says: "Stone was militarily killed under a false pretence."
<c05>
SONGS OF THE PORT ROYAL "CONTRABANDS."
From Dwight's Journal of Music.
We have received No.1 of "Songs of the Freedmen of Port Royal, collected and arranged by Miss Lucy McKim, "with the following interesting letter, which speaks for itself. We trust we violate no confidence in printing it. The melody has a simple and touching pathos, a flavor of individuality which makes  one desire to know more of these things; and we  trust that "Poor Rosy" will be followed by other  specimens as genuine:—
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 1, 1862.
MR. DWIGHT—Sir: In a recent number of your journal there appeared an article relating to the music of the slaves of Port Royal, taken from an address delivered by my father before the members and friends of the Port Royal Freedmen's Association of this city. The extract included the words of one of their songs, beginning, "Poor Rosy, poor gal!"
My chief object in writing to you is to say that having accompanied my father on his tour to Port Royal, and being much struck with the songs of its people, I reduced a number of them to paper; among them, the ballad referred to. I send you herewith a copy of it, hoping it may interest you. Whether to have the others printed, is as yet a question with me.
It is difficult to express the entire character of these negro ballads by mere musical notes and signs. The odd turns made in the throat, and that curious rhythmic effect produced by single voices chiming in at different irregular intervals, seem almost as impossible to place on score as the singing of birds, or the tones of an <illegible> harp. The airs, however, can be reached. They are too decided not to be easily understood, and their striking originality would catch the ear of any musician. Besides this, they are valuable as an expression of the character and life of the race which is playing such a conspicuous part in our history. The wild, sad strains tell, as the sufferers themselves never could, of crushed hopes, keen sorrow, and a dull daily misery which covered them as hopelessly as the fog from the rice-swamps. On the other hand, the words breathe a trusting faith in rest in the future—in "Canaan's fair and happy land," to which their eyes seemed constantly turned.
A complaint might be made against these songs on the score of monotony. It is true there is a great deal of repetition of the music, but that is to accommodate the leader; who, if he be a good one, is always an improvisator. For instance, on one occasion, the name of each of our party who was present was dexterously introduced.
As the same songs are sung at every sort of work, of course the tempo is not always alike. On the water, the oars dip "Poor Rosy" to an even andante; a stout boy and girl at the hominy-mill will make the same " Poor Rosy " fly, to keep up with the whirling stone; and in the evening, after the day's work is done, " Heab'n shall-a be my home" peals up slowly and mournfully from the distant quarters. One woman, a respectable house-servant, who had lost all but one of her twenty-two children, said to me :
"Pshaw! don't har to dese yer chil'en, misee. Dey just rattles it off—dey don't know how for sing it. I likes ' Poor Rosy ' better dan all de songs, but it can't be sung widout a full heart an' a troubled sperrit! "
All the songs make good barcaroles. Whittier "builded better than he knew "when he wrote his" Song of the Negro Boatman." It seemed wonderfully applicable as we were being rowed across Hilton Head harbor among United States gunboats, the Wabash and the Vermont towering on either side. I thought the crew must strike up,
"And massa tink it day ob doom,
And we ob jubilee."
Perhaps the grandest singing we heard was at the Baptist church on St. Helena Island, when a congregation of three hundred men and women joined in a hymn—
"Roll Jordan, Roll Jordan! 
Roll, Jordan, Roll!"
It swelled forth like a triumphal anthem. That same hymn was sung by thousands of negroes on the Fourth of July last, when they marched in procession under the Stars and Stripes, cheering them for the first time as the "flag of our country." A friend writing from there says that the chorus was indescribably grand—that "the whole woods and world seemed joining in that rolling sound."
There is much more in this new and curious music, of which it is a temptation to write, but I must remember that it can speak for itself better than any one for it. Very respectfully, LUCY MCKIM.
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THEM. If the dispatches from the South are to be relied on, Missouri has voted two sorts of emancipation—emancipation of slaves and emancipation from rebel dominion. It is rather anomalous to sec a slave State take hold of the President's Proclamation, and give it a cordial endorsement, while some of the great free States have been voting the indefinite continuance of the "institution"! In the next Congress, if slavery is not exterminated before December, 1863, representatives from slave Slates, who have grown up with all their prejudices in favor of the system, will be found pleading for emancipation, while such men as Voorhees and Fernando Wood, representing free States, will assert the divinity of slavery, and plead for its perpetuity. Well, this circumstance will not be so extraordinary, after all. Missouri has writhed under the desolating tread of Rebellion. Her fields have been laid waste, and her cities and villages devastated. Her loyal sons have perished by the thousand, and mourning has been heard in all the land. Every Missourian, who is capable of tracing effects to their cause, knows the origin of all this destruction and misery. African slavery did it! It was the system which gave birth to disloyalty, and organized rebel armies. It was this system which defied the American flag, and turned its arms against the Federal Government. Intelligent Missourians know this! They feel it! They know, too, that their future prosperity is identified with the success of the Proclamation. Their slaves must go free, or the deliverance of the State will never be achieved. These facts give earnestness to Southern emancipationists. The crisis is on them! Evasion of responsibility is ruin. They will be heard in Congress. They will meet the tones of the free States in discussion. They will overthrow them in argument ; and they will illustrate to the world the vital difference existing between an earnest patriot of the South, and a cringing, crawling, slimy apologist of slavery and rebellion from the North!—Iowa State Register.
LETTER FROM ONE OF BUTLER'S NEGRO SOLDIERS.
The New Orleans Delta publishes a letter from one of the colored soldiers enlisted in the Federal service, who says:
"We arrived at this place (Lafourche Landing) on the 1st instant, eight hundred to eight hundred and forty-five strong, only about thirty men having fallen out, and these from sickness. We have not, as yet, had the pleasure of exchanging shots with the enemy. But we are still anxious, as we ever have been, to show to the world that the latent courage of the African is aroused, and that, while fighting under the American flag, we can and will be a wall of fire and death to the enemies of this country, our birth-place.
When we enlisted, we were hooted at in the streets of New Orleans as a rabble of armed plebeians and cowards. I am proud to say, that if any cowardice has been exhibited since we left Camp Strong, at the Louisiana Race Course, it has been exhibited by the rebels. They have retreated from Boutee Station beyond Terrebonne Station, on the line we have marched, burning bridges and destroying culverts, which, no sooner than coming to the knowledge of Col. Thomas, of the 8th Vermont Regiment, have been repaired as quickly as they have been destroyed.
I am not of a disposition to claim for our regiment more than its share of praise, but I venture the assertion that there is not a regiment in the service more willing to share the hardships of marching and bivouacking, and more desirous of meeting the enemy, than this regiment, led by Colonel S. H. Stafford and Major C. F. <illegible>
FRIGHTFUL RAILROAD ACCIDENTS. The train from Springfield for Albany, on the Western Railroad, when near Chatham Four Corners, N. Y., last Tuesday night, was thrown fifty feet down the embankment, by a rail being designedly misplaced at a short curve. The engineer, fireman and several passengers were injured, but none killed.
On Friday morning, a sad disaster occurred on the Boston and Maine Railroad, a few moments before 7 o'clock, involving the instant loss of seven lives, and the injury of a number of persons more or less seriously. The first train from South Reading, which consisted of a locomotive and tender, a baggage and smoking car in one, and two passenger can, was proceeding at a slow speed between the depot at Causeway street and Charlestown, when it came to the draw spanning Charles River. At the time, it was quite foggy and dark, and to this state of the atmosphere was added a hard rain. A schooner was passing through the draw as the train approached, a fact which could not be discerned until too late to arrest its progress. The usual alarm was given by the whistle and bell upon the locomotive, and the proper signals were out, but the locomotive and tender, and the baggage and smoking car, were precipitated into the watery chasm below. The tide was nearly full at the time, and the depth of water some sixty feet. There were about twenty-five passengers in the smoking car, and the utmost consternation prevailed as the terrible concussion was realized. The locomotive and tender plunged beneath the water, but the smoking car was not entirely submerged, which accounts far the comparatively small sacrifice of life.
<c06>
FRATERNITY LECTURES.
FIFTH COURSE.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully in-farmed that the Fifth Course of Lectures under the auspices of the Fraternity of the Twenty-Eight Congregational Society will be continued on 
TUESDAY EVENING December 2, 1862, at TREMONT TEMPLE, when an address will be made by
Hon RICHARD BUSTEED, of New York
To be followed on successive Tuesday evenings by lectures from the following persons:- 
December 9.-WENDELL. PHILLIPS.
December 16- HENRY WARD BEECHER.
December 23.-JACOB M. MANNING.
December 30.-GEORGE WM. CURTIS
Lectures to commence at half-pact 7 o'clock. Course Tickets, admitting the Bearer and Lady, at $3 may, be obtained at Williams Everett's, 234 Washington St; Oliver Ditson & Co's. 277 Washington St; of Solomon Parsons, Esq., Superintendent of Temple; and of either of Member of the Lecture Committee who in former years have had the disposal of tickets.
BOSTON FUGITIVE AND SOCIETY
A course of lectures in aid of the suffering freedom of Washington, D.C., to be delivered at Joy Street Church,
December 1, Lecture by Rev. Dr. w Hague. 
December 8 Prof. C.L. Reason.  
December 15. Rev. R. C. Waterston.
December 22. Frederick Douglass .
ANTI-SLAVERY MEETTING AT WORCESTER-
A quarterly meeting of the Worcester Country (South Division) Anti-Slavery Society will be held at  Washburn Hall, Worcester, on Sunday, Dec, 7th commencing  at half-pact 10 o’clock, forenoon, and continuing at 2 o’clock, afternoon, and at 7o’clock, evening. Theodore D. Weld and Parker Pillsbury are expected to be present to participate in the discussions.
Let all the members and friends of the Society which has so long with firm integrity borne its testimonies in be-half of the rights and against the wrongs of the slave, demanding his immediate emancipation as a measure of justice more than of expediency, as a means of good to him and his master, rather than of injury or punishment to the master, be present at the meeting, and renew their faith and testimonies under the teaching of the devoted spirit of this early apostle, who has through the weakness of the flesh, so long been kept silent.
JOSIAH HENSHAW, President
Joseph A. HOWLAND, Sec’ry.
LECTURES BY THEODORE D. WELD
At Feltonville, Friday evening, Nov.28
Fitchburg, Sunday, Nov.30.
Leominster, Tuesday, Dec. 2.
Worcester, Sunday, Dec. 7. 
ANDREW T. FOSS, an Agent of the American and Massachusetts
Anti-Slavery Societies, will speak at Nashua, N.H., on Sunday
Next, Nov. 30.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON will lecture in Lowell, on Sunday 
Afternoon and evening next, at the usual hours.
WM. WELLS BROWN will deliver his lecture on the President’s
Proclamation and its Effect on the Blacks of the South and 
The Laborers of the North, as follows:-
West Amesbury, Friday evening, Nov. 28.
Feltonville, Sunday, evening, Nov. 30.
Feltonville, Monday. Evening, Dec. 1.
Groton Centre, Wednesday evening, Dec. 3.
AARON M. POWELL will lecture upon Emancipation, in New York, as follows:-
Johnstown, (Fulton country,)Tuesday, Dec. 2.
Brockett’s Bridge, (Herkimer country,) Thursday, Dec. 4.
Little Falls, (Herkimer county,) Friday, Dec. 5. 
Fairfield, (Herkimer county) Saturday, Dec. 6.
Fairfield, (Herkimer county) Sunday, Dec. 7.
Middleville, (Herkimer county) Monday, Dec. 8. 
Herkimer, (Herkimer county) Wednesday, Dec. 10.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in
Cummington, Sunday, Nov.30.
Northampton, Monday evening, Dec.1.
Ware, Wednesday evening, Dec. 3.
West Brookfield, Thursday evening, Dec. 4.
Members and friends of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, who are indebted for Pledges made to the Society, in January last, or previously to that time, are requested to pay the same as early as practicable, either to the Treasurer, Edmund Jackson, or at the Society’s office 221 Washington Street.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M.D. has remove on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Disease of Women and Children. 
Reference,-Luther Clark M. D.; David Thayer, M.D. office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
MARRIED- In this city, on the 19th inst, at the Twelfth Baptist Church, by Rev. L. A. Grimes assisted by Rev. Wm. F. Butler, Mr. Arthur Sedgwick to Miss Catharine J., daughter of the James Gardner, Esq.
154 Washington St., 5 doors South Milk St
October 24.
WEIS & ZOEBISCH.
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Furs preserves during the summer.
THE BOOK FOR THE TIMES.
THE BLACK MAN,
His Antecedents, His Genius, and His Achievements, with Biographical Sketches of Fifty Distinguished Individuals of the Race.
By WILLIAM WELLS BROWN
The work will contain about 300 pages, printed on good paper, and bound in muslin. Price $1. It will be published on Monday, Dec. 1st by THOMAS HAMILTON, 48 Beckman Street, N.Y., and R.F. WALLCUT, 221 Washington Street. Boston; and to be had of all booksellers.
Owing to the increased number of pages of the work, and the advance in the cost of paper, the price will be $1, (as above stated,) instead of 75 cents, as at first announced.
Nov. 21.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
From the Christian Inquirer.
FREEDOM TO THE SLAVE.
BY J.C. HAGEN.
O ye servants of the people,
Pledged their will to do, 
Hear ye not their earnest voices
Calling now on you?
Would ye save the nation’s honor, 
Or the nation save,
Speak the magic words of power—
Freedom to slave!
Shall our homes be draped in mourning,
Wives and mothers weep
O’er the fearful fields of carnage
Where their loved ones sleep?
Must the blood still flow in rivers
Of the true and brave,
When a word of yours might stay it-
Freedom to the slave?
Let our armed hosts proclaim it 
To th’ opposing foe;
Let it rise with every onset, 
Fall with every blow;
Let it ring from every cannon,
On each banner wave; 
Make the hills and valleys echo
Freedom to the slave!
Let the Georgian planter hear it 
At the midnight hour, 
And the Carolinian tremble
At the words of power.
Let the mighty Mississippi
Bear upon its wave,
All along its teeming valley,
Freedom to the slave!
Bear it on your wings, ye breezes,
To each Southern home, 
Where a ray of light may enter,
Or a breath may come.
Waft it o’er the broad Atlantic
And Pacific’s wave,
Till their solemn echoes answer,
Freedom to the slave!
Many a legion may we muster,
Many a battle win,
But no blood may work remission
For the nation’s sin.
Ne’er again, o’er states united,
May our banner wave, 
Till in Heaven’s name be spoken
Freedom to the slave!
From the Continental Monthly for November.
THE PROCLAMATION.
SEPTEMBER 22, 1862.
Now who has done the greatest deed
Which history has ever known,
And who, in Freedom’s direst need,
Became her bravest champion?
Who a whole continent set free?
Who killed the curse and broke the ban
Which made a lie of liberty?
You-Father Abraham-you’re the man!
The deed is done. Millions have yearned
To see the spear of Freedom cast;-
The dragon writhed and roared and burned;
You’ve smote him full and square at last.
O Great and True! You do not know,
You cannot tell, you cannot feel 
How far through time your name must go, 
Honored by all men, high or low,
Wherever Freedom’s votaries kneel.
This wide world talks in many a tongue-
This world boasts many a noble State-
In all your praises will be sung, 
In all the great will call you great.
Freedom! Where’re that word is known
On silent shore, by sounding sea,
Mid millions, or in deserts lone,
Your noble name shall ever be.
The word is out-the deed is done;
Let no one carp or dread delay; 
When such a steed is fairly on,
Fate never fails to find a way.
Hurrah! hurrah! The track is clear,
We know your policy and plan;
We’ll stand by you through every year-
Now, Father Abraham, you’re our man!
From the Hingham Journal.
THE OLD SHIP OF STATE.
BY DAVID BARKER, OF EXETER, ME.
O’er the dark and gloomy horizon that bounds her,
Through the storm and the night and the hell that surrounds her,
I can see, with a faith which Immortals have given, 
Burning words, blazing out o’er the portals of Heaven,-
"She will live!"
But a part of the freight which our forefathers gave her
we must cast to the deep yawning waters to save her,-
‘Tis the chain of the slave we must fling out to light her,
‘Tis the brand and the whip we must yield up to right her.
She will live!
Clear the decks of the curse! If opposed by the owner,
Hurl the wretch to the wave, as they hurled over Jonah;
With a "Freedom to all!" gleaming forth from our banner,
Let the tyrant yet learn we have freemen to man her.
She will live!
She will live while a billow lies swelling before her,
She will live while a blue arch of heaven bends o’er her,
While the name of a Christ to the fallen we cherish,
Till the hopes in the breast of humanity perish.
She will live!

From the "Child at Home."
WATCHING FOR ‘PA.
Three little forms in the twilight gray,
Scanning the shadows across the way;
Six little eyes, four black, two blue,
Brim full of love, and happiness too, 
Watching for ’pa.
May with her placid and thoughtful brow,
Gentle face beaming with smiles just now,
Willie the rogue, so loving and gay,
Stealing sly kisses from sister May,
Watching for ’pa.
Nellie, with ringlets of sunny hue,
Cosily nestled between the two, 
Pressing her cheek to the window-pane,
Wishing the absent one home again,
Watching for ’pa.

Oh! how they gaze at the passers by!
"He’s coming at last!" they gaily cry:
"Try again, my pets!" exclaims mamma,
And Nellie adds, "There’s the twilight star
Watching for ’pa!"
Jack nods and smiles, as with busy feet
He lights the lamps of their quiet street:
That sweet little group he known full well,
May and Willie, with golden-haired Nell,
Watching for ’pa.
Soon joyous shouts from the window-seat,
And eager patter of childish feet,
Gay musical chimes ring through the hall,
A manly voice responds to the call,
"Welcome, papa!"
THE MARTYR.
They never fail who die
In a great cause: the block may soak their gore;
Their heads may sodden in the sun; their limbs
Be strung to city gates and castle walls-
But still their spirit walks abroad. Though years
Elapse, and others share as dark a doom,
They but augment the deep and swelling thoughts
Which overpower all others, and conduct
The world at last to Freedom. BYRON.
<c02>
The Liberator.
LECTURE OF WENDELL PHILLIPS,
On "The President and the Future of the Country," delivered at Music Hall, Wednesday Evening, Nov. 19, being the opening Lecture of the Course instituted by the Mercantile Library Association.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—There are two words on everybody's lips—the North, and the South. They used to have a simple meaning; the land toward the pole, and the land toward the sun. Of late, they have assumed a deeper significance; and I want to use them to-night to represent those two elements which, within the circle of the Constitution, for seventy years, have been struggling for preeminence, and which now, one of them still within that girdle, and one outside of it, are doing battle for the control of this continent By the North, I mean the civilization of the 19th century. I mean that table-land of manhood up to which the race has struggled by the toil and battle of nineteen centuries. I mean, free tongues—free schools—types—ballot-boxes—the open Bible—equality before the law. By the South, I do not mean half a dozen rebellious States; I mean an element, whether in State street or in Richmond; whether in Albany or Mobile; an element that reminds us of ignorance, idleness; a society planted on a volcano, to whom agitation is ruin; a society that brands the Declaration of Independence a sham. I mean a mosaic of races based on despotism and supported by cruelty. I mean a society which brings back the days of "Bloody Mary" and the Inquisition, by burning men at the stake for their opinions. I mean a statute-book which makes it a crime to give the Bible to a fellow-being, and thrusts into a dungeon a matron who has taught a child to read. I mean a society which holds for its cardinal principle of faith, that one-third of the race is born booted and spurred, and the other two-thirds saddled for the first to ride. I mean a feudal system based upon skin, and anchored in the Carolinas. Two elements, making up the civil state. Ever since we had a country, the antagonism of these two elements has been recognized; sometimes welcomed, sometimes dreaded, but always acknowledged. [In proof of this position, Mr. Phillips quoted from Rufus King, James Madison, J. Q. Adams, President Lincoln, Secretary Seward, and several Southern papers.] Nothing out of the common course, therefore, if we find ourselves engaged in battle, the North and the South, representing two such systems.
I find great statesmanship, as usual, in an aristocracy like the South. They saw written on the dial the inevitable growth of freedom. Having tried the energy that existed in their own institutions, placed side by side with freedom, and found the doom pronounced against them, the South accepted battle as the last resort, and the only hope they had. The North had exhausted every method of compromise. Every pound of flesh had been exacted and given. Every lip, from the President to the pulpit, had been gagged in the service of the institution. All in vain. The laws of God, which are stronger than the devices of men; Freedom, which in every battle, equal or unequal, gains nothing but victories, had written her handwriting on the wall, and Carolina, in the very chair of the Executive, trembled before Massachusetts in opposition. (Applause.) She takes arms for war. To the south of her is Mexico. A conglomeration of different races, weak, having just survived her effort to expel the Catholic poison that was circulating through all her veins. She thinks, "I will build up a separate empire; I will link myself, not with a strong race, of Saxon energy and enterprise, not with the children of Milton and Hampden, not with the sons of Hancock and Adams, not with the English language and Bible, which mean nothing but liberty; I will link myself with the Southwestern races, and build an empire that girdles the Gulf, and devote it to the perpetuation of slavery; and having done so, having divided the Union, I will tempt the Northwest, whose interests lie with me, to secede from manufacturing, tariff New England, and bind her to my car by locality, geography, self-interest, self-evident sympathies; and then, having weakened the North and strengthened myself by an alliance with the Southwest, I shall perpetuate my controlling influence on this continent. That is her programme. Let Mr. Lincoln perpetuate this war, and hand it down to his successors in any thing like its present guise, and in the canvass that begins eighteen months hence, you will see a candidate on the other side the mountains, one plank in whose platform will be, that the West desert the East, and join her natural ally who holds the mouth of the Mississippi. If the Democratic politicians of Albany have their way, there is more danger of an alliance among twenty States, leaving New England out in the cold, than there is of an alliance among twenty States, leaving the Cotton States out of the Union. Understand me: I think we live in a generation which ought not to regard with dismay, but as our fathers did, (according to Mr. Seward,) with hope and favor, the ripening of this conflict of the two elements that underlie our State. We have to-day in our hands the strength, if we only have the will, to crush the viper which has given us the right, and hands us the weapon. [Applause.]
This is my idea of the future that is before us. No compromise can ever bring us into safe and permanent relations again. This revolution was not produced by Calhoun or Garrison; it was produced, by the seventy years which have produced Calhoun and Garrison. Rome was not destroyed by Caesar; it was destroyed by the hundred years that wrought out a Caesar; and to-day, the ripening of events, not the energy or the policy of men, places us where we are. The past is our lesson to judge of the future. If it were possible to take from us every tongue and to gag our children, the very soil upon which we live, the very necessity of New England, coining her granite and ice into bread, would make her a dangerous neighbor for the aristocracy of the Carolinas. (Applause.) The South does not wish for compromise. She spurns Horatio Seymour. She despises the Democrat who crawls at her feet. (Applause.) She knows, with the instinctive sagacity which danger confers, that her only policy to-day is to correct the mistake of 1787, to ally herself with inferior races for breadth of base, and then by temptation to draw from the North what she can. You might as well try to tempt the devil back to heaven as South Carolina into the neighborhood of New England. (Laughter and applause.) This being so, there is no remedy left, except in the North's lifting the gauntlet which the South throws down to her.
Mr. Phillips said he held to the right of revolution, which is a most valuable and sacred right, and one which he hoped and believed was to regenerate the world. He would see the Union go to ten thousand pieces before he, for one, would deny that right. But the question was, how far the North had rightfully exercised that right? This is not, said Mr. P., a partnership, but a government. When the farmer sold out his hundred acres in Essex county, and went to Illinois, and gave the United States Government a dollar and a quarter an acre, what did he buy? Did be buy an acre shut up in the rivers and lakes of Illinois? Nothing of the kind. He bought an acre that bad New England for its counting-house and the Mississippi for its highway. He took a deed which pledged to him Massachusetts as his workshop, and the Golf of Mexico as the link that bound him to Europe. He bought it on the faith of the Government, and that faith is to be kept. That is my first consideration, why I have a right to defend the Union. Secondly, and still more strongly, when this Union was made, there were seven or eight hundred thousand slaves in the Southern States. Our fathers said, "Let them be voters!" The South said "No!" We made a compromise; you recollect it. The South said, "Admit us under the sunlight of freedom, and that dark spot will wear away by its influence." The negro lifted up his arms and said—"Sons of the Pil-
<c03>
grims! trust God, and do me justice!" And the fathers with averted faces, said, "Wait! we dare not trust God! Wait until the long weariness of a seven years' war is over, until the Union, grown strong and rich, is able to be just" And the slave sat down in his chains and waited. The South, in 1787, agreed to abide the issue, but, defeated at the ballot box, she flung it down and took up the bullet. The North said—"Grant it; we will try that." It is a fair play, an honest game. Beaten, Massachusetts was to be a whipped hound; her system was to be second-rate; Slavery was to sit in the chair and dictate the terms; she was to have bulwarks enough to keep her safe. Very well; the battle has gone against her, and what is to be the result? The North is to march down with her institutions, and wipe out Carolina. (Applause.) My method is to replant the South. You can only abolish slavery in the Carolina by planting them with freedom. That is the method which I think it is the right and duty of the nation to adopt. I trust the President (Loud applause.) How much there is in him, let every man judge. I believe there is every thing in him that is possible in a man born in a slave State. But I trust the President for all that. He is the only instrument we have got. Step from his platform, and there is anarchy. The worst state that ever existed is better than that; the worst king that ever existed is more hopeful than Cromwell dispersing Parliament. I am not going to criticise the President. I believe that to-day he has turned the corner, and recognizes the fact, not simply that the slaves of rebels, but that slaves must be freed. (Applause.) How shall that proclamation be carried out? Well, Burnside is advancing to Richmond—God bless him! (Enthusiastic plaudits.) We have got him and Hooker at the front (renewed applause)—men who, if defeated, will rise stronger from defeat; and if victorious, will not go to sleep on the field of victory. (Great applause.) In the field of battle, I doubt not, we are to be swift, stern, successful; but that is not victory. You can conquer the South, not by cannon, but by carrying Northern civilization there. We have got, in the neighborhood of Fortress Monroe, two counties, totally under our guns. Let Government confiscate those counties, break them up into farms of one hundred acres, and sell those farms to the sons of Vermont and New York, with a deed from the Union guaranteeing the title, and guaranteeing compensation if the owner be evicted, and you have commenced a State. The Virginia that was, the Virginia of Lee, that could not admit a peasantry except in chains, the Virginia of Mason, with his haughty, imperious insolence, is gone, and the germ of a Virginia that borrows its character and future from Plymouth Rock is commenced. Then again, further South, I would take Gens. Hunter and Butler, and put ten thousand armed negroes with the stars and stripes over them, and the Union uniform on, into Alabama, Mississippi and Georgia, not to fight—though I believe they will fight—but to proclaim the proclamation. One hundred, two hundred thousand will gather around them, and the deserted plantations will call home the white soldiers from Virginia to take care of them. In order to this, I want to remove the snag at Washington. The President, I said, I believe in; I do not believe in his Cabinet. We are not obliged to take any thing more than a Kentucky-born President upon our shoulders. There stands at his right hand to-day, the man responsible for the last four months of the Administration of Buchanan. There stands at his right hand a Secretary of State who gave the broad seal of the Union to a traitor who had betrayed the secrets of the Cabinet to Carolina when she was marshalling round Fort Sumter, and sent him to Portugal. There stands at his right hand a man who never yet, since that first cannon was fired, has lisped any other word than compromise. I do not believe in Seward. (Applause.) I want that Cabinet eviscerated. Leave as many of them as you please. I care not which you turn out, only put in one man with a will and a head like Thaddeus Stevens or Ben Wade, and he will drag the Cabinet to his own purpose. We are battling for ourselves and our children. I saw a thousand men march through our streets toward Washington to-day. Every man left one aching heart, one empty home. There are fifty thousand such marshalled in this terrible struggle for the great future of the country. We have a right to claim of those who hold the helm of the vessel of State that they shall either proclaim frankly, fully, unreservedly, their entire concurrence in the whole policy of the President, or abdicate their positions of influence, and give place to those who do. (Applause.) I care not what theory you take—whether the President's, Mr. Sumner's, or Judge Conway's. What I want is that the seed of that civilization which has made New England what she is planted in the South. I agree that Hooker is a good soldier, and Burnside means well, and the fifty regiments of Massachusetts will do gallant service, but I would far rather have a sewing machine, a free school and a Bible in Virginia than fifty regiments. The Slave States are vacant. I care not how they became so. We plant them, as we do the great West beyond the Rocky Mountains, and we plant them with schools and churches, with primers and sewing machines, with the brains and hands of Yankee civilization; and our bulwarks are not Fort Moultrie nor Sumter, are not rifled cannon nor iron-clads; they are New England, taking possession of her own broad territory, which belongs to her by right of conquest, not of cannon, but of civilization. In order to that, I want not only the President, but a Cabinet around him that means just the same. I do not want Mr. Seward. (Applause.) I do not say he is a traitor; I do not say that McClellan is a traitor. I do not care for motives of one single man in the twenty millions that make up our population. Hearts are nothing to us, conduct is every-thing. Whether George B. McClellan were a traitor or not, there is not a traitor in Jefferson Davis's Cabinet who could have acted better for the service of the South than he. Whether William H. Seward means honestly by the North or not, we need not determine. We are not here to blame him. He is what his father and mother, and school, and the influence of sixty years have made him—a good tool for some purposes, but not fit for us now. (Applause.) A good man to make "irrepressible" speeches, but not, when cannon are sounding, and States grappling at each other's throats, and the great elements of society crashing and jostling against each other like I frigates in a stom—not the man to see the blue heavens beyond, and put a firm hand on the helm and guide the ship of State safely to port. Massachusetts has a right to be heard. Through this gubernatorial election, she has passed with all her flags flying and all her principles avowed. There was nothing to encourage her. The Administration had had one long, gloomy, disastrous night of inaction. I am more surprised that Massachusetts stood in loyalty to that Administration than that New York deserted it. You might have supposed that half-educated New York would shrink from that intense faith which Massachusetts exhibited; but, led up to the blank granite wall, with the President and McClellan before her, and no eye to see anything, she trusted the inherent omnipotence of liberty, and said, "This straggle means Liberty, and God is pledged to its success!" (Loud applause.) That Massachusetts, I say, has a right to be heard If the Administration leans upon anything to-day, it leans upon Massachusetts. Let me, therefore, close by claiming of the President three things-a Cabinet, a General, and a Confiscation that shall open the Southern States to Yankee civilization, and give the loyalists of the South an opportunity to cooperate with us. (Loud applause.)
At the conclusion of Mr. Phillip’s lecture, which occupied an hour and a half, Mr. Sumner was loudly called for, who came forward and said a few words, urging upon all present the duty of standing by the President. He has already, said Mr. Sumner, done much; I expect from him much more. This, at least, we have a right now to expect, and this, at least, we must solemnly insist upon—first, that he shall push forward the army: and, secondly, that he shall push forward the proclamation. (Applause.)
<c04>
THE WAR IN AMERICA.
It is really singular to observe how few persons have the courage to adhere consistently to a principle through evil report and good report, or who can even intelligently and generously appreciate the conduct of those who do. We are, for instance, pledged to the doctrine that all war is unchristian and unlawful; and yet there has been no war waged in our time but we have had some good people, who, without calling in question the theoretical soundness of our principle, have passionately pleaded that we should virtually waive it in favor of that particular war. It was not the same class of persons, of course, that favored all these wars, but there were some who espoused the cause of each, and maintained that it ought to be treated as exceptional to our general rule; so that if we had followed the counsel of these well meaning friends, we should have been in this position: that, while condemning all war in the abstract, we should have been defending each war in the concrete. But with all respect to our worthy advisers, we cannot thus accommodate our principle to their individual predilections, and we can all the less do it, because we believe that, in almost every case, events have proved, after the war was over, that the course we have pursued as a matter of principle was the right one also as a matter of policy.
As usual, there are some who maintain that we are wrong in opposing the civil war in America, because it is a war in favor of freedom. We will endeavor to explain once more to these friends why it is that we cannot join in anything that shall tend to encourage and protract this most appalling and unnatural conflict. We have three reasons for this, and we will state them in the order in which they arc most likely to strike their minds.
1st. We do not believe that this war is waged for the purposes of freedom.
2d. If we did believe that those who are fighting arc sincerely and earnestly bent on promoting freedom as their object, we do not believe they can attain that object by fighting.
3d. Even if we thought they could attain it by fighting, we could not, without an utter abandonment of our principles, give them our sanction and approval.
1st. We do not believe that this war is waged for freedom. It is not waged for freedom, but for Union and empire. Surely, those who are authoritatively directing the whole policy of the war must be held to be the most competent witnesses as to their own purpose and design. It is impossible to conceive of anything more explicit on this point than their testimony. Here is the language of President Lincoln:—"My paramount object in this struggle is to save the Union, and it is not either to save or destroy slavery. If I could save the Union without freeing any slave, I would do it; and if I could do it by freeing all the slaves, I would do it; and if I could do it by freeing some and leaving others alone, I would also do that. What I do about slavery and the colored race, I do because it helps to save this Union; and what I forbear, I for bear because I do not believe it would help the Union."
But, then, we are told there is the President's Proclamation. True, there is the President's Proclamation; but does that imply that the object of the war is the freedom of the slave? Why, it implies precisely the reverse. It implies that the freedom of the slave is to be used, or not used, as it may be found conducive or otherwise to a totally different object. "The principle at stake is entirely disregarded, and emancipation promised as a mere incident in the war. The Government liberates the enemy's slaves, as it would the enemy's cattle, simply to weaken them in the coming conflict. The promise is not even unconditional,—nay, it is not made conditional on any act or omission of the black race. The act professes to be done for their benefit; but if their masters return to the Union before the 1st of January, then the slaves are to continue on in their condition of slavery as long as such masters shall choose. The principle asserted is, not that a human being cannot justly own another, but that he cannot own him unless he is loyal to the United States." We picture to ourselves the Federal Government, like a huge giant, who snatches the slave from the grasp of the South, and then takes hold of him by the feet, and swings him round and round as one brandishes a bludgeon, in a threatening attitude round one's head, ready, whenever it is found necessary or expedient, to hurl him like a missile from a catapult in the face of the enemy, utterly heedless whither the unfortunate negro is crushed by the impact, provided only he docs some damage to the foe. And does this import any great love for the negro? Why should any of us, in this country, persist in practicing an elaborate imposition upon ourselves, by trying to believe that the .North is fighting for the abolition of slavery, against the explicit and emphatic declarations of the men themselves? Surely, if there is a man on the whole Western Continent whose testimony must be deemed conclusive on this point, it is Mr. Charles Stunner. What does he say in the great speech he lately delivered at Boston? Here are his own words:—"And, now what is the object of the war? This question is often asked, and the answer is not always candid. It is sometimes said that it is to abolish slavery. Here is a mistake or a misrepresentation. It is sometimes said, in flash language, that the object is the Constitution as it is,' and 'the Union as it was.’ Here is another mistake or misrepresentation. Not for any of these things is this war waged. Not to abolish slavery, or to establish slavery; but to put down the rebellion." We say, then, the war is not for freedom, but for Union and empire. We do not say, observe, that this may not be a very important object. We at any rate in this country, who arc eternally boasting of a dominion on which the sun never sets, and who are not willing to surrender to justice or liberty the smallest fragment of our huge possessions, however acquired, have no right to speak opprobriously of such an object. But we have a right to keep distinctly before our minds that that is the object, and refuse to be cheated of our sympathies under false pretences.
2d. But we observe, secondly, that even if the war were sincerely waged for freedom, we do not believe that the object can be attained by fighting. In the language of Mr. Gladstone—not in his recent speech at Newcastle, but in one he delivered many months ago, and containing as we thought then, and think still, the wisest word spoken in this country on the American question,—"We have no faith in the propagation of free institutions at the point of the sword. It is not by such that the ends of freedom are to be gained Freedom must be freely accepted and freely embraced. You cannot invade a nation in order to convert its institutions from bad ones into good ones; and our friends in the North have, as we think, made a great mistake in supposing that they can bend all the horrors of this war to philanthropic ends." Yes, we fully concur with Mr. Gladstone, that they have made, and are making, an enormous mistake. Lust, hate, violence and carnage, are not the fitting foster-mothers for freedom, and least of all for a freedom professing to be founded on the benevolent brotherhood of the gospel. To our thinking, the deliverance of four millions of oppressed and degraded human beings from the bondage of generations, and their safe introduction to the possession and enjoyment of liberty, is a task requiring a rare combination of the statesman's wisdom and the Christian's patient philanthropy. But our American brethren think this transition can be effected by what they vauntingly call "the war power"—a power which represents only the mere rampant ascendancy of brute force, and acknowledges no allegiance to law or conscience or Christianity. We have no faith in the war power, as the minister of justice and mercy. Even if it succeeds in breaking the bonds of slavery, we see no prospect for the miserable negro, on which we can dwell with any complacency. Tempted to forsake his home in the South after, perhaps, having helped to blast it with fire, and to drench it in blood, what is to become of him? The free States of the West are passing laws in hot haste forbidding him to put his foot within their territory. The millions of Irishmen that people the North, aided abundantly by the intense prejudice of the Northerners themselves, loudly protest that be shall not come there to lower the rate of wages, and, as they conceive it, to degrade the character of labor. ‘Poor Mr. Lincoln, at his wits’ end, proposes to ship him off to Central America, and so be rid of the nuisance. The authorities in Central America hurl back the proposal with indignation and contempt. If anybody can find much comfort in this prospect, as regards the four millions of American slaves, we confess we cannot.
3d. But, finally, even if it were certain that freedom would come out of this war, we could not,
Spectator of October 11.
<c05>
without an utter dereliction of our principles, give it aid or succor in any way. Our principles are that we have not liberty to do evil that good may come; that the end does not sanctify the means; that we may not destroy or punish one crime by the commission of another, at least as great, if not greater. If we are asked what is the evil which this war is doing, we answer, Circumspice. Some anti-slavery men can see only one evil in God's universe. Provided that is pursued and assailed, they are willing to wink at every other wickedness, however atrocious, at every other calamity, however appalling. But there are men, whose sympathies for freedom are as large and generous as their own, who cannot thus shut their eyes to facts. And when we look round at the state of things which now prevails in America as the result of this war, what do we see? We see the whole land filled with violence and blood, and with all the hideous immoralities—corruption and fraud, drunkenness and licentiousness—which ever accompany war. We see men's minds becoming more and more envenomed with the blackest malignity towards each other. We see the voice of Christianity openly set at nougat by thirty millions of professing Christians, and the very ministers of religion, whenever the authority of Christ as the teacher of love and peace may seem to impose any restraint on the indulgence of the most violent of human passions, saying by the whole tenor of their teaching, "Let us break his bonds asunder, and cast away his cords from us!" We see in the distance the coming of yet greater woes; for every day the war is prolonged the evils we have enumerated will become more aggravated, the carnage more desperate, the ferocity more fiendish, the practical abnegation of Christianity more audacious and defiant. And if the will of" the North can be only seconded by its ability, we see the war becoming a war of utter extermination against the South. "Sooner than see this Union severed," says one of their so-called statesmen, "let not only the institution of slavery perish, but let the habitations that have known it perish with it, and be known no more forever." "It is better," say one of their so-called mininisters of the gospel, "far better, that every man, woman and child, in every rebel Stale, should perish in one widespread, bloody and indiscriminate slaughter; better that the land should be a Sahara; be as when God destroyed the Canaanites, or overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, than that this rebellion should be successful."
Let our readers observe that the object with all these people is not the abolition of slavery, but the conquest of the South. But if their object were the abolition of slavery, we say we cannot lend our sanction to do all this evil that good may come, even if there were the slightest probability of its ever coming by such infernal means. We must say, candidly, we are not prepared to buy the freedom of the slaves at so tremendous a cost-—London (Eng.) Herald of Peace.

FROM THE CAPITAL—ANOTHER ADVANCE.
FROM WASHINGTON.
EDITOR T. T.,—The late election in New York, my boy, has electrified everybody except our Honest Abe, who still goes about smiling, like a long and amiable sexton, and continues to save our distracted country after the manner of an honest man. On Tuesday night, a high moral democratic chap, of much watch seal, who had just received a dispatch all about the election, went to see the Honest Abe, for the express purpose of telling him that the Democratic party had been born again, and was on the point of protesting against everything whatsoever, excepting the Constitution of our forefathers. He found the Honest Abe cracking some walnuts before the fire, my boy, and says he:

"The celebrated Democratic organization, of which I am Assistant Engineer, has carried the State of New York in a manner impossible to express, and will now proceed to demand of you a vigorous prosecution of that unnatural strife in which are involved our lives, our liberties, and pursuit of happiness. We admire to see your harmless honesty," says the chap blandly, "and we believe you to be a fresh egg; but we protest against the arbitrary arrest of men patriots, only conservatively Democratic; and we insist upon a vigorous prosecution of Constitutional hostilities against our misguided brothers who are now offering irregular opposition to the Government."
The Honest Abe cracked a walnut, and says he: "You say, neighbor, that the organization still insists upon a vigorous prosecution of the war?"
The Democratic chap sliced a toothpick from the arm of the chair with his knife, and says he: "That is the present platform on which we are E pluribus unum."
"Well," says the Honest Abe, "I believe that you mean well; but am reminded of a little story.
When I was practising law out in Illinois," says the Honest Abe, twisting the bow of his black necktie around from under his left ear. "there was an old cock, with two sons, living near me in a tumble down old shanty. He lived there until half his roof blew off, one windy night, and then he concluded to move to a new house, where the chimney didn't take up all the upper story. On the day when he moved, he'd got most all his traps changed to the other residence, and had sent one of his sons to see that they were all got safely indoors, when suddenly a shower commenced to come up. The old man and his other offspring, who had stayed to hurry him, were taking up a carpet from the floor at the time the first dose of thunder cracked, and the offspring, says he, 'Hurry up, old crazy-bones, or we'll be ketched in the freshet before you get up this here rich fabric.’ The stern parent needed the admonition, and went ripping away the carpet around the edges of the room until he came near where the offspring was standing, and there he stuck. He pulled, but it wouldn't come, and he says, says he: 'Peers to me that dod-rotted tack must be a ten-penny nail—it hold on so.' You see, the screw was very blind without his specs," says the Honest Abe, buttoning his vest askew," and he couldn't see just where the tack was. Another peal of thunder at this moment made the irascible offspring still madder, and he said, says he: ‘You misabul old cripple, if you don't hurry up, we'll be ketched, I tell you!'
As he made this dutiful remark he went stamping to the window, and at the same moment the cantankerous tack came out, and the aged parent went over on his back with the carpet up to his chin. He got up and dusted, and says he: 'Well, now, that is cur’ous—how suddent it went!' Then he proceeded to rip away again, until he came near the window, and there it stuck once more. The wild offspring saw him tugging again, and it made him so wrathy that he says, says he: 'Why in thunder didn't you take out the nails first, you creeked old sinner, you? It's enough to make me weep afresh for the old woman, to see how you'-But he didn't finish his observation, for, as he walked toward where the hammer lay, the tack came out, and the old ‘un went to bed again under the carpet. Up sprang the sad parent, spitting rags, and he says, says he: 'Well, now, how cur’ous—to think it should come so sudden!' Still on he went, until the carpet was all up from around the edges; but when he tried to drag it away on his shoulder, it was fast somewhere yet. R-r-rum-bum-beom! went the thunder; and says the infuriated offspring, says he:
'Well, I never did see such a blundering old dad as yon be. We’ll be ketched in the rain as sure as grasshoppers; and all because you didn't take my advice about the hammer in the first place.'
The poor old’ un tugged and pulled, and panted, and say he, ‘Well now that is cur’ous, I swun to massey. There can’t be no tacks way out in the middle of the floor, can they?’ To make sure, the old blind-pate was going down on his knees to take a mouse-eye view, when all of a sudden he gave a start, and he says, says he: 'Why,' pears to me, Sammy, you re standin' on the carpet yourself!’
And so he was-so he was," says the Honest Abe, smiling into the fire, "and that Was the reason why the carpet had stuck fast in so many places.
Now," says the Honest Abe, poking the Democratic Chap in the ribs with his knuckles, "if your organization wants me to move vigorously in this war, tell them not to be standing on the carpet all the time. Otherwise I must still keep tacking about."
The Democratic chap had been slowly rising from his Chair as this small moral tale drew towards its exciting conclusion and at the last word he fled the apartment with quivering watch-seal.
Our President, my boy, has a tale for every emergency, as a rat-trap has an emergency for every tail.
Yours, metaphorically.
ORPHEUS C. KERR.
-N.Y. Sunday Mercury.
<c06>
MR. CONWAY’S LECTURE. Davis Hall was filled to overflowing on Monday evening, to hear a lecture upon the war, by the Rev. M. D. Conway. We venture to assert, that never was an audience better pleased and satisfied than the one that listened to <illegible> eloquence and scathing sarcasms. Mr. Conway’s <illegible> are like polished, double-edged swords. We hope we may have the pleasure again this winter of hearing the gentleman. We are sure we but express the sentiments of the audience, in thanking in their name the gentlemen who furnished us with so excel, think Messrs. Davis and Russell are entitled to great praise for their public spirit.—Plymouth Memorial.
THE BATTLE FIELD OF BULL RUN. The field of the last Bull Run battle presents a most <illegible> scene. The fields are strewn with dismantled carriages, caissons, clothing, shot, shell, and the dried mummy like remains of slaughtered horses, which a pear on almost every hand. The limbs of the last and legs are frequently found upon the surface of the still adhering to the bones, and in some instances being the marks of dogs and buzzards.
CONTRABANDS GOING BACK TO SLAVERY. The New York Evening Post tells this story:—
"A well-known planter, living not far from New Orleans, wrote last spring that four of his slaves had run away to the Yankees had returned. ‘They have had enough of liberty, and were glad to come back." But in his next letter to the North he told a different tale; the four had runaway again—and taken with them two hundred more. Indeed, the planter suspected that the four had come back only this object—and he probably guessed correctly.’
During the rebel demonstration on <illegible> recently, there was intense excitement in and around the city. The natives hastily packed up their does while the contrabands swarmed toward the water a every direction.
The Detroit Tribune, New London Chronicle Hartford Times, Hartford, Press, New Bedford Standard, and Harford Courant, have increased their rates on account of the great advance in paper and everything used in making a newspaper.
The slave trade from the port of New York is entirely used up. Albert E. Horn is convicted, <illegible> is under arrest in Fort La Fayette, Capt. <illegible> is hung, and Mary Jane Watson, the female slave trader, escaped to Cadiz, where she died.
George N. Saunders has returned from his European mission, and brings most gratifying assurances of a speedy recognition of the Confederacy, and the people of the South greatly rejoice thereat. Belgium is to take the initiative.
The largest number of slaves owned by any one man in the District of Columbia, previous to the emancipation act, was sixty-eight, the property of Washington Young. The whole number presented by their owners to the Commissioners, for the purpose of receiving compensation, has thus far been above three thousand.
The London Daily News points to Mr. Sumner’s speech in Boston, and its reception, as a of the Times’ arguments that the emancipation scheme would be repudiated. It denounces the <illegible> charges that have been brought against the authors and abettors of the scheme.
GENERAL BURNSIDE. A correspondent of the National Intelligencer states that Gen. Burnside was been at Liberty, Indiana, of Scottish parents, his father being somewhat of the Davie Deans school, but warning its moroseness and sectarian bitterness. He inherits much of the deep-rooted religious conviction, caution and determination, so eminently peculiar to the "sons of Scotia."

600,000 Male or Female Agents,
TO SELL
Lloyd’s New Steel Plate County Colored Map of the United States, Canadas, and New Brunswick,
From recent surveys; completed August 10, 1862; <illegible> $20,000 to engrave it, and one year’s time.
Superior to any $10 map ever made by Colton of Mitchell, and sells at the low price of fifty cents; <illegible> names are engraved on this map.
It is not only a county map, but it is also a 
COUNTY AND RAILROAD MAP
of the United States and Canadas combined in one, giving 
EVERY RAILROAD STATION,
and distances between.
Guarantee any woman or man $3 to $5 per day, and will take back all maps that cannot be sold, and refund for money.
Send for $1 to try.
Printed instructions how to canvas well furnished all our agents.
Wanted—Wholesale Agents for our Maps in every state, California, Canada, England, France, and Cuba. A fortune may be made with a few hundred dollars capital. <illegible> competition.
T. T LLOYD,
No. 164 Broadway, New York.
The War Department uses our Map of Virginia, Maryland and Pennsylvania, cost $100,000, on which are <illegible> Antietam Creek, Sharpsburg, Maryland Hights, Williamsport Ferry, Rhorersville, Noland’s Ford, and all others on the Potomac, and every other place in Maryland, Virginia and Pennsylvania, or money refunded.
LLOYD’S
TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP OF KENTUCKY, OHIO, INDIANA and ILLINOIS, 
is the only authority for Gen. Buell and the War Department. Money refunded to any one finding an error in it Price 50 cents.
From the Tribune, Aug. 2.
"LLOYD’S MAP OF VIRIGINIA, MARYLAND and PENNSYLVANIA. This Map is very large; its cost is but 25 cents, and it is the best which can be purchased."
LLOYD’S
GREAT MAP OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER.
From actual surveys by Capts. Bart and Wm. Bowen, Mississippi River Pilots, of St. Louis, Mo., shows every mark plantation and owner’s name, from St. Louis to the Gulf of Mexico—1350 miles—every sand-bar, island, town, landing, and all places twenty miles back from the river-colored in counties and States. Price, $1 in sheets, $2, pocket form, and $2,50 on linen, with rollers. Now ready.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, Washington, Sept. 17, 1862. 
J. T. LLOYED: SIR—Send me your Map of the Mississippi River, with price per hundred copies. Rear Admiral Charles H. Davis, commanding the Mississippi squadron is authorized to purchase as many as are required for use of that squadron. GODEON WELLS,
Secretary of the Map.
Oct. 3. 3w

Lewis’s Normal Institute
—FOR—
Physical Education,
No. 20 ESSEX STREET, BOSTON, MASS.
[Incorporated in 1861.]
THIS Institution is a pioneer in a new profession. Indies and gentlemen of enterprise and industry will find in this field health, usefulness, and large profit. These eminent medical men teach in the department of Physiology and Hygiene. Prof. LEONARD has charge of Elocution; Dr. DIO LEWIS of Practical Gymnastics, and the Movement Cure. The course continues ten weeks. Tickets $75. Matriculation $5. Diploma $10. These prices are reduced 25 per cent, to Ladies. Two courses during this year—the first beginning on the 2d of January and the 2d on the 5th of July.
For a full circular, address Dr. DIO LEWIS, Box 12, Boston, Mass.
Dr. Lewis has solved the problem; he has marked the way. Many eminent teachers are pursuing it with the most excellent results. We recognize the debt due Dr. Lewis; he has done us teachers and our pupils a vast amount of good.—D. B. Hagar, Pres, of the American Institute of Instruction.
I am now satisfied that Dr. Lewis has found the tree scientific process for physical development. It was my privilege to welcome Dr. Lewis at his very first arrival and every thing since then has only confirmed my confidence in his ability to superintend the work.—Rev. De. Kirk, at the first Commencement of the Institute.
Henceforth we shall delight to thing of Dr. Lewis at one who holds our welfare very near his own; we shall turn to him for sympathy and encouragement in our failures, and shall love to bring our successes to him, as belonging more to him than to ourselves.—Miss may, valedictory at the first Graduating Class.
I rejoice, Mr. President, that the Normal Institute for Physical Education has been established in Boston. I rejoice that it has at its head a gentleman so admirably qualified to give it eminent success. I believe that no individual has ever, in this country, given the subject of Physical Education such an impulse as has Dr. Lewis. He deserves the credit of it.
You may not know it, ladies and gentlemen, but this Institution is famous in every part of the land. There is not a live educator in America who is not looking to seen what is to be the result of Dr. Lewis’s institution in Boston. These exercises can be introduced into any school room with desks. The problem is solved.
I trust, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the commencement of a new era, and that the system taught by Dr. Lewis will be universally introduced into our schools.—Extract from a speech delivered at the second Commencement of "Lewis’s Normal Institute," by J.D. Philbrick Esq., Superintendent of the Public Schools of Boston.

