THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS,EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR. 
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXIII. NO. 34 BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 21, 1863. WHOLE NO, 1698.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
MAINE COPPERHEAD DEMOCRACY.
The Copperhead Democracy of Maine met in Convention at Portland, on the 6th inst., and adopted unanimously the following series of factious and incongruous resolutions:-
Resolved. That we will earnestly support every constitutional measure tending to preserve the union of the States. No men have a greater interest in its preservation than we have-none desire it more. There are none who will make greater sacrifices or endure more than we will to accomplish the end. We are, as we ever have been, the devoted friends of the Constitution and the Union, and we have no sympathy with the enemies of either: and it is because of our devotion to the Union and Government that we are compelled to oppose the present Administration, which is pursuing a policy destructive of both as established by our fathers. 
Resolved, That in the opinion of this Convention, the war is being conducted by the present Administration, not for the restoration of the Union but for the abolition of slavery and the destruction of the Union, and our only assurance of peace and restoration is in the success of the Democratic party. 
Resolved, That, under our form of government, the sovereign power is vested in the people, and the depositaries of it were established by them, and rest on no other foundation than their will. The people are the only LAWFUL SOVEREIGN in this country. The public functionaries of every description are only their public servants, or agents of the people, elected or appointed by the people to transact the business of the people, and responsible to the business of the people for the manner in which they perform the duties of the trusts confided to them; and, in fact, that there is a manifest difference between the administration of the Government, and the Government itself. The Government consists of the civil and political institutions erected by the Constitution, and to it the people owe allegiance. The Administration are but the agents of the people, subject to their approval or condemnation, according to the merit or demerit of their acts. 
Resolved, That whenever the people of the seceded States, or of any one or more of such States, shall express their desire to return to the Union, to be represented in the Congress of the United States, and to resume their obligations to the Constitution and the Union, the Democratic party will hail their return with joy; and will freely welcome them back under the protecting folds of the National Flag, “with all the dignity, equality and rights of the several States unimpaired;” and we condemn and denounce the new and startling doctrine, now for the first time avowed by the organs of the Republican party, that the extinction of slavery in such States should be made a condition of their restoration to the Union, as a violation of the public pledges of the party, and as a wicked attempt to overthrow the Constitution, revolutionize the Government, prolong the war indefinitely, and finally to establish a military despotism on the ruins of our Republican Government. 
Resolved, That under no possible emergency, not even in insurrection or amid the throes of civil war can this government justify official interference with the freedom of the ballot. The licentiousness of the tongue and of the pen is a minor evil, compared with the licentiousness of arbitrary power. 
Resolved, That we declare that the power which has recently been assumed by the President of the United States, whereby, under the guise of military necessity, he has proclaimed and extended-or asserts the right to proclaim and extend-martial law over the States where war does not exist, and has suspended the writ of habeas corpus, is un warranted by the Constitution, and its tendency is to subordinate civil to military authority, and to subvert our system of free government. 
Resolved, That we unite with the Democracy of the other States in denouncing the arrest and mock trial by Court Martial and banishment of Clement L. Vallandigham, a citizen of Ohio, for no other reason than words addressed to a public meeting, in criticism of the course of the Administration, and in condemnation of a certain military order as a high-handed outrage upon the rights of the citizens under the Constitution of his own State, and that of the United States. 
Resolved, That the CONSCRIPTION LAW, in the opinion of the convention, is an unnecessary, unwise, unequal and oppressive law-deemed by many to <illegible> the Constitution and the rights of the States and to be destructive of the liberties of the people. While the Democratic party counsel obedience to the laws and respect for the constituted authorities, and deprecate all illegal and violent resistance to the execution of any law, however unjust and oppressive, we believe that common justice requires that the burdens arising under this act shall be assumed and equalized by the State; and we appeal to the Administration to suspend the enforcement of this law until the Courts of competent jurisdiction shall have decided that it is a constitutional enactment. 
Resolved, That the soldiers composing our armies merit the warmest thanks of the nation. Their country called, and nobly did the respond. Living, they shall know a nation’s gratitude; wounded, a nation’s care; and dying, they shall live in our memories, and monuments shall be raised to teach posterity to honor the patriots and heroes who offered their lives at their country’s altar. Their widows and orphans shall be adopted by the nation, to be watched over and cared for as objects truly worthy a nation’s guardianship. 
Resolved, That the Democracy of Maine, in the dark hours of the Republic, have looked with hope and confidence to the noble stand taken and maintained in the defence of the rights of the citizen and States as against the encroachments of centralized power, by Horatio Seymour, Governor of the State of New York, and we hereby tender him the thanks of our people for the service he has rendered the country in the past, and our cordial co-operation for the future, and that the President of this Convention is hereby directed to communicate a copy of this resolution to Governor Seymour. 
The Convention nominated, as the Copperhead candidate for Governor, Hon. Bion Bradbury, of Eastport. The following seditious letter was read from him on the occasion:
EASTPORT, Aug. 3, 1863.
My Dear Sir: I acknowledge the receipts of your letter, urging me to be present at the Democratic State Convention to be held at Portland on the 6th inst. 
It would afford me great pleasure to be there, and interchange greetings with my fellow-citizens. I regret that professional engagements, which can not be postponed, will prevent it.
<c02>
The Convention has most important duties to perform. It assembles amid the unspeakable horrors of a bloody and desperate civil war. The country is oscillating between despotism and anarchy. The long continuance of the war has stirred the deep passions of men. The voice of reason is almost drowned in the terrific storm that rages around us, and madness rules the hour.
The times and the occasion demand calm deliberation, and the exercise of the highest wisdom and the noblest patriotism. All mere party views sink into insignificance, and the intensely absorbing question rises, what can be done to save the Republic from impending ruin?
It seems to me that the hope of restoring the government rests in the united action of all conservative men, in resisting the fanatical spirit of radicalism largely pervading the land, which now controls with its revolutionary doctrines and pernicious influence, the counsels of the present national administration, and in substituting in its stead an enlarged patriotism and a liberal statesmanship which looks alone to the conservation of the Constitution and the restoration of the Union, with all the rights of the States unimpaired.
The Republican party, under its new cognomen, holds the position that it is "the solemn duty of all loyal and patriotic citizens to take a firm and unequivocal stand in favor of the national administration," and "to unite as one man in sustaining its civil and military policy, without qualification or reservation," and “that upon this issue there can be but two parties-patriots in favor and traitors opposed." I quote the language of the convention which nominated Mr. Cony.
So that the issue tendered by the Republican party of this State, under the self-righteous assumption of all the patriotism extant, is, whether or not the present national administration (thoroughly partisan) is entitled to the unqualified and unreserved support of the people in its entire policy and all its measures.
Now, the support of the present policy and measures of the administration involves the endorsement of the constitutionality and expediency of the confiscation act, the emancipation proclamation, and the conscription bill; and of the despotic doctrines that there exists “within the Constitution a principle or germ of arbitrary power, which in time of war expands at once into an absolute sovereignty, wielded by one man, so that liberty perishes or is dependent on his will, his discretion, or his caprice; “ and that the military power, overrides the Constitution the only law being that of military necessity, and the only judge of that necessity, the Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy. It requires the people to approve of the arrest and imprisonment of citizens of the United States, without due process of law, “not so much for what has been done as for what probably would be done," and of the boastful sentiment of the Secretary of State, that “he can touch a bell on his right hand, and order the arrest of a citizen of Ohio, and touch the bell again, and order the arrest of a citizen of New York, and no power on earth but the President can release them." It demands the sanction of the overthrow of the right to be secure from unreasonable searches and seizures, of a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury, of freedom of speech, of freedom of the press, and of the independent exercise of the elective franchise. Besides all this, it would compel the adoption of a policy which proposes to prosecute the war, not for the Union as it came to us from our fathers, but for a mere territorial Union, regardless of State limits or State rights-not for a re-establishment of the government under the present Constitution, but for the purposes of subjugation and the abolition of slavery.
These are not frivolous or captious objections. They relate to the preservation of the sacred rights and immunities which the Constitution has guarantied to the people-nay, they relate to the very existence of the Constitution itself.
Are the people of Maine ready to concede the claim set up by the national administration to that despotic power which could deprive them of their dearest rights and most sacred privileges-of all those noble guaranties affecting life, liberty and property, which are secured to them by the grand old Constitution established by their fathers as the embodiment of the great principles upon which rests the base of the mighty fabric of the Government? I believe the people will never acquiesce in such doctrine. “In their opinion, the guaranties of the Constitution, which secure to them freedom of speech and of the press, immunity from arrest for offences unknown to the law of the land, and the right of trial by jury before the tribunals provided by those laws instead of military commissions and drum-head courts martial, are living and vital principles, in peace and in war, at all times and under all circumstances. No sophistry or argument can shake the conviction, nor will the people require its confirmation by logical sequence and deduction. It is a conviction deeply interwoven with the instincts, the habits, and the education of our countrymen. The right to form opinions upon public measures and men, and to declare those opinions by speech or writing with the utmost latitude of expression, the right of personal liberty, unless forfeited according to established laws, and for offences previously defined by law, the right when accused of crimes to be tried where law is administered, and punishment is pronounced only when the crime is legally ascertained; all these are rights instantly perceived without argument or proof. No refinement of logic can unsettle them in the minds of freemen. No power can annihilate them, and no force at the command of any chief magistrate can compel their surrender."
But opposition to the present war policy and war measures of the administration is not opposition to the government. The administration is not the government. Those in authority are but the agents of the people to carry on the government under the Constitution. They may exceed or pervert their constitutional powers-they may destroy the Constitution itself. Under such circumstances, to oppose the administration is to support the government.
To uphold the government, to maintain the Constitution, to restore the Union as it was, is the first duty of every citizen. To fail in the duty is to be false to ourselves, to posterity, and to the great cause of constitutional liberty; and it is equally a duty to protest against a policy calculated to prolong the war and subvert the Constitution.
But my object in this letter is not to discuss the whole subject of the war and the question it has opened up, but to call your attention especially to the issues presented by the resolutions adopted by the Bangor Convention.
I trust that the Convention will be harmonious, and that its action will be productive of results that shall rebuke the spirit of radicalism and revolution, and secure the ascendency of conservative sentiments and sound constitutional principles in the State.
Very truly yours,
BION BRADBURY.
Gen. S. J. ANDERSON.
<c03>
Selections.
DOUGH DOWN EAST.
It must be confessed that the “Democracy “of the State of Maine dies very hard. It seems to have set its obdurate heart upon departing this life in anything but a smell of sanctity; and now, when it holds Conventions, which must be like a collection of sick folk in a hospital, it always passes resolutions which modern events have rendered ridiculous, though we don’t deny that ten years ago they would have been strictly after the regulation pattern. The trouble with these honest gentlemen is, that having all their lives been licking the feet of slaveholders, for the sake of place and pelf, no severity of kicking can rid them of the habit. Dirt-eating, as the West Indian doctors inform us, is an incurable disease- but who would have expected to find the same odd trouble in the nosology of Maine? It is an exceedingly unpleasant business. The contemplation of it has an adverse influence upon the stomachs of sound men. Now, in the midst of this hot civil war, in which the devil is contending for the everlasting continuance of human degradation, to find beings who wear coats and not petticoats, breeches and not bodices, owlishly resolving all sorts of flummery in favor of their foes, and sending little bits of cringing sophistry, with their best compliments, into the enemy’s camp-it is dreadful! It almost converts us to the doctrine of the inequality of the races. They cannot-these Maine Dough Democrats-be of the same flesh and blood with the brave fellows who are fighting our battles. The ways of Providence are past finding out. Why, in the name of our limited reason, are these gentry free in the East, while respectable blacks are slaves in the South? Alas! this boasted Ethnology is more of a muddle than ever! If white skins must thus betray their possessors into servility and sottishness, most honorable Caucasians will weep that they were not born as black as night.
Dough-Democracy, having dropped its little, sentimental tear, proceeds to assert that “the war is being conducted, not for the restoration of the Union, but for the abolition of slavery and the destruction of the Republic.” The gentleman who constructed this resolution only meant, we suppose, to treat his coadjutors to a tid-bit of fine writing; but he has done something more than this, for he accuses the President, in terms, of High Treason-of an offence for the commission of which he might be first impeached, and then tried, and then executed. Why didn’t the writer enlarge upon his amiable proposition? Why didn’t he, while If the Maine man is right, the stews of great cities could not disgorge viler criminals than are the gentlemen who are holding office in Washington. It is cowardly so to mince matters. It is unmanly thus to arraign honest men by gratuitous implications. It isn’t worthy even of the Dead Democracy of Maine. How many gallant soldiers has that State given to the cause-of what? Of law? of order? of the Constitution? O, no! Of oppression!-of injustice!-of rapine!-of “the destruction of the Republic!” This is the verdict of the “Democracy of Maine" in convention assembled! Now for the verdict of the People of Maine at the polls assembled! If they make Bion Bradbury their Governor, on that platform, we shall be prepared to hear that they have simultaneously seceded to Canada, and that every one of them is sedulously cultivating a sky-blue nose!
Various other resolutions were adopted upon this momentous occasion-there was one denouncing the Conscription, and another besmearing Gov. Seymour with complimentary slaver-but we begin to be sick of the subject, and would fain finish our comments. At the very tail end of the string, we notice that these “Democrats” are good enough to acknowledge that our soldiers are “worthy of a nation’s gratitude.” This means that returned volunteers in Maine will confer a favor by voting for Bion Bradbury. Mark our words! They certainly will not do it, unless they left their brains in camp when the remainder of their bodies was mustered out.-N. Y. Tribune.

THOSE WHO KNOW, AND THOSE WHO DON'T KNOW.
A State Convention, calling itself “Democratic,” met at Portland yesterday, nominated Bion Bradbury as candidate for Governor, and passed resolutions condemning to it by force. Mr. Bradbury, in a letter read to the Convention, declared himself opposed to the Emancipation Proclamation, the Confiscation act, and the general management of national affairs. The fourth resolution of this conclave asserted that “the war is conducted not for the restoration of the Union, but for the abolition of slavery and the destruction of the republic.” It is on this ground that the convention refused to support the Government.
Now, last Monday an important election was held in the State of Kentucky; the people chose a Governor and members of Congress. The Kentuckians know something by experience of how the war is carried on, with what objects and on what principles. They see more of the war every day than the stay-at-home “Democrats” of the Maine Convention have ever seen or will ever see. Union armies have been matching across their farms for two years; they have fought and beaten rebel armies on their soil; and they have suffered thereby from the operations incident to a state of hostilities. If any men in the world, then, should know whether “this war is conducted not for the restoration of the Union, but for the abolition of slavery and the destruction of the republic," the Kentuckians are those men. They ought to understand that question, at least, and the more so because they have a double interest in it-first as lovers of the Union, and second as slaveholders. If it were true, as the Maine Convention asserts, that the Administration intends the war to destroy the Union and not to save it, does any one believe that a single Kentuckian would vote for it-except, indeed, those recreants who followed John C. Breckinridge out of the State when they found that their intrigues could not carry the State out of the Union? Or, if Kentucky slaveholders believed that the war was conducted only to abolish slavery, as the Maine Convention pronounces, does any one suppose that a single slaveholder would vote for a candidate who is pledged to the prosecution of the war?
Yet not only have such votes been thrown, but on Monday last the Kentuckians chose for Governor Judge Bramlette who had previously pledged himself to the unconditional support of the Government: they elected, besides, several Congressmen of the same determination. Almost the entire Union ticket was chosen; notwithstanding the bitter and un-
<c04>
scrupulons efforts of those who called themselves Democrats, and whose “platform” was, with slight exceptions, the counterpart of that just adopted in Maine.
What then? Are the people of Kentucky blind? Are they fools, incapable of comprehending what is patent to every capacity? Not at all. But they—who see every day evidence of the intentions and desires of the Administration; who know by sight and feeling how and on what plan it conducts the war-know very well that all these charges are false; they are opposed, perhaps, individually to the policy of the Emancipation act, but they know that the freeing of the slaves of rebels is only an incident of the war, and not at all its main purpose; they know that it is absolutely necessary to defeat and disarm those who are in revolt, and though they may not approve the particular measures resorted to for that end, they yet approve the end; they know that the rebels themselves spare no property of Union men, but rob, burn and destroy everything; and the majority of them begin to see that the only way to deal with a rebel against the Union is to take away his property, his means of subsistence, and especially the slaves who work for him, feed him and give him time to ride around the country plotting treason, plunging a peaceful country into disorder, and destroying the estates of his loyal neighbors.
There s a magnanimous and noble spirit manifested in the attitude of the Kentuckians, as well as good sense in their view of things; they are themselves likely to be sufferers to a certain extent under the policy of the Administration; they do not entirely accord with it; but they will not allow their private judgments nor their private interests to interfere with their public duties. The men in Washington, they say, may be mistaken in this means or in that, but they are honestly and earnestly striving to redeem the nation from rebellion, from civil war, from disorder and from division, and so long as they do so, they shall have our encouragement and support. How different from the position of the copperheads of Maine, who live hundreds of miles from the stat of conflict, who suffer by it indirectly only, who have neither slaves nor estates to lose, and who are yet loud in their protests that the war is dishonestly conducted, and on those false grounds refuse to sustain the government? Is it not in fact ludicrous to an inexpressible degree, that while the border slave States-Missouri, Maryland, Kentucky-lend a cordial support to the "Administration, these ‘democrats’ of the remote and secluded districts of Maine hold back because the Administration is inimical to slavery? The fact recalls the anecdote told by Goldsmith of two men who met on London Bridge during a threat of French invasion, one of whom was a porter sweating under his burden, and exclaimed: “The mounseers will make us work like horses,” to which the other, a profane, drunken soldier, replied: “Yes, and what then will become of our holy religion?”-N. Y. Evening Post.

THE KENTUCKY ELECTION.
Of late, the rebellion has lost ground and hope everywhere. The secessionists and copperheads expected to gain something from the recent election in Kentucky. They felt sure of carrying that election; and, then, they would do something to embarrass the administration, and create a diversion that would revive the fading hopes of treason. The democratic party of Kentucky had in it already, or drew into it by the force of elective affinity, all the secessionists of the State, and all the “conditional Union men.” all the friends and followers of Buckner and Magoffin, with all those of Wickliffe. They nominated Wickliffe for Governor; and, so strong was their expectation of success, that some of them boasted that they would carry the State by 50,000 majority. Against them was arrayed the unconditional Union party, with Judge Bramlette as candidate for governor; and true Union men all over the country very naturally desired the success of this party. The election has taken place; and the triumph of the unconditional Union party is overwhelming.
It is interesting to observe how this result of the Kentucky election is taken by the leading democratic papers in this part of the country. Of course, the extreme copperhead press, everywhere, is disappointed and angry at this defeat of the Kentucky democrats. In Ohio, and throughout the West, it is greatly chagrined; and the democratic papers here in New England denounce the result. The Hartford Times calls it a triumph of ”abolitionism;” and, after expressing its wrath with such headings to the news as.-"BAYONETS TRIUMPHANT-FREE BALLOT SUPPRESSED," it comments as follows:-
“Burnside established martial law over Kentucky two or three days before the election, and gave directions as to who might vote. The tyranny of bayonets being thus placed over the ballot boxes, abolitionism had its own way. Very few democrats voted, as the laws of the State were set aside, and the election was controlled entirely by orders from Washington, through their tool, Burnside, who was backed by a large army. Thus we find the freedom of the ballot crushed out by the direct interference of the military power. It will be so in Maryland and other States.”
Such atrocious falsehood is not creditable to any body; but the Times was wrathful, and could not stand for trifles. The Providence Post, quite as angry as the Times, imputes the result to an interference of the administration in behalf of the “Bramlette ticket,” and says:-”It has been plain to us for a fortnight or more, that the people of Kentucky were not to enjoy a free election;” also, ”for weeks it has been understood that the cabinet regarded the support of Mr. Wickliffe as a species of disloyalty, and word went forth that the democratic candidate must be defeated;” and the Post even pretends to see in the result threatened danger to the freedom of elections in other States. These copperheads are very miserable. The defeat of secessionism in Kentucky makes their heads swim, and overcomes them with shocking dreams of that ghastly funeral procession in which they will be compelled to follow copperheadism to the grave which its remains will befoul.
A SLAVE-MASTER CHAGRINED. The following is an extract from a Bichmond paper:—
“What contributed most to by mortification was, that in my whole gang of slaves, among whom there were any amount of Aarons, Abraham’s, Isaacs and Jacobs, there was not one Abdiel-not one remained loyal to the rebel. This is the complaint of hundreds and thousands of other sufferers. The most petted, trusted, and seemingly devoted slaves are found wanting in the hour of trial.”
This reminds us of a speech made some years ago by a Kentucky politician, who after saying to an audience in Cincinnati that his slaves would not accept freedom if he were to offer it, went home to find that during his absence his slaves had all run away!-Independent.
<c05>
THE “MARTYR.”
Visit to Vallandigham-How He Looks-His Programme.
[Correspondence of the Chicago Tribune.]
NIAGARA FALLS, (CLIFTON HOUSE,) July 20, 1863.
THE MARTYR DEJECTED.
As I have before remarked, Vallandigham seems much disappointed and cast down. He came here expecting and desiring to be lionized, and he finds few willing to undertake the job. The nobby natives of this British province, with brief-tailed coats, narrow rimmed, blue banded titles, peer at him through their glasses from a distance, with sublime coolness and indifference, or hardly at all. None of them send him a card, or come forward to greet him. This is annoying to the martyr, for he looked for active demonstrative sympathy from the Canadians.
DISPLAYING HIS WOUNDS.
The martyr is very anxious to show his wounds to small and gaping audiences, and to large ones, too, if they will but come and take a look, which they do not. He has not yet made enough political capital by their exhibition to set up a candidacy for town constable. He recounts, with much unction and extreme detail, the manner in which he received them. He has words of hate for the Government, the Administration and all in power, but not one word of hope and encouragement for his country. He utters anathemas and cursings against our Generals and soldiers, but not one curse, not one anathema, against Jeff. Davis and the rebel horde who are trying to break down and utterly destroy the best government on earth. He talks continually, and with malicious earnestness, about “crushing the despots at Washington,” but says nothing about crushing the rebellion. To his mind, the latter is of remote consequence-mere “mint, anise and Cumming” while the “more weightier matters of the law “are centered in the griefs which he has been compelled to suffer. His rights, his privileges, and his freedom to talk and practice treason, must be secured first, and until then, the country left to take care of itself.
HIS PROGRAMME.
His programme, as I gather from his utterances, is something like this: The war will be ended when the Democratic party come into power, which will be in 1865; and not till then. The independence of the Southern Confederacy will then be acknowledged, with the understanding that a National Convention shall immediately be called for purposes of “reconstruction.” At that Convention new guarantees shall be given to the South, by constitutional amendments-such as the acknowledgment of the nationality of slavery; the right of slaveholders to carry and hold their slaves wherever they please, under the protection of the Federal Government; the restoration of slavery where it has been abolished by the Emancipation Proclamation; a general amnesty and restoration to rights of all rebels-leaders and all; in fact, all that the slaveholders ever claimed in their most arrogant moments, “ and more too,” is to be readily and cordially conceded, with “such a disposition of the Abolitionists as the mercy of the rebels may suggest. This is about the programme which is now being prepared to govern the future action of the great Democratic party; and depend upon it, it will have the support of that time-honored party; there is no mistake about this. True, the veteran apostles of that faith, those whose personal character and intellects added lustre to the name, are not with them-Dickinson, Dix, Cass, Butler, Brough, Tod, Wright of Indiana, Wright of Pennsylvania, Andy Johnson, Holt. Guthrie, Burnside, Rosecrans, and hundreds of others; but it will, nevertheless, have the sympathies and active support of a large majority of the once proud and dominant Democratic party, and will be made the test of political faith in the coming national contest. Upon this platform it will have to be met and conquered.
A BATCH OF PILGRIMS FROM BUFFALO.
A band of pilgrims came down from Buffalo on Sunday morning, to see the great Martyr and Prophet. There were none of the leading Copperheads amongst them. They were all the small fry, with much swagger, turn down shirt collars and dirty bosoms. “Judge Fullerton,” of whom I never before heard, was the leader and spokes man of the band. He has a fossilized appearance, wore big ruffles in his bosom, and affected whiskey, as did the rest of the party, in frequent and ponderous potations. The crowd-numbering a dozen or so-talked loud and with much swagger. Alt they wanted was to “hang Abe Lincoln, Bill Seward, and all other Abolitionists;” “ the rebellion was a big thing for their party, and ought to be encouraged, until all the damned Abolitionists in the army were killed off;” “Jeff. Davis was a better man than any Abolitionists, and if Vallandigham should be elected President, which they fondly hoped would be the case, Jeff. Davis should have the best place in the Cabinet.” Some of the party would like to have cheered for Jeff. Davis, but they were restrained by the more shrewd ones. They were all introduced to the great Martyr, and regarded that as glory enough for one Sunday.
MRS. VALLANDIGHAM.
Mrs. Vallandigham, wife of the Martyr, accompanied by Judge Blanchard, J. H. Walters, her son, and several female friends, arrived here on Saturday. Mrs. V. is a comely, pleasant-looking lady, and betrays no evidence of insanity or even unhappiness. Young Master Charlie Vallandigham, who represents the future of the Vallandigham family, is a bright, lively youth, of ten summers, with Young America proclivities, and will perhaps make his mark, not after the manner of his father, I hope.
VALLANDIGHAM-HOW HE LOOKS.
Many of your readers have doubtless looked upon the Great Banished, at least before he got his “ proud title,” but probably the larger share of them have not. I will try to tell you, in a few words, how he looks. In height, say he is five feet nine to ten inches, broad, stoop shouldered, and now quite thin-his weight probably not exceeding 160 pounds. He is what may be called limber jointed-that is, his movements lack firmness and stability. His face is oval; his mouth is broad, filled up, ”and more too,” with large, uneven, disagreeable looking teeth, which he finds it very difficult to keep from protruding over his lips. His eyes are blue, somewhat protruding-indicating, according to the science of phrenology, power of language-with restless tendencies, at times having an ambiguous and disagreeable expression, but generally bearing a pleasant and amiable smile. He greets you in a cordial manner, but at once assumes a confidential air, as much as to ask, “What new scheme have you in view?" He always talks about himself and his wrongs, and it is hard
<C06>
to draw him from that subject. The crow tracks around his eyes make him forty-five, but a casual glance places him at forty. His hair is brown, which means just no color at all, slightly tinged with grey. This is Vallandigham as I see him. Close observation of the man forces the conclusion that he is a selfish demagogue, and not to be trusted where great issues are at stake.
The Copperheads of Ohio are trying to make him Governor of that great and loyal State; and, if successful in that, then to lift him into the executive position now held by “Honest Old Abraham Lincoln.” Will the day ever come when this will be so? If yes, it will be the darkest day that human liberty ever encountered. I cannot, will not believe it.

JEFF. DAVIS'S ADDRESS.
It is said that a Cossack exists under the skin of the most civilized Russian. Jeff. Davis's recent address to the deserters of the rebel army would seem to show that the highest “Confederate“ position, cannot obscure the principles and language of the slave-driver. None but one affiliated with that tribe would dare to charge the Government of the United States with seeking the extermination of the Southern people, including their wives and children; with being engaged in wholesale plunder, destruction and division of property among “wretches” of “atrocious cruelty;” with incendiarism and the debauching of an interior race with the promised "indulgence of the vilest passions as the price of their treachery.” No prominent man of any other nationality at the present day would be found using such vile and reckless language as this. But it is not inappropriate to the pen of the chosen representative of a community of slave-drivers. Beauregard has uttered foul falsehoods at home, and Maury has rivalled him in his scientific slanders abroad, but their official chief beats them both in full proportion to his superior rank.
But it may be suggested that the desperate situation of Davis is not calculated to induce him to stand upon propriety or to measure his words. He is making a last effort to “fire the Southern heart," and he may well risk blowing his own reputation to the winds. In this point of view, his address is one of the most significant developments of the whole crisis. He acknowledges that there is a large army of deserters now scattered over the rebel States, which he has no hopes of gathering into the ranks again, except by this public promise and amnesty and pardon. Of course, he smooths over the excuses and reasons in favor of these absentees, but they are clearly nothing but common deserters, whom even the strict regulations of the, rebel army have not sufficed either to hold, find or return. They are those who have abandoned the sinking ship, who have saved themselves as they could, precious. Precious few of them, therefore, will Jeff. Davis ever see rallying under his banner again.
But into what a valley of humiliation must the rebel “President“ have descended, before he could have brought himself to thus announce the low estate of his once audacious conspiracy! It is a confession that the attempt to recruit the rebel army by summoning all between the ages of eighteen and forty-five is a failure. But when did deserters ever recruit an army? If they should ever go back, their second state would be worse than the first; for it would denote their triumph over the rules of the service and the authority of their leaders. But they will not go back, in numbers of any consequence. The reasons for which they ran away will keep them away. Jeff. Davis must rely upon the force he has, subject to the daily loss by desertion. These are insufficient to stand before the national troops, unless the latter shall not be reinforced, but still further thinned out, through Copperhead influences. Let as us take care to prevent that.-Boston Journal.

EMANCIPATION IN SURINAM.
On the 1st of July, the slaves of Surinam, a Dutch colony in South America, were emancipated in accordance with a law adopted by the Legislature of Holland, on the 8th of August, 18621863, with the cordial sanction of the Dutch Government. The slaves laws of the colony form an overwhelming majority of the total population, numbering about 45,000 persons, in an aggregate population of 61,000. More than one half of the negroes belong to the Moravian Church, the missionaries of which publish in the papers of their denomination some interesting information on this important event, and especially, on the spirit in which the slaves received the news of their approaching liberty.
The Rev. Mr. Jansa, one of the oldest and most experienced missionaries of the colony, says:
“The intelligence of the speedy emancipation of the negroes naturally awakens in me, who have so long labored in this Colony, the most heartfelt joy. Having been requested by several planters to make known to their slaves the Proclamation of the Governor and the Emancipation law, I did so. They assembled, neatly dressed, in the church, and I tried to explain everything to them, getting them to repeat aloud all that I said, so to that there might be no misunderstanding. The joy and praise of the poor negroes were touching. They had previously heard, but refused to believe, the news, saying: ’The whites have deceived us so often!’ But now that I made known the truth, and told them. ‘, It is really so, our Saviour has influenced the King and his counsellors to set you free on the first of July, 1863’-they doubted no longer. Big tears of joy rolled down their black cheeks, and with jubilee joy they exclaimed: ‘Our dear teacher tells us; we believe it; we will be free! What our mothers heard of ere we were born, that is now to come to pass, that we will see I! Thanks, thanks unto God!'"
After Mr. Jansa had proclaimed the coming emancipation on a number of plantations, fifteen of the native assistants of the missionaries went to the Citizen Captain.(chief magistrate of a district,) and begged him to thank the Governor, and through the Governor the King, in the name of all the plantations of this district; they added that so long as they should continue slaves, they would show themselves to be diligent and obedient, and would endeavor to prove that the liberty promised them should not be abused; and that when they were free, they would earn their bread and support their families faithfully; finally, they asked permission to send their families faithfully; finally, they asked permission to send their children at once to school.
 In response, the Governor wrote a very friendly letter, which the missionary read from the pulpit on the first Sunday in Advent. The Citizen Captain was present, and addressed the negroes, whereupon several native assistants in succession rose, thanked him, and then spoke very appropriately to the congregation.
The missionary continues:
“The spirit at present prevailing among the negroes is excellent. Who will wonder at the joy of the missionaries? We have been hindered in our labors, and have been obliged to submit to many things, only in order to gain access to the plantations. That after the emancipation, too, much will occur to try us, is clear;

“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERESTED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a was power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF THE WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
but we will no longer be restrained from giving the bread of life to those who really hunger for it; we will not be obliged to hold service, and give instruction, late in the evening, when the negroes are tired and worn out; we will have the children in our schools, and no one can forbid them to come. I confess that I feel rejuvenated. The negroes often say to me: ‘You rejoice with us, as though you too were to be made free!’ The oppression of slavery is something terrible!"
The Moravians, in view of the emancipation, feel the necessity of having more schools and more native assistants. It is an encouraging circumstance that there already is, at Beekhuizen, a Normal School for the training of native teachers, which will, no doubt, be speedily enlarged. Perhaps the efforts which will be made by the Moravians will be sufficient for preaching to and teaching all the negroes of the colony. If not, their wants, we hope, will attract the attention of other Christian denominations. In their moral and social progress, just at this sime, the whole Christian and civilized world must feel the profoundest interest; for every unfavorable report that, rightly or wrongly, may be given of their condition, would be received with rejoicings by all the enemies of human freedom in this country who have bathed this land in blood, or sympathize with those who have done so, that the African race may still be held in hopeless bondage.

A SLAVE-PEN BROKEN UP.
We copy from the Evening Post the following portion of a deeply interesting letter from Baltimore:
“The release of the slaves of the rebel General Stuart from a slave-pen in Pratt street, in this city, was attended by some interesting incidents. Colonel Birney having applied for authority to visit the place and confiscate Stuart's ‘property, an order to that effect arrived yesterday, and in the afternoon the Colonel proceeded to the prison, showed his order, entered, and locking the doors behind him, entered the court-yard first, and then visited the cells. In this place, sixty persons were confined, some of them having been there over three years. To be imprisoned there, without ever being allowed to visit the outer world, to forget almost what trees and flowers and green fields were, to be deprived even of the cool breezes of heaven, was bad enough; but there was worse than this. The ball, the chain, the shackles were not wanting to make the lives of these poor creatures more miserable. Sixteen men were bound together with shackles at the ankles, others were chained two by two, and one old man had his legs fastened together by shackles connected by chains bound to his waist. The poor wretches were all terribly frightened when called up by the Colonel. They thought he had come to buy them, and take them off South, as it seems they have been kept there by their masters to await either peace and ‘the Union as it was, or a good chance for shipment to the South. They were soon reassured, however, and a blacksmith having been sent for, the chains and shackles were speedily removed.
“When the chain fell from the ankles of the old man, he lifted up his eyes and hands, and exclaimed ‘Thank God!’ The expression was simple, but in its tone revealed the suffering, the despair of months. When told they were to go out and be free, they could not believe it at first, but when assured again and again that it was so, a simultaneous shout of gladness went up, which must have made the angels rejoice, and ’God bless you, massa! God Almighty bless you! The Lord Jesus love you, massa!’ were the blessings freely showered upon the Colonel, who, scarcely less happy than they, tried to make them understand that they owed their release to the Government. They listened and assented, but still evidently looked upon the Colonel as their deliverer, after all. The scene, he says, he shall never forget. Their joy found vent, with the men, in prayers and ejaculations of praise, with the women in tears and embraces of each other.
“Finally, the Colonel told them they must get ready to go out. Then they fairly flew to their cells for their bags and bundles. And-the Colonel told it with a smile-even in this supreme moment, womanly vanity (shall we so call a laudable self-respect?) showed itself. He could see them smoothing their hair, putting on little articles of finery, and otherwise ‘prettying up,’ before their bits of looking -glass. It was not many minutes, however, before they all came down, and were marched out, men, women and children, into the free-to them doubly free-air.
“They were taken to the recruiting office in Camden street, and here another most affecting scene took place. The news of the opening of the prison had spread like wildfire, and the office and pavements in front were crowded with colored people, many of whom now met friends and relatives for the first time for three years. Well, I must not make my letter too long. Suffice it that joy reigned supreme, and when the Colonel asked, “Now, what is to be done with these people for to-night?” the most generous hospitality was liberally tendered. After seeing them thus all provided for, and enlisting sixteen able-bodied men in the service, the Colonel returned to camp, feeling that the blessing of heaven would be upon the work he had that day done.
“In the evening, one of the lieutenants, talking with the new freedmen, asked them if they knew the person who liberated them. ’No’, answered one, 'we don't know him, but we know that God sent him.’ ‘Yes,' echoed the rest; 'God sent him-God sent him!’
“Thus, you see, ‘the hand-breadth cloud the sages feared’ is spreading. The Colonel hopes soon to open every slave-pen in Baltimore, and through God’s grace and the strong arm of the Government, they shall never be used as such-again."
The Springfield Republican regrets this act, and observes:
“A slave-pen is a monstrous institution, as is slavery, but it is legal in Maryland, and it does not appear by what law, military or other, these United States officers override the laws of Mary-land. Such acts ignore the cause of emancipation in the State, and provoke hostility to the general Government."
By what law? By the law of God, of course. Birney is a Doctor utriusque juris.
When Seymour, in his sorry plight, 
Unfurled his banner to the air, 
He chose the sable skirts of night. , 
And  “barred” each ray of glory there. 
Then from his kennel, mid the scum, 
He bade his banner-bearer come, 
And gave into his reckless hand 
The sword to stab his native land.
 Such was the travesty of Drake’s “American flag,” that rang through our brain when Gov. Seymour’s remonstrance with and complaints to the President concerning the draft sang over the telegraph wires. What would the wise Governor have? Another mob? Another cruel, fiendish outbreak against the good and noble, against the defenceless and the weak? Another sacking of such homes as the Gibbons'? Another fiery onslaught against forlorn children? Another hellish sheaf of murders of frightened negroes who, fancying they had fled from the house of bondage into a city of refuge, found there a smooth, bland “gentleman” (?) to slip the leash of his bloodhounds upon them for their destruction? By dastardly appeals to passion, and prejudice, (the prejudice of color and of race,) the slums of New York were stirred. The filth bubbled to the surface in that seething political caldron of damnable ingredients. Up from gutters, and brothels, and gambling hells, and grog-shops,-up from the haunts of thieves,—up from the rat-holes of pollution,-,—up from the hiding-places of infamy,—came the horrid crew of Mr. Seymour’s constituents; and when the raging, blood-thirsty mob stood before the bland, smooth “gentleman!” (?) with their imperious, insulting demands, what did sweet, kind, amiable Mr. Seymour do? Instead of answering those demands with an emphatic “No!” from a cannon’s mouth, he stood before his “reasonable constituency” “roaring as gently as any sucking dove," “I will endeavor to have this draft stopped!” “I will endeavor to cripple this Government, which oppresses so cruelly our dear Southern brethren!” “I will endeavor to bring into power the Democratic party, with a good sound copperhead!”—and so, looking across that gulf of death and destruction yawning before him to swallow up the defenceless, he sent his wolves away to pillage and plunder, to murder and destroy.
And, after all this, we read this morning of his petty cavils, at the draft, and his request for the suspension of it “till its constitutionality is tested," forsooth! This, then, is Mr. Seymour’s patriotism! This! When blow after blow has fallen with stun-
<c02>
ning weight on the rebels; when victory after victory has knocked at their frightened hearts, and flung the word “surrender!” in their teeth; when our noble soldiers are broiling in iron-clads around Charleston; when Western harvest fields are red with their blood; when the broad Mississippi flows free at last from traitor thraldom, and goes singing to the sea its glad song of deliverance, bearing, as its best treasure, that sacred blood, to give it to the broad Gulf, that the Gulf may send it to the broader ocean, till all the world shall find the seeds of freedom scattered broadcast by the restless waves; when now loyal masses of fresh troops, rallying to our standard, might remove all need of further bloodshed, and end the war: in this grand hour, Mr. Seymour stands up, and palters over the constitutionality of the draft! Thus does this great man show his loyalty to our Government, and his love for its defenders. Oh, Mr. Seymour, Mr. Seymour! you may have the gift of tongue, (would that it were “unknown!”) the interpretation whereof is most easy- “Drag out the tear but another year, and then-and then-!" Shall the politician, through his country's ruin, grasp his base success? Shall Mr. Seymour institute another New York riot? Will not the loyal army and the loyal people rebuke such paltering with the public safety, such recreancy to duty, such culpable blindness to the right?
The President has couched his eyes. Pray God the operation may be successful; and when his devils again come forth from their tombs, may they see Jesus passing by, in the great events of the day, and, driven forth into the swinish herd of malcontents, may they rush with them violently down the steep precipice of public opinion, and be lost in the waters of oblivion! —Worcester Spy.

THE SACKED HOUSE.
On the Sunday following the great riots in New York, Rev. O. B. Frothingham preached a sermon, in which he made the following reference to the sacking of the home of James S. Gibbons, Esq:-
“The dwelling was one, the like of which is rare in any city—a dwelling of happiness and peace—a home of the tenderest domestic affections—a house of large friendliness and hospitality—a refuge and abiding place for the unfortunate and the outcast. There was no display of wealth there—there was no wealth to display; yet the house was full of things which no wealth could buy. It was crowded with mementoes. The pieces of furniture in the rooms had family histories connected with them; chairs and tables were precious from associations with noble and rare people who had gone. Pictures on the walls, busts in the parlors, engravings, photographs, books, spoke, of the gratitude or love of some dear giver. One room was sacred to the memory of a noble boy, an only son, who died some years ago. There was his bust in marble, there were his books, there were the prints he liked, the little bits of art he was fond of, and all the dear things that seemed to bring him back. The whole house was a shrine and a sanctuary.
“And who were the inmates? The master, a man whose sympathies were always and completely with the working people, a man of steady and boundless humanity. The mistress, a woman whose name is familiar to all doers of good deeds in the city of New York, and dear to hundreds of the objects of good deeds. To the orphan and friendless and poor, a mother; to the unfortunate, a sister; to the wretched, the depraved, the sinful, more than a friend. In the city prison, her presence was the presence of an angel of pitying love; at Blackwell’s Island, she was welcome as a spirit of peace and hope. The boys at Randall's Island looked into her face as the face of a mother. Again and again had she rescued, from the life of shame the country woman, and possibly the kindred of the very people who plundered her house. For the better part of a year and more she has been in camp, and city hospitals, nursing their brothers and sons, performing every menial office. At this moment she is at Point Lookout, doing that work, amid discomforts and discouragements that would daunt a less resolute humanity than hers, giving all she has and is to the people, to the wounded, crippled, bleeding and broken people; giving it for the sake of the people—giving it that the people may be raised to a higher social level! And she, forsooth, must be selected to have of her house pillaged! She must be stabbed to her heart of hearts, stabbed through and through in every one of her affections, by these people, for whom her life had been a perpetual process of dying! Why, if they had known this that I have been telling you, or but a tenth part of it, those men would have defended with their bodies every thread of the carpets she trod on. But so it is, and so it must be! Only the best names are ever taken in vain on human lips, and they are so taken because they are the best; and best is worst to those who cannot understand it."
Mr. Gibbons himself gives the following account of the ruin the mob left behind them:-
“No person was in the house at the time of the assault. Seeing no appearance of the mob in the immediate vicinity, I had walked over to Broadway to get an evening paper. On my return homeward, in about forty minutes, I found that the house had been broken open, and fired in several places, and was already half sacked. It was in the hands of a thousand thieves. I passed in, and up stairs, to see whether anything could be done to clear them out, but found it impossible, and retired. The lower doors and windows were all broken in, and all the interior rooms and closet doors, with two or three exceptions.
Every thing portable was carried off—beds, bedding, all the bureau drawers and the lighter bureaus, tables, and even the grate pans, and, last, kitchen pots. Of twenty-five hundred volumes, the accumulation of thirty years, not a single book was left in the house. Of the furniture that was too heavy to carry off, one small piece only was left unmutilated by axes. Nearly all the glass and much of the sash work was destroyed. The stair bannisters and marble mantels were chopped down. All the gas fixtures were twisted off, and most of the water faucets. The Croton pipe was pounded up in the cellar, to cut off the water, that the fire might not be extinguished, and but for the neighbors, who, at the peril of life, brought in buckets from their own houses, the place would have been burned. A piano was broken into fragments, and even sliding doors pulled out and their panels split. The lower parts of several heavy bureaus and portions of several bedsteads and tables were left in the house, and nothing more."

THE TENDER MERCY OF THE MOB.
We published the other day a brief account, by Mr. J. S. Gibbons, of the manner in which his house had been sacked by the mob. The instance is only another proof of the utter blindness of the malice by which such an assemblage is actuated. Mr. Gibbons is one of the most public spirited and charitable men of our city, whose hand has ever been ready for any good work, and whose active benevolence among the poorer classes has long been known to his friends. His wife, the daughter of the late Isaac T. Hopper, who spent his life in promoting the comforts of the poor, has been, since the outbreak of the war, one of the most efficient of that benevolent corps of women nurses who have followed the army to soothe the sufferings and assuage the distresses of our wounded soldiers. Utterly regardless of her own comfort, and often at the risk of her life, she, with her daughter, has been in constant attendance at the couch of the sick and dying. Even while the mob was plundering her house, scattering its furniture, books and pictures to the winds, she was hundreds of miles away, giving what consolation she could to our poor invalids. But perhaps this was her very offence in the eyes of these lovers of peace.

AN INCIDENT AT THE RUINS.
A lady yesterday passing the house of Mr. Gibbons, in Lamartine Place, which was sacked by the mob, saw an Irish woman sitting near the ruins, and; weeping most bitterly. She asked the woman what, was the matter, and received this reply: “Three years ago, Mrs. Gibbons saved me and my children from starvation, and it almost breaks my heart that this trouble should have come upon one so good." An invalid soldier, whose attention was attracted by the circumstance, remarked: “Yes, this wan a house that every man ought to have defended, for Mrs. Gibbons and her daughter left all its comforts to go to distant hospitals, that they might take care of us wounded soldiers."—N. Y. Tribune.
NEAL DOW. Southern papers say that Gen. Neal Dow left Richmond on Thursday morning the 23d ult., for Mobile, Alabama, to answer to a requisition from the Governor of that State. He is to be tried for larceny!
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholder!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 21, 1863.
The Editor of the Liberator is absent from his post, endeavoring to obtain recreation, recuperation and inspiration from the ocean breeze near Plymouth Rock. Letters for his personal attention may be addressed to him, until the last of the month, at Plymouth, Mass.

JUSTICE  AND HUMANITY TO SOLDIERS.
Most of the readers of the Liberator are probably aware that Dr. Henry I Bowditch stands in the front rank of Boston physicians for medical skill, and also that he is unsurpassed in practical benevolence. About the middle of 1862, he, with other physicians, was summoned to Washington by the Secretary of War, for the purpose of consultation and suggestion in regard to the care of sick and wounded soldiers. In the explorations connected with this visit, he “was brought immediately in contact with the abominable system, or rather no system, of ambulances now in use in our army.” Failing to arouse the interest, or at least the action, of Government officers on the subject, on returning home, he brought it before the Boston Society for Medical Improvement, making minute statements of the fearful sufferings of wounded soldiers, not only of those who were left whole days and nights without care on the field of battle, but of those who, after being taken into ambulance wagons, were treated with brutal neglect and inhumanity by the drivers of those vehicles, many of whom were drunk, as well as otherwise utterly incompetent for the work intrusted to them. The important statements here made were published (Oct., 1862,) in a Report made to the Surgeon General of Massachusetts. Dr. Bowditch has since published letters in various newspapers, and an admirable pamphlet, asking for consideration and action by the public, upon the same subject. And he returns to that subject in a letter to the Boston Journal of Tuesday, the 18th inst, entitled, “Have we an Ambulance System?”—in which he rehearses the present posture of affairs in relation to it in substance as follows:-
On the 24th of February, 1863, Hon. Henry Wilson, Chairman of the U. S. Senate Committee on Military Affairs and on the Militia, to whom was referred the bill “in relation to military hospitals and to organize an ambulance corps," after stating to the Senate: that the Committee directed him to report it back, with a recommendation that it do not pass, continued thus:-
“I will simply say, that this bill has passed the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Military Affairs have considered it with a great deal of care. There is great interest in the country in regard to it, but we think it an impracticable measure to organize such a corps at this time."
Mr. Senator Sumner, the colleague of Mr. Wilson, on presenting a resolution in the Senate in regard to the need of an ambulance corps, said not one word in its favor; nor did he utter one word of protest in regard to the refusal of the Military Committee to consent to the admirable bill (so Dr. Bowditch judges it) which had just passed the House of Representatives. He represents, however, that he has used his influence privately in favor of the measure in question.
It will be noticed that while Mr. Sumner privately favored the formation of an effective ambulance corps, such as was contemplated in the bill abovementioned, Mr. Wilson characterized it as ”impracticable."
Four months after this, however, (namely, on the 7th of July last,) Mr. Wilson stood before a Boston audience, and made, according to the Journal's report, the following remarkable assertions:-
“Gen. Wilson alluded to the existing complaints in regard to the want of ambulances in the Federal army. He said, we have an ambulance system the most perfect the world knows, and the fault found with it is a matter of astonishment to all those knowing anything about the facts. The army of the Potomac had, the other day, when it started from the Rappahannock, 1100 ambulance wagons, 2800 horses, and 3000 men attached. Every brigade in our army has 130 horses and 380 men; and this is more than can be found in any army in Europe. No drafted man need pay any attention to these reports as to the scarcity of ambulances, when our army has as many as 4000 ambulance wagons, 10,000 horses, and 12,000 men."
It is somewhat strange that so excellent a system should be found to be in effective operation only four months after Mr. Wilson had declared the project of its formation to be “impracticable.” But, passing by this, Dr. Bowditch applies himself to the question of fact, and asks—“ How, where and by whom was this admirable system established?” He declares that it was certainly not established by Congress, which adjourned eight days after Mr. Wilson reported; and he has no reason to suppose it was established either by the Secretary of War or Gen. Halleck, neither of whom has been known to the public as particularly in favor of any system, and the latter of whom is reported to have bitterly opposed all action in the premises.
Dr. Bowditch declares the statement of Mr. Wilson (above) as to the complete and perfect condition of our ambulance system, to be “totally incorrect," and he states as follows (in substance) the method of formation of the miserably insufficient system that now exists:
It was commenced under the order of Gen. McClellan in August last, establishing in the army of the Potomac an ambulance corps of detailed soldiers. Since then, by the concurrent action of Quartermaster General Meigs and of Surgeon General Hammond, a system has been adopted to meet some of the absolute and necessary wants of the army. This system extends to other armies besides that of the Potomac, and is carried out according to the will of Division Commanders or Medical Inspectors. It will doubtless prevent much misery in the cases where these officers choose to do their duty. But Gen. McClellan him-self has admitted the insufficiency of the system established by himself, and has declared, in a letter since written to Dr. Bowditch, that he “regards the formation of a well-organized ambulance corps as one of the great desideratums for our armies." Moreover, the unsatisfactory working of this system is affirmed by better authorities than Mr. Wilson, namely, those who were engaged in superintending its execution. These declare that the detailed soldiers worked badly in their new functions at Gettysburg; that the men, in many instances, were not available when needed; and that most of them went forward with the army when it moved, and to all intents and purposes were really lost as it regards their specific uses. Of course, the full advantages belonging to an ambulance system cannot be obtained when the work is performed by soldiers temporarily detailed for this work, and not trained and drilled to its accurate performance. The skilful handling of wounded men taken from the field of battle to be transported to an ambulance while the fight is still raging, and the removal of them in that vehicle to a place of quiet and security, require quite as much rehearsal for adequate preparation as the ordinary duties of the soldier. There must also be many emergencies in battle when soldiers cannot or will not be spared for this purpose. Every consideration requires, that a corps of men be specially instructed in and; allotted to these duties, and that such corps be a permanent part of the organization of the army. Of course, this service will be full of danger while we contend against an enemy accustomed to fire on ambulances, surgeons, chaplains, and even on charitable women carrying water to the wounded; but, if our government shall ever be defending itself against a foreign foe—some civilized nation, not nursed amidst the barbarism of slavery—it may reasonably be expected that the uniform of the ambulance corps will give protection to the wearer, and that those whose profession it is to care for the wounded will meet none but accidental dangers, even on the battle-field.
<c04>
The plan of Dr. Bowditch is to have Congress, early in its next session, pass a law directing the President to choose a Commission from his own military and medical staff, whose duty shall be forthwith to devise and report a plan that shall be as perfect as possible with our present knowledge, and capable of being adapted to meet the demands of modern civilization, for the gradual amelioration of the sufferings necessarily consequent upon every battle. He has drawn up a brief form of petition to Congress for this purpose, (hereafter appended,} and he wishes all friends of humanity, and all who have relatives or friends in the army, to copy and sign this petition, or such modified one as they may find preferable, procure the signatures of their neighbors to the same, and transmit it to their Senator or Representative in Congress at the opening of the next session.
Many persons, public and private, who should know quite as well as Mr. Wilson what is needed, sustain this course. The Surgeon General, in his official reports, sustains it. The Sanitary Commission speaks: for it. Medical Inspectors and numerous private individuals have written to Dr. Bowditch, urging him to continue an effort so important to the interests of humanity, and present to the public the considerations which require it. He has resolved to devote his labors to this work, and will do what he can. But the whole community is interested in it, since every family has a son, a brother or a husband exposed to need the very help here contemplated. If but half the persons personally interested sign and send the petition given below, the work will be done.
The organization of a suitable and sufficient ambulance corps, while needful for the whole army, and capable of making the difference between care and neglect (that is to say, between life and death,) to any one of our wounded citizen soldiers, is especially needed for our colored soldiers. In a war waged against slaveholders and kidnappers, these men have special and fearful perils. If they fall wounded into the hands of the enemy, they are to be murdered on the field. If they are taken prisoners, they have worse than sudden death to fear from the revenge of their foe, whether he be the lordly slaveholder in command, or the brutal “mean white” of the rank and file. The arrangements of the government to insure protection to its colored troops,” and a treatment conformable to the laws of civilized warfare for such of them as may be captured, are both tardy and insufficient. Full and ample protection, as far as declarations and prearrangements of the government can give it, is due to this portion of the U. S. army; but beyond this,” it is the plainest dictate of sound policy to arouse and maintain an active enthusiasm in behalf of the North in the minds of the colored people. They should be made to feel that our cause is theirs, and that, in helping our war to a favorable conclusion, they are making the most speedy progress possible towards that liberty and equality which they seek for themselves. The movement now in question for an ambulance corps, for the means of guarding their lives from all beyond the ordinary exposures of war, and for giving them the help due to fellow-citizens and fellow -soldiers, will do much to encourage as well as to help them. And if the Government is tardy and remiss in providing this help, all the more should the people, the source of power, declare their will in the premises, and urge their official servants to prompt and thorough action.
Let the excellent suggestion of Dr. Bowditch be followed. Let Congress, from the commencement of the next session, be flooded with petitions like the one copied below. And, that it may be so, let each one who reads the petition copy, sign and circulate it.-c. K. w.

PETITION
FOR AN AMBULANCE AND HOSPITAL CORPS IN THE ARMIES OF THE REPUBLIC.
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives, in Congress assembled:
The undersigned,—,of—,in the State of—,respectfully request your honorable body to pass a law providing for a uniform Ambulance and Hospital Corps for the armies of the United States.

DR. MASSIE AT THE TREMONT TEMPLE.
Rev. Dr. Massie, whose excellent discourse in Park Street Church was noticed in the Liberator two weeks ago, repeated that discourse in the Tremont Temple on Tuesday evening last. This gentleman is a delegate from four thousand English clergymen, and bears their Address to the clergy and churches of this country, urging the active interposition of these bodies in forwarding measures for the complete abolition of slavery. He is well fitted to perform this service, being earnest, eloquent and impressive as a speaker, having his heart strongly bent on the accomplishment of the proposed work, and having given assurance of his faithfulness by many years of active anti-slavery labor in his own country.
After Dr. Massie had finished his own very interesting statement, and read the Address sent by his English brethren, a reply to this Address (prepared by the Committee of nine which had been appointed at the close of the Park Street meeting) was read by Rev. Dr. Haven, and accepted, with a fervent and unanimous “Aye,” by the audience. Its spirit was good, and its response to the friendly interposition of our English brethren was hearty and cordial, differing most creditably in these and other respects from the officiously volunteered reply presented by Rev. Dr. Kirk at the previous meeting.
Those members of churches who are favorable to this mission desired a repetition of Dr. Massie’s discourse, as above, in the hope that the clergy and their congregations might give it a larger attendance than before. This hope, however, was not realized. There were but three clergymen (as far as the reporter knows) on the platform, and less than three hundred people in the house. The churches in general feel little or no interest in the subject. The “Young Men’s Christian Association,” with the friends of its members, would by themselves have sufficed to fill the house, if they had cared for the object of the meeting. Their well-known indifference to slavery is but the echo of that which prevails in the churches.
The audience on this occasion, though small, was appreciative, and gave frequent and vigorous applause to the energetic expressions of Dr. Massie against slavery, and to his assurances of the good-will felt towards our cause by a very large portion of the English people.—c. K. w.

THE WORK OF THE MOB.
The following from the Hammond (Md.) Gazette of the 81st ult.-a paper published by the inmates of Point Lookout Hospital—shows in a new light the brutality of the mob which recently held the city of New York at its mercy:-
“It is with much regret that we announce this week the departure of Mrs. Gibbons, Miss Gibbons, and Miss Thomas, for their homes in New York, if indeed homes they now have there. Mrs. Gibbons received information on Friday last that their dwelling in Lamartine Place had been completely gutted and sacked of everything in it by the scoundrels engaged in the riots in that city. Mrs. Gibbons has been in this hospital since Febuary last, and during that time has made many warm friends, not only of the patients she has administered to, but also of those high in authority, and who have at different times borne testimony of their high appreciation of her many good qualities."
Thus, while loyal women are periling life and health, and abandoning ease and comfort, to minister to our sick and wounded soldiers in hospitals and camp, a brutal mob compensates them for their kindly acts by sacking and pillaging their homes.
Frederick Douglass is to accompany Adjutant General Thomas to the West, to assist in organizing colored regiments.
The commutation money paid by those drafted, will amount, it is supposed, to some forty or fifty millions throughout the country.
<c05>
THE TRIAL HOUR.
The Conscription Act is no respecter of persons. It is as impartial and thorough as the exigencies of the country and the desperate character of the rebellion permit. It knows no high, no low, no rich, no poor; nor does it make any provision for conscientious scruples against bearing arms. Peace men and nonresistants, therefore, are called to meet it as best they may. On our last page, we give a letter from our highly esteemed Quaker friend, ALFRED H. LOVE, of Philadelphia, in which he frankly states why he cannot comply with either of the alternatives allowed by this Act, but most meekly submit to whatever penalty may be inflicted upon him. We honor him for his fidelity to his highest convictions of duty, and for the excellent spirit which he evinces; but we do not regard the payment of $300 in the same light he does. 
In the absence of the writer of the following letter, (which explains itself,) we venture to publish it, as presenting the views of another equally conscientious Non-Resistant on the same subject:-
BOSTON, July 10, 1863.
SIR—When an able-bodied man like myself, with no restraints of family or business, is called upon by his country to help save her, together with himself, from destruction, she has a right to ask why he denies her his body, and in place even of a substitute contents himself with the prescribed payment of money.
Allow me, then, as briefly as may be, to explain my position with regard to the Government and the War. The doctrine of the inviolability of human life, which I accept, will probably forever debar me from casting a ballot, as it certainly will from using a musket. I can never take office nor create an officer under any human government now existing on the face of the earth, for each rests ultimately upon the appeal to violence and the rule of might. But I live at that stage of the progress of mankind in which governments are a necessity-the indispensable aids to a better condition of individual self- government hereafter. Moreover, if I would, I could not escape the dominion of human authority and human laws. What, then, is my duty? It is, first, to practise those principles of truth and justice which form the basis of social order and of all right government. Second, by example and precept to strive to effect that alteration of public sentiment which precedes the amelioration of the laws. Third, to bear patiently the penalties for non-conformity to unjust or unenlightened enactments. For, in spite of the excellence of our republican form of government, neither in its theory nor in its practice is conscience exempted from penalties and pains.
Now when in time of peace the government demands of me pecuniary support in the shape of a tax, I doubt if the amount in question would ever compare with the undeniable advantages which I have derived from that system by the mere fact of living under it. Scarcely could my tax repay the blessings of education alone, not to speak of the thousand and one particulars of civil and social economy wherein the organized action of the State is invaluable for health and happiness. Yet for all that, it may be true that the trifling tribute exacted is augmented by governmental patronage of an institution at which my conscience revolts. The money, in itself considered, is nothing; the principle which it is required to sanction is of the utmost consequence. To so much of my tax, then, as is imposed for the army and navy, I, as a disbeliever in both, must necessarily object and offer protest. But I am one, while the government (or, what is the same thing, the nation) is millions, and I must submit to a superior force. Against my consent and control, I am deprived of that which voluntarily I could not give. The responsibility of this transaction, and of the uses to which my property thus taken is applied, belongs to the government, and not to me.
To-day, the nation is at war and in need of men. It is not enough for me to reflect that no juster war was ever undertaken by any community. I who cannot take the life of a fellow-being (however infamous}to save my own, cannot to save others from a like destruction. Selected impartially by lot for the office of a soldier, I am in conscience prevented from obeying the summons. What I cannot do myself, I cannot do by another, and can therefore hire no substitute. Had the government stopped here, I must have borne whatever penalty it might have chosen to inflict. But it said: ”Either serve yourself, or procure another, or I shall exact of you three hundred dollars.” Of these alternatives, only the last absolves me from a violation of my principles. Again I yield before a superior force.
The value of a protest depends much upon the spirit in which it is made, and much upon the time at which it is presented. As a citizen and a man, I am anxious that, at so momentous a crisis in the nation's existence, I should not be accused of indifference or cowardice. For if I were persuaded of the rightfulness of self-defence at any hazard to the assailant, my sword had long since been unsheathed or my musket levelled in the service of the republic. I should have rushed to a war which is to extinguish the greater war which gave it birth. The cause of liberty and of national unity is as dear to me as to any American; and in that cause I shall ever labor, though it may not be upon the field of battle. The principles which I advocate are the mortal adversaries of oppression, and their universal adoption would leave no room for the disorders which now rack our country and the world. So earnest is my desire for the complete triumph of the government over the present impious rebellion. that I waive the protest which might be evoked by the disregard of my conscience. I do not wish to be identified with those who cry Peace, and mean Rebellion; they are my enemies as well as the nation’s. I enclose three hundred dollars, and part with them without a grudge. I do not blame the government because it cannot do better by me in this emergency, nor open a loophole for conscience through which hypocrisy might crawl.
Yours for the suppression of the slaveholders’ rebellion, and the overthrow of its cause.
W. P. G.

NEW PUBLICATIONS.
Josiah P. Mendum, at the office of the Boston Invesigator, has just published- 
“VOLNEY’S RUINS: or, Meditations on the Revolutions of Empires. Translated, under the immediate inspection of the Author, from the latest Paris edition: with his Notes and Illustrations. To which are added, THE LAW OF NATURE, and a short BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE, by Count Davu." 
Mr. Mendum has also published- 
“HISTORY OF ALL CHRISTIAN SECTS AND DENOMINATIONS; their origin, peculiar tenets, and present condition; with an Introductory Account of Atheists,Deists, Jews, Mahometans, Pagans, &c.; by John Evans, LL.D. From the fifteenth London edition, revised and enlarged; with the addition of the most recent statistics relating to religious sects in the United States. By the American Editor. Third American edition." 
Also-
“EQUALITY: or, A History of Lithconia.” This ingenious and suggestive production, now represented to the public after the lapse of thirty-five years, first appeared in a spirited periodical published in Philadelphia, during the first administration of President Jefferson, by John Driscol, a native of Ireland. It makes a neat tract of 80 pages.
T. B. Peterson and Brothers, 306 Chesnut street, Philadelphia, have just published, “SIGHTS A-FOOT, by Wilkie Collins, Author of’ The Woman in White,’ ‘The Dead Secret,' ‘After Dark,’ &c., &c.” It is complete in one large octavo volume, large type, and printed on fine paper. Price 50 cents. The author describes, in a graphic manner, the grand and varied scenery, the mighty Druid relics, the quaint legends, the deep, dark mines, the venerable remains of early Chistianity, and pleasant primitive population of the
county of Cornwall.
<c06>
LETTER FROM MISS CAROLINE F. PUTNAM.
FARMERSVILLE, Cattaraugus Co., (N. Y.) 
Aug 3, 1863.}
DEAR MR. GARRISON-You love to hear of every effort for truth and righteousness, and with greatness of soul comprehend how the broad interests of humanity are one-whether contended for in hamlet or metropolis. 
So a struggle for temperance, and the defeat of one liquor-selling grocery among the beautiful hills of Cattaraugus, in Western New York, cannot be a matter of indifference to you, but will make your heart sing with the angels, “On earth peace, good will to men." 
On coming here, two years ago, I was grieved and shocked to witness the demoralization of the young men and boys. Their profanity was awful-not even restrained by the presence of mothers and sisters. Some of them smoked pipes, without a word or an apparent thought of apology. In a few months, rumors ripened into confirmation that the vice of drinking, carrying bottles, (which the cunning license law encourages,) was adding its degrading, brutalizing work upon character-that twenty minors in this small community were counted among those who were taking their first glasses of poison from the grocery, then licensed in its second year.
I was alarmed. Night and day these terrible facts wrought in my soul, till the purpose was fully roused to do something, everything I could do, to resist this demon that so foully menaced our household and neighborhood peace.
I appealed to Spiritualists at their gatherings—for it was their sons especially who were losing self-respect, and in danger of moral wreck. It was a prominent Spiritualist who had just gone from this town to become a wholesale manufacturer and dealer of liquor in Buffalo, and who supplied the barrels of pollution and death to the grocery.
And here I am compelled to assert, in the interests of truth and humanity, that the workings of this doctrine here has been to loosen the sense of moral obligation, to lessen the horror of sin, to set  people adrift from the safe moorings of principle, to encourage profanity, and a disregard of wholesome decencies of manners. And if it be a truth of God, it needs (at least in this place of my observation) faithful apostles who shall rebuke its perversions and  corruptions as Paul did the Corinthians. 
A strong woman, of almost giant proportions, died recently, after lying paralytic and imbecile for years, from excessive smoking, according to the physician's undisputed judgment. Her son, the liquor dealer from Buffalo, was present at the funeral, and another who took out the first license to sell liquor at a grocery. The husband and other sons had just signed the petition for license this year-all Spiritualists yet the not ignorant medium, and a temperance man too, had not, as I hear, a single word of warning, rebuke or exhortation in regard to the vices of tobacco and drink, but sent away that audience comforted with the assurance that it would be well with them to “lay off the form," and its impediments to virtue. I am grateful to add, that amid this trying apathy and active hostility to temperance, there are a few most worthy testimonies in life and precept from Spiritualists. 
My dear Miss Holley came for a little stay, and I won her to “extraordinary, generous seeking” to redeem our town. And for ten months we have held regular Temperance meetings on alternate Sunday afternoons at the Baptist meeting-house. The good providence of God had lent the Baptist church a minister of rare moral courage and firmness, who has nobly seconded our work. These meetings have not depended on numbers or popular favor for dignity, any more than the glorious but despised Anti-Slavery cause has done. And we had learned in that school of Christ not to falter or yield to discouragement, while our hearts were nerved and our arms graced with the divine, all-conquering weapons of truth and love.
 With what good measure of success these meetings have been crowned, let the enclosed slip from the county paper tell. C. F. P

TEMPERANCE IN FARMERSVILLE.
[Correspondence of the Cattaraugus Freeman.]
FARMERSVILLE, July 3, 1863.
Our ten months'agitation of this cause, so vital to the interest of any community, has at last resulted in No License. God be thanked who giveth us the victory through his truth! It is a moral triumph to be rejoiced in-so we felt and expressed at our meeting on Sunday. David Carpenter, Esq., and Rev. Mr. Conrad reported the decision of the Board of Excise, and to these gentlemen the town is greatly indebted for the utmost faithfulness in urging the remonstrance before the Commissioners. A copy of the Liquor Sellers’ petition was presented at the meeting
J. T. Cummings, Esq., in remarking upon it, asked what could so pervert human nature that men, fathers, brothers and sons, neighbors and citizens, should petition, pray for a dram shop at which the Young of their own families, and the sons of their neighbors,
would be corrupted and debased. He spoke of the two motives that support this accursed traffic. The greed of gain, and the love of drink. One or the other of these must have influenced the most, if not every man who had signed that petition. And some of those who pitifully figure on the list, had they appeared in person to ask their boon of the Commissioners, there would have been no need of our remonstrance—their very drunkard’s misery would have plead so powerfully against them. The petition was worded, “For the year to come and the coming year," with the obvious intention to use it for two years. Every nook and corner of the town was searched to
secure every possible name. And in some cases it was as though men were signing their own death warrant. Rev. Mr. Conrad, who has nobly kept the Gospel dictate not to look back, having put his hand to
the plough, exhorted us to “watch,” as well as “fight and pray.” Our armor was by no means to be laid aside yet. There is much hard work to be done before this demon of Intemperance is fully cast out. Mr. Deloss Graves expressed his heartfelt interest and convictions in the Temperance Reform. Mr. S. Worthington added his testimony to the value of radical Temperance in all things-tea, tobacco, language, dress as well as drink. It was a new voice, and we welcomed it cordially in our meeting. Miss. Putnam told this incident:—It was late Thursday evening when she found her grandmother (a venerable old lady in her ninety-fifth year) still awake, restless and in pain. She said to her, “We have good news from Ellicottville. No more liquor to be sold at the Grocery this year.” “That is good news," replied Mrs. Carpenter {who had gladly signed the remonstrance) “worth lying awake to near!” Miss P. spoke of the beautiful laws of God as seen in her long life of Temperance-thus keeping her understanding vigorous-her moral vision clear to such extreme age. Equally sure and grand are the Divine Retributions, as shown to all in the miserable, dying condition of the head signer of this petition for license. God is just. The Cornwall people have a striking proverb, “He that will not be ruled by the rudder shall be ruled by the rock.” We obey God in any case, either as glad, loyal subjects of his kingdom, or as criminals taken into custody, and compelled to his authority. 
Miss Holley spoke of the great value of moral agitation, of its power to call forth the best energies, the moral resistance of the people to wrong. The Angel of Temperance had troubled Farmersville, and now there was virtue here, as in the waters of Bethesda after they were agitated. She expressed her great faith in the power of direct criticism, as a most effective weapon in moral warfare; pointed personal applications had been eminently characteristic of those great benefactors who have done so much to redeem the world by their faithfulness to holy principle, and who are now remembered with reverence and praise. Let us wield this weapon so truly, and in love that never faileth, that the strongholds of evil shall fail, and the Kingdom of Purity, Temperance and Peace be established.
Let this attempt at a home reform, so briefly sketched in this and previous letters to this paper, encourage other towns to the effort of regeneration. Let the temperance men and women of Cattaraugus stir themselves to the rescue of the young, about whose path temptations and snares are multiplying in the grog shops, starting up to swell the gains of the wholesale manufacturers, who publish the boast, they are doing a “first class business" in this country, and in private say, they know it is “a curse." and only engage in it to make money. “Woe unto him that giveth his neighbor drink, that puttest the bottle to him, and makest him drunken also!”
Yours &c.,

COLORED PUPILS. Imogen Howard received a 
city medal at the recent examination of the Wells School in this city.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL FOSTER.
Camp of the 33d Mass. Vol., Catlett’s Station, Va., Aug. 7, 1863.
DEAR GARRISON -It is a year, lacking only a few days, since the 33d left Massachusetts to join the army of the Potomac. The outlook for our country was then dark, unless with the eye of faith one could see that our way to final success lay through the providential discipline of disaster and defeat. This war was undertaken by our Government for the restoration of the old Union, composed of free and slave States. McClellan was the chosen representative of the army of that policy. He proclaimed his determination to put down, with an “iron hand,” any attempt of the slaves to arm and help in subduing the rebellious slaveholders, that their own freedom might thus be secured. He expelled the Hutchinsons from the army for singing to the soldiers the sacred song of freedom from the pen of Whittier. He guarded the property of noted rebels, and so handled our armies as to inflict no serious damage upon the slaveholding rebellion. Under that policy, Fremont was removed from the Western Department, Mitchell from Alabama; Phelps was worried away from Louisiana, and Hunter recalled from South Carolina. The country poured out its treasures, men and money, without stint. But God had a controversy with us, which insured our defeat while we outraged justice by spurning the pleading slave from us, and holding him still in bondage. Defeat and disaster attended us; and not far from a year ago, our President appointed a day of fasting and prayer, while Jeff. Davis set apart a day for thanks-giving and praise, We were under the rod, and in the vale of humiliation; the slaveholders were rampant, triumphant, and arrogant. But the discipline of defeat worked its appointed results. The President saw that slavery was in the way of our success, and that the policy of upholding this crime brought inevitable defeat and ruin upon our armies and the nation. Then he issued his Proclamation of Freedom, by which the logical result of our victory is the immediate end of slavery. After nearly a year’s effort under this new policy, we stop, and gather up the results. 
Among the results, I reckon not the least blessing this new policy has brought in the revolution it has made in the real position of men. Lunt, Wood, Seymour, Vallandigham, Pierce, and the whole race of Copperheads have been unmasked, and stand to-day revealed as tories and traitors. Their doom is sure. As the future historian writes down their black-hearted treachery, the tories and cow-boys of the old revolution will be forgotten. The really noble men of all parties are seen by this test to be patriots, and a patriotic people will not forget those who have sacrificed party ties, or ease, or health, in this fearful conflict for the life and freedom of their country.
Another result of this new policy, and the greatest blessing of all yet vouchsafed to us, is the recognition of the manhood and citizenship of the Negro. Thirty thousand of our colored -fellow-citizens are now armed and equipped as soldiers in the American army, and integral and important part of the grand host battling for the dear old Fatherland. The number is constantly and rapidly increasing. Nor have we braver soldiers in the field than they have shown themselves at Port Hudson and Fort Wagner, and indeed, on every field where they have been called to face the infuriated foe. As I read with a thrilling heart of their noble daring and heroic achievements, I deeply regret that I am not associated with them in their grand work. Heroes of Port Hudson and Fort Wagner, and other well- fought fields—soldiers of my country—members of a wronged but brave and patriotic race—I thank you for your devoted courage! I recognize you as my brothers, and in all respects my comrades, fellow- soldiers and fellow-citizens! You have not bled or died in vain! You have made sure the salvation of our country; and I thank God for the future you have opened for your oppressed race! 
Again, this new policy has abolitionized the army. We soldiers have suffered, and toiled, and bled, and died to save our country from the ruin into which the slaveholders seek to plunge her. We welcome all loyal men to our ranks in this mighty war. We abhor, and deeply, bitterly curse the cowardly traitors who would perpetuated slavery, and sever the nation. Hence we receive the armed slaves, and we hail the 54th Massachusetts Regiment, the South Carolina, the Mississippi and the Louisiana Regiments, with heartfelt enthusiasm as fellow-soldiers and noble comrades in this grand battle for a united and a free Fatherland. Let the copperheads of the North beware when the army return; and let all our people realize that they will find friends, with strong arms and stout hearts, when these scarred and war-worn veterans return home.
Finally, from the date of the inauguration of this new policy of freedom, we have begun to turn the tide against the rebels. We have won Vicksburg, Port Hudson, Gettysburg. We have just had our day of thanksgiving and praise, and the rebels are to have theirs of humiliation, fasting and prayer. We see the dawn of a bright and a glorious day. The death-night is broken, and we feel that our deliverance is at hand. Oh let this policy be carried out in thorough good faith, and we have passed safely through our peril. Oh, that men could get the sublime faith of a Luther in the Great King; and so feel that we need only see to it that we base all our work on his everlasting truth and justice; and then no disaster or overthrow can befall us. Such is my firm conviction; and hence, I only fear compromise, and half-hearted, half-way measures. God grant us the foresight to settle this slavery question now, so that it may no more rise up to trouble, and waste, and destroy our country! 
Truly yours, DANIEL FOSTER,
Chaplain 33d Mass.
REBEL BARBARITY. 
BOSTON, August 11, 1863.
WM. L. GARRISON:
DEAR SIR—I received, yesterday, from a cousin in Cincinnati, the accompanying account, which you may deem suitable, in whole or in part, for your columns. I will only add, that Dr. Hudson’s family share his views and spirit. The late Prof. T. B. Hudson, of Oberlin, well known in Ohio as an Anti-Slavery lecturer, was his oldest son. Another son is the Secretary of the Reform Tract and Book Society, of Cincinnati. Another is a surgeon in our army. A grandson was taken prisoner in the first Bull Run, and has given in a lecture some interesting account of his travels, as far as New Orleans, in his capacity of prisoner.
With highest regards, 
Yours. truly, C. F. HUDSON.
[From the Cincinnati Christian Herald, August 6.]
MURDER OF DR. WM. N. HUDSON.
When the advance guard of Morgan’s rebel cavalry were in the vicinity of Pomeroy, Meigs county, Ohio, on the evening of Saturday, July 18th, they committed a most deliberated and unprovoked murder on the person of Dr. Wm. N. Hudson, a venerable citizen, aged 74 years. The circumstances were briefly as follows: Dr. Hudson had just returned from secreting his horse, when he heard a neighbor, under the influence of liquor, shouting and making some disturbance, and immediately started to quiet him. While on his way across the field, he heard the clatter of horsemen in the road, and turning to look, was instantly shot down, the ball passing through the groin and thigh, breaking the bone at the joint. From the wound he died on the following Wednesday.
Dr. Hudson had no weapon about his person, and had for years kept none. Bent by age and infirmity, he could have made no serious resistance had he been so disposed; yet these evident facts secured him no mercy at the hands of the murderers.
During the two hours that the advance guard rested near Dr. Hudson’s, the rebel Lieutenant who ordered him shot was in the house with others, ransacking it for valuables, while his victim lay panting for life. Seeming to think some apology for his barbarity needful, the remarked that “he didn’t know he was such
<c02>
an old man.” One asked of Dr. Hudson’s granddaughter, “You are abolitionists here, aren’t you?” The question suggested the probability that a notorious copperhead of that county, who was a willing guide for Morgan, had pointed out Dr. Hudson as a suitable person on whom to vent their murderous spleen.
Dr. Hudson was born in Goshen, Conn., in 1789, and when a lad of ten years, came with his father to the Western Reserve, to the present town of Hudson, Summit county. About 1812 he returned to the East, and took a thorough course of medical study. This profession he successfully pursued during the rest of his life—a period of more than fifty years. He was characterized by unimpeachable integrity and firmness of purpose. He knew no fear; opposition and persecution served but to confirm him in the practice of the right, and the advocacy of the truth. Long before the origin of the old Liberty Party, he was an abolitionist; and when that party originated, he voted that ticket alone in Manchester, Adams county, O., amid threats of violence to his person and property. Believing in the inalienable right of human beings to “life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,” he never failed to befriend the fugitive from bondage, and to guide him ‘toward the North Star. Being thus for a long period a living witness against popular sins in Church and State, it seems not inappropriate that he should providentially suffer martyrdom at the instigation of the vile demon which he had so long fought. His death was peaceful and happy. For months previous, his letters breathed the spirit of one ripe for heaven, and his dying message to his absent sons was, “to meet him there.”
Dr. Hudson’s will contains one noteworthy provision. It is this: that after the death of his wife, one half of the proceeds of his estate shall be paid into the Treasury of the United States, provided slavery shall at that time have been abolished in all parts of this land.

A BALTIMORE SLAVE PEN.
A SPECIMEN OF THE REBEL CAUSE.
WASHINGTON, July 29, 1863. The following official report needs no comment. The facts it states speak for themselves:
BALTIMORE, July 24.1863.
To Lieut. Col. William H. Cheesebrough, Assistant Adjutant General:
SIR: I have the honor to report that immediately on the receipt of Special Order No. 202, of this date, I proceeded to Camlin’s slave-pen, in Pratt street, accompanied by Lieut. Sykes and Sergeant South worth. I considered any guard unnecessary. The part of the prison in which slaves are confined incloses a brick paved yard, twenty-five feet in width by forty in length. The front wall is a high brick one; the other sides are occupied by the cells or prisons. In this yard no tree or shrub grows—no flower or blade of grass can be seen. Here the midday sun pours down its scorching rays, and no breeze comes to temper the summer heat. A few benches, a hydrant, numerous wash-tubs and clothes-lines, covered with drying clothes, were all it contained.
In this place I found 26 men, 1 boy, 29 women and 3 infants. Sixteen of the men were shackled together by couples, at the ankles, by heavy irons, and one had his legs chained together by ingeniously contrived locks, connected by chains suspended to his waist. I sent for a blacksmith, and had the shackles and chains removed.
The following statement exhibits the names of the prisoners, the names and residences of their owners, and the period for which they have been held in confinement.
[Here follows a long list of the captives set free.]
These unfortunates were all liberated in accordance with your orders. It appears from their statements that this slave-pen has been used chiefly for the purpose of holding persons, in evasion of the law of Congress, entitled to their freedom in the District of Columbia, and persons claimed as slaves by rebels or rebel sympathizers.
Respectfully submitted.,
WM. BIRNEY, Col. 2d U. S. 
Colored troops, Inspector and Mustering Officer.
NEGRO HUNTING IN MISSOURI.
POTOSI, July 26th, 1863.
EDITORS MISSOURI DEMOCRAT: Last Saturday, we had an example of what it means to have regard for “law and order.” I mean one of those old-fashioned negro hunts. Some half a dozen slaves, who had deserted their rebel masters, and were in possession of their regular protection papers, issued by a Provost Marshal, under General Order No. 35, Department of the Missouri, were hunted down like wild deers, handcuffed, and on a wagon hauled to jail in Potosi. This whole section of Washington county was alive. All the law and order men were out and busy. You could see men who never show their faces, except on an occasion of this kind. By “law and order men,” I understand that class which hold only as law the fugitive slave law, the black laws of the State of Missouri, and the laws of the Confederacy; they don’t consider the laws of our Congress as binding on them. It has come to a nice state of affairs in Missouri. Men who, by their true loyalty and good faith toward the Government, have shown their regard for “law and order,” and have sacrificed everything to save this country, are stigmatized as “Revolutionists “and Radicals, and are now at the mercy of men who have done everything to ruin this country, and who only enjoy their freedom by forbearance of the Union men. There is not a Union man in Washington country, when he goes to bed at night, who does not fear that he may be murdered before morning.
A band of about twenty-five bushwhackers is in this county, and they declared only last week that Potosi could not hold a Union man. A Union man, Rev. Wilson Adams, who was worth some $12,000 to $15,000, has been shamefully ruined by them—been compelled to take refuge in Potosi with his family. The rebels are in possession of his place. They took all his horses, and in fact every tiling is at their mercy; and then we see the rebels prowling about the country, declaring that they are going to run this machine now, and the Union men tremble for their lives, because they don’t know how it comes that these rebels get in power. The way they intend to run this machine, we saw last Saturday. For the purpose of “law and order,” they set all law aside. We will see what our Provost Marshal does in the matter. These negroes are promised in their papers the protection of all officers of the United States, but he thinks, perhaps, he don’t belong to the United States officers, being in the Missouri State Militia.
After having spent one hundred millions and given innumerable valuable lives, not to speak of the suffering and desolation of our homes, we have just come again to the barbarous state of affairs where we were at the beginning; and near the end of the nineteenth century, in the midst of a civilized community, we see enacted before the eyes of our children, scenes which make the blood rush to every true man’s face. Human beings are treated like beasts; children only five years old separated from their parents, for the purpose of keeping them from running away; husbands separated from their wives. In fact, we don’t know if we are dreaming, or if it is reality. Who is; responsible for this state of affairs? We Union men have proven that we have regard for law and order; but if these rebels think that we will submit to their rule, they may find themselves mistaken.
FIENDISH REBEL ATROCITIES!!!
The following is given us upon the authority of Lieut. Cole, of the Mississippi Marine Brigade:
The day after the battle of Milliken's Bend, in June last, the Marine Brigade landed some ten miles below the Bend, and attacked and routed the guerillas which had been repulsed by our troops and the gunboats the day previous. Major Hibbard's cavalry battalion, of the Marine Brigade, followed the retreating rebels to Tensas Bayou, and were horrified at the finding of skeletons of white officers commanding negro regiments, who had been captured by the rebels at Milliken's Bend.
In many cases, these officers had been nailed to the trees and crucified: in this situation, a fire was built around the tree, and they suffered a slow death from broiling. The charred and partially turned limbs were still fastened to the stakes. Other instances were noticed of charred skeletons of officers, which had been nailed to slabs, and the slabs placed against a house, which was set on fire by the inhuman demons, the poor sufferer having been routed alive until nothing was left but charred bones.
Negro prisoners recaptured from the guerillas confirmed these facts, which were amply corroborated by the bodies found, as above described. The negroes taken were to be re-sold into slavery, while the officers were consumed by fire. Lieutenant Cole holds himself responsible for the truth of the statement.
—Missouri Democrat.
THE KILLED AND WOUNDED AT GETTYSBURG.—Dr. Gordon Window states that the number of Union and rebel wounded at Gettysburg, on our side amounts to fourteen thousand two hundred, and on the rebel side to about sixteen to eighteen thousand. The killed were nearly equally divided, amounting to about ten thousand, making an aggregate of killed and wounded of forty thousand and two hundred. A large army.
<c03> 
A BAD JULY FOR THE REBELS.
Read the brilliant record of the month of July, a chronology full of despair for the rebels:
July 1st—Fitzhugh Lee repulsed by General Smith.
2d—Lee's army defeated by Gen. Meade.
3d—Lee's army retreated.
4th—Vicksburg surrendered; Price defeated at 
Helena; Morgan whipped by General Moore. 
7th—Bragg retreated across the Tennessee.
8th—Port Hudson surrendered.
9th—Stuart's cavalry defeated by Buford and Kilpatrick.
10th—Gen. Gilmore captures Morris Island, except Wagner; General Sherman occupies Jackson; General Blunt whips the rebels at Big Creek.
13th—Lee's guard defeated at Falling Waters; Forrest's cavalry defeated at Jackson, Tenn; Yazoo City captured.
16th—Rebels defeated again by General Blunt.
17th—Huntsville, Ala. captured.
18th—Wytheville, Va. captured; Potter leaves. Newbern upon a destructive raid. 
20th-—Morgan routed at Buffington’s Island.
22d—Lee's army in full retreat.
23d—Spinola routs Longstreet's Division.
24th—Rebels severely- routed at Front Royal.
26th—Morgan captured.
28th—Brashear City captured.
29th—Pegram defeated.
COLORED ENLISTMENTS IN CHESTER. On last Monday evening, Frederick Douglass addressed a crowded audience in the National Hall in this Borough, to urge the enlistment of colored soldiers in the Government service. Many of our citizens who had never heard this colored orator crowded to the Hall, which was incapable of containing half of them. If the threatening rain had not prevented the meeting from being in the public square, hundreds more could have enjoyed a rich intellectual treat. Mr. Douglass is about six feet high, of good form, and his color is something lighter than a mulatto's. His voice is such a one as few orators are favored with. His address was a sketchy history of the growth and aggressions of slavery from the time when the Mayflower landed at Plymouth Rock with her precious freight of honest, God-fearing and God-loving pilgrims; and a Dutch galliot landed on the Virginia coast with a few piratical scoundrels and their slaves, down to the beginning of the present rebellion. The arrogant demands of the slavocrats in all political affairs, and the concessions made by the people of the North for the sake of peace, were sketched in a lucid and often humorous style, that awakened the liveliest interest of the audience and elicited rounds of applause. The readiness with which the rude interruptions of a drunken copperhead in the audience were silenced, and the withering sarcasm by which he was driven sneaking from the Hall to escape the jeers and laughter of the audience, were other evidences of the masterly ability of the speaker. About thirty colored men have enlisted from this Borough, which is a large proportion of their population. The census of 1860 gives 195 as the whole number of males of all ages, more than half of whom may be supposed to be over or under the age fit for soldiering. About fifteen have been for some time in the service as team-drivers, which swells the number to a very large per cent, of our available colored men. If other localities turn out as well, the Government will have the support of a fine body of brave and able soldiers from the colored population of the North. There is one noteworthy fact in this connection, nearly every man who enlisted here is a crack marksman, being accustomed all their lives to gunning on the river and marshes. They are good material for a company of sharpshooters, and we expect to hear a good account from them.—Chester (Pa.) Republican.
THE NEGRO REGIMENTS. The negro regiments will soon form a tolerably large addition to the army. A correspondent of the Cincinnati Gazette gives a list of those already in active service, and those which are being recruited. The list is as follows:—
Two Massachusetts regiments, in the field.
Two South Carolina regiments, in the field.
One North Carolina regiment, in the field.
One Philadelphia regiment, ready for service.
One Washington, (D. C.) regiment, ready for service.
One Kansas regiment, in the field.
Four Mississippi and Tennessee regiments, in the field.
One Rhode Island artillery company, in the field.
In all, fourteen regiments and one battery full, and either in or ready for active service.
The following are being formed:—
One Philadelphia regiment, nearly half full.
One Washington, (D. C.) regiment, nearly half full.
One Baltimore regiment.
One Virginia (Fortress Monroe) regiment.
One North Carolina (Newbern) regiment.
Two South Carolina regiments.
One Ohio (Camp Delaware) regiment.
One New Orleans regiment.
Sixteen Mississippi and Tennessee regiments.
In all, organizing, and many of them well advanced, twenty-five regiments.
Col. Birney’s 1st Maryland Regiment of colored troops now numbers 860. I shall go out to see it drill and parade this afternoon, and will report progress in my next letter. The 2d Regiment is well under way. This will be made up of a better class of colored men than the first, because of the President’s proclamation of protection. It strikes the right key. Remember—there is no bounty given these men. They are volunteering without mercenary motives. What a contrast with the boasted superior white race that waits for $400 bounty, or to be drafted! We hope to get at least five regiments of colored soldiers from this State to make part of the President’s colored army of 200,000 men, which he is resolved to have in the field before the 1st of November. Why do not New York colored people wake up and volunteer also? Let them show their riotous and Copperhead persecutors where the manhood of the human race is to be found. We know your mob-loving Governor will not move a finger to encourage colored enlistments, but Mr. Lincoln will. In conversing with one of the highest officers of the Government, a few days since, a man born and educated in a slave State, and who was once, and, I think, still is, a slaveholder, he expressed the greatest anxiety that the President should succeed in gathering a colored army of 200,000 men. “They are necessary,” said he, “to insure the triumph of the cause of the Union, the cause of human liberty, without which the .Union cannot be preserved. What a glorious death, that of Shaw’s!” he exclaimed. “It was the death of a martyr to truth. He fell waving his sword, and lies buried with 25 of his heroic black soldiers. Noble grave! From it will spring a monument that will last as long as the world will last. He has proved that to the negro race belongs a manhood as noble as that asserted by the white man.” I could make the country thrill with joy if I were at liberty to give you the name of this noble white man who recognizes to the full the common manhood of the black man in these days of apostacy.—Tribune Corr. Baltimore, Aug. 6.
WASHINGTON, Saturday, Aug. 3, 1863. 
The following official communication from Secretary Stanton proves that the recent Order, No. 252, of President Lincoln, is to be fully carried out. When the gunboat Isaac Smith was captured by the rebels in the Stone River, some months since, among the prisoners taken were three colored men. At the time, the officers of the gunboat were released these men were in close confinement, and their release was refused, and has never been granted. Upon the authoritative declaration of the policy of the Government in such cases, the Secretary of the Navy called the attention of Mr. Stanton to their case, and it will be seen that he makes it the occasion of a prompt enforcement of the order. The President is determined that the rights, as prisoners of war, of all who are captured while in the service of the United States, shall be respected, irrespective of color, otherwise the sternest retaliation will be exacted:—
WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON CITY,
August 3, 1863. 
SIR: Your letter of the 3d inst., calling the attention of this department to the cases of Orin H. Brown, William H. Johnson and William Wilson, three colored men captured on the gunboat Isaac Smith, has received consideration. This department has directed that three rebel prisoners of South Carolina, if there be any such in our possession, and if not, three others, be confined in close custody, and held as hostages for Brown. Johnson and Wilson, and that the fact be communicated to the rebel authorities at Richmond. 
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
EDWIN M. STANTON, Secretary of War.
The Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy.
THE TIMES CHANGE. We once saw in Theodore Parker’s library, hanging on the wall, a framed autograph of Thomas Sims, the fugitive slave, who was sent out of that State some years ago with such a solemn mockery of justice—leaving behind him, as he went bark to his bonds, this relic from his hand, and a shadow over the whole city of Boston. Did any one at that time hazard a thought that Sims was likely ever to see a free city again? When that same slave lately escaped from Vicksburg and returned to Boston, the many congratulations which he received amounted almost to a public reception. More recently still, be was lifted to an equality of honor with the sons of Edward Everett, by being drafted into the service of the United States. The good cause is moving forward, like the giant with the seven leagued boots in the fairy tale! -N. Y. Independent, 20th ult.
<c04>
MENDACITY OF THE LONDON TIMES. The Torento Globe thus refers to the course of the London Times:
The excessive insolence of the London Times in dealing with the American war, its tremendous assumption of superior knowledge and judgment, and the confidence with which it makes predictions, are patent to the whole world. It has stated many times of late that Vicksburg was impregnable, that Grant must retire from it, and that Lee had Washington, Philadelphia and Baltimore at his mercy. Every one was, therefore, curious to see how it took the recent news. Its matchless impudence does not fail it, but it dares not discuss the consequences of the fall of Vicksburg. It passes that by, and speaks of Lee’s movement northward as a mere raid, and his retreat as not unexpected. The plucky Star having a good opening, pitches into the Times in good style. The affected insolence with which the Times speaks of the American war as a kind of wearisome annoyance, involving no principle or anything else of importance, is extraordinary. Here is a great contest between two systems of labor—slave and free; between the rule of a people and of a slaveholding aristocracy, involving the liberty of four millions of blacks, and of more than that number of whites, as well as the integrity of one of the great nations of the earth; and the Times treats it as a thing of no moral importance whatever, as only noticeable on account of its effect on the cotton market, and to be brought to some termination without any regard to the effect on the people of the United States, at as early a day as possible. It would not speak with one half the contempt of a row in the Ionian Islands, as it does of this gigantic struggle for the mastery between slavery and freedom in America.
TRADING WITH “YANKEES.” The Richmond Enquirer has discovered a new cause of annoyance. In its issue of the 6th, it says:
“A practice as humiliating to good citizens as it is disgraceful to those who encourage it has lately become one of the most eager passions of lucre-loving, lily-livered men in our midst. No Yankee can escape them; they actually scent their prey when it is a hundred miles away, and the depot by which it arrives is besieged accordingly. Yesterday morning, upon the arrival of the Central cars, bringing over seven hundred Yankees, some ten or fifteen of these traders met them at the depot, and begged for ‘greenbacks’ in exchange for Confederate notes, giving as high as six dollars in the latter for one in the former! Such men deserve to be hung. They are worse than traitors, meaner than cowards, baser than brutes. Every man who trades at all in these so-called 'greenbacks' should be tried as an enemy to his country. It is clearly a violation of patriotic duty and of national usage, and deserves commensurate punishment at the hands of the government.”
COLORED ORPHAN ASYLUM. On the same day that Irish Catholics destroyed the institution for colored orphans, they received a check of $50,000 from he city, for the establishment of a Roman Catholic Orphan Asylum! 
It has been erroneously stated in all the city papers that warning was given at the Asylum for Colored Orphans of the intention of the mob, in order that the inmates might be removed. This, says a correspondent of the Independent, is a very grave mistake. No notice whatever was given, and nothing’ saved the children from the flames and from the fury of these demons, except the fidelity and coolness of the Superintendent, and the protecting hand of God. The children did not leave the building until the wretches were thundering at the front door. A fireman who saved a sick child from being burned, taking it from the bed, was twice knocked down, and another, in endeavoring to direct the fugitives to a place of safety, was pulled away and had his clothes torn from his back for attempting to assist the “damned nagers.”
BURNING COTTON. A letter to the St. Louis Republican, from Northern Mississippi, under date of July 27th, says:
“The Confederates are burning cotton far and wide. The whole country south of the Tallahatchee River, and between that and Jackson, Mississippi, is one vast cotton conflagration. The torch is put to every bale that can be found, and the smoke from the burning staple hangs like a dense fog over the land. And while this is being done south of the Tallahatchee, Chalmers is beginning the work of destruction north of that stream, and between it and Cold Water Creek.
“Orders have been issued to burn all, and his forces are out in every direction, carrying them into execution. They swear not a bale shall be left for Federal confiscation, and we believe that in less than thirty days, Mississippi—proud, and once prosperous, Mississippi—will be a desolate waste, a vast plain of smouldering ruins.”
THE FREEDMEN ON THE MISSISSIPPI. General Grant has adopted the plan of hiring out the freedmen to their old masters, under proper restrictions and guaranties, wherever it is practicable. In the region back of Natchez, planters having cotton crops have offered their old slaves half their crop if they would take hold and gather it; but in a number of these cases the offers have been refused. The negroes, however, will work for Northern, men or for the Government gladly. The “attachment of slaves to their masters”, proverbial in pro-slavery logic, does not manifest itself in Mississippi any more than in Louisiana or Virginia.
Gen. Grant sums up the results of his Vicksburg campaign as follows:
The result of this campaign has been the defeat of the enemy in five battles outside of Vicksburg; the occupation of Jackson, the capital of the State of Mississippi, and the capture of Vicksburg and its garrison and munitions of war; a loss to the enemy of thirty-seven thousand (37,000) prisoners;, among whom were fifteen general officers; at least ten thousand killed and wounded, and among the killed Generals Tracy, Tilghman and Green, and hundreds and perhaps thousands of stragglers, who can never be collected and reorganized. Arms and munitions of war for an army of sixty thousand men have fallen into our, hands, besides a large amount of other public property, consisting of railroads, locomotives, cars, steamboats, cotton, &c., and much was destroyed to prevent our capturing it.
The glorious old days of Vicksburg—those days when the bowie-knife and revolver were supreme—when duels were of daily occurrence—when gamblers shot down citizens, and citizens hung gamblers to lamp-posts—when assassinations took place daily, and excited no abhorrence, and were succeeded by no punishment—when every man carried his life in his belt—when every other house was a gambling hell, and every other gentleman you met a gambler—when the chivalry vapored, and strutted, and hurled wordy defiance at the Yankee—those palmy, glorious days have passed away forever. “Order reigns in Warsaw,” and Vicksburg, much against her will, has become or is in a fair way to become civilized. So mote it be.
A letter from Vicksburg says that on the 1st of May, flour was $150 per barrel, and before the end of the siege $200. Other things were in proportion. A Jew brought ten barrels of whiskey from Memphis, and sold them for $10,000. The purchaser sold them for $20,000. They were then retailed for $3000 per barrel.
The number of rebel prisoners now on parole is upwards of 86,000, while the number of paroled Union soldiers is less than 18,000, showing a balance in paroled prisoners alone of over 17,000 in our favor. An exchange of all our paroled prisoners will take place in a few days.
It is stated in the Southern papers that ten thousand dollars have been subscribed for the benefit of the family of the late Gen. Albert Sydney Johnston, the members of which are represented to be in great distress. That is just the amount that was “subscribed” for the benefit of the widow Jackson, whose husband was killed in Alexandria after he had shot Col. Ellsworth, and yet necessity forced that, unfortunate woman to leave Richmond, and she came within our lines, begging bread.
STRAWS. Our city papers contain an unusual number of applications for colored help—cooks, chambermaids, housekeepers, coachmen, waiters, laborers, &c. A number of gentlemen of property and influence, known as conservatives, choose to ride from their homes to their places of business and back again in cars that are not controlled by rioters, and they do this although in some instances it puts them to the inconvenience of walking a block or two, or paying an extra five cents. The eating-houses that have reinstated their colored servants have not only secured their old customers, but have added a new batch of patrons to their list, for the recent raid upon the rights of an unfortunate class of people has created a vast deal of sympathy for them, which seeks for opportunities to show itself. Close observers who have been much in the society of the parties who travel on the Eighth avenue, say they have heard the course pursued by George Law in relation to the exclusion of colored persons from his cars bitterly condemned, and have never heard one word of approval of his course from any source whatever.—N. Y. Tribune.
When the 18th colored regiment, recruited in Philadelphia, which left for Charleston last week, shall have arrived there, nearly six thousand black soldiers will be actively engaged in the movement against the secession stronghold. The colored regiments embraced in Gen. Gilmore’s forces will be as follows: 1st and 2d South Carolina; 54th Mass.; Gen. Wilde’s brigade, under his command, consisting of the 55th Mass, and the 1st North Carolina; 18th Pennsylvania.
Thirty-two of the finest steamboats on the Western waters were recently destroyed in the Yazoo river by order of the Confederate authorities.
<c05>
GREAT FIRE AT HAVANA. A great fire took place at Havana about July 21st—sixteen warehouses containing 672 bales cotton, 630,120 boxes of sugar, and large quantities of other goods were destroyed.
It is stated that the conflagration is practically a gain for us of no mean consequence, no less than $1,500,000 worth of cotton, sugar, and other goods, belonging to blockade runners of British race, having been destroyed. This will add materially to the bankruptcy which has already befallen so many English merchants engaged in the contraband trade.
“At a recent sale of slaves at Lockville, Md., seven” young, full grown, able-bodied ‘hands’ brought together $126, or $18 a head.” [Exchange.]
Well, we would not give $18 a head for 100 of the best slaves in this State. They are worth a great deal more as compensated laborers, but they are not worth it as slaves. Slave property is fast losing its value, and all who are not purblind with prejudice see it and feel it. The question of emancipation is a living, practical one in this State; it is upon us, and we must settle it. We are as well convinced that the people of Tennessee will pass an emancipation ordinance before twelve months as we are that they ought to do it.—Nashville, (Tenn.) Union.
Among the visitors to the camp meeting at Yarmouth is Mrs. Lucy Cooper, a colored woman from Nantucket, who is believed to be one hundred and five years old. 
Hezekiah Wight of Belfast, Me., died a few days since of consumption, aged about twenty-five years. He was the tallest man in Waldo county, if not in the State, measuring in height seven feet and eight inches—says the Belfast Age.
TWO VALLANDIGHAM DEMOCRATS IN TROUBLE.-Peter Harbinger, of Jackson county, Ohio, and Edward Hughes, of Adams county, have been arrested for piloting Morgan’s men through the State. Affidavits declare that they not only did this, but actually pointed out the Union men, and shared the plunder. They are both of them “Butternuts.”
FRIGHTFUL LOSS OF LIFE AT MANILLA. The London papers state that by the earthquake at Manilla, on the third of June, the town was destroyed and ten thousand of the inhabitants buried in the ruins.
About one hundred and fifty refugee Contrabands, from Helena, Arkansas, reached Cincinnati on Saturday last and their wants were properly attended to by sympathizing friends.
A CAPTIVE EDITOR. Among the rebel prisoners lately brought into Lexington, Ky., was Lieutenant Colonel Nixon, formerly editor of the New Orleans Crescent.
Capt. Hubbell, of Avon, Ct, killed in one of the recent battles, was the son of the authoress of Shady Side, and a nephew of Rev. A. L. Stone, D.D., of Boston. He was a graduate of Yale, and nearly fitted for the ministry. The mother and both her children are now dead.
COLLECTIONS,
By Finance Committee, at First of August Meeting. 1863.
Bourne Spooner $2 00 J. R. Pratt 0 25
William Ashby 1 00 Jacob Leonard 1 00
E. and E. H. Richards 2 00 J. F. Lowell 0 50
C. H. Collins 1 00 W. Bates 0 50
Mrs. Mary May. 2 00 W. R. Parker 0 25
Sam’I May, Jr., 2 00 E. C. Derby 0 25
Mr. Loring 0 25 B. F. Danforth 0 50
Sam’I Reed 0 25 S. C. Beal 0 50
Mr. Hobart 0 20 S. Gardner 0 20
Wm. L. Garrison 1 00 A. Hanson 0 25
M. W. Stetson 1 00 J. Richards 0 25
J. Thayer 0 10 A. Waters 0 25
C. P. Drew 1 00 Joshua Perry 0 50
C. M. Leonard 0 50 John Pratt 0 25
D. Cushman 0 50 L. Jackson 0 50
E. E. Bennett 1 00 A. Robbins 0 50
J. B. Peirce 2 00 Mrs, R. Loud 0 50
R. T. Collins 0 50 Charles Meserve 0 50
A. W. Collins 0 25 M. Sprague 0 50
Mrs. A. W. Clapp 1 00 Darius M. Harris 0 15
Thos. P. Knox 1 00 Daniel L. Hersey 0 25
E. Sprague 1 00 Mrs. Landry 0 50
E. W. Brooks 0 25 Mrs. Logan 0 50
I. Jacobs 0 50 Rufus Bates 0 25
M. H. Pool 1 00 Mrs. C. Meserve 0 50
Elmer Hewett 0 50 R. F. Copeland 0 25
W. Torrey 0 25 Jabez Soule 0 25
F. Cushing 0 50 Isaac H. Cushing 0 25
Fred. H. Henshaw 1 00 Mrs. Daniel Shaw 0 25
W. T. Temple 0 50 Mrs. Rogers 1 00
Rachel Johnson 0 25 Charles Hazeltine 0 50
H. W. Blanchard 0 50 L. McLauthlin 0 50
H. H. Brigham 1 00 H. B. Clarke 1 00
E. Stevens 0 25 E. H. Bradford 0 50
Parker Pillsbury 0 50 T. W. Hartshorn 0 50
D. F. Goddard 0 50 B. F. Hutchinson 1 00
C. P. Mitchell 0 50 Cash, in various 
sums, 9 00
The above is as complete as the Finance papers enable us to make it; but some names and sums are omitted, as the collection amounted to $67 65
THE “PECULIAR INSTITUTION” ILLUSTRATED. 
We have a photographic likeness of a Louisiana slave’s back, taken five or six months after a terrible scourging, and exhibiting from the shoulders to the waist great welts and furrows raised or gouged by the lash, running cross-wise and lengthwise—the victim himself presenting a noble countenance and fine physique. “This card photograph,” says the New York Independent, “should be multiplied by one hundred thousand, and scattered over the States. It tells the story in a way that even Mrs. Stowe cannot approach, because it tells the story to the eye.” P rice 15 cents. Sent by mail, by enclosing postage stamp. Seven copies for one dollar, or $1,50 per dozen.
Address EDITOR OF THE LIBERATOR, Boston, Mass.
THEODORE D. WELD will lecture in Portland, (Me.) on Sunday, August 23, afternoon and evening, on “The Cost of Reform,” and on “The Higher Law.”
AARON M. POWELL will speak at Hopedale, Mass., on Sunday, Aug. 23. 
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Holden, Sunday, Aug. 23, at half -past 10, A. M., and 1 and 5, P. M. 
In Barre, Sunday, Aug. 30, at half-past 10, A. M., and 1 and 5, P. M.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.—Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. 
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
PROF. NOYES WHEELER has located himself in New York City, and opened Rooms, No. 513 Sixth Avenue, where he intends to practise Medicine, in connection with Phrenology and Physiology, make phrenological examinations, and heal the sick.
NOTICE-Letters or papers for THEODORE D. or ANGELINA GRIMKE WELD, or SARAH M. GRIMKE, should be directed to West Newton, (Mass.) instead of Perth Amboy, (N. J.) until further notice.
DIED—In this city, July 20, CLARISSA, wife of Robert Johnson, aged 60. 
Aug. 2, Mrs. SARAH CASH, aged 87.
At Medford, Aug. 6, SARAH NAAS, wife of Rev. F. T.<ILLEGIBLE>, aged 22.
English and Classical School.
THE next term will begin Wednesday, Sept. 2,1863. For particulars, address
NATHANIEL T. ALLEN, 
July 31. West Newton, Mass.
IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER 
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair. 
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair. 
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which-does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them.
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER, 
No., 31 Winter Street, Boston.
<c06>
Second Edition, Published This Day, July 31.
SPEECHES, LECTURES,
AND 
LETTERS,
BY 
WENDELL PHILLIPS:
In one volume, Crown Octave, 570 pages; printed on clear new type, and fine tinted paper; bound in rich maroon vellum cloth; with an illuminated title, and illustrated with an excellent portrait of Mr. Phillips, on steel, by H. Wright Smith. Gotten up at the Cambridge University Press, uniform with their admired edition of De Tocqueville’s Democracy in America, it will challenge the most fastidious criticism as a specimen of book-manufacture.
Price Two Dollars.
This volume has been revised by Mr. Phillips himself, and contains his best Speeches with his last corrections. It is the only collection of his Speeches extant, and will be the only selection of them permitted by the author. 
The statement, recently published, that this volume will be succeeded by a complete edition of Mr. Phillips’ works is essentially incorrect, as the project of such a publication has never yet been practically entertained. But, whether or not, it is certain that no such publication will be issued for some time; and that in the volume just published, and in it alone, can the greatest efforts of this distinguished Orator and Reformer be found.
CONTENTS:
I.
The Murder of Lovejoy.
II. 
Woman’s Rights.
III. 
Public Opinion.
IV.
Surrender of Sims.
V.
Sims Anniversary.
VI. 
Philosophy of the Abolition Movement
VII.
Removal of Judge Loring.
VIII.
The Boston Mob.
IX.
The Pilgrims.
X.
Letter to Judge Shaw and President Walker.
XI.
Idols.
XII.
Harper’s Ferry.
XIII.
Burial of John Brown.
XIV.
Lincoln’s Election.
XV.
Mobs and Education.
XVI.
Disunion.
XVII.
Progress.
XVIII. 
Under the Flag.
XIX.
The War for the Union.
XX.
The Cabinet.
XXI.
Letter to the Tribune.
XXII.
Toussaint L’Ouverture.
XXIII.
A Metropolitan Police.
XXIV.
The State of the Country.
This book will be sold by the Published and his Travelling Agents only. A few more Agents wanted in Vermont and Maine. Massachusetts, (with the exception of Berkshire County,) New Hampshire, Connecticut (with the exception of Fairfield County,) and Rhode Island are already given out. Agents who will pledge themselves to canvass their respective districts thoroughly can have the exclusive Agencies for Counties.
The volume will be sent, postage paid, to any part of the United States, on receipt of Two Dollars.
Agents wanted in every county of the Loyal States. Liberal commissions allowed. Address for Circular,
JAMES REDPATH, Publisher,
221 Washington Street,
BOSTON.
IN PREPARATION!
HOSPITAL SKETCHES:
BY 
Miss L.M. Alcott.
The Sketches published in The Commonwealth, with large additions, and the author’s last corrections, will be issued, early in August, in a 12mo. volume of about <illegible> pages.
No republication of the new chapters will be permitted in any journal.
JAMES REDPATH, Publisher, 
221 Washington Street, 
BOSTON. 49
Poetry.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
NEW VOICES FROM THE CROWD.
NATIONAL SONGS.
Rewritten for the South and English Southerners, by Charles Mackey.
L
RULE, BRITANNIA!
When Davis first, at hell’s commands,
Dug, for a million, bloody graves, 
This was the charter of his land, 
And women-whippers sung the staves:
Rule, eon-sellers,
Whoever at you raves, 
Southerners ever, ever will have slaves.
The nations not so blest as we,
Must sell their daughters not at all, 
Breeders of selling babes to be 
To any brutes to whom they fall;
Rule, girl-sellers, 
Whoever at you raves, 
Southerners ever, ever will whip slaves.
Still more atrocious will we rise 
The more all justice we defy, 
The more black souls we brutalize,
And call all right and God a lie;
Rule, Jeff Davis, 
Whoever at you raves, 
Southerners ever, ever will burn slaves.
Us, God nor man shall ever shame;
All their attempts to put chains down 
Shall make us think man-hunting fame,
And hold wife-lashing our renown. 
Rule, wife-whippers,
Whoever at you raves,
Southerners ever, ever will whip slaves.
To us belongs the right to burn
The man who dares a man to be, 
The man who dares our chains to spurn, 
And be, as God would  have him, free:
Rule, girl-whippers,
Whoever at you raves, 
Southerners ever, ever will lash slaves.
All  vices still with slavery found,
Shall to our cursed homes repair; 
Lust—cruelty shall there abound; 
Torture and murder shall be there;
Rule, child-sellers,
Whoever at you raves,
Southerners ever, ever will breed slaves.
And while both heaven and earth abhor 
Our new-born rule that shames the day, 
We’ll boast of all they hate the more,
And women’s backs their taunts shall pay;
Rule, girl-whippers, 
Whoever at you raves,
Southerners ever, ever will have slaves.
II.
SCOTS WHA HAM.
DAVIS’S ADDRESS. 
Men who have your daughters sold,
Men whose sons have brought you gold,
For your trade in flesh be bold!
On for chains and slavery!
Now’s the day, and now’s the hour; 
See the front of battle lower, 
See approach cursed freedom’s power; 
Down with all but slavery!
Who’d not be a Southern knave, 
Who’ll not fill a traitor’s grave, 
Who’d not own and lash a slave,
Yankee, let him turn and flee!
Who for hell, our rights and law, 
Slavery’s sword will strongly draw, 
Woman-whipper, stand or fa’,
Brother, let him on with me!
By oppression’s woes and pains, 
By our sons in servile chains, 
We will drain our dearest veins
But they shan’t—they shan’t be free!
Lay the vile men-freers low; 
Freemen fall in every foe,
Slavery’s in every blow,
Forward! let us do or die!
Roebuck hugs us to his heart! 
Tories long to take our part! 
Well their  Clarkson’s ghost may start!
Wilberforce must howl on high!
All the thrice-cursed crew who rant, 
Freedom’s friends, no longer cant: 
Cotton—cotton’s all they want;
That, and up with slavery!
On! that millions yet may groan! 
Build your State on wrongs alone; 
Slavery’s its corner-stone;
On! “Our Chains!” our battle-cry. 
Blackheath, (Eng.)  W. C. BENNETT.

OF AMERICA.
TO CHARLES MACKAY,
Late Progress Poet, now “Times” Correspondent from America.
I praise your Jackson and your South!
No, I’ve no taste at all that way; 
Those words are not sweet in my mouth,
Though dear they are to some, you say; 
A trick of speech I’ve somehow caught
From Wilberforce’s-Clarkson’s graves; 
I can’t hate freedom as I ought,
Or love your barterers of slaves; 
In fact, if I the truth must tell,
I think your Jackson and his crew
Aecurst of God, are fit for hell,
Though they may fight, and conquer too.
Time was when England nobly rose,
And grandly told earth of man’s rights; 
Slavery and wrong, her ancient foes,
In these, you say, she now delights. 
Her voice that once so sternly spoke,
And, speaking, smote slaves’ fetters off, 
That antique utterance is your joke,
A grand-dame’s tale, at which you scoff. 
Your “Times” has taught us what to say,
That years must change, and so must thought; 
Jackson’s your Cromwell of to-day-
Ah! ours for rights, not fetters, fought.
Clasp you the hands that wield the whip!
Press you the palms that rivet chains! 
My curse will through my clench’d teeth slip,
I’ll brand your heroes all as Cains. 
For cotton, and through envy, sell
Your nobler notions if you can; 
I will not, and I hold it well,
I loathe these men who deal in man. 
Scoff, sneer, or jest; let him who likes
Prate of their courage and their worth, 
Right and not Might my fancy strikes,
Though Might not Right may rule the earth.
At times God, for his own good will,
Gives hell, o’er men and nations, rule; 
But Right, though crushed, I hold Right still,
Though worldly-wise ones call me fool. 
Brute force has Cossacked nations down,
Yet Cossacks I do not adore; 
Then Poland’s Bashkirs-nay, don’t frown,
I do not love your Jacksons more. 
No-Cavaliers that women sell,
To their great nobleness I’m blind; 
Heroes who cash their children-well,
They’re not exactly to my mind.
One’s flesh and blood, you know, are here 
Dear to one, not as current gold; 
I would not be a Cavalier,
By whom his son or daughter’s sold; 
Curse those who sell their blood to lust,
Their very flesh to stripes and toil; 
I spit at such—the thought, I trust,
Of such should make my blood to boil. 
The very meanest thing I see,
A cringing beggar whining here,
<c02>
Rather a thousand times I’d be, 
Than a girl-selling Cavalier.
God wills, and darkly works His will,
His wisdom’s hidden from our eyes,
Yet my faith rests upon Him still;
To judge and scourge He will arise. 
Wrong seems to conquer often; —Right
Seems to be conquered;-watch and wait;
The years bring seeing to our sight,
Truth’s triumph cometh, soon or late.
Therefore success I seem to see,
Makes me not in the evil trust, 
Nor seems its triumph sure to me-
Rather its failure: God is just. 
Blackheath, (Eng.) W. C. BENNETT.

The Liberator.
DRAFTED!
PHILADELPHIA, 8th mo. 8th, 1863.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON:
ESTEEMED FRIEND—I have not received my Liberator for last week. Please send a copy.
As I have pen in hand, let me inform you that I have been handed the formal and legal notification of my having been drafted for service in the army of the United States. What response have I to make? I, so full of loyalty and patriotism that I know not where the limit is to country, or the end of affection for mankind, and for whose sake I would cheerfully yield my life. Feeling that I was a conscript the very day I was born-a conscript to serve in the army of the Higher Power-I have but one answer to make:-Dear country, and good friends all-I cannot serve two masters. My first allegiance is to God. He claims me first and last. My country claims me always, in every moral cause and course. May I not now unnecessarily embarrass the execution of the law. I regret being drafted, for the single reason that I fear I may add to the complications of our Government, already painfully encompassed with trials which I would gladly lessen, rather than increase. But I must humbly say-my obligations to our Heavenly Father, the dictates of my conscience, and the sacred love I feel for my country and my countrymen, leave me no room for hesitation as to duty.
I am, therefore, constrained to declare that I cannot take up carnal weapons, and enter your service in a warlike capacity, under any circumstances whatever; because I have ever held throughout my life, that all wars and fightings are wrong.  And while I am the farthest from reflecting upon our Government, or upon any loyal man who feels it right to accept the sword in the present engrossing cause, with the high blessings they anticipate must result in doing so,-for under the war power they feel they could not act differently, -and while my very heart runs over with the fullest sympathy for the cause of right, justice, freedom and humanity, and cannot but regard the late conscription act as wonderfully wise and humane, wanting, however, in that first and highest requisite, protection to conscience-I cannot for a moment swerve from the divine principle of Non-resistance. I cannot comply with the provision to furnish a substitute, because I hold it wrong to ask a brother to do for us that which we will not do for ourselves. Were I to do so, I should feel myself accessory to the crime of murder, or of an intent to kill, or of “returning evil for evil.”
I cannot comply with the provision to pay $300, or even the hundredth part thereof, as a commutation fee; for it would be bartering my conscience, and purchasing an “indulgence” for the divine right of its enjoyment. It would be giving the means with which to buy flesh and blood to take my place, and thus be to me the deepest hypocrisy.
At the same time, I make no resistance to the “powers that be,” but shall stand unfalteringly for these pure principles, for the sake of others who bear the same testimony. I shall present myself at the required time, which has been marked for the 14th inst., for a special hearing. If I am found fit for military duty, I shall charitably and prayerfully submit to any sacrifices or penalties that may be deserved or demanded, excepting only the sacrifice of those Christ-like principles which I value more than life itself.
I met our friend Robert Purvis, this morning, and he thinks I will have to bear the Non-resistant banner alone. No! no! Indeed, I hope not. I am already strengthened by the firmness of Friends in North Carolina, which I heard of several weeks ago, as follows:-
“The leading particulars of one of the most remarkable events of this war have just been communicated to me. You know that many of the Society of Friends have long resided in North Carolina, and that a fundamental article of their faith is a refusal to take up arms under any circumstances whatever. In the early stages of the rebellion, the rebel powers of North Carolina, well knowing their peaceful principles, permitted them to pass unmolested, though known to be unconditional Union men. But as time went on, disaster to the rebellion succeeded to disaster; men were captured, killed, or disabled, to so fearful an extent, that every one out of the army must be brought into it.
Early this year, the conscription fell upon the Friends. In one neighborhood, some twelve of them were drafted. In accordance with their well-known principles, they refused to join the army. But everywhere the reign of terror prevailed, and they were forced into the ranks. Here muskets were given to them, but every man of them refused even to touch the weapons. Every conceivable insult and outrage was heaped upon them; they were tied up, starved, and whipped. Still they remained firm to their conscientious convictions, and refused to fight. Finally, the muskets were absolutely strapped to their bodies.
One of these Friends was singled out as especially obnoxious, and was whipped unmercifully. The officer in charge was lawless and brutal, and on one occasion ordered him to be shot, as an example to others. He called out a file of men to shoot him. While his executioners were drawn up before him, standing within twelve feet of their victim, the latter, raising his eyes to heaven, and elevating his hands, cried out in a loud voice: ‘Father, forgive them, they know not what they do.’ Instantly came the order to fire. But, instead of obeying it, the men dropped their muskets and refused, declaring that they could not kill such a man.
This refusal so enraged the officer that he knocked his victim down in the road, and then strove repeatedly to trample him to death under his horse’s feet. But the animal persistently refused to even step over his prostrate body. In the end, they were marched with the rebel army to Gettysburg. In that battle, they remained entirely passive, fired no shot, and in God alone trusted for preservation. Very early in the action, the officer referred to was killed. The Friends, all unhurt, were taken prisoners, and sent to Fort Delaware. Here, by accident, it became known in this city that several Friends were among the captured, and two members of the Society went down to inquire into the circumstances, but they were refused permission to see them. They went immediately to Washington, and there obtained an order for their discharge, conditioned on their taking an affirmation of their allegiance. This opened the prison door. The affirmation made, these martyrs for conscience sake were released, and are now here.”
My testimony has gone before our Provost Marshal, and been treated with entire respect-as, indeed, all will be who stand firmly for principle. I know not the verdict. Let the light of the nineteenth century, and the hope for a pure, perfect and united country, answer.
I have a word of encouragement for all. Many true non-resistants here seek counsel; and while I repudiate any assumed conscientious scruples, I have the highest regard for those who sustain them in this trial-hour.
<c03>
I have had offers of substitutes and money, which I decline. One colored man came to me, and said, “I know you as a true anti-slavery man, and one who will not fight. I come to offer you a substitute. If you object to a black man, I will find you a man as white as you are, though from the South.” Noble indeed! This is a sample of the race. I regret their salvation has to come, or seems to come, through war. They are a docile and patient people, and possess the finest moral susceptibilities, often surpassing the Anglo-Saxon race. Their natural impulses are adverse to war, and we should pause ere we undermine their spiritual manifestations of right. They may now accept war as the price of their freedom, and this will cause them to regard it as their salvation; and as it is natural for us to emulate that which benefits us, it is calculated, should their earnest wish and my prayerful aspirations to be free be realized, to make them warlike. So with the efforts of the day for military schools and military training of our youth. Oh! should we not pause? Look to the fact, that war is taking off our perfect in limb and health. The most robust and physically perfect are accepted, to be slain or maimed, whilst the weakly and sickly-the imperfect in sight and limb-are rejected;-they to remain at home, and perpetuate our race. What an offering unto slavery! And what an offspring! What a future for America!
I wish for thee to visit our colored camp here. These truths are all exemplified there. In conversing with them, I find them remarkably moral. Without their own officers-no country, less pay than white soldiers-there they are, willing, noble men.  Why, a cherry tree in the corner of their camp-ground, loaded with the best of that fruit, remained untouched. A cornfield on one side, no fence separating, was not injured in a single hill. An oats field, adjoining, was undisturbed. Not a rail gone from any fence round. All in creditable contrast to the camp of white soldiers.
Had I time, I would gladly add to this merited compliment to the negro. I see in him the hope of our nation.
Thy sincere friend,
ALFRED H. LOVE. 

THE FUTURE OF THE FREED PEOPLE.
NO. I. 
BY REV. JAMES A. THOME.
The eye of faith, yea, that of common sense even, sees in the great rebellion, and the consequent civil war, the sure doom of slavery. Ambitious Southerners meant secession for Northern subjugation, but God meant it for abolition. The oppressors, who rushed into disunion with the traitorous cry of “State rights,” were judicially blinded to the fatal consequence that should befall their favorite institution; their eyes were holden that they should not see this catastrophe. The patriot volunteers, from Northern mountains and from Western prairies, launched their regiments on the flood-tide of popular enthusiasm, not stopping to think of slavery. The Flag, was their rallying-cry. THE GOVERNMENT, was their watchword. DOWN WITH REBELLION, was their battle-shout. Forward they marched. Southward they rushed, through Baltimore to Washington; invaded “the sacred soil of Virginia;” seized the border States, on the verge of secession; blockaded the Southern ports; imprisoned King Cotton; opened the prisons to the captives, and the camp-lines to the contrabands; and before they were aware what they were doing, they had struck the deadly blow. Protesting their fealty to the compact and the compromises, they rolled forward their artillery, and charged on “the domestic institution” with fixed bayonet. With their denunciations of John Brown’s raid still echoing at their homes, they seized Harper’s Ferry, and sang his war-song in the streets of Charlestown.
Not less than one hundred thousand slaves have been freed already; in the District of Columbia slavery has been abolished; from the territories it has been forever debarred; in the border States it has been greatly weakened; while throughout tue seceded States, the slave-power has been paralyzed by the proclamation of emancipation. The millions of human chattels are on the way to freedom. The exodus has begun. Through the red-sea of battle, the people are passing to promised liberty. This is almost the sole certainty that shines without a cloud amid the confusions of the struggle. The fate of the Union, of the Federal Government, of New England, of the West, of the parties, of the people, of the Confederate States, of the rebel leaders, of cotton, of commerce, of finance, of foreign powers, is involved in mystery; but the downfall of American slavery is put beyond a peradventure. Out of the crash and chaos of the times emerges the star of hope for the oppressed. We watch it, poised over the land where the negro, born under its auspices to the inheritance of freedom, lies among his lowly kindred, herded with the beasts of the stall. Like the star of Bethlehem, it may well attract the wise men of the East, and alarm the Herods at home and the Caesars abroad; for it signalizes a new era, of deliverance to the enslaved, and liberation to all crushed peoples. It sheds its beams into the coming time. It lights up the prospect of the negro race. It invites us, with promised illumination, to look inquiringly into THE FUTURE OF THE FREED PEOPLE.
There is really no theme which is now so attractive as this. The past has no special interest when old establishments and venerated landmarks are trampled down by armies. The present is black with thunder-clouds, and the future frowns, save in this one direction. All is dark and boding but upon yonder mount, where the freedman stands uplifted in a transfiguration. Now, for the first time, we are favored with this vision of his coming ascension. Hitherto we have seen, not the freedman but the bondman, or the panting fugitive, or the free colored man of the North, “as one born out of due time,” overshadowed by slavery, and victimized by prejudice. Suffering every wrong which man is capable of inflicting or enduring, the negro in his chains has enchained our attention, till the spectacle has excited our pity, our indignation, and our profoundest fears. “We have trembled for our country when we have thought that God is just, and that he has no attribute which could take side with the oppressors in a struggle with the oppressed.”
These are the painful and portentous aspects of slavery, which, for a score of years, have been forced upon our vision, and fastened, as frontlets, between our eyes. While some have cherished them in the spirit of humanity, “remembering them who are in bonds as bound with them,” others have tried, in vain, to dispel these heart-sickening scenes, having no sympathy with the innocent sufferers.  Harrowing, indeed, have been the recitals, to which slavery has been, for thrice ten years, compelling the public attention. Twenty-nine years ago, an eminent jurist in Central New York, on hearing a true statement of the outrages perpetrated on Southern plantations, arose, under overpowering emotions, and said, with utmost emphasis: “The facts we have heard are alarming facts, ASTOUNDING facts, APPALLING facts.” Such, indeed, they were then; and they have been more and more so ever since, being aggravated by the increasing profits of slave-labor, and the rapid encroachments of the slave power. Twenty-five years ago, the people throughout the North were aroused from their dreams of the amiable features of the patriarchial institution, by a terrible book, entitled, “AMERICA SLAVERY AS IT Is; OR, The Testimony of a Thousand Witnesses;” prepared by Theodore D. Weld, the early and eloquent apostle of emancipation.  The horrid disclosures of that book so wrought upon the soul of Mrs. Stowe, and held her so spell-bound to the fascinating pages, and so fired her genius, that, under this inspiration, she conceived her “Uncle Tom.” Weld’s facts fathered her fiction. Both did their work; and now, thanks to the rebellion, the power and the profits are annihilated; Slavery, smitten with premonitory palsy,
<c04>
has dropped forever scrip and sceptre from her nerveless grasp.
We stand at the dawn of a new era. We may now speak of the freed people, and forecast their hopeful horoscope. We may now, not prematurely, reckon all the slaves of the South as virtually free. As we have hitherto properly included among the enslaved all who were on the middle passage from Guinea to the Gulf, so may we now truthfully comprehend among the freed people the millions who are passing from chattelism to manhood on our iron-clads and gun-carriages. It is in this wide scope that we employ the term. We consider that slavery is, constructively, extinct; that there are no slaves in the proper sense; that is, in the property sense, as legalized and guaranteed, since the Federal Government has withdrawn the constitutional guarantees, forfeited by rebellion, and the slave States have lost the law-making power. We are done with property in man; forever done with this “wild and guilty fantasy.” American slavery has no future. For two years we have been witnessing its dying struggles. “Hit by the archers,” it dies hard, but die it must; its last agonies are upon it. Thank God, we live to see them. Thank God, that over its convulsions we may speak of its four millions of things as freed people. We love the name; we spread it broadcast over the late chattels; we rejoice that we may sprinkle all and each of the new-born humans with the waters of this baptism of liberty. Thanks, ten thousand thanks, for the privilege of officiating at this ceremonial, by authority of Him who “shall sprinkle many nations.”
As freed people, they have a future. While slaves, they had no prospects, no hopes, no inheritance, no posterity-were not a people. Freedom makes them men, sets them in families, raises them into a people, invents them with rights, starts them on a career, pledges them a future. We may confidently speak of the future of the freed people. It is no Utopia, no illusion of castles in cloud-land, no mirage of the desert; it is a predestined reality, a predicted prospect. While it has strong attractions as a problem in ethnology, it has stronger claims as a question of humanity. It lays us all under obligations to further the freed man on to his destiny. It involves on your part and on mine the personal inquiry, “Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?” Certainly, those who have long labored for emancipation cannot see the shackles falling off, without desiring that they may have some part in uplifting the ransomed people to the plane of a worthy manhood.
But, in order that the efforts to be put forth in this direction may be in the highest degree effectual, the aim must be adequate: there must be an intelligent apprehension of what God has in store for this wronged class, also of what they are capable of attaining, and of what a great nation like ours, when penitent and resolved on works meet for repentance, can accomplish for those it has so deeply injured. Even the tried friends of the oppressed may fail in the new duties freedom calls them to, by falling short in their estimate of what a gracious Providence has prepared for the people in their new estate. It is essential that we first descry the freed man’s destiny; that we credit and accept the glorious things God has in reserve for his lowly children.
Our inquiry relates to the consummate future; that in which all helping providences and furthering processes are to culminate; the ultimate future of the freed people.  This implies an intermediate future, devoted to discipline, to training, to patient ministries of Christian helpers, with large outlays of money, and contrivance of moral machinery for elevating minds deep sunken, like scuttled ships. This intermediate stage must be protracted, and will be thronged with hindrances which will try the faith of philanthropists, and call out the boding of negro-hating prophets.
To strike off the chains of chattelism may be the fiat of a President on a New-Year’s day: but to change chattels, brutalized by ages of bondage, barter, and barbarity, into civilized and cultivated citizens; to bring outcasts from the pale of humanity into the family of man; to draw forth into fruitage the capabilities of a dissevered branch of the human tree; to set a crushed people on their feet, and project them on the path of progress, and advance them to the up level of their possibilities, will be the task of more than one generation. But it will be a task fit for freemen, and becoming Christians. Time spent in forwarding a neglected race to higher grades is well spent. In an upward movement of minds, “a thousand years are but as a day:” in retrograde marches, “a day is as a thousand years.”
When Virgil sang-
Facilis descensus Averni;
Sed revocare gradum, superasque evadere auras, 
Hoc opus, hic labor est;
he spake the truth in the sense intended. Easy, indeed, is downward motion to those who are under natural law, whether physical or moral; and to ascend is arduous, being against natural forces and native tendencies. But to an aspiring mind there is delight in mounting up, there is pleasure in overcoming resistances, labor is light; while ease is ignoble, and sinking odious. It is the broad way that leadeth to destruction which is difficult to a spiritual man, nay, impracticable; he goes with songs in the straight, steep path heavenward. To his eye the days of youth, given to debasing pleasures, are as a long life-time; while fourscore and ten years, spent in climbing the heights of virtue, seem as golden hours.
The homeward journey of the penitent prodigal, all wasted and weak, was physically slow-paced compared with his rush away, when passion threw the rein on the neck of appetite, and spurred the strong animal on; but in his right mind meditating confession and submission, the return to his father’s house was easily and quickly accomplished. It is the way of transgression that the Scriptures pronounce hard; it is the ways of wisdom that are said to be ways of pleasantness.  Let us not talk of difficulties, delays, discouragements, of irksome years, of generation succeeding generation in the tardy advance of the freed people. It is the past that has dragged its slow length along, while the enslaved have been sinking deeper in the horrible pit. Tedious as a century have been the last thirty years, during which anti-slavery reformers have preached immediate emancipation, crying daily, as the dull hours have lingered, and the mills of the gods have ground so slow-crying daily, as they have filed on the adamantine chain, “O, Lord, how long? how long?”
But now that the era of progress has come, we will not think despondingly of the arduous exertions and the imperceptible movement. We will not count the slow-revolving seasons, nor complain that to us has been set the task of rolling the huge stone of this gravitating mass up the high hill. We will not impatiently reckon “the time, and times, and half a time,” during which the persecuted woman, flying on the wings of a great eagle, from the face of the serpent, to her place of refuge in the wilderness, shall be nourished there, and prepared for her final place in the society of Christianized peoples. No! rather let us, with hope’s prescient eye, look beyond the intermediate future to the ultimate future of the freed people; as, with much less basis of encouragement, we are accustomed, in youth, to beguile the years of painful discipline by forecasting the period of mature manhood.

“THE RELIGIOUS DEMANDS OF THE AGE,” a small pamphlet published by Walker, Wise & Co., Boston (James Miller, New York,) is the reprint of Miss Cobbe’s Preface to the collected works of Theodore Parker, now in course of publication in London. Miss Cobbe evinces a thorough appreciation of the qualities of Mr. Parker’s mind, and of the work he set himself to do. Her analysis of his character will be read with extreme interest by the friends and admirers who cherish his memory.
A COLORED MAN KILLED. —The Providence Journal says: “Charles Savage, a colored man, who was for some time engineer of tug boats on our river, died in Boston recently from the effect of blows on the head, inflicted by some rufflan on Sunday of last week.”
Captain Stowe, son of Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, wounded at Gettysburg, is now at home in Andover, slowly recovering.
<c05>
A TRIBUTE TO COLONEL ROBERT G. SHAW.
BY MRS. CHILD.
My heart is full of sorrow and sympathy, which seek expression. From the beginning of the war, I have watched the course of Colonel Robert G. Shaw with intense and peculiar interest; for I knew his character abounded in those noble and excellent qualities of which the country and the times stand so much in need; and always I have feared that he might be cut off in the morning of his beautiful life.
Then that Fifty-fourth Regiment, offering their lives with such cheerful bravery to achieve the freedom of their cruelly-oppressed race! If only their lives had been sacrificed, we should have been sad, but exultant withal; for this existence is brief at best, and self-sacrifice is holy and immortal. But to think of those brave, devoted men, after their exhaustion by hunger, fatigue, and the hard labors of battle, sent to Charleston, to be insulted and tortured by ferocious tyrants, and then sold into slavery! Father of Mercies! how this thought agonizes just and humane souls!
As for the mean, vindictive answer to the request for the body of their brave young Colonel, it will produce the effect that all such manifestations do. It will impress more deeply than ever upon the minds of the people how infernal the spirit of slavery is. To the pure and heroic soul which had just parted from that beautiful body, it could do no harm; and his immediate family have principles that will lift them above the possibility of feeling degraded by suffering with, and dying with, and being buried with God’s despised and persecuted poor.  They will not forget the words: “Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least of these my brethren, ye did it unto me.”
I was thinking this, as I walked homeward after reading the daily news. I reflected how every inch of freedom had been won for the human race by the sacrifice of thousands of precious lives. There passed before me a long procession of men,
“For God, for Truth, for Freedom’s sake,
Content the bitter cap to take, 
And silently, in fearless faith,
Bowing their noble souls to death.”
I remembered how despotism had always delighted to make their martyrdom look mean, and in how many signal instances the effort had failed. When priests and centurions crucified Jesus between thieves, they satisfied the arrogance and prejudice of his day, and thought they had effectually disgraced him. But instead thereof, they handed themselves down to everlasting disgrace; while the cross, which they regarded with such profound contempt, floats through the world’s history transfigured with holy life.
I was pondering these thoughts so deeply that I started involuntarily as my eyes turned toward the setting sun. A dark cloud rested on the horizon, and downward through it meandered a narrow line of intensely brilliant sunlight, precisely in the form of an S. When we are overwhelmed with some great sorrow, I suppose, we are all more or less inclined to be superstitious; for at such moments the soul, in its utter helplessness, looks tremblingly beyond this dark vale of shadows, and implores some light from Heaven. The splendid vision was soon wavering and sinking behind a veil of mist. But while it lasted, it lifted my soul out of its deep despondency; for it seemed as if the dark gate through which that lovely young soul had passed had been transiently left ajar, and I had caught a glimpse of the immortal glory into which he had entered.
My state of feeling will not seem to yon exaggerated, for you are probably aware how much the cause of freedom owes to several members of the Shaw family; and that, too, at a time when antislavery was not beginning to be respectable, as it now is, but when no wealth or standing could protect its advocates from the neglect and sarcasm of society. The money they gave so liberally was the smallest portion of the aid they afforded. With moral courage beyond all praise, they stood side by side with a despised band of reformers against the world of wealth and fashion to which they by position belonged; and the crowning beauty of all was that it was done simply and naturally, without the slightest indication of conscious merit.
The capacity to do this, I think, they derived, by the blessing of God, from the founder of the family, Robert G. Shaw, the best of the “merchant princes” of Boston. When I say that he was a thoroughly honest man, I do not mean to limit the significance of the term to its relation with dollars and cents. He had an honest moral sense, which pervaded all he did and thought. He never espoused the antislavery cause, perhaps from habitual prudence, perhaps because he was getting too old to throw himself into new agitations. But it needed no great insight to conjecture what such a man thought of a system that robbed poor laborers of their wages, and added thereto the blasphemy of calling itself an ordination of Providence. A short time before his death he said to Colonel Shaw, and another grandson who was present, then mere lads, “My children, I am leaving the stage of action, and you are entering upon it. I exhort you to use your example and influence against intemperance and slavery.” As the last great change approached, he seemed dreamily to pass into a land of vision, and his lips murmured words of recognition to departed friends and relatives, as if he already saw them in the spirit world. One of these murmuring recognitions indicated the kindly sympathies of his great, good heart. “Ah,” said he, “here is an old negro just come into this world. He has been a slave. Poor fellow! how much he has suffered!”
If some of his children inherited from him the qualities which prompted them to espouse an unpopular cause, and to stand by it steadfastly, for righteousness sake, it is likely that he, on his part, had his own honest convictions deepened by their open and uniform testimony. Doubtless the state of mind revealed in these last hours may be partly traced to the influence of a noble son and two noble daughters. I have before me now a vision of one of those sisters, which I hope to find in my gallery of choicest pictures when I exchange this world of false shows for a higher world of realities. She was presiding over a table at one of our annual anti-slavery fairs, according to her usual custom. On her right hand was the table of a very intelligent, lady-like person, whose complexion was brown. It was a rainy day, and few purchasers came. She remarked to me that she seemed to be of no use, for one could easily tend several tables. I replied: “But you are of great use. For a person of your position to be merely seen here, in close proximity with one of a race that is socially proscribed, is of incalculable moral use.” “Is it?” said she, in her quiet, unaffected way. “Do let me move nearer to her, then.” And, after some show of arranging things on her table, she moved her chair farther to the right. It was to the right in more senses than one. How I loved and reverenced her! As she uttered those simple, unpretending words, it seemed to me that her countenance was irradiated with moral beauty. I looked at them both, as they sat side by side, and the picture was inwardly daguerreotyped, which I hope to see outwardly in my gallery above. It was a charming picture; for they were fine specimens of different types of the human family. She of the fairest Anglo-Saxon type, the other with the warmlytinted complexion and large, lustrous dark eyes of the Anglo-African.
Young Colonel Shaw had many healthy influences to shield him from the corrupting and weakening effects of worldly prosperity. He inherited from his excellent grandfather that innate honesty of character which is far more valuable than bank shares and broad acres; and, instead of being diminished by transmission through his parents, they confirmed and developed it by the largest and wisest moral culture.
At the outbreak of this war, he stood upon the threshold of life, with the fairest and happiest prospects spread before him. An only son, dearly and deservedly beloved by his parents and by a group of sympathizing sisters, a favorite with a numerous band of relatives and friends, to whom he was endeared by his gentle, refined and conscientious nature, no person who saw him before the war could have imagined that it would be his destiny to die, sword in hand, storming a fort, amid flashes of lightning and roar of artillery. But when the free institutions of the country he loved were brought into peril by traitors, he did not pause to dally with the allurements of life. He marched at once, with the New York Seventh, to the protection of the Capital. As a soldier, his bravery and firmness were only equalled by his kindliness. He took the gentlest care of wounded comrades, and evinced a woman’s thoughtful tenderness in cutting locks of hair from the dead, to solace the bleeding hearts of distant relatives.
When the raising of colored troops was proposed, his well-known character caused him to be at once
<c06>
singled out as a desirable officer. When the great moral influence he could thus exert was urged upon him, he did as his noble-hearted aunt had done when a similar suggestion was made to her; he moved to the right immediately. His parents were well aware of the terrible risks he would incur, but they conquered all personal considerations, and cheerfully advised him to follow the promptings of his own conscience. There was a tie of peculiar tenderness which bound him to this life. I allude to his young bride only to show how much he sacrificed from a sense of duty. But this is sacred ground; and with reverent sympathy I throw a veil over the unspeakable agony of that separation. Whether the parting exhortation of his honored grandfather recurred to his mind, and helped him to form his decision with such solemn, self-sacrificing heroism, I know not. But he took the dangerous post without any other hesitation than that which arose from a modest distrust of his own experience and ability. In what manner of spirit he undertook this great responsibility may be inferred from the following little incident: While the Fifty-fourth were being drilled at Readville, many people visited the encampment. Among them were two intelligent, well-bred colored strangers, who brought letters of introduction to the Colonel. When he invited them to dine with him, they thanked him, but respectfully declined. Being urged, they said: “You are aware, Colonel Shaw, that there is a prejudice against our complexion.” “All gentlemen are the same to me,” he replied, “whatever their complexion may be.” He seated them at his table, and treated them with the same unpatronizing courtesy with which he would have treated the Duke of Argyle. His letters to friends at that time were filled with expressions of pleasure at the number of intelligent colored people with whom he was brought into contact. He seemed to rejoice over all indications of their progress, as a generous heart does over the good luck of a brother who has been kept down by misfortune. The good character the regiment obtained in the neighborhood of the encampment was a source of great gratification to him, and in a letter from James Island, received almost simultaneously with the tidings of his death, he expressed delight at the high terms in which everybody spoke of the bravery of the Fifty-fourth.
I have said that three of the immediate descendants of Robert G. Shaw fought the moral battle against slavery with quiet but steadfast heroism for many years, and the two grandsons who received his parting injunction have followed their courageous example in the sterner warfare that is now waging, One of them, a worthy son of her who moved so promptly to the right side, is battling manfully in the ranks of Freedom. God grant that his life may be spared to see the existence of this republic secured on the only safe and permanent basis-the utter extinction of slavery!
There was another cousin of Colonel Shaw’s, by the mother’s side, who, like him, passed away in the storm of battle from a world which had great attractions for him. I remember Theodore Parkman when he was a vision of infant beauty. His exquisitely fair complexion, blue eyes, and shower of golden ringlets, at once brought to mind the words of Pope Gregory, “Non Angli, sed  Angeli.” Afterward, I heard of him as a gentle, refined, highly cultured young man, just returned from Europe, with qualifications to render him an ornament to any path of life his taste might suggest. But the trump of war had sounded, and, like his noble-hearted cousins, he left the flowery paths of life without a murmur, and relinquished all his high aspirations and tender associations, to serve his suffering country in her hour of need. His body lies in North Carolina, under a tree on which a comrade hastily carved his initials.
“Eyes of light and lips of roses,
Such as Hylas wore,
Over all that curtain closes 
Which shall rise no more!
Who shall offer youth and beauty
On the wasting shrine
Of a stern and lofty duty,
With a faith like thine?”
When I gazed on that remarkable sunset, which seemed like a gleam of eternal glory beyond the dark curtain, I felt that the young hero for whom my tears were falling was not a lonely stranger in that realm of light. I seemed to see the kindly grandfather placing his hand in benediction on his head, and gentle cousie Theodore greeting him with love. Many of the Fifty-fourth had followed their brave leader through the dark gate, and among them the poor old negro who, years ago, had been seen in vision, recognized also his kindred and descendants. They all smiled on each other; and when memory glanced backward to the loved ones in the world they had left so suddenly, the genial patriarch said: “Be not disturbed; the separation is but for a moment, they will follow.”
Meanwhile, the voices of mourners on earth struggled with tears while they sang:
“Peace be with thee, O our brother,
In the spirit-land!
Vainly look we for another
In thy place to stand.
Unto Truth and Freedom giving 
All thy early powers,
Be thy virtue with the living,
And thy spirit ours!”
L. M. C.

LOOK ON THIS PICTURE, AND ON THAT.
To the Editors of the Boston Daily Advertiser:
“NO treachery; but want of men and money.
Among the soldiers this is muttered-
That here you maintain several factions.”
“Were our tears wanting to this funeral, 
These tidings would call forth her flowing tides.”
“Is Talbot slain? Then will I slay myself.
For living idly here, in pomp and ease,
While such a worthy leader, wanting aid,
Unto his dastard foe man is betray’d,”
While the men of the 54th Massachusetts were marching steadily through shot and shell at the head of the column of assault upon Fort Wagner, their brethren were being hunted down and hacked to pieces by a brutal mob.
While their color-bearer, wounded in the legs, was dragging himself along on his knees, striving to uphold his honored burden,-a crew of traitors were hauling down the flag of their country with curses, and trailing it over the pavements of the streets of our Northern capital.
While their Colonel, mounting the parapet and urging on his command, fell shot through the breast, his father’s household were awaiting the visit of a band of burglars and murderers.
How it would have unnerved those soldiers,-who, braving not only the usual perils of war, but the contumely of the North and the savage threats of the South, were leading this forlorn hope,—to know that some of their wives and children were homeless outcasts fleeing for their lives!
What a ghastly mockery would it seem to this poor fainting standard-bearer, that this symbol of our power sustained by him with so much love and pain, was spit and trampled upon by white citizens!
What if the devilish spirit of one of these dying murderers, on its descent, could have whispered to that young patriot, who, hating father and mother and wife and kindred, had taken up his cross and borne it bravely to the end, to him, as his lass thoughts reverted to those he had so loved and yet had forsaken that their home was even then threatened by his fellow-countrymen, because its roof had sheltered him!
And yet these miscreants, robbers, murderers, fratricides, found an Archbishop who could descend to parley with them, a Judge ready to aid their escape from the hands of justice, a Senator to excuse them, and a Governor to acknowledge them as “his immediate constituents.”
We cannot all be soldiers;- age, infirmities, circumstances may prevent; few of us are heroic enough to go forth as did these poor colored uses and their brave young officers;- but for the sake of decency, if from no higher motive, let us who stay at home in ease pay some tribute to the virtue we do not or cannot emulate; let us use our right of citizenship so that honest patriots shall be called to administer and execute our laws, so that traitors and ruffians shall havebe kept in due subjection and punished with due severity, and so that while the historian recounts deeds of valor in the field, he may not have to record acts of infamy at home.

A class of about 40 graduated at Phillips Academy, Andover, last week. Over 450 of the alumni of Harvard college have enlisted in the loyal service since the war broke out, and of the 68 past graduates who died last year, more than half fell in battle or from wounds and disease incurred in the army.
