THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
TERMS -Three dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscription for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B.YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO.45. BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1862.WHOLE NO. 1657.
Refuge Of Oppression
<c01>
SECESSIONISITS AND ABOLITIONISTS 
The Secession policy and the abolition policy are identical in their results. The people understand this, and will rebuke them both. Before this war began, both the fire-eaters of the South and the radical abolitionists of the North were avowedly disunionists. So far these two classes of extremist sympathized with each other. When South Carolina seceded, Wendell Phillips was the first man and the first paper to bid the secessionists God Speed, and glory in the disruption of the Union. Now the abolitionist profess to oppose the secessionists; but in reality both are striving for the same object with different motives, just precisely as they were before. The secession leaders desire to dissolve the union and abrogate the Constitution in order to obtain power in a new confederacy. The abolition leaders desire to destroy the Union and supersede the Constitution in order to destroy slavery and reorganize the nation as a great abolition society, with abolitionists in all its offices. If the rebels were to triumph, and the Union were divided, both sections would break up into a number of little sovereignties, All warning against each other, like the petty republics of ancient Greece. Only the war holds the seceded States together. South Carolina and Georgia are too bitter rivals to long unite in a confederacy. New York would very soon secede from New England, and the West from the East, if the fatal dogma advocated by the rebels were admitted and legitimatized. The people will never entertain such an idea for moment. The material interests of commerce, of trade, of our mercantile navy, of our railroads, of all our internal and external improvements, would alone suffice to make our people loyal to the Union, even if the great principle of nationality were not involved. On the other hand, if the abolition schemes were carried out, the prospect is quit as repulsive. It would require at least twenty years of bloody war to free all the slaves of the South, and reduce her white population to practical slaves. In the meantime the North would be ruined, and a military despotism would usurp the superseded constitutional government. Then a vast series of costly experiments in regard to amalgamation and a piebald republic would ensue, and very likely a popular revolution or European interference would soon destroy all that remained of the country. The conservative people will have neither of these policies. They refuse to allow the Constitution to be trampled upon either by rebels or abolitionists. They are in favor of putting down the rebellion and the abolitionists together. They support our patriotic President in his struggles to resist the pressure which he confesses has been brought to bear upon him by the radical leaders. They believe in prosecuting this war constitutionally, and for the reunion of the States. They know that the Union, constitutional, conservative policy alone can suppress treason and save the country. Therefore they gave conservative majorities in October. Therefore, by the fixed laws of political revolutions, they will give still larger majorities at the elections in November, and the nation will be saved from destruction.—New York Herald. 

ABOLITINISM A PHILOSOPHIC MADNESS.!
When fanaticism seizes a people, it continues with them for many generations. There is a fatal strength of grip in it that cannot be easily shaken off. It may undergo several changes, and meet from external causes a hostility of the most dangerous kind; but it always prevails for a long period; and in numerous instances, its death and the extinction of the community it is ejected upon happen at one and the same time. The creed Mahomet of a fanaticism. It has been fastened, like pitch to tow, to the Paynim race for twelve centuries and now. at the close of that immense arch of time, itself and its victims are on a common road to decay. It is easy to collect many other striking examples from the pages of history.
In the Eastern States of America, the irrepressibility of fanaticism is the most predominant mark that section of the Republic is distinguished by. The first New England Puritans were fanatics in religion on the other side of the ocean. Hudibras is a satiric but truthful history of that faction, that is never called in doubt. It was fanaticism that gave the “May Flower" and other ships their living freights. The foreign plant grew well on the soil of Columbia. It is more vigorous now than ever it was before. Quakers, indeed, are not burnt at the stake; but Catholicity is still unjustly proscribed. The persistence of the Puritan fantastic of New England is exceedingly remarkable. Changed it has, again and again; but after many windings and bendings, it is still vigorous as ever. It produced the “blue laws”-the most absurd collection of statutes ever made; it became ferociously inimical to the Catholic faith—a blunder to which Yankees are now giving commendable acknowledgment it rose up against the Irish in the borrowed vestments of Know-nothingism—an unnatural politico-religious crime, for which its authors are now doing ample penance; it aimed at forcing temperance, as to liquor. On the whole land—a philanthropy that has Produced nothing but ridicule; and, at the present time, negro-worship is its attitude. made a most various circle. It has produced many a theological reprobate: has occasioned numbers of suicides.—hundreds of different creeds have sprung from it,—against political and religious freedom it has done injuries,—the education of country it has done much to poison, and the public interests it has again and again deranged. There is no fanaticism like it in the pages of history; and its present predominant shape—for it has numbers of inferior complexions—is the worst it has yet presented.
Whence did this notorious fanaticism spring? It originated with the Puritans,—the early Calvinists of England. The miscalled Reformation brought it into life. It appeared at first a moral, philosophic absolutism, that would dictate to Church and State to the entire exclusion of every other sentiment; and this it still continues to be. The Puritans of old England banished, where they could, all the politeness of life, and they did not stop until they beheaded their King. Their successors in North America have driven from existence all its amenities and they have often succeeded in making Church and State the unhesitating agents of their tenets.
By what right has this spirit of dictation been assumed? Has it been assumed from its truth? The number of shapes it has worn tell it to be false-hood the common indignation of mankind against its encroachments on judgment and conscience—as these faculties are concerned in politics in religion and in domestic matters—make it an absolute injustice; and as it is persistent in maintaining itself with truthless arguments that are never ac-
<c02>
knowledged to be refuted, it is a downright philosophic madness.
How long this New England politico-religious fanaticism will exist cannot be accurately conjectured. The negro hue it now has is one of undoubted fastness, and of incentives to action of the greatest force. The "blue laws" abounded with vigorous, unrelenting severity; the " Maine law " had so much elasticity at its foundation, that at one period there was legitimate dread that it would soon seize the National Government itself. But the Black Slave of the South has given the fanatic Temper of the North the most formidable power it has yet possessed under the inspiration of that wretched creature,—it has made itself more than half the cause of the greatest rebellion that ever distracted an empire. Under negro influence, the fanaticism of New England is, to-day, the real arbiter of the fate of this nation. With that agency the politico-religions fanaticism of the North has been able to elect a President, a Senate, a Congress numerous Governors and State Legislatures, to do much in provoking the revolt, to put thousands of its friends into office, and to interfere successfully in the conduct of a war in which more than a million of soldiers are engaged. Fanaticism Has many causes; but the nigger has given the fanatic spirit of the Eastern States a power and Sway that are amazing. 
What can be done against this philosophic mad Ness? The growth of the Church in the land has Sapped away much of its rapidity; and it is correct to judge, that the continued expansions of the Church will do it further injury; but the real hope For its disappearance is, that the race of people it animates are diminishing—are not increasing in Numbers nor keeping their own, but becoming rapidly extinct. The people of New England are Not prolific. A small progeny—in thousands of Instances none at all—marks most of their families; insanity prevails largely amongst them, consumption snaps them off in great numbers, idiocy prevails with them, and by self-murder many of them disappear. The fanaticism of the East will expire only when the race it animates becomes extinct. We do not pray Heaven to speed the day; but the sooner it comes, the better for the Republic of North America, and for religious and political freedom in all lands; and such a day will come as sure as it already has come on Islamism. The Church sees the death of all fanaticism.—Boston (Irish Catholic) Pilot 

HON. RICHARD BUSTEED. 
Hon. Richard Busteed, at Faneuil Hall, yesterday, was thoroughly Abolition. He gave in to doctrine that slavery was the cause of the war. If there were no negro slavery, be said, there certainly would have been no war—and therefore slavery was the cause-Let us apply this logic. If there were no dwelling-houses, there would be no burglary: ergo, the dwelling-house is the cause of theft. Had there not been two haystacks, the bothered jackass would not have died of hunger: ergo, the haystacks were the cause of the jackass's death. If Whitney had not invented the cotton-gin, cotton rising would not have been profitable, and slavery powerful, and without power there had been no rebellion. Ergo, Whitney was the cause of the rebellion.
Mr. Busteed held this logic very dogmatically, and characterized those who did not see this as shockingly low in intelligence. This test struck down at least one Cabinet Minister; sure, namely, Postmaster Blair. He don't see the killing force of this logic; or did not as late as last March see it; for then he solidly reasoned, in a statesmanlike letter, that it was not slavery, " but the antagonism of race, Which has led to our present calamities." We thought then, and said so, that this letter was about the best utterance of the time on the race question; but according to Hon. Richard Busteed's test, this officer has neither sense nor intelligence! We think the Officer is sounder than the logician.
Mr. Busteed set the practical working of emancipation very high, and his words seemed to be about what Wendell Phillips utters. It remains to be seen Whether Mr. Busteed's prophecy is to come to pass. Postmaster Blair (March 2, 1862,) prophesied, also, as to what emancipation would do. He said in his letter to the Cooper Institute, of emancipation:” It would certainly add to the exasperation of the Non slaveholding white of the South, and might unite them against the Government, and if to they would be unconquerable." That is what Postmaster Blair thought at that time! It will soon be seen whether The first day of January will see the Proclamation reduce the rebellion by striking at "the mainspring of the war.”
Mr. Busteed spoke like a severe, bitter partisan, and had his reward in cheers to the echo from the Abolitionists. –Boston Post, Nov.1st 

THE RADICAL PARTY.
It is a characteristic of the radical party that it is made up of men who are willing to attack anytime-honored principle for the sake of office and power. Its leaders abandon life-long creeds for office. It ruthlessly destroys churches and religious bodies, breaks up all bonds of union, tears asunder everything that could unite the people of the different sections, applauds all plans that tend to disunion, and recommends all measures that to reasonable minds seem necessarily to make divisions more complete and irreparable. When met with warning and argument, it replies with threats and invective
It is not strange that those who associate with men of this stamp find it difficult to think calmly. But the great heart of the people is aroused, and we begin to see the dawn of a new day for the American Constitution.
It is a favorite plan of the radicals to point To the names of particular men, and ask conservatives if they wish to be allied with such men. It is perhaps an argument with some men that they cannot vote with the conservative party because certain men it whom they detest vote and act with it. But the argument is tenfold more forcible against the radical party, since not only are the notorious revilers of the Union and Constitution acting with them, but their principles are identical, their hopes, and aims, and desires are the same. Thousands of good men refuse to vote with the radical party this fall because they cannot vote with Garrison and Phillips, and because they cannot be a party which adopts John Brown—rebel, traitor, and murderer—as its representative man, because he was a traitor in order to destroy slavery.
The liberator of Garrison and Phillips, the Anti-Slavery Standard of New York, the Tribune, Times, and Evening Post support the radical ticket. Surely there can be no doubt that it is radical abolitionist to a sufficient extent for any one. Nor can any one consistently sustain that ticket who Is not willing to work with, and to work for identical objects with the person and papers we have named.-New York Journal Of Commerce.
<c03>
Selections.
A SPIRITED SPEECH.
Extract from a stirring speech recently delivered at a political meeting in Roxbury, by WILLIAM WHITING, Esq.:—
Gentlemen, —we have assembled as delegates for the nomination of a member of Congress for this district. We do not meet as partizans. We have been chosen by those who have formerly belonged to different political organizations, and who have united with us in the first, the last, the only duty of patriotic men, the duty of giving to the Commander-in-chief of the Army and Navy of the United States our hearty, effectual and undivided support.
Other men may falter and hesitate, but we do not. Cowards may cringe, and with bloodless lips and chattering teeth may seek to hide their dishonored heads from the storm of war—traitors, under whatever false pretence, may seek to palsy the arm of Government in this death-struggle against rebellion. Lawyers may frame their ingenious pleas (applause) to shelter and protect rebels. They may quote their precedents and put in their special pleading, in order to distract the people of the Northern States. They may, if they please, urge the loyal men of the North to send to Washington those who will oppose the orders of the Commander-in-Chief while in the presence of the enemy! Cowards may counsel others to practise the treason they dare not themselves commit. The cowards we despise. With traitors, open or disguised, we are at war. (Applause.) We mean to sustain the Constitution and laws of the United States; to uphold a Union under that Constitution interpreted by common sense; a government able to attain results worthy of a great and free people, and for which it was founded—a republic representing the sovereign majesty of the whole nation, clothed with ample powers to maintain its supremacy forever. (Prolonged applause.) We mean that LIBERTY and UNION shall ever be one and inseparable. (Applause.) We have no sympathy with those who so interpret the Constitution as to deprive the country of the powers of self-defence. (Applause.)
If the government must be broken up because the Constitution will not allow us the power to save it, for God's sake let nothing prevent us from whipping the rebels. (Great applause.) Don't let the traitors so entangle, us in the meshes of the law as to bind loyal men hand and foot, and then break down the Constitution and conquer us at last! Do not let the forms in which our precious legacy of liberty is enveloped, crush and destroy liberty itself. Let us look at the substance—look at it as freemen, as upright men, earnestly seeking to find the power to save the country—and we shall find that the framers of the Constitution have given to the President and to Congress ample powers to deal effectually with rebels, traitors and their property(applause); that the President has, under the Constitution, full war powers; that he has the right, as a necessary measure of war, to deprive rebels of their slaves; and that he has ample constitutional power to issue and to enforce his Emancipation Proclamation. (Prolonged applause.) Whether that measure was wise or unwise, whether it was necessary or not, whether it will prove effectual or not—these questions are no longer before us. On these points, honest men differed, as they differed upon other movements of the military power. The cry of "On to Fort Donelson” was responded to by predictions of defeat; but when the army moved, the voice of discussion was hushed, every patriotic heart beat high with hope, and victory perched upon our standard. The Commander-in-Chief has gathered under the flag of the Union the largest army of modern times. It is marching upon the enemy—its countless banners are streaming over hill and valley, as they sweep southward like storm-birds on the sea. 
The great Proclamation of the President has gone forth. Millions of loyal Americans have said amen! (Applause.) Civilized Europe now, for the first time, turns toward us with admiration and with sympathy. The Proclamation has killed intervention (applause); it has sounded the death-knell of slavery and treason. (Renewed applause.) It has broken the heart of the rebellion. The wisdom of that measure is becoming daily more manifest. But be the measure wise or unwise, it is adopted. The fuse is lighted, and may burn until the fire shall reach the powder magazine of rebellion. If the traitors lay down their arms before the 1st of January, the fuse will be extinguished; if not, they must take the consequences. (Applause.) If the slaves of loyal men arc taken for public use, they may be compensated; if the slaves of traitors are made freemen, no true lover of the Constitution can object. If the country is relieved from future danger, all patriots will rejoice.
Whoever supports the President, supports the Proclamation. (Applause.) Whoever is against the Proclamation, is against the President; for it is no longer a measure of mere policy—it is in effect, though not in form, a military order. (Great applause.) When the 1st of January comes, that order will be issued at the head of the army of the United States as surely as the Almighty spares the life of Abraham Lincoln. (Cheers and applause.) Congress cannot prevent the exercise of his supreme military command. Politicians may object to it; malignant conservatives may hate him for it—as they hate all who are not the servile instruments of slavery. (Laughter and applause.) But all true conservatives—all true patriots—all loyal men will stand by the President in that stormy hour when six millions of white men in the Slave States shall, for the first time, learn to know the blessings of honest industry, education, intelligence, and independence from the control of slave masters, and four millions of native born Americans shall be no longer held as slaves. (Applause.)
There are but two parties into which our community is divided: those who oppose and those who support the Government. There is no question about banks, or tariffs, or protection, or revenue, nor any of the other subjects on which parties have split in former times. The question is, whether war, vigorous, effective war, should be prosecuted. Whether we shall use all the means in our power to make the contest short, sharp and decisive. (Great applause.)
The efforts in various sections of the country to revive the old Democratic party, which flowered and went to seed (applause) under the fostering care of James Buchanan, portend evil to the Union. The great body of the people of all parties are honest and patriotic; but the hackneyed politicians now seem to have gathered together to make a final effort to galvanize into life the fossil remains of that defunct nuisance. (Laughter and applause.) The adroit managers of this new movement have, in Massachusetts at least, succeeded, for a time, in blinding the eyes of many respectable men, by getting up what is called the "no party" party.(Cries of "Hear, hear.”)
Of the persons who signed the address, many are known to us who will not act with the "no party”
<c05>
organization—many who were mistaken or misled, to the persons who originated and the designs of those who have carried it on. There can be no doubt that many of the high-minded and patriotic gentlemen whose names are signed to that address will act in full fellowship with the Republican organization. (Applause.) Some of them are present in this meeting. All who signed the address, pledged themselves to an unqualified and hearty support of President Lincoln. If they are the men I take them to be they will keep their pledge. They will not vote for any representative to Congress who will go to oppose the President. They have set up as a candidate for Governor a military officer, who says that if he bad known of the nomination before it was acted on by the convention, he should have declined it. It would be more honorable for the military commander, when in the presence of the foe, to fight the enemy of his country, than to fly from the field of battle to engage in political hostility against his commander-in-chief. (Applause.)
When the respectable gentlemen of the " no party" shall have learned from the speeches of leading Democrats at Worcester that the " no party" has been gotten up and engineered by old-line Democrats; that they had fallen into a snare; that the plan of operations was to make use of the generous confidence of honest men of other parties to break them off from their former associations, and then to drive them into the Democratic ranks; that while these Democrats professed to support the President unreservedly, that profession was not a true one—they cannot,, with proper self-respect, lend their countenance to so gross an imposition. The "no party," we believe, was got up to break down the Republican party, and to vent personal spite and hatred against certain public men. It is to be carried on as a sub-agency of the Democratic organization. It will propose for office, probably, no one who will not oppose the Proclamation. It is, therefore, hostile to the Government. AH loyal men will abandon it as soon as they perceive that in truth it is only a “Democratic catspaw" party. (Laughter and applause.)

PROGRESS OF ANTI-SLAVERY VIEWS.
The truth is, the country was never so decidedly anti-slavery as it is to-day. It is this which troubles the sympathizers with the South. If by misrepresentation and threats they can frighten the President from executing the laws, or deceive the country so as to obtain an opposition majority in the next Congress, then they will have gained their ends. But they are destined to failure. The old party issues are now obsolete. The Republican party is virtually disbanded. Republicanism has now advanced to a higher plane than the old policy of non-extension; it now stands on the platform of avowed, undying hostility to slavery, as the grand enemy of the Republic, and true Democracy stands with it. The real issue is between slavery and treason on the one hand, and abolition and loyalty on the other. From and after the first of January, the opposer of emancipation becomes in form, as he always has been in fact, disloyal to government, a contemner of law, an apostate from the Declaration of Independence, and a subverter of the Constitution. We want no other parties; until this war closes, let there be but one issue between the friends and opponents of the Slave Power, our grand and only enemy. Love of slavery and loyalty are incompatible. The advocates of the one can sustain to the other no relation but that of an enemy. While Southern institutions made no actual war upon the nation, men could advocate them, and not be guilty of the technical offence of treason; words alone could not constitute the crime; but now tint slavery is our declared and open foe, in arms against the government, whoever "aids and gives comfort" to its abettors, whether by word or deed, becomes a traitor in the eye of the Constitution.—American Baptist.

EMANCIPATION-SUGGESTIONS BY A SLAVEHOLDER.
A “Slaveholder" writes to the Missouri Democrat as follows:—
"The subject of emancipation, which now occupies so conspicuous a place in the public mind, and in which slaveholders arc particularly and most deeply interested, is perhaps not yet fully understood and appreciated; and it is from a desire to possess a more full understanding of the plan of emancipation, as proposed by the Chief Executive, that your humble servant (a slaveholder) addresses these lines to you, believing, as I do, that you are ever ready and willing to convey any desired information upon matters of great and vital public interest.
The prevailing spirit of insubordination which now pervades almost the whole of the African race among us should cause every slaveholder to reflect upon the brat measures to adopt in reference to our slaves. Shall we proceed to the exercise of cruelty and the infliction of sanguinary punishment, in order to check the growing spirit of restlessness in our slaves. Shall we gather them in pens out of which they cannot escape, and there torture them with all manner of horrible cruelties? Shall we make examples by tying them up in the presence of their fellows, and by a course of whipping and starvation bring them back to obedience? The day is past and gone for such practices, if it ever existed.
Well, what are we to do with them? Our property is invested in them. When we lose them, we lose what we have paid out our money for, and cannot afford to sacrifice it. Such a course would be a public calamity which it would take years to overcome, and should be avoided if possible.
We have arrived at a period in our history in which we are brought to the necessity of yielding to the force of circumstances—a condition in our public affairs in which we are driven by a mighty and irresistible current toward breakers and whirlpools which we see bat too plainly, yet are impotent to arrest.
To come now right fair and square to the point, if the proposition for emancipation by States be a good one, (and I believe it is,) why delay to embrace it? Why wait until we are pecuniarily ruined by the escape and total loss of that which now constitutes our property, our wealth? Is such a course politic? is it sensible?
As a loyal citizen of the United States,—one who is devoted to our whole Union, slavery or no -slavery, under any and all circumstances,—I ask and demand the protection of my country in my person and in my property; and as it seems that we can only have the benefit of the emancipation act, by a its being adopted by the State, why withhold it? In God's name give us the benefit of it before it is too late; for even now many good and loyal men, men who have stood with their shoulders unflinchingly to the Government wheel all their lives, are suffering severely the consequences of what I think is needless delay in giving them the advantages of this fair proposition of oar Government Let the
<c05>
proper authorities proceed to call the convention together without another moment's delay.
Let the convention give us relief as speedily as possible, and you will find hundreds, yea thousands, of our very best citizens, who are now in suspense what to do, which way to turn, you will see them flocking to the standard of relief, glad to enjoy its blessings.
One hint as to the advantages of this plan in a pecuniary point of view. Let as take advantage of this act, and we can then turn right around and hire our former slaves, and the proceeds of the emancipation will make a fund, the interest on which will go far toward paying them for their services, beside being doubly secure."

LETTER FROM BISH0P-GENERAL POLK.
At the late General Episcopal Convention held in the city of New York, the Rev. Dr. VINTON, in the course of a masterly and most patriotic speech, read the following sneering and vituperative letter from the rebel Bishop Pope to the Hon. Garret Davis, of Kentucky. It is a delectable specimen of Southern piety. Where such feeling predominates in “high church “quarters, what may be expected but treason, bloodshed and rapine?
COLUMBUS, Ky., Jan. 28, 1862.
Hon. Garret Davis, Washington City:
SIR,—I have just received your speech on the subject of Mr. Bright’s letter. I blush for my manhood, when I come to reflect that the tongue and lips and heart and mind that uttered the sentiments in that speech were raised and nourished in a land of God's word, Christ's teachings, and free Government. How strange you should see and speak so truthfully one moment, and the next so falsely! Oh! vanity—self, self—me and mine! What praise and encomium you have for all other people who have tried to obtain their freedom, save and except only us poor thrice-damned cavaliers!
Mr. Davis, don't you know that no nation ever yet could consent to see, and understand, and acknowledge—frankly before God and the world—that any portion thereof was ever oppressed, or deserved any more freedom than they had? England thought thus of all these colonies, and fought seven yean to prevent it. The U. S. is fighting, with means and a I desperation unknown to Christian nations, to pre-vent twelve or thirteen States (or colonies) from leaving a Government which they never joined permanently and for all time, but which has most speedily become the most despotic, tyrannical, oppressive and burdensome of any nation within my knowledge Now, this oppression I feel, know, and experience, and utter the fact. You assume the tyrants power, and tell me that what I say is not true. What despotic Ruler or Government on earth does test f Answer me this, you miserable sinner before God!
Well may you say that true hearts would join hands with England, rather than ever again live with our bitterest inhuman enemies. 'Yes, bless God! Old England shall have us, she will have us, and with twelve millions of "Amen,” long before we will be again subjects of Infidel Puritans, Rationalists, and Ravishers of our mothers, wives, daughters, and sisters!! Free Government in the Northern States never was understood, never was appreciated—existed only by a (Garter?) consent for a time. It ended the day armed vessels were fitted out to kill innocent people, unless they longer submitted to the yoke—and burden even $56,000,000 per annum— and be slandered in public halls by public speakers. The Puritan Infidels succeeded for a time, but went under afterward. Truth—Catholic God—reversed their course. So will he again. The Puritan is the enemy to God, is the enemy to Christ, the enemy to truth, to order, to obedience, and therefore the enemy to free, just, and equitable Government. None so blind as he who will not see. Black slavery is nothing, and while slavery is nothing. All sink in view of the true cause of the present war. The cause is a thousand year old. Meantime, look to your "U.S. Government" when the South is safely anchored in an English harbor and a French port —where are you? You miserable sinner before God! May God have mercy on your soul! Amen!
LEONIDAS POLK.
Dr. MAHAN desired to know if the letter is authentic.
Dr. VINTON replied that he had seen the original letter, and had long been familiar with the manuscript of Bishop Polk.

THE NORTH CAROLINA CONTRABANDS.
Some three weeks since, several Secessionists, living near Columbia, Tyrrel County, were arrested, and kept in a sort of free-and-easy confinement on one of the gunboats for several days, when they were released and sent home. While cruising tip and down the Sound, a sail-boat full of negroes was discovered, who, when brought to by the gunboat, I proved to be the "property" of one of the aforesaid prisoners. The prisoner, in a great flutter, asserted his ownership, and was permitted to tie the negroes, and put them in charge of two white men, to whom he gave $50 to carry them borne, and told them to ask his wife for $50 more for their services I on delivering them to her. The sail-boat, however, I was subsequently overhauled by another gunboat, and the situation looking rather suspicious, the whole 1 cargo, black and white, were taken along; so that Mr. Secesh lost his darkeys, and his money beside.
The situation of the poor, unhappy blacks in this Department, fed though they are by Union bounty, is such as should excite the sympathy of every Christian man. I am sorry to say that they are treated with great sternness and severity, amounting to positive cruelty, by many of our soldiers, who seem to regard them as hardly better than beasts. Not a few of our officers, I regret to write it, conduct themselves in the roost unfeeling manner toward these unfortunate creatures; and are, in fact, ostentatious in expressing their hatred and contempt of the " d—a nigger." It is a sad truth that the Northern pro-slavery prejudice, where it exists, is much more harsh and intolerant than the traditional feeling in favor of the institution entertained by the native Southerner; and the most despicable form of its expression is when it is vented upon the poor African himself. How any gentleman of refined sentiments could act the petty tyrant and oppressor toward these poor, sensitive people, fond of praise and keenly alive to censure as they are, is more than I can understand. Thousands of silent prayers have ascended daily from them, ever since this war commenced, for the appearance of the banner of the Union with its delivering bayonets; and they welcomed at, as did the simple natives, the sailors of Columbus and Ponce de Leon, as heavenly messengers divinely sent for their good. Let as Rope that these rose-colored visions may not be dispelled.
One of the pseudo Unionists living outside our lines at Plymouth (who somehow have permission to I pass and repast at their pleasure) came into the town one day last week to hunt up a slave who had escaped, and claimed the protection of military
<c06>
authorities. The chattel Was beautiful and intelligent girl of about sixteen years of age. When found, however, the master's claim to remove her could not of course be allowed. The miserable old wretch, then, with shameless effrontery, in the presence of several bystanders, declared that the slave was his own child, and that if he could not take her away as her master, he should insist upon his right to her as her father! Mr. Samuel Newberry, of Plymouth, the Government Commissary there, is one of those who heard this party creature advance his strange claim.
A short time since a company of rebels took four of our men prisoners, who belonged to Col. Howard's regiment of marine artillery. Capt. Avery, one of the heroes of that command, who has distinguished himself in several artillery duels with the enemy, on bearing of the capture started in pursuit, at the head of his company, in mole carts, travelling all night until four o'clock the next day, a distance of fifty-four miles, into the interior, passing within eight miles of three rebel regiments. They overtook the rebel company, and recaptured his men, with eleven of the enemy, who fled without firing a gun; after which he returned to camp without losing a man.—Newbern (N.C.) correspondence of the New York Tribune, Oct. 13th.

CONTRABANDS AT WASHINGTON.
We copy from the Washington Star the following account of the condition of some of the negroes in that city:—
“The contraband camp, or, as it should be more properly called, the contraband asylum and hospital, is at Camp Barker, near the corner of Twelfth and Q streets, on the same ground formerly occupied by Coltman's brick kilns and St. John's burial ground, and at present contains 675 persons, among whom are about 100 in the hospital; the balance being women and children, with a few old and decrepid men and women—two of whom are deaf and dumb, and one blind.
The buildings are mostly the same as were used by the McClellan Dragoons as barracks. The barracks on the south side have been mostly fitted up by the families living in them, many of them having purchased stoves to cook by and make themselves comfortable during the coming winter. These are occupied mostly by the old and infirm, and mothers with large, families of children. Some of these are said to be quite industrious, and the most of their time is passed in sewing for new-comers, and making garments for the men.
The row of barracks on the north side of the square, which are smaller than the others, is used as quarters for small families. On the extreme right of the north row of buildings is the orphan asylum. This is certainly the neatest part of the camp. At present there are a dozen infants here who are under the care of a matron.
In the space in the centre are several tents, three being used as hospital wards, two for the men, and one for the women, which are furnished with iron cots and other conveniences; but it is contemplated to remove these as soon as the chapel, which is in the centre of the south row of quarters, can be fitted up for a hospital. The sick are as well attended to as can be; a sufficient number of those able to nurse them being detailed for that purpose. It would seem from the number of sick that the camp is very unhealthy, yet such is not the case, for a large proportion of the sick are sent from different divisions of the army, with which many contrabands are employed as teamsters. On Monday, when the reserve corps of colored teamsters belonging to the army of the Potomac left their camp near Camp Barker, twenty-five were sent to this place for medical treatment.
In the chapel a school is taught by Messrs. Hill and Burgster, two young men employed by the American Tract Society, during the day and evening—the day school is attended by about 75 children, and the night school by about 100 adults, of both sexes. They do not seem, however, to learn fast, and are backward in their studies, which are of course in the primary branches. It is said that these contrabands are not as apt at their studies as those in South Carolina. Preaching services are held here every Sabbath; one of the teachers generally conducts the exercises in the morning; Dr. Nichols, the superintendent, in the afternoon; and at night they conduct the meeting among themselves.
The able-bodied contrabands are now all made use of by the government, or they hire themselves out in the families in the city and neighborhood. A large number of the men are now in government service as teamsters, or helping about the. hospitals, while several hundred of the women are engaged as servants in the city. Those who are employed in the government service draw rations and clothing when they are employed, while those at the camp sick and unable to work are furnished with rations I only; having to rely altogether on charity for clothing. Almost weekly large boxes of cast off clothing, material, &c., are sent here from the North, while the National Freedman's Belief Association of this city take the especial charge of distributing the goods and having the clothing made up.
When Dr. Nichols took charge of the contrabands, there were 400, and since that time (16th of June last) 3,500 have been registered. Since that time 189 have died. For some time past, but few have arrived here, the latest arrived, of any note, being some thirty or forty about the time the rebels crossed into Maryland; and at present there are no good servants disengaged. The demand for them is not confined alone to our citizens, but often inducements are held out to them to go North; but it is rarely that any offer, even the most liberal, to go beyond Maryland is accepted. The offers for them outside of the District come most largely from Wisconsin, Iowa and Pennsylvania.” 

WHAT THE NEGROES ARE PAID.
A correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer, in writing of the success of the project for employing freed negroes upon farm work at Port Royal and vicinity, says:—
The following is a circular establishing the compensation of farm laborers, just issued:
“For breaking up ground for cow-peas, turnips, or slip potatoes, for exclusive Government use, (not intended as food for the laborers,) at the rate at one dollar per acre.
"For hoeing the same, fifty cents per acre.
“For cow-peas, planted in the midst of corn or other crops, fifty cents only per acre.
“For gathering, drying and storing corn-blades, one dollar per acre.
“For supplying cow-peas with pine-trash, twenty-five cents per day, requiring a fair day's work (or task as in Secesh times).
“For marsh-grass for manure, at the rate of thirty cents far a stack, ten feet side of cone.
“Mechanics, nurses, cow-minders, field-minders,
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof,"
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, far the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so for from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OP THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interferences with the institution of slavery, IN EVEY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFRED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It Is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commander! of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAM.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
and foremen for extra Services, to be paid in full for work done to September lst, (including everything since March last,) the whole amount not to exceed $8 to each mechanic; $5 to each nurse; $5 to each foreman; $5 to each field or stock-minder 
“Superintendents to be held responsible for exercising a sound discretion in making the above payments, and to cut down the amount, in every case of negligence on the part of the laborer, so that the money paid may not exceed the value of the work actually performed."
In addition to these payments, the laborers have received three dollars an acre for planting the cotton, and are to have a cent a pound for all cotton picked.
The total number of effective plantation hands on Port Royal, St. Helena and Ladies' Island, is about S.250; non-effective (including children, old and infirm.) is about 3,500. The ground cultivated is Corn -6,444 I Peas, Beans, etc., -360 Potatoes. 1,407 Cotton, 3,394
A little calculation will t show that food enough has been produced to support the workers, and a cotton crop estimated to be worth half a million of dollars in addition.
Before closing this subject, let me say a word of the conduct of these ignorant people, during their transition period from chattelism to manhood. I believe I express the opinion of both friends and foes of emancipation when I say it has been admirable. The same patience exhibited under the oppressions of former masters, has been shown under the frequent insults and wrongs of a portion of the soldiers, their respectful demeanor towards white persons , has been preserved, notwithstanding the privileges of freedom accorded to them. The crops on the plantations, and the records of the quartermaster's department, prove them not to be lazy. The judicious manner in which they upend their earnings proves them not to be thriftless. The experiment, thus far, has justified the sanguine expectations of their friends, and refuted the calumnies of their enemies.

McCLELLAN –IS IT NOT TIME FOR HIM TO GO?
When last we addressed our readers from this column, the whole Northern press was busy in announcing the immediate advance of McClellan on the enemy; and ail agreed that a great battle, which would probably decide the fortunes of the war, was so imminent that it could not for many hours be averted. The sanguine public roused itself once! more on these reports; but we, relying on what we; believed to be an inside view, expressed the opinion j that Little Mac was not looking for a fight, and that be would never again lead the troops of the United States in a general engagement.
Lo, ere what we then indited could take the shape of print, the imposing legions that formed the escort of our little general's family coach were ordered back, and the domestic circle, which, through George's too eager confidence in Lee's politeness, had prematurely ventured in Virginia, were obliged to settle again, temporarily, in Pleasant Valley, till Winchester could be yielded to them with decorum 
This disappointment, and apparent cheek, was regarded as a most serious misfortune by the more ardent portion of McClellan's friends: and it became them, as his sincere supporters, to promptly charge the retrograde, and all the subsequent delays, on some one eke. This service has been most thoroughly performed, and we will venture to assert, that, could those zealous followers but know the full depth of the distress, which the late long reproachful spell j of glorious weather has inflicted on their noble leader’s hopes, they would denounce, not only the departments on the score of shoes and gloves, but raise their voices even against the perversity of Heaven itself. Whatever misfortunes, therefore, may befall McClellan, and however the sun may glare against j hi;- plan;-, he cannot complain of the devotion of his { worshippers. With a rapidity which is perfectly amazing, and which his dull, easy nature can scarcely comprehend, they rush to his defence even before he is accused, and without regard to principles or I persons, assail and endeavor to abate everything that stands in his illustrious way.
The first sacrifice that was offered to this Moloch of response was the respect of the public for those members of Congress, who, with marvelous impertinence, wretched civilians that they were, complained of his eight months' fatal inaction before Manassas The next victim was the gifted and immortal Baker, whose dangerous voice for the Senate was stilled at Ball’s Bluff, while his heroic memory was assailed with an insinuation of "disobedience of orders." And this, too, to cover up the "strategy" which consigned the patriot to a certain death! The President was next to be the scapegoat of his failures, and was selected to expiate the blunders of the Peninsula campaign; but the mark being too high for that period of the game, and it being well known, moreover, teat the roundabout mode of drawing a straight line was Little Mac's own superb conception, the charge was diverted at Secretary Stanton, who was roundly and soundly abused, on the false accusation that he had constantly withheld reinforcements and denied supplies. Nay, George himself, encouraged by the success with which this game of detraction was practised by his partizans, almost ventured once to level a reproach at Hooker, for his j heroic fight at Williamsburg; but he thought better of this notion, and withheld the spleen, till he could launch it on some weaker object. He found the subject which be sought, in the veteran Casey, whose whole division be denounced as cowards, for being doubly decimated, while isolated in a marsh, where Caesar bad stupidly located them himself, miles away from help, but within striking distance of forty thousand of the enemy. Our Napoleon, however, was ignominiously obliged to retract that imputation, and having subsequently fled for a week from the presence of the enemy—without exhibiting one flash of genius as be ran—indeed, without having once j turned and risked his important person " under fire " I —be has not impugned the courage of any person since.
The cry of the pack still kept on Stanton all the while the army was on the James; and when, on the joint judgment of the President and Halleck (and at the repeated urgency of this paper for six weeks), Mac was extricated from his danger, by a direction to come out of the Peninsula, he partially revolted from the order, and turned the invidious clamor of his followers against Halleck. Finally, he moved, but so slowly as to almost deliver Pope to the united Confederates, who had turned toward Washington in force; and when he did get back to Alexandria, be stood stock still, and listened sullenly to the music of the guns, before which the Western commander and his country's flag were going; down. If ever a man was betrayed in battle, it was General J Pope on that day; and if ever a ruler made a fatal I error, President Lincoln made one, when he reinstated the contumacious Breckinridge disciple to command. It is no answer to say there was no one j else to select, for there were Hooker, Kearny, Heintzelman and Banks, and a hundred colonels and captains, who were all superior in every kind of quality to the dreamy little railroad engineer. Any one, in short, was better than a man who had come so slowly to the rescue, and who bad stood so idle near the scene. Indeed, it appears almost incredible, that a soldier who performed this part, and through whose apathy, to use the lightest word, the enemy were enabled to march unobstructed into Maryland, should be the chieftain selected to go after them, and drive them out.
With the scalps of Pope, McDowell, Sigel and Carl Schurz at his saddle-bow, and a good segar under Us Chestnut street moustache, our camp Napoleon, with some misgivings that he was too late, started on his sew career, at peace with all the world, even the Confederates, and feeling strong enough to settle the war on his original, Manassas, patent safety plan. His main concern, if any concern he had, was that the stubborn Confederates would not retire soon enough to enable him to feign a rapid march; and, sore enough, they were just so perverse as to remain nine days in and around Frederick, and thus oblige him to curb himself to a snail-like pursuit, while the whole world was looking on. Tub was provoking, but there being no one in this case to sacrifice bat Lee, Mac let the matter pass without complaint and contented himself with intimating to the reporters, that the old anaconda was at work, and that the Confederates were surely “bagged." In doe time, however, the Confederates retired from Frederick, but, contrary to all expectation. Lee, of his own accord, and apparently as if out of special spite against our hero’s plans, turned short and offered battle.
What made the matter particularly embarrassing to George was, that the audacious rebel bad but sixty thousand troops in hand, while we had exactly twice that number on the ground. It would have been a godsend if George could hare got well rid of
<c02>
the unsavory, graceless crew; but Lee was capricious and self-confident, and a collision could not be avoided. The shock of arms took place, and the public know what happened. Everything was conducted with the utmost courtesy consistent with the rules of war, and it is due to the lofty chivalry of the Federal commander to admit, that he disdained to use against the inferior rebel forces more than one half his troops. After nearly two days of carnage, in which, aside from our surrender of Harper's Ferry, the casualties foot up about equal on both sides, the Federal commander permitted the Confederates to sleep upon the field; and, on the following day, allowed them to retire without farther molestation. Since then, as we said before, six weeks of dry, cheerful weather have invited us to march; but George, intent upon his first Manassas policy, makes war only against time, and still keeps looking sourly at the sun, as the worst enemy be has.
If this is incomprehensible, it is at least consistent, for we bear in mind that he was virtually kicked out of Washington, against Manassas, by the President; and since, at Sharpsburg, be has been kicked again by Jeb Stuart, who, for the second time, has galloped contemptuously round his rear.
Perhaps, however, McClellan's policy is not so entirely inexplicable as it seems, and we may possibly approximate to a conception of it, by giving ear to the philosophy of Major Key. That gentleman, like McClellan, is a disciple of the Breckinridge persuasion—“a Northern man with Southern principles," who believes conscientiously in slavery, and who is sound on every portion of "the goose." Having the friendship and entire confidence of Young Napoleon, whose body-guard is fortunately full of the "conservative element," he recommends him to the leaner staff of Halleck. Thus highly endorsed, he is readily received; but while there he, with an incautious frankness which does credit to his honor, openly defends McClellan for not following up the assumed victory at Antietam, on the ground that decisive victories are not a portion of McClellan's "programme;" and that, for the welfare of the country and the protection of “the peculiar institution," the war is to be indefinitely prolonged. For this, Major Key, who is a gentleman too truthful to retract his word, is stricken from the army rolls, while McClellan is retained in chief command, and not even interrogated on the subject.
The scapegoats which McClellan has selected to absorb the shames of his Maryland campaign are General Wool for Harper's Ferry, Governor Curtin for Stuart's raid and Quartermaster Meigs for his subsequent delays. On the heads of each, his brazen worshippers, with singular devotion, have showered their clamors in unrestrained abundance, and in the intervals of this miserable service, they turn to the rayless countenance of their impenetrable god to receive new rapture by gazing on his stolid features. Nay, even when his intense stupidity and blundering failure are unraveled by such a lightning glance as that of Kearny's, the soddened multitude rush even upon that noble patriot and pure-souled democrat, and snarl at him in his grave—aye, undervalue him while he reigns a saint in heaven, in the service of a man who was not worthy to hold his horse, or wait for orders at his door! But everything is to be sacrificed, even the lives of the living and the sweet memories of the dead, to support a loader who is keeping our armies in the sleep of death, and to glorify a soldier whose very nature is a trance, and who has never won a battle, or ever been under fire. From the midst of this flood of deep infatuation, however, there rises, of late, a few bubbles of relieved opinion, and these begin to unite into an extending wish, that he be taken from the field, and placed in the position of commander at headquarters, for which, say they, "his talents at organization so admirably fit him." Four weeks ago, when this idea was first agitated, and the enemy was within striking distance, we should have willingly accepted this hard bargain for the country; but we now insist, as far as our humble opinion is of weight, that the unhappy man be disposed of altogether.
Under his "programme" (if Major Key's revelation is worthy of a moment's thought), the war has been prolonged a year beyond its time; Richmond has been twice released from capture—once from Manassas in the early time, and once from the Chickahominy. Under the same “programme," Pope was cast away for want of aid at Centerville; under it, a drawn battle was accepted from half our force at Sharpsburg: and we now lie torpid on the banks of the Potomac, with our flags rotting on their staffs, and the flower of our country looking forward to no more glorious occupation, than Winter quarters in the valley of the Shenandoah.
This is no exaggerated picture. Our improvised Napoleon treats with absolute contempt all orders from the War Department. The President's personal intercession, backed by the united direction of the Cabinet, has no more effect upon him than a summer breeze; and even a long letter from his Excellency, written since the executive visit to Antietam, embracing positive orders to march into Virginia, has elicited nothing but the carriage ride with the family and children to Charlestown, and back to Pleasant Valley. It is true there are rumors, as we write, that another grand forward movement is afoot, and susceptible reporters again foreshadow mighty victories; but the public may rely on it, that it is at most a reconnoissance, to ascertain if Lee is ready to turn Winchester over to the family, for the approaching season.
We think, therefore, the President cannot now fail to understand McClellan and his plans, and having disposed so summarily of Major Key, he should visit the same justice on the patron as the man. Whatever his plan may be, it certainly does not comprehend any theory of battle; and as all parties in the State, without exception, nay, even of the copperhead conservatives who are so crazy on the nigger, are clamoring for sharp and effective war upon the rebels, we cannot imagine upon what reasoning the Government can keep our anti-Napoleon in command. Ho appeared before the country with a mighty flourish; he promised us a short, sharp, and bitter war; and again, his boasted "strategy" was to envelop treason, and strangle it with but little loss of life. Instead, however, of having kept these promises. George has been the most unfortunate of all the Federal commanders. With all the powers and resources of the Republic at his command, he has placed the North worse off to-day than it was a year ago, and by an inversion of the laws of glory and success, has had smaller results, at greater cost of troops and treasure, than any general in history, who was allowed to remain at the head of an army for a year.
If this is not the truth, then let McClellan be retained. If it is true, the country has a right to demand that he be dismissed, and to require that the I President act promptly on their verdict.—Wilkes’s Spirit of the Times.

THE PRESIDENT AHD GEN. McCLELLAN.
George Wilkes, editor of the New York Spirit of the Times, in a letter from Washington to his paper, relates what purports to be the substance of an interview between President Lincoln and Gen. McClellan, at Sharpsburg. He says:—
"Thus impressed, [i.e., with the belief that the delay was unnecessary,] the President, after consulting with the Cabinet, set out for Sharpsburg, to stir up the spell-bound commander with the unanimous desire of the Government that he should press forward after Lee. The President was graciously received by McClellan; he honored him with salvos of artillery, and when he passed with him alone into his tent, and the fallen canvas veiled the two great mysteries of the nation from vulgar eyes, a heavy line of guards preserved the sacred vicinity for forty yards around, from any profane or impertinent intrusion. There was no person present at that momentous interview but Mr. Lincoln and the Chief Marshal of the army; yet it so happens that we know, exactly, what transpired, and, in great part, what was said.
The President opened by communicating the decisions of the Cabinet, and the official requisition of the Government; and being, at last, well through with this constrained task, he relaxed into his usual easy and happy and familiar manner.
‘Now, McClellan, said Mr. Lincoln, 'I want to say something to you for myself; something that is not from the Cabinet, and has not been prompted from any other source. I wish to call attention to a fault in your character—a fault which is the sum of my observation in you, in connection with this war. You merely get yourself ready to do a good thing—no man can do that better—you make all the necessary sacrifices of blood and treasure to secure a victory, but whether from timidity, self-distrust, or some other motive inexplicable to me, you always stop short just on this side of results. Such has been your history throughout this war! This is my own remark, and I wish you, when I am gone, to examine your-self, and see if this is not true.'"
<c03>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1862.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The subscribers to The Pine tout Palm are hereby notified that arrangement hare been made, by which The liberator will be supplied to them until the close of their several subscriptions. As soon as the number of copies now due by me are furnished, The liberator will be no longer tent, unless my friends promptly renew their orders for it, accompanied by the cash. It is not probable that The Pine and Palm will be revived this year.
Boston, Oct. 27, 1862. JAMES REDPATH.

MASSACHUSETTS ERECT!
It is the glory of Massachusetts, that she is more feared, hated and anathematized by the rebellious South, for tier comparatively exalted moral position, her educational superiority, her unequalled enterprise and prosperity, and especially her growing abhorrence of slavery, than all the other Free States combined. In the result of the State Election of Tuesday last, I the Southern traitors and their Northern abettors have j hoped to find some indications of faltering on her part; but they are grievously disappointed. She still proudly leads the van in the cause of freedom—still maintains her exalted moral supremacy—still vindicates her ancient renown. The most desperate efforts were made to seduce and degrade her, by a combination of all the factious, brutal and semi-treasonable elements within tier borders, under the false but specious guise of "The People's Party," but in vain. John A. Andrew has been reelected to the office he has filled with such unequalled ability and integrity, Governor of Massachusetts, by an overwhelming vote; all the Republican Congressmen, except Alexander H. Rice, (and he is succeeded by one of the same party faith,) thirty-five Republican to five Opposition Senators, and a vastly preponderating House of Representatives, have been chosen, thus ensuring the triumphant reelection of Hon. Charles Sumner to the United States. The intelligence will send joy to the heart of every true friend of freedom throughout the land. The Journal of Wednesday justly says:—
"Our columns this morning are eloquent with the voice of Massachusetts. All her patriotic sons at home may well point to it with pride, and all those abroad, on the battle-field and elsewhere, will receive it with joy and exultation. It shows that, however other States may falter or hesitate, there is 'neither variableness nor shadow of turning' in the devotion of the Old Bay State to the Government of the Union and to the grand principles on which it rests. Extraordinary means were taken to defeat this result. The Democratic party, which labors under a just discredit in the State, made haste to merge itself in a new movement, and thus supplied a suddenly aggregated opposition, embracing the widest range of materials, with all the tactics and engineering talent of the oldest party in the country. But all in vain. The people saw through the disguise, and stamped it with their overwhelming reprobation. Thank Heaven that Webster's tribute to Massachusetts is yet true, that' where! American liberty raised its first voice, where its youth was nurtured and sustained, there it still stands, in the strength of its manhood and lull of its original spirit.’”
The vote in Boston stood—Andrew, 6200; Devens, 7850. In 316 towns—Andrew, 77,695; Devens, 52,595.
The Post—as though awaking to a thorough consciousness of the dirty work in which it has been engaged fur some time past—says:—
“It is pleasant to be relieved from the turmoil and excitement of a pending election, and to be able to occupy one's mind with subjects less personal than the choice of men to office. But this agitation is a necessary, though it may not be a desirable, duty. Men in public life must be criticised—their actions examined—their motives judged, and the consequences of their conduct exposed."
Manly and fair criticism is one thing, but persistent blackguardism, coarse ribaldry and malignant personality quite another. The Post is mentally and morally incapable of making the first, and therefore copiously indulges in the other, and then impudently pronounces it "a necessary duty "!
The Courier—"'tis a foul bird that dirties its own nest "—true to its disposition to insult and decry the old Bay State, (never so illustrious as now,) says the reelection of Gov. Andrew is "an event to be sufficiently regretted "—as it will be, of course, in every part of the rebel States, and by the vilest of the vile throughout the North. The Courier "had imagined that some more thorough notion had begun to work itself into the minds of a population reputed ordinarily intelligent, that they were pursuing a phantom "! Of course, it means to raise a doubt whether the people of Massachusetts possess ordinarily intelligence. What it means about their "pursuing a phantom" is not quite so apparent; for, whether corporeally, mentally or morally considered, Gov. Andrew presents anything but a phantom-like appearance. The election of Mr. Hooper it deems "a misfortune," and says that "the defeat of Judge Abbott is not a point upon which the people of the district can pride themselves, either now or hereafter. To lose the election of truly noble men like him and Judge Thomas is a matter not creditable to an intelligent constituency." It derives comfort from the reflection, that "though we may see fit to elect inferior men, upon some fanatical theory of our own, yet, deprived of countenance from other States, they will be helpless and insignificant"! And then, trying to force a smile on the other side of the mouth, it comically adds—"Taking all things into consideration, the change is indeed gratifying" And this in view of the overwhelming vote given for Gov. Andrew, the sure reelection of Charles Sumner, the election of every Congressional Representative but one, (and he defeated by less than fifty votes, and by one of the same Republican faith, pledged to uphold a vigorous prosecution of the war,) and a Republican Legislature of the strongest cast! "Gratifying "? To be sure it is!
Seven murder cases were tried in the New York city Courts in one week, viz.: Mary Real, the husband shooter; a young seaman, who murdered a fellow sailor; a man who kicked his wife to death; another who killed his mistress with alcohol; a negress who cut her husband's throat for abandoning her, and another case not specified.—Boston Post.
That is the city which has just given a majority of thirty thousand for Horatio Seymour, the pet Democratic-candidate of the Southern traitors—over which the Post is specially jubilant! It has also chosen as Representatives to Congress, Ferdinand Wood, Ben. Wood, and James Brooks, Editor of the New York Express—three as unprincipled, dangerous and factious spirits as have existed since the days of Catiline. Such is modern democracy!
The Radical presses have denounced no man, not even the President, with greater vehemence than they have Fernando Wood, ex-Mayor of New York. In a speech just before the election, he said, "Last Spring I was offered—and leading Republicans offered to put it into writing—that if I would desert, they would make me the next Governor of New York." Comment is unnecessary.—Boston Post.
 What is the assertion of such a traitor worth? That is the only "comment" needed in this case, stupid Post!
Hon. RICHARD BUSTEED, of New York the Irish advocate of emancipation for the suppression of the rebellion and as an act of eternal justice, was enthusiastically greeted by a crowded assembly in Faneuil Hall, on Friday last—Gov. Andrew in the chair. Since the Old Cradle of Liberty was first rocked, hardly A more impressive and eloquent speech has been delivered in it than Mr. Busteed gave on the occasion. In its lofty vindication of the principles of freedom and the rights of man, it was worthy of Daniel O'-Connell, and elicited immense applause.
The lecture before "The Fraternity," on Tuesday evening next, at the Tremont Temple, will be delivered by Miss ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia. Subject—A Plea for Woman. An able and eloquent performance may be safely anticipated, and the speaker should be greeted with a full house.
<c04>
THEODORE D. WELD.
It gives us more pleasure than we can find words to express, to announce that THEODORE D. WELD is to deliver a discourse before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at Music Hall, on Sunday forenoon next, taking for his subject—"The Conspirators—their False Issues and Lying Pretences." We have no doubt it will be a masterly effort, worthy of the most intelligent and largest audience that can be compressed within the walls of that spacious building. Let none who can be present lose the opportunity. Mr. Weld has so long been withdrawn from public observation as a speaker,—a period of more than twenty-six years,—that almost a new generation has come upon the stage since he delighted and electrified those whom his rare powers of speech once brought together. At the very commencement of the Anti-Slavery cause, his great moral, religious and humane nature ardently espoused it, and his massive intellect elucidated it with irresistible effect in all its bearings, legal, ethical, politico-economical, &c., &c. It was never our privilege to hear him when he was in the lecturing field; but those who were more fortunate always concurred in pronouncing him as exhibiting extraordinary powers of persuasion, of argument, of illustration, of eloquence, and carrying every thing before him. Of course, the disuse of his
Voice for so long a period, and the lapse of more than a quarter of a century, must necessarily affect his spontaneity of utterance and action, until he shall once more " get used to the harness"; but we are quite sure that, should he devote himself to lecturing the ensuing winter, as we earnestly hope he will, he will excite a wide interest, and do a great work in the cause of Freedom and Progress.
Mr. Weld was a student in Lane Seminary, Cincinnati, in 1834. About the first of February of that year, it was resolved by the students, as a body, that they would investigate the merits of the Abolition and Colonization movements; and, accordingly, they devoted nine evenings to the discussion of the following question—"Ought the people of the slaveholding States to abolish slavery immediately? "—and nine more to the discussion of the question—“Are the doctrines, tendencies and the measures of the American Colonization Society, and the influence of its principal supporters, such as render it worthy of the patronage of the Christian public?"—making, in all, forty-five hours of solid debate. Eleven of the students had been born and brought up in the Slave States, seven of whom were sons of slaveholders. At the close of the discussion of the first question, the vote of the students was nearly unanimous in the affirmative—no one recording a negative vote. The vote upon the second question was decided in the negative, with only one dissenting voice. The kindest feelings prevailed throughout. There was no crimination, no denunciation, no impeachment of motives. In these discussions, Mr. Weld's was the great master mind, shedding light and inducing conviction in a truly wonderful manner. There had been previously organized in the Seminary a Colonization Society, which was followed by the organization of an Anti-Slavery Society. This result gave great alarm to the Faculty and Trustees of the institution, and they quickly adopted a rule requiring the two Societies to be abolished forthwith, (as they could not consistently suppress one, and leave the other,) and " providing for discouraging and discountenancing, by all suitable means, such discussions and conduct among the students as are calculated to divert their attention from their studies, (!) excite party animosities, (!) stir up evil passions among themselves or in community, (!) or involve themselves with the political concerns of the country (!)—also providing, as in other cases, for the dismissal of any student neglecting to comply with these regulations" (!) And this was done in a selfish and cowardly subserviency to the then all-pervading pro-slavery sentiment of the country, and with the fallacious expectation or thereby increasing the patronage and the popularity of the Seminary. The Cincinnati Journal exultingly announced—
"Parents and guardians may now send their sons and wards to Lane Seminary, with a perfect confidence that the proper business of a theological school will occupy their minds; and that the discussion and decision of abstract (!) questions will not turn them aside from the path of duty(!!) — There may be room enough in the wide world for abolitionism and perfectionism, and many other isms; but a school to prepare pious (!) youth for preaching the gospel has no place for these. And be it remembered, that nine out of ten of our students of divinity are rather too young and immature in judgment (!) to be trusted with the high task of revolutionizing public sentiment, and deciding on the wants of the age (!) It will do them more real benefit to study the principles of Christian humility, (!) and to know what constitutes the meekness of the gospel of the Lord Jesus more thoroughly (!) The heralds of the Cross for this great valley must be strong men in the gospel of God our Savior, and must be willing to know nothing in the prosecution of their labors but Christ and him crucified."
Meaning by this wretched cant that they should leave the millions in bondage to welter in their blood, and be willing to stultify mind and conscience in regard to their terrible condition. How " young and immature in judgment" were the students, referred to by the Journal, may be seen from the fact that, of the eighteen who participated in the discussion, the average age was nearly twenty-six Replying at the time to a similar canting strain in the Western Monthly Magazine, Mr. Weld said:—
"In solemn earnest, I ask, why should not theological students investigate and discuss the sin of slavery? Shall those who are soon to be ambassadors for Christ—commissioned to cry aloud—to show to the people their transgressions—shall they refuse to think, and feel, and speak, when that accursed thing exalts itself above all that is called God '—and wags its impious head, and shakes its blood-red hands at heaven? Why, I ask, should not students examine into the subject of slavery? Is it not the business of theological seminaries to educate the heart, as well as the head? to mellow the sympathies, and deepen the emotions, as well as to provide the means of knowledge? If not, then give Lucifer a professorship. He is a prodigy of intellect, and an encyclopedia of learning. Whom does it behoove to keep his heart in contact with the woes and guilt of a perishing world, if not a student who is preparing for the ministry? What fitter employment for such a one, than gathering facts, and analyzing principles, and tracing the practical relations of the prominent sins, and evils, and all-whelming sorrows of his own age; especially when all these heave up their mountain masses full upon his own vision, and at his own door; and still more especially, when these accumulated wrongs and woes have been for ages unheeded? Is anything better adapted to quicken sympathy and enlarge benevolence, than deep pondering of the miseries and the wrongs of oppressed humanity, and thorough discussion of the best means for alleviation and redress? It is false, both in fact and philosophy, that anything is lost to the student, by engaging in such exercises. Instead of his progress being retarded in the appropriate studies of a theological course, (which should certainly be his main business,) it will be accelerated. Whenever intellect moves in the sublimity of power, the heart generates its momentum. It is when the deep tides of emotion swell out from full fountains, that intellect is buoyed upward, and borne onward in majesty and might. A subject so deeply freighted with human interests as that of slavery cannot be investigated and discussed intelligently and thoroughly, without amplifying and expanding the intellect, and increasing the power of action upon all subjects. Let all our institutions engage in discussing subjects of great practical moment, such as slavery, temperance, and moral reform; let them address themselves to the effort, let it be persevered in through an entire course, and they will introduce a new era in mind—the era of disposable power and practical accomplishment. But, besides the general impulse given to thought and emotion, by contact with subjects of vast practical moment, a large amount of definite knowledge upon such subjects must be acquired. The mind should have a household familiarity with all their principles and bearings—the interests affected, the wide relations to right and wrong, and the ultimate effect upon human joy and wo. This applies with tenfold force to theological students. He who would preach in the nineteenth century, must know the nineteenth century. No matter how deeply read in the history of the past, if not versed in the records of his own day, he is not fit to preach the gospel. If he would bless the Church now, he must know her now; where she is, and what her moral latitude—must scrutinize her condition— inspect her symptoms—ascertain the mode of previous treatment, and compare it with the prescriptions contained in God's book of directions, where the case is described. He must inquire diligently bow obstruc-
<c05>
tions. are to be removed, the circulation quickened, the solids braced, the humor thrown off, and the sources of vitality replenished. Is a roan prepared rightly to divide the word of truth, giving to each his portion is due season, who is ignorant of prevailing sins and evils, the moral movements of the day, the spirit of the age, the causes of existing inefficiency, and the nature, position, and relative power of those counteracting causes which defeat instrumentality, both human and divine, and roll the world away from the millenium? It is an axiom with universal mind, that discussion, discussion five as air, is the grand desideratum for eliciting truth. If our theological seminaries pursue any other course, they will fall behind the age. This kind of training is as important a part of the preparation for the ministry, as an acquaintance with the principles of interpretation, or a knowledge of didactic theology. In short, our theological seminaries will only mock the exigencies of the age and the expectations of the Church, unless they hold their students in contact with these exigencies, that when they have finished their preparation, and are thrown into the midst of them, they may know where they are, and feel at home."
Again, he replied, with equal cogency and force, on another point—
"With reference to the promulgation of anti-slavery sentiments, your tone and air are quite extraordinary. You advertise your readers that it will meet the decided and prompt rebuke of public sentiment, and finally you resort to menace, and proclaim that the indignation of the community will put it down.' This is precisely the inflammatory language, word for word, which was used by certain demagogue prints in the city of New York, last October. Such invocations of public indignation were the drag nets, with which they swept the sewers for materials, to mob down the meeting, which organized the city anti-slavery society. The indignation of the community will put it down.' What! Has it come to this? is free inquiry to be paralyzed by the terror of pains and penalties?
Is it to be driven in from its excursions, and made to cower under the menace of public indignation? Is investigation to be proscribed, and hunted down, and catechised into subserviency, by the spontoon of a drill master? Is research to be hoodwinked, and debate struck dumb, and scrutiny embargoed, and freedom of speech measured by the gag-law, and vision darkened, and sympathy made contraband, and vigilance drugged into slumber, and conscience death-struck in the act of resurrection, and moral combination against damning wrong to be forestalled by invocations of popular fury? Go on, sir! Set in a blaze the passions of the mob! Such artifices rarely fail, even when practised with ordinary skill—but of this be advertised, that you have studied most superficially the character of those who advocate the immediate abolition of slavery, if you suppose they are to be frowned down by public sentiment. No, sir! They have pondered the whole subject too thoroughly. They have too long baptized it with prayer. They have too carefully inventoried its difficulties, and its perils, one by one. They have sounded too deep into its woes and its wrongs, and have too strong an assurance that theirs is the cause of God, and that God is with them. The results at which they nave arrived are the deliberate convictions of long, varied, and conscientious inquiry. If they had taken counsel of worldly policy, time-serving expediency, suggestions of personal safety, popularity, ease, or earthly honor, they would have escaped the inflictions of public obloquy and rage. But they have counted the cost. Through evil report and good report, whether the storm beats in their faces or upon their backs, they will hold on their way. Sir, you have mistaken alike the cause, the age, and the men, if you think to intimidate by threats, or to silence by clamor, or shame by sneers, or put down by authority, or discourage by opposition, or appal by danger, those who have put their hands to this work. Through the grace of God, the history of the next five years will teach this lesson to the most reluctant learner.
From the entire tenor of your article, it is manifest that your main object is to forestall the public mind, and muzzle discussion upon the subject of slavery, especially in institutions of learning. You are too late, sir! Discussion has begun. Already 'the little one has become a thousand,' and moves victorious from conquering to conquer. What! think to put down discussion in eighteen hundred thirty-four! and that, too, by the dictum of self clothed authority! Go, stop the stars in their courses, and puff' out the sun with an infant's breath Men will no longer take opinions upon trust, and think by proxy upon the subject of slavery. They will no longer admit the validity of the oppressor's claim to a monopoly of sympathy for the oppressed, and a monopoly of capacity to understand the system, and of wisdom, benevolence and conscience to devise the best means and to determine the best time when the sin of oppression shall cease. Slavery, with its robbery of body and soul from birth to death, its exactions of' toil unrecompensed, its sunderings of kindred, its frantic orgies of lust, its intellect levelled with the dust, its baptisms of blood, and its legacy of damning horrors to the eternity of the spirit—Slavery, in this land of liberty, and light, and revivals of millennial glory—its days are numbered and well nigh finished. Would to God that all its abominations were hut day dreams Would to God that they were not the daily enacted horrors of living reality—the legitimate fruits of a system authorized by law patronized and protected by republican institutions, sanctioned by public sentiment, and sanctified by religion While these things are so, research, and discussion, and appeal, and remonstrance, and rebuke, and strong beseeching shall never cease. The nation is shaking off its slumbers to sleep no more."
The result of the application of the GAG RULE in the Seminary was, the immediate withdrawal from that institution of almost every student, and to this day it has never recovered from the blow, nor exerted a particle of influence upon the destiny of the country. Another result was the foundation of the Oberlin Institution, on avowed anti-slavery principles, which has educated a greater number of students than any similar institution, and continues in a flourishing state.
On leaving Cincinnati, Mr. Weld lectured extensively upon Manual Labor Schools, Temperance and Anti-Slavery, till he lout his voice in 1836; nor did he recover its natural tone for several years. Compelled to quit the lecturing field, he opened an educational institution in Belleville, N. J., which was subsequently removed to Eagleswood, and met with extensive patronage. His earliest Anti-Slavery work was entitled, "American Slavery as It Is: Testimony of a Thousand Witnesses," and was of immense service in demonstrating the nature and results of slavery by unimpeachable Southern evidence, names and dates being given with great particularity. Then followed a most able and thorough vindication of the Bible from the foul charge of upholding slavery, published in pamphlet form, and entitled "The Bible against Slavery: An Inquiry into the Patriarchal and Mosaic Systems on the subject of Human Rights." It commenced in the following graphic manner:—
"The spirit of slavery never seeks shelter in the Bible, of its own accord. It grasps the horns of the altar only in desperation—rushing from the terror of the avenger's arm. Like other unclean spirits, it ‘hateth the light, neither Cometh to the light, lest its deeds should be reproved.' Goaded to phrenzy in its conflicts with conscience and common sense, denied all quarter, and hunted from every covert, it vaults over the sacred inclosure, and courses up and down the Bible, 'seeking rest, and finding none.' THE LAW OF LOVE, glowing on every page, flashes around it an omnipresent anguish and despair. It shrinks from the hated light, and howls under the consuming touch, as demons quailed before the Son of God, and shrieked, Torment us not!' At last, it slinks away under the types of the Mosaic system, and seeks to burrow out of sight among their shadows. Vain hope! Its asylum is its sepulehre; its city of refuge, the city of destruction. It flies from light into the sun; from heat, into devouring fire; and from the voice of God into the thickest of His thunders."
At Music Hall, on Sunday last, Wendell Phillips made a very complimentary reference to the labors of Mr. Weld in the Anti-Slavery and Temperance movements, and urged a crowded attendance at the Hall to hear him. The Anti-Slavery Standard says:—
"Theodore D. Weld, one of the early and most eloquent advocates of the anti-slavery movement, but who, for some years past, baa been engrossed in teaching, to the abandonment of the public platform, is shortly to return to the field of his former successes. He is to lecture in various places during the coming season, beginning at Music Hall, Boston, early in November. This announcement will be received with hearty satisfaction by his friends everywhere."
RUE ERRING. A Poem. 1862. This clearly-printed poem of 76 pages, which seems scarcely designed for sale, as its title page informs the reader neither of author nor place of publication, was printed in New York, and is dedicated to Theodore Parker. For his memory the author cherishes a warm affection, and aspire still to be guided by his wisdom and strengthened by his courage and faith. The poetry seems inspired by an earnest purpose, and designed to show how a beneficent Providence leads us ever upward and onward, making even its retribution for sin a guide towards improvement, and " from seeming evil still educing good."—c. K. W.
<c06>
LETTER FROM HENRY C. WRIGHT
The Death-Struggle between Free Government And slam Government- Which shall Triumph?-On which side are the Sympathies, of the People of the North, of England and Europe?
BAINBRIDGE, (N.Y.,) Oct. 27,1862
DEAR GARRISON,-The present Rebellion and civil War were inaugurated by the slaveocracy (1) to destroy the existing government of the United States and (2) to set up on its ruins another government based on the idea that Slavery is a Christian Institution and the slave trade a Christian duty.
The Rev. Mr. Prentiss, Rector of St. Peter’s Church in Charleston, S. C., in a sermon delivered about the time that State raised the standard of Rebellion, and began the war by forcibly seizing the united states post offices, custom houses, arsenals and forts in that state, uses this language:-
”The United States Government is about to be destroyed, and another to be built up its raise, solely for an idea. That idea is, that African Slavery is a Christian Institution, and the African slave trade justifiable on the score of interest and Christian duty. This is the idea that underlies the secession movement, and the sooner the fact is known and admitted the better for us all. 
This sermon was circulated all over the Slave States, and endorsed by the leaders of the rebellion, who were also the recognized leaders of the Democratic party. 
Stephen A. Douglas, in the last letter he ever wrote for the public, says:— 
"These startling facts furnish conclusive evidence that it is the fixed purpose of the secessionists to destroy the government at our fathers, and obliterate the United States from the map of the world.”
He gives this as the reason why he can no longer act with the Democratic party. The leaders of that party, most of them, had formally announced their purpose to destroy the Federal Government, simply because it gave not sufficient protection to slavery and the slave trade, and because it was founded, theoretically, to establish equal justice and liberty.
Preston Brooks, who boasts of having spent his life in the service of slavery, says: —
"The only way to sustain, to spread and perpetuate the institution of slavery is to tear the Constitution to shreds, trample it beneath our feet, and form another confederacy, every State of which shall be a slave state. This is our only hope. I would not have as officer nor a sentinel in our mw government, the must be formed, who would not swear that slavery is right. We must rise above the Constitution and Laws of the Unite. States, take the power into our hands, and lay our strong arm upon the treasury and archives of the Federal Government." 
Iverson, the leader of the Democratic party and the rebellion in Georgia, says:- "There is but one way for the South to preserve slavery, and slavery, and that is by forming a new confederacy oh, the ruins of the old—having in it no conflicting element of free States—with a slave constitution, slave laws, and slave labor alone, and that shall shut out forever the conflicting clement of free labor, free institutions and free society, and bind the whole nation to preservation of slavery and the slave trade, with power of unlimited expansion. Such a government would present to the world the most free, (?) prosperous and happy nation on earth."
Brown, of Mississippi, a leading Democrat and rebel in that State, says:—
"I want all Central and South America, with the adjacent islands;- I want the whole continent, for the spread of slavery. I would spread the blessings of slavery, like the religion of our Divine Master, to the ends of the earth; and, rebellious and wicked as the Yankees are, 1 would extend slavery even them.”
Thus, as another writer says, (Hon. L. W Pratt of South Carolina,) in justification of the rebellion:-
"The conflict is between the Democracy of the North and the Aristocracy of the South—between for labor and slave labor—between paid labor and?aped labor—between voluntary labor and involuntary labor between enfranchised labor and disfranchised labor between free society and slate society—between for institutions and slave institutions—between society in which the laborer has power to rise and be protected by law, in the enjoyment of the fruits of his labor, and a society in which the laborer has no power to rise and to appropriate the fruits of his labor. The North contends for the principle that equality, .as natural rights, is the right of all men; the South it the principle that slavery is the natural and normal condition of the laborer, and slave holding the natural state of the capitalist."
Stephens, Vice President of the Confederacy of AMERICA CORSAIRS says the same— that the conflict is between the two great principle, i.e. Liberty as the equal and inalienable right of all men, and slavery as the natural and normal condition of one portion of the human race. He adds:—
"Our new government is the first in the history the world, based on the principle that slavery is the natural and normal condition of one portion, and slave-holding of the other portion of the" human nut.'
The evidence is before all the world, and accessible to all in this and in other lands who wish to know the truth, to prove that the slaveholders have been planning and maturing this conflict of blood and slaughter—this death struggle between free labor sad slave labor, between free society and slave society. Between free institutions and slave institutions, between FREE DOM and SLAVERY—for forty years. The) have been watching their opportunity to strike the Strike the first blow, and to inaugurate a war of bullets and blood in de fence of slavery. No greater calamity could come to the toiling millions of earth's sons and daughters, for ages to come, than the triumph of the Slaveholders’ Rebellion, and the establishment of a great confederacy or government of States on this continent based on the principles on which rests the slaveholding; slave breeding confederacy of the South. It would make the. American continent one vast brothel, is which the whole social, civil and ecclesiastical fabric would rest upon polygamy, concubinage and prostitution. It would make the continent into a market, in which the bodies and souls of men and women constitute the chief articles of merchandise. It would make slave-breeding, slave trading and slave-driving the leading and most honored and remunerative Professions occupations of the continent. It would deluge the continent with pollution and crime such as cannot now be found on earth, and shroud it in such moral and mental darkness as now could not be found among any tribe or people, however barbarous and savage.
How cheering the words of a European writer, (M. Menod,) in regard to the present conflict in the United States He says:—
"A war against such a confederation as this is not to be regretted: it is to be rejoiced at. What is most to be deplored is peace; a Union founded upon the oppression and tears of four millions of slaves. American brethren, we bless you for preferring war to such a peace! 
"This civil war was inevitable—a necessity-inasmuch as the free government and the slave govern the aggrieved and the aggressor, the assailed and the assailant—base their existence and hopes of perpetuity on the war power.
"The offence must come." Who can help but rejoice that it is come? I cannot My sense of justice, my sympathy with human suffering, my compassion, my reason, my conscience, my non-resistance, my hatred of war and slavery, my desire for the purity perfection and happiness of human nature—all prompt me to say to alt the men and women, the husbands and wives, the fathers and mothers, the brothers and sisters, the sons and daughters, of the North. “I BLESS YOU FOR PREFERRIMG WAR TO SUCH A PEACE!” Be this your slogan: “DEATH TO SLAVERY! The sum of all villany,” the concocted essence of theft, rape, robbery, prostitution, incest, piracy and murder!
But how sad sickening to the heart to read such testimonies from England as the following From the English correspondent of the Provincial Methodist:-
"The general opinion is, that the war ought to cease, and that it is nothing but a remorseless waste f life and money to continue it. It is a notorious fact, that the English people, to man almost, are favorable to Southern triumph!”
That is, the English people, almost to a man, are favorable to the triumph of slave labor over free labor, of slave institutions over free institutions, of pollution
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
over purity, of barbarism over civilization, of heathenism over Christianity, of slavery over liberty. For this, and this only, is what every man and woman desire and seek, who desire and seek the triumph of the South over the North in the present civil war. Is it possible that such is the bias of the English people? The result of English Abolitionism? I cannot think it. That it is the prayer of the aristocracy and tyrants of Europe, America and the world, I have not a doubt; but that it is the prayer of the toiling millions of England, Scotland, Ireland, and of Europe, I do not believe.
The Richmond Whig, the leading organ of the Confederacy of Corsairs, says of the Northern laborers, who have risen to resist the slaveholders and defend themselves and posterity from slavery:—
“Their uprising has all the characteristics of a ferocious servile insurrection. We the [the slaveholders] fight to bring these, enfranchised slaves back to their true condition. They have long, very properly, considered themselves our inferiors—as our serfs! Their mean, niggardly lives, their low, vulgar and sordid occupations, have ground this conviction into them. We fight to restore them to their normal condition of vassalage, and to teach them that cap in hand is the proper attitude of the slave before his master!”
Is there no sympathy among the laboring millions of Britain, and Ireland, and France, and Germany, for twenty millions of laboring men and women in America, fighting to save themselves from such a doom’ “Are the English people, almost to a man, favorable to the triumph” of such tyrants? It can act be!
But the people of the North are now in, or soon will be in, a state in which it will make little difference to them what the people of England or of Europe think of the conflict in which they are now engaged, or no which side their sympathies are, for all hope of any compromise with slaveholders is fast disappearing, and will soon utterly disappear. The conviction is becoming universal in the North, that the only compromise that the South will ever accept, is the one Pettit,—i.e., “THE EXTENSION OF SLAVERY OVER EVERY FREE STATE!” In keeping with this sentiment of the Democratic candidate for Congress is the eighth district in Indiana, is the remark of a leader of the Slave Confederacy of the South. He says:—
“No compromise will ever be accepted by the South that does not secure absolute protection and permanence to slavery—that does not permit its indefinite expansion, and that does not restore the African slave trade!”
Devoutly do I hope no compromise will ever be acceptable to the South which does not insure slavery to every laborer in the nation, and make any opposition to slavery a crime punishable with death. Then we shall have no more compromise with slave breeders, and the people of the North will settle down in the earnest, practical conviction that they must conquer or be conquered, and that the laborers of the South must be made free, or the laborers of the North be made slaves.
Dear friend, my heart is light and joyous. I can not help it. With so much around me, wherever I go, to fill my heart with sorrow and mine eyes with tears. I cannot help but rejoice and be glad. Why? A heavy load is lifted from my heart. In every battle, wherever wins, in every son, brother, husband and father killed or mutilated, in every shot fired by slave holders in every stab they give, in every outrage they perpetrate upon our wounded, I read the doom of slaver—ABOLITION! It is written all over this rebellion and civil war. Never were the hopes of the slave so bright, never were the condition and prospects of the Republic—as the Messiah of Liberty—so cheering, as at this hour. Disease is dangerous only when guawing at the vitals without giving pain. When pain ensues, and the patient is convulsed with agony, then the danger is passed. At once, efforts are made to cast out the disease. Slavery, the foulest and most malignant of all national diseases was consuming the very vitals of our national existence. There was no pain, no suffering. Then hope died. Now, the whole nation is convulsed with pain and anguish. The body politic is in a death-struggle with slavery. The disease will be cast out. A Republic, “to establish justice and secure liberty,” will live and go forth on its only mission, to abolish slavery and secure liberty over the continent. HENRY C. WRIGHT.
A TRIAL OF ANTI-SLAVERY ORTHODOXY.
“There are six days in which men ought to work; in them, therefore, come and healed, and not on the Sabbath day.”
MR. EDITOR,—It is a common remark, when any individual, party or sect is found guilty of some gross folly or inconsistency—“Fools are not all dead yet”; and not un-frequently it might be added, with great propriety, “Neither the Chief Priests, Scribes, and Pharisees.” The latter class of former days has received so many shots from the pulpit of every denomination, that one would conclude that the whole race was annihilated; or, if any were left, they would be as wary of showing themselves as the last assassin, after all his comrades had pulled the hemp. But we live in strange, eventful times, and something turns up almost daily to amuse, astonish, or frighten us; to chill the blood or accelerate its circulation. We have just had a trial of anti-slavery orthodoxy, thought not dreaming that any would be weighed in the balance, and found wanting. We had notice sent us of an address to be delivered by Rev. Andrew T. Foss, on Slavery and the War; and, strange to say, no church would open its doors:—the Congregational church, because a fear was entertained that the lecturer was tainted with Garrisonism—the Methodist, because controlled by two men who cling to the old stereo-typed, hypocritical cant at the head of this article, although nineteen out of twenty of the members and society would have gladly opened the doors.
Twenty years ago, when the nation was growing rich by robbery and theft of her millions of bondmen, and neither priest nor people, except a few “fanatics,” to say why do ye so, little would have been thought of it; but now, when death is knocking at our doors, our church bells in every village tolling the death knell of some loved one who has perished on the battle-field, the fruits of our industry mortgaged for ages to pay the expense, and national demoralization sure to follow the footsteps of war, it does seem to me the man must be a prodigy of callous indifference, not to say of depravity, to shut his eyes, his ears, and church doors against those who would show the danger, and point out the way of deliverance. From the Congregational church, which had refused on a previous occasion to give a notice of an anti-slavery meeting, nothing was to be expected. Not so the Methodist church. They readily gave notice of the address three successive Sabbaths, including the last; and, had it not been for the two men before named, the church doors would have been opened. But our large hall was well filled in the evening with attentive listeners—not a seat empty, and many were compelled to stand, while our friend Mr. Foss gave us the best exposition of the CAUSE and CURE of the rebellion that any of us have yet heard. All passed off well, and all apparently well satisfied.
JESSE STEDMAN.
Springfield, (Vt.,) Nov. 3, 1862.
MR. WHITING’S PAMPHLET. John L. Shorey has published a pamphlet of a hundred and fifty pages on a subject which now engrosses the attention of reflective and patriotic men. It is by William Whiting, Esq., and eminent lawyer of this city, and is entitled “The War Powers of the President and the Legislative Powers of Congress in Relation to Rebellion, Treason and Slavery.” We had the pleasure of listening last, at Williams Hall in this city, on the origin and objects of the Rebellion, and the constitutionality of the President’s Emancipation Proclamation, which for clearness of statement, force of reasoning, terseness of expression, and eloquence of utterance, has not been surpassed by any other on this subject.
<c02>
MERITED REBUKE—A RECREANT CHURCH.
Henry Ward Beecher, in a late sermon, published in the Traveler, speaking of the disinterested zeal and fidelity of the apostle Paul, thus fitly and plainly rebukes the Episcopal Church, represented by Bishops and Laity, in their late Triennial Convention held in New York city:—
"Religion is good, but churches are miserable affairs. They are very prickly. There is nothing more beauteous, noble, and heart-subduing, than the true spirit of Christ in any man, or in any body of men; but institutions are full of vermin, even Christian institutions. We do not need to go far for an example. In that most venerable Convention—the Triennial Convention of the Episcopal Church of the North, which hag been sitting for the last two weeks— the House of Clergy and Laity have seemed to be striving, with some honorable exceptions, to see how most they could crucify their Lord and Master. Well, they profess to be descendants and followers of Peter; but one cannot but wish that they had chosen some other portion of his life to imitate, than that in which he denied hit Master three times, swearing and lying! They sat for two weeks, attempting to prove that they did not know him, and never had any thing to do with him; and we began to think it was so! My heart sank. Sometimes I could have cried for them; and sometimes I could have done something else.” 
This is putting on the snapper where it is justly merited. A church claiming to take Christ of Calvary for its head, that can ignore Humanity out and out, and refuse to be loyal to Almighty God, earns its own condemnation. Well may the Richmond Enquirer, alluding to the recent patriotic action of the Episcopal General Convention, advise the Southern Episcopalians not to trouble themselves about their Northern brethren. What have they to fear from an expression of patriotism extorted at the eleventh hour by a small and reluctant vote?
Bishop Hopkins of Vermont has long held Southern opinions, and is the author of an elaborate defence of slavery, as a divinely authorized institution. He declares now, in this trial hour, that the high office he holds in the kingdom of Christ, "which is not of this world," is too sacred to permit his touching, even with his little finger, one of Christ's neglected ones. Out upon all such Bishops and theologically manufactured saints! Verily, they will have their reward! G. W. S.

STONEWALL JAGKSON AND THE BAPTIST.
Alas! that the human soul should so mistake the religion of Christ as to mix it up with the diabolical system of slavery and the rebellion! But such is the paradox of human nature—such the folly of poor misguided man. The following incident is another revelation of claiming discipleship, ay, evangelical discipleship, in virtue of a creed, or form, rather than the spirit of Christ, without which " we are none of his:"
"On the morning of a recent battle near Harper's Ferry, after a sermon by one of his chaplains, Stonewall Jackson, who, by the way, is an Elder in the Presbyterian Church, administered the sacrament to the church-members in his army. He invited all Christians to unite in this ceremony. A Baptist, the straitest of his sect, thoroughly imbued with the idea of close communion, was seen to hesitate; but the occasion, and the man who presided, overcame his scruples, and thus it has happened that the prospect of a fight, and the eloquence of Jackson, made a Baptist forget that baptism is the door into the church."
It would be better far, if the Baptist brother had forgotten his close-communion, in the higher thought, that no adulterer or murderer can enter into the kingdom of heaven; both of which contraband characteristics, and the violation of all the other commandments, the slaveholder and his abettor possess.
The baptism through which the nation is now passing is more than water. God grant that it may leave us pure enough, at least, to acknowledge, practically, that a man is better than a sheep—to obey the voice of the Hebrew God—" Let my people go."
G. W. S.

LECTURE OF WM. WELLS BROWN.
HAVERHILL, Oct. 27, 1862.
FRIEND GARRISON—Allow me to say, through the Liberator, that WM. WELLS BROWN lectured here last evening, at Music Hall, to a good house, notwithstanding the severe rain storm which began just on the eve of the meeting. So much pleased were our people with his address, that arrangements will be made by the Ladies' Soldiers Relief Society here— an association constantly doing good to our patriotic soldiers—to have him again as soon as possible in our spacious and beautiful Town Hall. Mr. Brown, of his own good will, offered to give us his literary entertainment of readings, etc., charging a small fee of admission, and allowing half of the proceeds to go to the Society in question, and the other part to his own people, the contrabands. If this is not true patriotism, pray tell us what is?
Further about the meeting last evening:—Rev. Mr. Wheeler, of the Third Baptist Church here, presided, and made a fervent prayer in behalf of the President's Emancipation Proclamation—the topic which Mr. Brown had announced for his theme. I am unable now to dwell further upon the matter than to say that we were all delighted with Mr. Brown, not only in his remarks, but personally. He was the guest of Mr. Geo O. Harmon, a life long friend of humanity, and an excellent man, brother of D. P. Harmon, who is now quite ill, but who, it is hoped, may recover, and still live to see the freedom of those for whom he has so long been a devoted friend. G. K. R.

WHO RALLY TO THE BATTLE-FIELD.
WILTON, (Iowa,) Oct. 27, 1862.
EDITOR LIBERATOR—Enclosed I send you the vote of the Iowa soldiers now in the send you the vote of the Iowa soldiers now in the field. The vote was taken by Commissioners appointed by the Governor, under an act passed at the last session of the Legislature-a reply to the Boston Post and Pilot as to who stay at home. yours, B.
SOLDERS' VOTE.
Republican. Tory.
7th Regiment, 208 4
8th Regiment, 88 14
10th Regiment, 267 10
11th Regiment, 335 70
12th Regiment, 72 8
14th Regiment, 76 16
15th Regiment, 209 115
17th Regiment, 175 42
29th Regiment, 309
24th Regiment, 457 76
25th Regiment, 264 110
29th Regiment 190
30th Regiment, 334 147
32d Regiment, 8 0 120
33d Regiment, 336 93
34th Regiment, 489 226
35th Regiment, 4 48 160
36th Regiment, 345 167
38th Regiment 362 146
39th Regiment 234
40th Regiment 292 262 
Hospital at Keokuk, 205 32
Camp McClellan, 316 138
2d Buttery, 35 6
21st Missouri, 48 
A careful return has been made of the volunteers from Schuyler Colfax's district, Indiana, and the totals are as follows:
Whole number of men enlisted, 11,064 
Of whom there were voters, 8,110 
Of these were Republicans, 6,125 
D. P. Stubbs, Commissioner to take the vote of the 6th Iowa infantry regiment, stationed at Port Pickering. Memphis, Tenn., reports the vote as follows:—Republican, 288; Democrat, 66.
From reliable investigations like these, it is apparent that at least three-fourths of the whole number of soldiers in the field, at the call of the Government and to put down the rebellion, are Republicans. What a refutation is this of the false and impudent assertion of the sham Democracy, that they have chiefly furnished the army from their own ranks, while the Republicans have cravenly remained at home! No wonder that Democratic victories have recently been obtained at the recent elections in New York, Pennsylvania. Ohio. Illinois, Indiana, & c.!—Ed. Lib. 
<c03>
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
[OFFICIAL.]
BT HIS EXCELLENCY JOHN A. ANDREW, GOVERNOR. A PROCLAMATION
FOR A DAT OF PUBLIC THANKSGIVING AND PRAISE.
By and with the advice and consent of the Council, I do hereby appoint THURSDAY, the 27th day of November current, to be observed throughout this Commonwealth at a day of PUBLIC THANKS GIVING AND PRAISE. And I do earnestly invite and request all the people of Massachusetts to set apart that day for the grateful and happy remembrance of the boundless mercies and loving kindness of Him, in whose name our fathers planted our Commonwealth, and to whose service they consecrated their lives and devoted their posterity.
"The Lord hath established his Throne in the Heavens; and his Kingdom ruleth over all." He is the" Sovereign Commander of all the world, in whose hand is power and might, which none is able to with- stand;" and to Him only belong ascriptions of Glory, who is "the only giver of Victory." Let our hearts, j therefore, ascend,—higher than all the interests that entangle, all the doubts that bewilder, the passions that ensnare, and the prejudices that obscure—consenting to be led, illumined and governed by his Infinite Intelligence and Love.
In the meditations of the House of Praise, let us take comfort and be thankful for the numberless manifestations of heroic and manly virtue which amid the distractions of War, in the duties of the camp, and in the perils of battle, have illustrated the character of the sons of Massachusetts—and for the serene and beautiful devotion with which her daughter save given the dearest offerings of their hearts to the support of their Country, and for the defense of Humanity. 
Let us not forget the bountiful bestowments of the year, filling the granaries of the husbandman, and rewarding the toil of the laborer, the enterprise, thrift and industry of all our people. No pestilence hath lurked in the darkness of night, nor assailed us in the light of day. Calamity hath not overwhelmed us, nor hath any enemy destroyed.
Rising to the height of our great occasion, reinforced by courage, conviction and faith, it has been the privilege of our country to perceive, in the workings of Providence, the opening ways of a Sublime Duty. And to Him who hath never deserted the faithful, unto Him "who gathered together the outcast of Israel, who health the broken in heart," we owe a new song of Thanksgiving. "He sheweth his word unto Jacob, his statutes and his judgments unto Israel. He hath not dealt so with any nation."
Putting aside all fear of man, which bringeth a snare, may this people put on the strength which is the divine promise and gift to the faithful and obedient; "let the high praises of God be in their mouth, and a two-edged sword in their hand." Not with malice and wickedness, but with sincerity and truth, let us keep this feast; and while we "eat the fat and drink the sweet, forget not to send a portion to him for whom nothing is prepared." Let us remember on that day the claims of all who are poor or desolate or oppressed, and pledge the devotion of our lives to the rescue of our Country from the evils of rebellion, oppression and wrong,—and may we all so order our conduct hereafter, that we may neither be ashamed to live, nor afraid to die.
Given at the Council Chamber, in Boston, this twenty-seventh day of October, in the year one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, and the eighty-seventh of the Independence of the United States of America.
JOHN A. ANDREW.
By his Excellency the Governor, with the advice of the Council.
OLIVER WARNER, Secretary.
God save the Commonwealth of Massachusetts!

THE FREE NEGRO AND THE SOUTH.
That class of politicians opposed to the President's proclamation, which he proposes to issue on the 1st of January, for the general emancipation of the negroes belonging to those in rebellion at that time, are trying to make the people of the North believe, that as soon as these negroes are liberated, there will be an influx of this entire population into the Northern States.
The statistics of 1850 develop the following facts:
Virginia had 54,333 free negroes. 
While Ohio had 25, 279.
Maryland had 74,723 free colored persons, with only 90.368 slaves.
At this time, New York had only 49.069 free negroes.
At this time, the District of Columbia had 10,059 free negroes and 3,688 slaves.
Delaware had then 18,073 free negroes, and 2,290 slaves.
North Carolina had 27,463 free negroes.
Alabama had 2,265 free negroes.
Georgia had 2,981 free negroes.
Illinois had only 5,436 free negroes.
Indiana had only 11,262 free negroes, 
While Louisiana had 17,662 free negroes.
The white population of Indiana was 977,943, while the white population of Louisiana was only 255,491; while Maryland, with a population of 417,943 whites, has a population of free colored persons of 74,728. And New York, with a population of 3,048,325 I whites, has only 49.069 free negroes.
WASHINGTON, NOV. 2. The colored people of the I District of Columbia, for whose removal Congress made an appropriation and gave the President authority in the premises, have sent a delegation to the President, and that delegation has delivered to him the following letter:—
"To THE PRESIDENT: SIR—The undersigned, on behalf of their colored brethren and themselves, have called on your Excellency to learn when we can take our departure to the land promised us by you in the address you made to us in this your Executive mansion. We have learned from the Hon. Senator Pomeroy, the Agent of Emigration, whom you appointed to conduct us to Chiriqui, that he is ready, his equipments engaged, his provisions for the emigrants bought, that a vessel suitable has been found, that the consent of the Government with its agreement to receive us as citizens with equal rights and obligations has been obtained, and that he only waits your orders to announce the day of sailing, and that he can sail within a week, if your order is given.
Many of us, acting upon your promise to send us so soon as one hundred families were ready, have sold our furniture, have given up our little homes to go on the first voyage, and now, when more than five times that number have made preparations to leave, we find that there is uncertainty and delay, which is greatly embarrassing us, and reducing our scanty means, until fears .ire being created that these means are being exhausted. Poverty in a still worse form than has yet met us may be our winter prospect.
We have seen it stated in the newspapers that you do not intend to let us depart. We are not willing to believe that your Excellency would make arrangements for us to go—would tell us that we could not live prosperously here—would create hopes within us, and stimulate us to struggle for national independence and respectable equality, and then, when we had made ourselves ready for the effort, in confident belief of the integrity of your promise, that its realization will be withheld.
Congress has placed the power and the means solely in the hands of your Excellency to aid in removing us. You begun the movement. You appointed Senator Pomeroy—in whom not only the colored people, but the whole country, have confidence—to see that justice should be done us in our removal. He has said that he is ready. We therefore earnestly beg that your Excellency will now give hint explicit orders to sail before the cold weather sets in to pinch here—before the storms of winter shall make our voyage a dangerous one."
President Lincoln, through his private Secretary, replied to the deputation of colored men who had called upon him, to express their disappointment in the delay of being sent as promised to Central America, that he—the President—was as anxious as he ever was for their departure—that he had placed every thing in the hands of Senator Pomeroy of Kansas, and that he could not now see the deputation of colored men, but that he would do so in the course of a few days."
IMPORTANT SLAVE CASE. A case of some interest was decided yesterday by Judge Kinsman. A free colored man, named John Montamat, was married to a slave woman, by whom he had two children, one of which died; the other, a little girl about eleven years of age, a bright mulatto, quite fair to look upon, still survives, and was the subject of the present legal proceedings. Montamat, at the time of his marriage, determined to purchase the freedom of his wife from her owner, and in furtherance of that object had paid 8600. In order to secure the freedom of his surviving child, he sent her to Cincinnati, where she was baptized into the Catholic Church. Montamat, the father, subsequently became involved in debt in this city, and mortgaged his daughter as a slave to secure his creditors. The mortgage was foreclosed in February, 1862, and the child was sold to a Mr.Salvoie, at sheriff's sale. In the present case, Montamat applied for the freedom of his child under the circumstances above detailed. Able counsel had been retained by both parties—Christian Roselius for the defendant and Colonel A. P. Field for Montamat. The Court decided that the girl was entitled to her freedom, and so ordered.—New Orleans Delta, Oct. 9.
Ralph Waldo Emerson contributes to the November Atlantic a thorough and masterly review of the President's Emancipation Proclamation, endorsing and upholding it as the greatest epoch of the time.
<c04>
NORTHERNERS NO LONGER OF THE TRUE AMERICAN RACE. The New York Herald relates the following incident as having occurred on board the pirate Alabama, after the capture of the ship Brilliant:—
"When Capt. Hager was transferred to the Alabama, and ordered to be put in irons, he remonstrated with Mr. Armstrong, the officer, seeing the order en- forced, in the following language: He said, It is a very singular thing that you should confine these men in irons, and hold me as a close prisoner, when we were born and brought up under the same flag and government. If I were to meet you in distress on the high seas, or anywhere else, I would not only not treat you in this manner, but would, if you required it, share the last crust of bread with you, if I found you to be in want of it.'
To these kind remarks Armstrong replied: We are nothing to each other as countrymen. The North and South are now distinct races, with no feelings or interests in common, the people of the South arc the only true representatives of the American race. You of the North have intermarried so much with the lower classes of Europeans, that you have, in a great measure, if not altogether, lost your nationality, and are not worthy to be considered of the 'same people as ourselves.'" 
Why didn't the Yankee Captain turn upon his upstart oppressor with the truthful reply—" You of the South have cohabited so long and' so much with the lower classes of Ethiopians without marriage, that you have not only lost your nationality, but are unlike any other civilized nation on God's footstool! "
EMANCIPATION IN ST, AUGUSTINE. A New Hampshire volunteer at St. Augustine, (Fla.) writes, that before the war there were 1000 slaves in the city. One half of them were taken into the interior before the arrival of the Federal troops. The remaining 500 have been the principal means of support to about one fourth as many families, who rent them out, at from six to ten dollars per month. General Saxton called them together, and told them they were free, by an act of Congress. This proclamation made them wild with joy, and they set about taking care of themselves. After three weeks had passed, the Commissary, Lieut. Cole, said that not a colored person received gratuitous rations from the Government. They labor, cook, wash and fish for a living, and get it. But how is it with their former masters, who had so condescendingly taken care of them to keep them from starving? The letter-writer says, "The few white men left had hardly mechanical genius enough to open a jackknife, and they were too lazy to turn a grindstone; and the women, what could they do? Nothing was left to them but to apply for assistance, which they did. On one day last week, there was an increase of eighteen families, who called for free rations at the Commissary Department, most of them giving as a reason for their necessity that their servants had left them."
OLD JOHN BROWN. Says the Harper's Ferry correspondent of the New York Times, "Not least, in future years, among the memorials of Harper's Ferry, will stand the relics of old John Brown; the engine house that he made his castle, the spot where he was wounded, and the house where lie resided for weeks, and received his arms. I shall probably die in the attempt,' said Brown, but I struggle for the cause of Freedom.' He hurled his body in gage of battle, war arose, and slavery is now at its dying gasp. The old postmaster at Sandy Hook, near by, has his own ideas about matters. He insists that John Brown was in the pay of the Secessionists, and projected his raid to inflame the South against the North. He is confident that a stuffed figure was hung and coffined in his stead, and asserts that John Brown is now in the Secesh army. Whether he sends Philadelphia letters to Minnesota, I do not know."
THE PRESIDENT'S PROCLAMATION. A reported conversation with General Halleck puts in a very clear light the wisdom and necessity, as well as the timely issue, of the President's proclamation freeing the slaves of all who continue in armed rebellion against the Government, after the first of January next. General Halleck is reported to have declared his conviction that it would be impossible to subdue the rebellion while such an army of laborers as the slaves of the South continue to produce supplies for the army of soldiers in the field. He computes that of the three millions and a half of slaves, at least two millions are to-day actually employed in the work of rebellion. Since the rebellion assumed its present formidable proportions, the General has never doubted that the only way to conquer the rebels, and bring! back the South to its allegiance, was to deprive the insurgents of their slave labor.
THE PRESIDENT'S PROCLAMATION IN THE ARMY. A correspondent writing to the Cincinnati Gasctto from Helena, Arkansas, says:—" In regard to the President's proclamation of emancipation, let me say a word as to how it was received in the army, before I close this letter. It was approved of everywhere. The semi treasonable journals may croak, but it is a fact indisputable, that the soldiers everywhere—I mean the great masses of the army—will sustain the President in his views, as expressed in his proclamation, in Sentiment in word and in action. Since it came forth I have passed through many regiments—have heard hundreds express their opinion of it—many officers of high rank, and I never have yet heard one denounce it, not one."
Gen. Prentiss says that the effect of the Emancipation Proclamation upon the South was unmistakable. The rebels, in all their conversations, alluded to it in a manner indicating that it was the one thing they dreaded. The negroes were being driven into the interior for safety. At Petersburg large numbers were congregated, a thousand in one pen, crowded together like cattle in the shambles.
ENGLISH OPINION OF THE PEACE DEMOCRATS. The English journals are not blind to all the bearings of political movements in the United States. Some of them have a proper appreciation of the Peace Democrats or submissionists. The London Spectator, in quoting some of their resolutions, says of the submissionists:—“They lay down principles which, if they are not akin to those, of the rebels, differ from them only in being more petty, and more contemptible., without being a whit nobler—that contain the seminal principle of secession without the vitality of purpose that renders secession strong. The Democrats, indeed, take care to adore (mystically) the word Union, but strive with all their might to undermine unity of purpose, which can alone give that word a meaning."
APPLAUSE FROM RICHMOND. The responses to the speeches of the Seymour orators begin to come back from the rebel capital. The Richmond Dispatch prints John Van Buren's speech in New York, and says—
"We published in our Northern news yesterday some extracts of the speech of John Van Buren at the Democratic Mass Meeting in New York. If there is any real significance in any of these addresses lately launched against the Lincoln Administration, by the Democratic orators of the North, that of Mr. Van Buren is far more important than any yet published. He is the only speaker yet who has dared to meet the question of, peace squarely, without making subjugation a sine qua non. We make some highly interesting extracts from the speech as reported in the New York Herald."
The Charleston Mercury of the 6th inst. copies with sincere commendation, and under its editorial head, the speeches of Hon. James Brooks of New York, and Mr. Schnabell of Pennsylvania, made at the late Seymour ratification meeting. It also announces with pleasure that at the next Seymour meeting, Richard O'Gorman will speak.
It has been noticeable of late, that the semi-secesh people of the North apply the term "Abolitionist" to the supporters of the War for the Union. The reason for this has just come to light. In an intercepted letter of Gen. Beauregard, that arch-rebel advises General Bragg to issue an order directing his subordinates to call the Union-forces "Abolitionists" instead of " Federals"; assuming that this odious name will have a " stinging effect" on portions of the Northern forces. In connection with this recommendation of the little Creole, it is instructive to observe that the journals and orators in the "submission" interest here at the North have adopted the name, and every man who is in favor of a vigorous prosecution of the war, according to the ordinary rules of civilized warfare, which consist in striking the enemy where he is the most vulnerable, is stigmatized as an " Abolitionist."—Salem Observer.
THREE GENERATIONS AT THE POLLS. The Hon. Josiah Quincy, his son and namesake, and his grandson, Major Samuel M. Quincy, went together yesterday to the polls in Ward 4, and deposited their Republican ballots. The senior Mr. Quincy, who was a candidate for Congress sixty-two years ago, and the Major, were on crutches. The former at the age of ninety-one has recovered in a measure from an accident by which his leg was broken; the latter, a fellow-cripple for a short time of his venerable relative, was wounded bravely fighting for the cause equally dear to both. All parties united in giving each of these energetic voters, thus determined to discharge their duty as citizen's, heartfelt cheers.—Transcript.
Ax EDITOR ASSASSINATED. Dayton, (Ohio,) November 1.—J. F. Balmeyer, editor of the Dayton Empire, was shot dead this morning by Henry M. Brown. The difficulty grew out of a personal misunderstanding occasioned by the shooting of a dog belonging to frown's son. Brown gave himself op, and was taken to Jail.
<c05>
In the rebel House of Representative, on the 2d alt. Mr. Foote reported a series of resolution*, which were ordered to be printed and referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, recognizing "the practical neutrality of the States of California and Oregon, and of the Territories of Washington and Nevada, suggesting the advantages which would result to the people thereof upon an immediate assertion on their part of their independence of the United States, and proposing, upon their so doing, the formation of a league, offensive and defensive, between said States and Territories, and the Confederate States of America."
Gen. Milroy, in a recent General Order, says-"The General Commanding has been repeatedly pained to learn, that a few bad men in some of the regiments of his command are in the habit of abusing, beating, and otherwise maltreating the negro and mulatto servants and teamsters in his command. The services of these negroes and mulattoes are necessary, and cannot be dispensed with, without taking the soldiers from their legitimate duties, which would be an injury to the service. It is therefore ordered, and hereby made the duty of every officer and soldier of this command, to immediately shoot down every soldier or other person who may be causelessly abusing, beating or otherwise maltreating any of the negro or mulatto servants or drivers in or about this command."
NEGRO SOLDIERS. A correspondent of the New York Evening Post says: " A rebel deserter, the son of a quondam Baltimorean, now of South Carolina, and a trustworthy man, says he belonged to a regiment from that State, composed of four companies of negroes and six of whites; that the negroes were allowed to vote with the whites in the choice of their officers; that they mess and sleep together without any prejudice whatever, and that the negroes made as good soldiers as the whites."
THE ANSWER to the question, What shall be done with the freed negro? seems to be given already by passing events. A Missouri gentleman in Cincinnati, among others from that State, says many of the slaveholders have been obliged to hire their negroes to work to gather their crops. They have been compelled to cease flogging, for it is very easy for negroes to run away now, and not easy to catch them. The negroes are ready to work for pay, but they refuse to work for nothing. He scouts the idea of the negroes going North.
ST. LOUIS, NOV. 14. General Fremont was last night presented by the Germans of St. Louis with a magnificent sword. The blade is of the finest steel, with a gold scabbard. The demonstration commenced with a torch light procession. The multitude gathered together was very large, and the enthusiasm unbounded. About 15,000 people were present It was one of the greatest demonstrations our city ever witnessed. A sash of white satin in gold was also presented by the ladies.
POLITICAL. The Philadelphia North American thinks the complexion of the next Pennsylvania Legislature, which is to choose a U. S. Senator, will be as follows: Senate—Union, 30; Breckinridge, 13; House—Union, 48; Breckinridge, 60; two not ascertained. The election is to be made on joint ballot.
There are some indications of fraudulent voting in the Ohio election. One county which has sent 2500 men to the war gives only 175 votes less than last year, while in Cincinnati and Hamilton county the vote has increased over that of lost year, although five thousand volunteers have gone to the war.
REBEL ADVICE. Gen. Simon Buckner, after being released from Fort Warren, was put in command of a rebel fore, and upon paroling some federal prisoners told them to "go home and vote the Democratic ticket."
WHO ARE TRAITORS. It would be unjust to say that all democrats are traitors; many of thorn are loyal, and in favor of a vigorous war policy. But it is nevertheless true, that every man who has proved to be a traitor claims to be a democrat.
Binghamton, N. Y., was the scene of a disgraceful riot week before last. It commenced at a circus, in a fight between a white man and a negro. When the circus was out, there was an indiscriminate attack made on all the colored persons present, which was followed up by attacking the two colored churches, and several dwellings occupied by colored people. One colored woman was badly injured in the mouth.
Port Royal dates to the 29th ult. state that two British rebel steamers, the Anglia and Scotia, I were captured on the 27th, and taken to Port Royal. The two vessels, with their contraband cargoes, were valued at a million of dollars. Another British vessel, named the Minnaho, was run ashore and destroyed.
At the date of our latest advices from Port Royal. (30th ult) a good deal of sickness existed there. The disease most prevalent is termed by the negroes "the country fever." Four out of five of General Mitchell's staff were stricken with it in a single day. Of Them was Capt. Williams, Aide-de-camp, of New York, who died at Beaufort. Capt. L. A. Warfield, of Baltimore, Depot Commissary, also died. The fever is creating a good deal of excitement, and the unacclimated are hastening away. Gen. Mitchell was ill, and Gen. Brannan was in command.
DEATH OF FEDERAL GENERALS. The telegraph brings us intelligence of the death of two of the Generals of our army—Gen. Mitchell, at Port Royal, from yellow fever, and Gen. Richardson, in Maryland, probably from the effects of wounds at the battle of Antietam. They were both of them brave and efficient officers, and their death is a severe loss to the country.
THEY NEED THE NEGROES. The Raleigh (S. C. Standard of Oct. 7, says that the Northern and eastern counties of that State are in a deplorable condition. Why? "Full one half of the negroes have been run off by the Yankees, and every species of property is constantly subject to their depredations. Every day adds to their misery, which must be enhanced by the Yankee Confiscation Act."
The Germans of San Francisco have subscribed $1000, and had made a golden laurel-wreathed eagle, set with diamonds, as a testimonial to the prowess of General Sigel.
CONSISTENCY. The new party. in one of their resolves, bespatter Gen. McClellan with their praise, and hold him up as our chief hope of a triumphant war. This is amusing, considering that, in another resolve, they deprecate the want of vigor and success which have attended the war thus far, and that Gen. McClellan has, for a large share of the time, had the whole management of it. It is much like complaining that a ship had run ashore, and then extolling the skill of the captain, because that while she had run ashore, she had not actually run up a mountain!
A gentleman who visited Gen. McClellan's camp recently, writes to the Philadelphia Ledger:—"The officers who accompanied us, pointed out a number of the men who had neither shoe, stocking, shirt, drawers, overcoat, blanket or tent. A pair of torn pantaloons, not sufficient to hide their nakedness, and a portion of what was once a blue army blouse, constituted, with a cap, the entire clothing of these poor fellows. A large pile of ashes in the midst of the camp was pointed out to us as the place where a number of these poor soldiers had slept the night previous. These ashes were yet warm from the fire of the preceding day, and the almost naked soldiers sought them as a resting place and protection from the frosty night's air. Quite a number of the men bad their feet wrapped up in rags, their shoes having either been lost on their thirty-two days' march, or worn I out." [A gross exaggeration, unquestionably.]
There are fearful pictures drawn in the army correspondence of the Savannah Republican of the utter destitution of the Confederate forces. All good rebels are urged to send forward to Lee's shivering I ranks, clothing, shoes, hats and blankets.
A NEGRO TRAGEDY IN MARYLAND. Baltimore, Nov. 3.—The American has a letter from Dutton, in Caroline county, in this State, giving an account of the lynching of a negro under arrest for the outrage and murder of a little girl, daughter of Edgar Plummer. On Saturday night, a large number of excited people came into the town, surrounded the jail, forced open the doors, and took the prisoner out and hung him. While suspended, forty-five bullets perforated his body. He was then cut down, and his throat cut by the infuriated mob. The body was dragged through the streets, and finally to the front of the negro church, where it was cut to pieces and burnt. This is the diabolical spirit endangered by slavery.
FOREIGN NEWS. Gladstone has again been speaking on America. He told his hearers to remember that the difficulty has arisen from slavery, which was a legacy from England to America.
Earl Hardwick has endorsed Gladstone's views.
A circular from Secretary Seward to the Diplomatic and consular agents, relative to the Emancipation Proclamation, has been published. He draws hopeful conclusions from the present position of affairs. He says the rebels misunderstand, if they persist in imposing a choice between the dissolution of the Government and the abolition of slavery. It is the Union and not slavery that must be maintained.
While all good and wise men of all countries must recognize the measure as a just and proper military act, intended to deliver the country from a terrible war, they will recognize, at the same time, the moderation and magnanimity with which the Government proceeds in so solemn a matter.
The Times says this circular deprives the American Government of the right hereafter to appeal to its emancipation decree as a measure founded on moral principles, as Secretary Seward reduces it to a mere military act.
<c06
FRATERNITY LECTURES.
FIFTH COURSE.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully in formed that the Fifth Course of Lectures under the auspices of the Fraternity of the Twenty- Eighth Congregational Society will be continued 
TUESDAY EVENING, November 11, 1862, at TRMMONT TEBPLE when an address will be made by MISS ANNA E. DICKINSON. 
To be follows on Successive Tuesday evenings by lectures from the following persons:
November 18.—HENRY WARD BEECHER.
November 25.-OWEN LOVEJOY 
December 2.-B. GRATZ BROWN.
December 9.-WENDELL PHILLIPS.
December 16 -RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
December 23.-JACOB M. MANNING.
December 30.-GEORGE WM. CURTIS.
Lectures to commence at half-past 7 o’clock. Course Tickets, admitting the Bearer and lady, at $2 each, may to be obtained at Williams & Everett’s, 234 Washington St.; Oliver Ditson & Co’s. 277 Washington St.; of Solomon Parsons, Esq., Superintendent of Temple; and of either member of the Lecture Committee, who in former years have had the disposal of tickets.
THE FUGITIVE AND SOCIETY of Boston have effected an arrangement with Mrs. Louise DEMORTIE, the talented young colored dramatic reader, to give readings wherever the benevolent may be willing to assist, for the purpose of alleviating the sufferings of the freedmen or " contrabands" of Washington.
SARAH A. L. MARTIN, 26 Myrtle St.,
President of the fugitive aid Society. .
ANDREW T. FOSS, in behalf of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, will lecture as follows:
Brattleboro', Vt., Sunday, NOV. 9.
Keene, N. H., Sammy, 16.
THEODORE D. WILD, of Perth Amboy, N.J., will deliver a discourse before the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society, at Music Hall, on Sunday forenoon, Nov. 9th. Subject—" The Conspirators-their False Issues and Lying Pretences."
To CORRESPONDENTS. -Copies of "The Rejected Stone " have been forwarded by mail, on application, as below, and in compliance with our Notice to that effect, to the following persons:-
W. J. W., Worcester. C. H. L, West Newton. A. V., Providence. L. W., Wolcottville, Ct. J. U. L., Milton Mills, N. H., A. M. J. M. P., Deerfield Centre, V. H. T. 3. C, W. Newbury. J. H., Baltimore, Md. J. H. M., Sudbury. A. P. W., Lunenburg. (2). O. M. H., Shushan, N. Y. S. II., Farmersville, N. Y. J. M. B., Connotton, 0. M. P. U., Lynn. R. W., Albany, N. Y. G.B.S , Rochester, K. Y. E. U. P., Jewett City, Ct. U. L. C, West Newbury. E. A. M., Concord, N. H. S. H., Providence. 
Also, to A. P. and J. U. L-, (above,) copies of "TV Anti-Slavery History of the John Brown Year" A. P. W.,—0. M. H.—R. W.—R. L-, Washington.—E. H. P.—E. A. M.
WANTED—An ex-slave woman, acquainted with general housework. Apply at 104 Mt. Vernon Street.
DIED—Suddenly, in Newport, (R. I.) ROBERT WATSON, in the 58th year of his age. He was a true Christian, ripened to the full stature of Christian manhood—strictly temperate, strongly anti-slavery, fall of faith and the Holy Ghost. 
154 Washington St., 5 doors South of Milk St.
October 24. 6m
WEIS & ZOEBISCH,
MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN
European and Fancy Furs,
308 Washington Street, 308
OPPOSITE BOSTON THEATRE, BOSTON.
Particular attention is paid to altering and repairing Old Furs.
Furs preserved during the summer.
600,000 Male or Female Agents,
TO SELL
Lloyd's Hew Steel Plate County Colored Map of the United States, Canadas, and New Brunswick,
From recent surveys; completed August 10, 1S62; cost $211,000 to engrave it, and one year's time.
Superior to any $10 map ever made by Colton or Mitchell, and sells at the low price of fifty cents; 370009 names are engraved on this map.
It is not only a county map, bat it IS also a
COUNTY AND RAILROAD MAP
of the United States and Canadas combined in one, giving EVERY RAILROAD STATION,
and distances between.
Guarantee any woman or man $3 to $5 per day, and will take back alt maps that cannot be sold, and refund the money.
Semi for $1 to try.
Printed instructions how to canvas well famished all our agents.
Wanted—Wholesale Agents for oar Maps in every State, California. Canada, England, France, and Cuba. A fortune may be made with a few hundred dollars capital. No competition.
J. T. LLOYD,
No. 164 Broadway, New York. 
The War Department uses our Map of Virginia, Maryland and Pennsylvania, cost $100,000, on which are marked Antietam Creek, Sharpsburg, Maryland Hights, Williamsport Ferry, Rhorersville, Noland Ford, and ail other on the Potomac, and every other place in Maryland, Virginia and Pennsylvania, or money refunded.
LLOYD'S TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP OF KENTUCKY, OHIO, INDIANA and ILLINOIS,
is the only authority for Gen. Buell and the War Department. Money refunded to any one finding an error in it Price 50 cents.
From the Tribune, Aug. 2
"Lloyd’s MAP OF VIRGINIA, MARYLAND AND PENNSYLVANIA . This Map is very large; its cost is but 25 cents, and it is the best which can be purchased.” 
LLOYD'S GREAT MAP OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER
From actual survey by Casts. Bart and. Wm. Bowen, Mississippi River Pilots, of St. Louis, M.., Shows every man’s plantation and owners name, from St. Louis to the Gulf of Mexico-1350 miles—every sand-bar, island, town, landing and all places twenty miles back from the river— colored in counties and States. Price, $1 in sheets. $2, pocket form, and $2, 50 on linen, with rollers. Now ready.
NAVY Department, Washington, Sept. 17, 1862.
J. T. LLOYD: Sir—Send me your Map of the Mississippi River, with price per hundred copies. Rear Admiral Charles H. Davis, commanding the Mississippi squadron, ’is authorized to authorized to purchase as many as are required for use of that squadron. GIDBON WELLS
secretary of the navy 
Oct. 3. 3w

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
From the Chicago Tribune.
DESTINY.
Once upon a midnight dreary,
While I pondered cold and weary,
Over a perplexing problem,
That had ne’er been solved before,
Suddenly there came a feeling 
Strange, prophetic, o'er me stealing,
Stealing all my senses o’er-
Only this, add nothing more.
I had vainly sought a reason,
Wherefore foul and damning treason 
E’er had quit the realms of darkness
On the wild Plutonian shore;
Prayed I for some revelation
From the Fates, by incantation,
What they had for us in store—
Doom of man for ever more.
Spells of magic strongly bound me,
Wailing wind rang requiems round me,
Watching on that lonely shore-
On that wooded, river shore,
Where were lying, with each other,
Friends and foes, who fell together,
In the day that went before-
Bloody day, yet scarcely o’er.
Then, in my prophetic vision,
Saw I plain the fields elysian,
And their happy, radiant dwellers
Gathered on the shining shore;
And across the dart forbidden,
Wrapt in darkness-almost hidden-
Saw I those who dwell in torments,
Banished there for ever more.
There a voice that, filled with wonder,
Said, “Behold, how far asunder 
Bliss and woe are placed forever-
That they mingle never more! 
These were happy once together,
Trusting, loving each the other,
Ere the blighting curse of Treason 
Dared approach that radiant shore.
“Satan failed, perished
All the hopes so vainly cherished,
That the universe should own him 
Lord and master ever more.
Here we find accursed Treason
Foiled and baffled for a season,
Joined with Satan, working ruin, 
As in heaven long before.
"Fear not, then, though myriad legions
Come from out those misty regions,
Armed with every evil passion— 
Seeking vengeance ever more;
For, behold, the alarm is given,
And from out the gates of heaven
Reinforcements of bright angels 
Coming from yon shining shore!"
And I saw their banners streaming,
And their white wings brightly gleaming
As they came in countless numbers
From that far-off, God-lit shore;
And I felt the still air quiver,
Watching by that lonely river,
And I knew their wings were hovering
All my sleeping comrades o'er.
Then my soul in faith grew stronger,
Wrestled I with doubt no longer;
For my problem, in the solving,
Brought us good for ever more:
Treason, with its myriad legions,
Shall be banished to those regions
Far beyond Night's dismal shore,
There to dwell for ever more.
E. P. UNUM.

From the Christian Inquirer.
AFTER A VICTORY.
BY CAROLINE A. MASON.
There is no need, sweet moon! the night 
With other splendor is bedight:
The dizzened panes are all alight
With taper-gleams; and on the air,
Commingled with the rocket's glare,
A thousand torch-lights flash and flare.
‘Tis late; but still, adown the street,
So gay with flags, I hear the beat 
Of quick, exulting, restless feet;
And, over all, incessant swells 
The jangle of the village bells,
And cannon booming o'er the dells;
For tidings thrilled us yester night
Of a brave victory; how the fight 
Was fearful, but God helped the Right.
“The fight was fearful." Oh! the pain
And grief and loss against the gain;
The joy of Triumph, and its bane!
O friend! dear, friends, my pulses leap 
Loyal at yours; yet I could weep 
Above this pageant that we keep.
Bear with me; but my heart is sore 
For our dead heroes; score on score 
Shall see God's sweet light nevermore.
They loved like us. The belts they drew 
Close for the fight zoned hearts as true 
As beat, perchance, in me or you.
Their babes, like ours, were rosy fair; 
Had eyes as blue, as silky hair—
Their mothers’ hair and eyes; ah! there 
You touch the sore spot. Pause ye, men, 
Going home to wife and child; and then,
If ye have heart to, shout again!
O, orphaned babes! in whose blue eyes 
The mother-look so sweetly lies; 
O, widowed mothers! sorrow-wise,
Ye cannot see why men should shout, 
And blazon hero-deeds about, 
And an the air gay banners flout.
Ah, well! the dear God must decide 
Which should the other over-ride—
The brighter or the darker side.
His wisdom we can ne’er forestall;
Into his scales we cast it all;
And which shall rise, and which shall fall,
The seeming dross, or seeming gold,
Or whether both the balance hold 
In perfect poise, is all untold.
Gold reigns; enough! O, ye who weep, 
And ye who shout, your faith still keep! 
His ways are equal, though so deep. 
Fitchburg, Mass. 

LEAF BY LEAF.
Leaf by leaf the roses fall,
Drop by drop the spring runs dry;
One by one, beyond recall,
Summer beauties fade and die;
But the roses bloom again 
And the spring will gush anew,
In the pleasant April rain,
And the summer sun and dew.
So in hours of deepest gloom, 
When the springs of gladness fail,
And the roses in their bloom,
Droop like maiden wan and pale;
We shall and some hope that lies
Like a silent gem apart,
Hidden far from careless eyes
In the garden of the heart.
Some sweet home to gladness wed,
That will spring afresh and new,
When grief’s winter shall have fled,
Giving peace to rain and dew-
Some sweet hope that breathes of spring, 
Through the weary, weary time, 
Budding for its blossoming 
In the Spirit’s glorious clime.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE ABOLITIONISTS AND THE WAR.
[Extracts from an eloquent Address, recently delivered at the annual meeting of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society, by WILLIAM H. FURNESS, D. D. of Philadelphia.]
Now that this Power of Darkness, flinging away all political instrumentalities, has broken out into flagrant violence, what, more than anything else, more than our armies and navies, enabled the people to resist it, is the free spirit which the Abolitionists have labored to diffuse. They have not, I repeat, succeeded in averting this day of blood. But that the times are not worse than they are is due, in great part, to them. The times might have been a great deal worse, a great deal more bloody, a great deal more calamitous every way. Suppose that just before the plunge was made into the bloody surges of the present strife, some compromise had been agreed to, that we had offered new securities to the Slave Power, new portions of the National Territory over which it might extend itself, new privileges in the Free States, and that these terms had been accepted. What would it have availed? The North would have been lulled into a new feeling of security, and would have turned again to its shops and counting-houses, and the Sooth would have made-believe put back the half-drawn sword into the scabbard, and the leading men who had patched up the composition of our difficulties would have been lauded to the skies as the peacemakers, the saviors of the country, and on the sea of popular favor Mr. Crittenden would have taken all the wind out of the sails of Henry Clay. But can there be the slightest shadow of a doubt that the great conspiracy would have still continued to live, move, and have its being? Can any man who has any insight into the working of the human heart, or any acquaintance with the history of the past, imagine for a moment that the Slave Power, animated by such a new triumph, would not have begun instantly to prepare itself, as it had done upon all similar occasions before, and as its nature forces it to do, for new and bolder aggressions? The respite in which we should have foolishly rejoiced would soon have shown itself to be only a brief armistice, employed by the slaveholders more folly to prepare for the assertion of the absolute dominion which alone can content them, while the North, laying to its good, honest, peace-loving soul the flattering unction that the danger was past, would have sunk into a new lethargy, from which it would have aroused itself only now and then to mob the Abolitionists, and then to be taken, when a new crisis should come, as come it would, at a far greater disadvantage than it has been now. No, friends, nothing could have been gained by putting off the evil day. It had to come, and every hour's delay has only tended to aggravate the evil. That this perilous delay has ceased, that the trouble has been faced before it grew worse, before thousands of lives were sacrificed where one life is lost now, is due to the spirit of liberty of which the Abolitionism of the North is at once a cause and an effect. The source of all our trouble, present and past, is in the institution of domestic bondage—an institution which generates an imperious, domineering spirit utterly averse to the institutions of the North, utterly at war with republican ideas and usages. It has been educating the South directly to hate and resist everything like popular freedom. And Abolitionism is but another name for true Democracy. It is the faithful representative of the rights of man. And in this conflict of ideas which has arisen, its whole aim and its effect has been to stay the plague.
So plain is all this, so manifest is it, that the Abolitionists are they who, if they had been listened to, would have averted this great calamity, and whose influence, so far as they have had any, has wrought to limit and to lessen it, that it fills me with astonishment to hear men, by no means deficient in intelligence and observation, denouncing the Abolitionists as the cause of the mischief which they have been laboring to prevent. It is like charging those who have all along been trying to put out the fire with being incendiaries. Of course, it has always been the policy and the trick of the Slave Power to charge its most determined enemies with being the mischief-makers; but how men living here in the Free States, men able to read and think, can be so absurd, almost passes belief. There is no limit, I know, to the nonsense and folly that are in the world. But this throwing the blame of the war upon those who have been incurring the greatest odium in their endeavors to prevent it, is the very height of absurdity. There is nothing of the kind that can exceed it. One can pardon the injustice of those who thus denounce you, but the folly of their talk is hard to be borne. It is difficult to reconcile it with any pretensions to ordinary intelligence. It is, in short, one of the numerous miracles of the age. I, for one, cannot imagine how anybody can be so absurd but by supposing that the Slave Power which has so long ruled the land has not only hardened the hearts of the people, but so turned their heads that they do not know which to put first, the cart or the horse.
Akin to the absurdity of which I have been speaking is another folly that afflicts our ears, and that is another of the marvels of the day. I refer to the folly of those who cry, "Down with the Abolitionists!" as if this were a thing that could be done. Putting out of view the merits or the demerits of this much-abused class, nay, granting even that they arc an ignorant, unwise and fanatical sect, that there is no reason or good in them, what nonsense is it at this late day to talk of putting them down! Why, from the first moment, some thirty years ago, that Mr. Garrison declared that slaveholding is a sin before God, and that it should be ceased from instantly, and that be took this ground and would not abate an inch, but would be heard, (hasn't he been beard, by the way? the thunder of this war is the response of the South to his voice!) from that very moment the whole country has been engaged in patting down the Abolitionists. It has been doing nothing else. And every time that they were thought to be put down, it has turned out that they have been set up! The lower it has been sought to put them, the higher have they been raised. They first appeared in Congress, in John Quincy Adams's time, as humble petitioners for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, and the attempt to turn them out had only one result, and that was to turn everything else out of the halls of Congress but the great question which they introduced, and the discussion of which is the one great end at which the Abolitionists have all along aimed. So directly and so invariably has every endeavor to silence them given a new volume of sound to their voices, and every attempt to weaken them strengthened them, so plainly is this the record of the past, (he who runs may read it, and read while he is running, and the wayfaring man, though a fool, cannot err therein)—so plain is this, I say, that one is almost inclined to suspect that they who now-a-days cry, "Down with the Abolitionists!" must be secret friends of this despised people, who want to help them to an increase of influence—want to make them more powerful, and pot their success beyond all doubt. If they are not your friends, if they are really and honestly thinking of putting your invincible cause down, all I can say is, that they certainly are not people who have any concern for their own reputation for common sense. Their existence is, I repeat, one of the wonders of the day.
There is yet one more remarkable thing in this age of miracles of which I wish to take note. There is yet another class of persons here at the North, whose existence is a marvel. I refer to those who, uninstructed by what has been passing before our eyes daring the last twenty years, would fain act over again the old and fatal error, and expect to purchase a cessation of our present evils by concessions which would be sore to be followed by a state of things, in comparison with which this war, heart-sickening as it is, is a halcyon day of peace. Hellish as the war is in the Mood and anguish with which it runs over,
<c03>
there is a lover hell of torment into which they would hurl as who dream of the possibility of making terms with the Demoniac despotism with which the nation is now in a life-and-death grapple. Doubtless there is not a soul of us who would not gladly have peace. But the human imagination cannot entertain a wilder thought than the idea of returning to the condition in which we were before the war broke out. It is impossible. Peace, or what is meant by peace—a cessation of the present conflict—is not now, nor has it ever been, nor will it ever be possible but by concessions on our part infinitely more damaging than the war has been or can be, however it may be protracted, and by whatever waste of treasure and life it may be attended. Do they who are disposed to come to terms with the evil power with which we are at war—do they ever fairly represent to themselves what that power is? Do they not know that it is a power which, by the very necessity of its nature, is in deadly hostility to every valuable interest of the human race? As Heaven is my witness, I have no thought of bringing a railing accusation against the people of the South. I acknowledge them as brothers and sisters in the great household of humanity. I pity them from my inmost heart, placed as they have been and are, in the inscrutable Providence of the world, in circumstances and under influences so powerful to extinguish their human feelings, to foster their pride, to pamper their worst passions, and to deprave their whole nature. Far is it from me to claim that we should be other than they are, were we situated like them. It is because I recognize them as fellow human beings that, by the sympathy of one and the same nature, I cannot help seeing how they must be depraved by the evil principle which has established such a frightful ascendancy over them. We are not their judges. They have a Judge, infinitely wiser, more just, more merciful than their fellow-man, who will make all allowance for the unhappy influences to which they have been from their cradles exposed. Nevertheless, as we arc sensible of our weakness, we cannot be blind to the fact that to treat any one class or description of human beings, made like ourselves in the image of the Highest, as brutes and merchandise, is sure to make havoc in us of all that distinguishes our nature. Here is a fact to which we are fearfully insensible. To think otherwise, to imagine that we can treat human beings as brutes and chattels without deadly injury to ourselves, without depraving the most sacred principles of our being, is to confound the most vital distinctions. It is to imply that the gravest errors of thought and of practice are as harmless, nay, as beneficial, as the purest truth. It is to fancy that we can handle pitch without being defiled, and thrust our fingers into the fire without being burned, and that we can preserve our humanity unimpaired while we are cherishing the most inhuman sentiments, and giving our countenance to the most inhuman practices. It is an absolute impossibility. There is no nature that can resist this effect. Indeed, the finest and most susceptible natures are the surest to be depraved by such gross errors. Is the barbarizing influence of slaveholding upon those concerned in it more manifest at this hour in any class at the South than in the women? In talking of the evils of the system of domestic bondage, we are wont to dwell chiefly upon the miserable condition of the oppressed, overlooking, or, at the beet, very inadequately estimating the worse influence under which the oppressing class suffers. It is twice cursed. It turns the slave into a brute, and the master, though he were an angel of light, into a demon. It must be so in the very nature of things, or there is no difference between light and darkness, truth and falsehood. Right, recognized and obeyed, purifies and elevates. Wrong corrupts and degrades. And so great a wrong as the treating of human beings—our brothers and sisters, made so by God—as articles of property, must injure those who live by it to a fearful degree. This is what the Southern people have been doing. This is what has become a second and an evil nature in them, superseding their better instincts. They deny distinctly, in theory and in practice, the simple claims of human brotherhood, of natural justice, and neither man or woman can do that and their moral nature go! unharmed. Now, this it is, this most monstrous false-hood, that certain human beings are not human, but articles of property, to be treated like horses and oxen—this is the evil power which has incarnated itself in the men and women of the South, and has driven them to set at defiance the irreversible laws of nature and the universal instincts of mankind. This is the horrible power against which the North has been driven to make resistance unto blood. And to what terms of peace will the deadly foe that confronts us, that exists only to reign and rage and torture— upon what terms will it, can it consent to cease from the work of violence and ruin upon which it feeds? Will anything satisfy it but the full admission on our part of its right to be, and to do its inhuman pleasure, and trample on natural human rights? Make peace with it! We can make no peace with it but by an unconditional surrender to its despotic will. We can cast ourselves down to be trampled upon and mangled and crushed under its blood-stained hoofs. We can fling ourselves with our wives and children into its obscene jaws. This is the only way of peace that lies open to us. But what sort of a peace would this be? From such a submission on the part of the North—an abject, unlimited submission, for nothing less would suffice—there could come no condition of things which, by any possible extravagance of speech, could be called a condition of peace. The land might cease to quake with the roar of artillery and the shock of contending hosts. There might no longer be any battle-fields which, sickening as the spectacle they present is, still bear witness to a noble manhood and an immortal heroism. But the whole land would be one wide scene of a more awful desolation, unrelieved by one ray of the glory that now rests on every spot where sleep the brave defenders of the Right. See what the Slave Power has made of the sunny, beautiful South—how it has blasted vast tracts of the soil—to what a state of brutish ignorance it has reduced the poor whites, making them despicable even in the eyes of the slaves—how it has put a brand of shame upon what we esteem the chief honor, honest labor—how it has extinguished freedom of thought and speech—what a reign of terror it has established, what acts of ruffianism it has engendered—in a word, what barbarism it has produced. Mark all these things, the natural and necessary fruits of the contempt for human rights, which is the life-breath of the Slave Power, and you may begin to form some idea of the brutal transformation which the free North must undergo, when that power is allowed the position and the immunities for which alone it will consent to suspend this savage assault upon the life of the nation. No, friends, there is nothing that can by any possibility be called peace that can be obtained by any terms to which the barbarian Power that has assaulted as will accede. By no concessions could we satisfy it but such as should go to the extent of surrendering every principle, every interest, every idea upon which the peace, nay, the very existence of human society depends. Much as we have suffered, and are still suffering, and must expect to suffer so long as the war huts, it is but as a drop in the bucket to the misery that would cover all the land, were we, under the wretched delusion of finding peace, to consent to such a surrender.
In so saying, I only say what our past experience declares as plainly as if it were written out in characters of flame upon the midnight sky. Every compromise, every surrender to the demands of the Slave Power, has bad the direct and inevitable effect to increase its power, to inflame its arrogance, to make it more fierce and cruel. And this has happened, not because the people of the South are by nature any worse disposed than any other people, but because it u as irreversible law, in the moral constitution of things, as sure as that by which the wind blows and the leaves fall, that an evil, being indulged in, practised, compromised with, yielded to, increases in strength, and, if not resisted, becomes perfectly insane, and plunges everything into ruin.
<c04>
THE PEACE S0CIETY AND THE AMERICAN QUESTION.
The following Address has been sent from the Peace Society of London to the people of the United States:
FRIENDS AND FELLOW-CHRISTIANS—More than sixteen months have elapsed since we ventured to address you a few words of respectful and earnest entreaty against referring the dispute which agitates your country to the decision of the sword. Since then, the evils of war have been brought home to your own experience with an impressiveness and force which make the language of respectful admonition which we then employed, and, indeed, all human language, poor and powerless in comparison with the reality.
But the difficulties in which the war originated appear as far as ever from a satisfactory solution. And is it not necessarily so! How is it possible that conflicts of brute force can decide complex questions of moral and political right? Is it not the inevitable tendency of such conflicts to exasperate, rather than to conciliate, differences? And is not the time come when thoughtful and religious men among you should begin to ask yourselves the question, "Shall the sword devour forever?"
We entreat you to believe, Christian friends, that, apart altogether from political and commercial considerations, of any and every kind, there are myriads of Christian hearts in this country which are wrung with a very anguish of sympathy and sorrow at the desolating calamity which is laying waste your country. How, indeed, can it be otherwise? Are you not our nearest kindred among all the nations of the earth? Are we not united to you by the manifold ties of common race, language, literature, and religion? Are there not many of us bound to many of you by the closest moral and spiritual sympathies, by community of interests and action in great enterprises of Christian philanthropy, and by frequent acts of religious fellowship? How, then, can we witness the deplorable scenes of blood and misery now presented to us in your country without having our hearts rent with grief?
It is not merely the loss of precious human life with the premature extinction of what incalculable capacities for usefulness in the service of God and man— not merely the enormous waste of health, which might have been turned to so many admirable purposes—not merely the prolonged agony of loving hearts, and the eternal desolation of families, which this war involves. More mournful to us than even these evils, fearful as they are, is the appalling moral damage it is inflicting on the national life and character, hardening the heart, searing the conscience, unchristianizing the temper of the whole population. Nor is this deteriorating process likely to stop. It is the nature of all war—emphatic-ally so of all civil war—to become more ferocious in feeling, more bloody and barbarous in act, at every step in advance. There are not wanting ominous indications that this war also is rapidly developing the same tendencies, revealing to us, at no distant time, the probability of a series of retributions and reprisals, becoming ever more ruthless and savage, until humanity veils her face in horror at the prospect.
Is the time not come, we repeat, friends and fellow-Christians, when an attempt should be made to arrest this destructive conflict? We deprecate utterly all armed intervention, or any intervention at all, but such as you yourselves would willingly admit on the part of England, or any European Power, in your affairs. But, surely, the idea of a friendly mediation may be entertained without any derogation of your national dignity. We beseech you to reflect that, sooner or later, some method of peaceful adjustment must be adopted. There are only two alternative issues out of war—either the utter extermination of one party, or some form of accommodation and compromise between the contending sides. None of you can wish the former. And is it not better at once to have recourse to the latter, before further blood is shed, and the feelings on both sides shall become hopelessly inflamed with animosity and vengeance?
We appeal especially to the religious portion of the community among you. Is not this one of the conjunctures by which the practical value and power of Christianity are to be tested? And shall American Christianity, at such a crisis as this, abdicate its high functions as the great reconciler, whose special business it is to calm the angry passions, and to keep before the minds of men the sublime lessons of the universal fatherhood of God, and the universal brotherhood of man?
The eyes of the whole world are fixed upon you. There is no great principle in which the friends of humanity are interested, but must suffer incalculable injury by a prolongation of this conflict. We beseech you, therefore, friends and fellow-Christians, for the interests of civilization, for the honor of free government, for the glory of Christ's Gospel, that you, the ministers of religion, and the conductors of the religious press especially, should put forth your influence to bring about a speedy settlement of a quarrel which at present is arresting the progress of civilization, bringing disrepute upon all free government, retarding the triumphs of the Gospel, and causing the Name that is above every name to be blasphemed among the heathen through you.
JOSEPH PEASE, President.
HENRY RICHARD, Secretary.

SLAVERY, BY A FEMALE CONTRABAND.
I propose to give a very brief account of my life in bondage, and also of scenes which I have witnessed, showing the cruel effects of slavery.
No one who has not been in slavery knows the real curse of it. A Northern person cannot tell half how bad it is.
I was born in Charleston, S. C. I was a slave for more than twenty years. My mother was of Indian descent, and a free woman, but was kidnapped by a man named Leo Edwards, and doomed to a life of servitude. She had twelve children, one of whom was sold to Texas. God alone knows her fate. Five others now sleep beneath the sod, while the rest are still in slavery, and I alone have escaped to a land of freedom, through the mercy and goodness of God.
The persons who claimed me as their slave owned two plantations. During the life of the old gentleman, the slaves were well treated. After his death, the plantations came into the possession of his son. Then came a change. The hands were obliged to go to work at 4 o'clock in the morning, and if they did not finish their task, had to stay till 11 at night. The overseer was a very cruel man, who applied the lash freely, and at all hours of the day. The slaves had for their weekly allowance a peck of corn and half a peck of sweet potatoes, and were never allowed a piece of meat, unless they should take sometimes a hog on their own account, for which they were severely whipped. I will mention some cases of whipping which came under my notice. One old man who was a blacksmith, was told to finish off some ploughs. After working until 9 o'clock, he stopped without finishing his task. The young master became very angry with him, and began to beat him unmercifully. After he had finished, the poor old man said, "Well, master Robert, have you treated me so?" The master coolly replied, "Well, I'll only have to meet you at the bar of God." The old man died in twenty-four hours.
Another, a young man, was almost butchered by this young master; he took a bowie-knife, and thrust it into the fleshy parts of his shoulder until the flesh was turned almost inside out This young man recovered from the effects of his master's cruelty, and is now in Washington.
My treatment was not as bad the other bands. I was never whipped, but often scolded at from morning till night Yet though I did not suffer from cruel treatment, I preferred freedom to slavery; and this desire to reach a land where whips and chains are sot found caused me to leave my former home.
Boston, NOV. 1, 1862. BOSA BARN WELL.
<c05>
GUILT OF SUMNER AND ANDREW
EDITOR OF THE WORCESTER SPY:
I was led, by your quotation from the “Rejected Addresses” in the Spy of last Friday, to look into a choice old copy of that work, where, to my amazement, 1 discovered the following lines Their appropriateness to the present time, with some internal evidences of their modern date, leads me to believe that they have been in some way surreptitiously inserted in the book; but if they be indeed a part of the original work, they afford a striking proof that your true poet is always a seer or prophet also, and that " the vision and the faculty divine " always go hand in hand.
Yours, PLEB.
THE HUNKERS LAST APPEAL. 
Dear "People's Party "—(how I loathe the name,
Yet ‘tis to me the only path to fame;)
Dear " Party,” rather—people we have none 
No party, even, that we dare to own;
Dear “Party," or." No-party "—what yon choose—
This fit occasion we must never lose 
To strike for Hunkerdom a telling blow,
And try, albeit in vain, to lay HIM low,
That head fanatic, that arch-fiend, that traitor,
Of all creation's woes the vile creator,
That hypocrite, that Abolition Nero,
That mudsill, pauper, zany, Digger, zero. 
Ask you on whom these epithets are buried? 
Who is it baa upset the bunker world.
Kept us from office, shown the world oar knavery,
And dares to doubt the Christian grace of slavery? 
Who caused the President to write the Proclamation?
Who started first the great Confederate nation?
Who instigated Floyd to steal oar guns?
Who in the Southern swamps destroys our sons?
Who back from Richmond holds our gallant troops? 
Who gives them mouldy bread and horse-beef soups?
Who makes their coat of satinet and shoddy?
Who took away our gallant sailors' toddy?
Who caused the rise in peanuts, wool and cotton?
Who makes our apples and potatoes rotten?
Who banished from Old England's shores oar Train,
And filled his head with gas in place of brain?
Who sneers at our great champion—Count Johannes?
That caitif miscreant, SUMMER, the base man is—
Aided perhaps by Phillipses and Beechers,
Greeleys, and such like Abolition preachers.
But Sumner is the chief and direst foe,
The fruitful cause of all oar banker woe;
Oh martyred brooks, oh chivalrous hero-saint!
Why struck your patriot arm a blow so faint?
Ah! when you bad the wretch beneath your bludgeon,
Why did you not "lay out" the vile curmudgeon?
How could you fail to stick your Southern knife in him,
And thus let out that last poor drop of life in him?
Oh, bad you made complete your glorious work,
And followed up the bludgeon with the dirk!—
Oh, then had Abbot, Cushing, even I
Profaned the seat be still must occupy!
Down with the tyrant! yes, let him be hung;
And as for Andrew, let his neck be wrung;
Down with them! fear no lack of office-seekers—
There's all our great array of brilliant speakers:
Speakers? there's not a man in ail our party
That won't accept with gratitude most hearty,
The smallest, meanest, boniest spare-rib
That moulders in the barren public crib—
This is the very bond of our existence, 
The very essence of our strong persistence,
That we, by hook or crook, by lies and flattery,
By all the ordnance of our wicked battery,
May vanquish all the Abolition rout
That from the folds of office keep us out; 
Aid us, dear people, or our toil is vain,
Help us the slippery heights of power to gain— 
Take any of us—any man of mark, or,
If you insist, take me, your friend, J. P-
A note to this extract reads as follows: "The J. P. in the last line is supposed to refer to a person once connected with the University at Cambridge, who died long ago of a virulent attack of ‘Sumner on the brain,' supervening upon a long standing and obstinate case of petrifaction of the heart."

WONDERFUL EFFECT!
The fall in the price of gold is one of the happy effects of the late elections. When the President issued his proclamation, gold and exchange advanced ten per cent. Since the elections, the price of gold has declined, the exchange is less, and both gold and exchange are going down. We apprehend that all kinds of securities will go down within sixty days to a low figure. Those who are holding on to their gold had better sell it, and put the premium into their pockets. It is impossible to maintain the present prices much longer. If the Democrats carry New York, New Jersey, and Illinois in November, gold will fall ten per cent. more. If Charles Sumner is defeated, it will probably reach par.—Boston Herald, Oct. 22.
Here, now, is a wonderful philosopher, whose introspective eye nothing can withstand. He is the man who expounds "the combined originality of ideas." What a great light will go out when he dies, and how dark the world will be! But the next day after his profound theory was printed, gold rose again five per cent. Will he explain the cause of this phenomenon, and tell an anxious world how it confirms his theory? Of course, the theory cannot be wrong. The Herald philosopher is ready to take “his Bible oath" in the most solemn tones that Sumner and the proclamation have controlled the price of gold, wheat, wigs, cigars, and tin pan-. This case, however, is not entirely unprecedented. He has probably read these lines in the “Rejected Addresses ":—
"Who, while the British squadron lay off Cork,
(God bless the Regent and the Duke of York!)
With a foul earthquake ravaged the Carracas,
And raised the price of dry goods and tobaccos? 
Who makes the quartern loaf and Luddities rise?
 Who fills the butchers? shops with large blue flies?
 Who thought in flames St. James's court to pinch? 
Who burnt the wardrobe of poor Lady Finch?
 Why, he who, forging for this isle a yoke,
 Reminds me of a line I lately spoke,
‘The tree of freedom is the British oak.’"
This is something, to be sure; but this all-pervading and potent faculty for doing things was never fully appreciated until pro-slavery hunkerism, violently diseased with Sumner on the brain, began to speculate on the proclamation. It is awful to see what startling discoveries have come from these speculations. Here is a statement of a few of them. We quote from a handbill that has been considerably circulated in Boston:—
"Who was the cause of the Shay's rebellion? Charles Sumner. Who led the whiskey riots? Charles Sumner. Who caused the potato rot in Ireland? Charles Sumner. Who invented the first comet? Charles Sumner. Who surrendered the American army at Harper's Ferry? Charles Sumner. Who betrayed the American government by writing a classic motto from the ancient Greek for Queen Victoria's night cap? Charles Sumner. Who ruined the finances of the government by introducing into the country British gold from the Bank of England in exchange for Kossuth bonds and Confederate shin plasters? Charles Sumner."
—Worcester Spy.

ENGLISH ESTIMATE OF MR. SUMNER
As an indication of the opinion held in Europe of Senator Sumner, we extract the following from the Isle of Jersey Independent, which publishes a speech of his entire:—
"After the wretched exhibitions of prejudice and downright ignorance on the American question made by the great majority of English members of Parliament, it is a relief, a pleasure, and a delight, to turn to the magnificent oration of Senator Sumner, the distinguished son of Massachusetts, which we give in to-day's Independent. As a general rule, even those who like to listen to good speeches good or bad. But even such persons do not need our recommendation to give their attention to the graceful periods and electrifying appeals of probably the most accomplished of American speakers; perhaps we might justly say the foremost orator speaking the Anglo-Saxon tongue; for, rivaling Gladstone in genius, he more than rivals the glory of England's House of Commons by that holy earnestness which imparts to eloquence its chief effect, and which is naturally the product of circumstances, rather than of individual will. Mr. Sumner is world-famed, and for himself personally, the most sincere sympathy has been felt in England from the time that he was so treacherously and brutally assaulted by the ruffian Brooks, an atrocity premonitory of the treason and ferocity which commenced with the conspiracy of President Buchanan's ministers, and the subsequent bombardment of Fort Sumter. The principles of the Massachusetts Senator command our thorough adhesion, as his extraordinary talents challenge our admiration, and his courageous consistency carries with it our respect. We feel confident that had we sat in the Worcester Convention, the orator would have commanded oar Tote as well as our applause."
Be it remembered, that the Democratic leaders who denounce the Emancipation Proclamation of the President, denounce an act which can harm no one who is not engaged in attempting to destroy the Government.
<c06>
GARIBALDI.
Something like an official invitation has been gives to Garibaldi to take service under the Northern States; and Garibaldi has replied.
In one view among others, the fact is of importance; as bearing testimony to the word-wide interest felt in the captive leader, and so far tending to hold in check any disposition to make a harsh use of his misfortune.
But the next world-wide interest is to know, supposing the coast clear for action, what will Garibaldi do? So far as Europe and Garibaldi are one, the character of both is at stake.
It is evident that, under the circumstances of the proposal and reply, the whole is open to reconsideration and amendment, to any conceivable extent. To press a man under the fievre de la surprised with a question involving much that does not meet the eye, is what Charles the Twelfth himself would not have allowed, it be could have hindered it.
Garibaldi is a soldier, and know what’s viz. When he wakes some morning, cool and refreshes, without the consciousness of bodily informative hanging upon his soul, he is not the man to sequences the character of Europe and his own, by fighting for the cart-whip under the mask of liberty. He will ask, with the keen common sense which in matter men has been nursed into action necessity, wherever he is to be invited to serve under a government which bargains with it officers that they shall by any road to victory except the open one; which having a mine under the enemy’s position in the shape of the cry for help from nine-twentieths of the population, sacrifices its own soldiers by the hundred thousand, from dishonest fellow-feeling with the other side, and goes into the war with one and with the results the world has seen. If Garibaldi did such a thing, he need never come again where men wear uniforms. It is true that soldiers fight on both sides; but they do not talk on one side and fight on the other.
Is this then to be Garibaldi’s “universal liberty”? Europe will hardly for the present press the question. It would as soon ask him whether he will us give his aid directly to those martyrs on the other side in America, who are fighting for their natural inheritance of selling their fellow-creatures on the auction-block. Or to those nearer confessors in Rome, who contend for nothing but their freedom is be God’s vicegerents every where. If the Abolitionists. Had a press, and somebody to guide it, these would be no chance of playing tricks on the sick in hospital. But who in Europe ever hears a word of the Abolitionists' press?—They stand like Aunt <illegible> to be shied at.
But it must not and it cannot be, that the cost of Italy shall merge into a defence of negro slavery. If the fitting time were come, as come it may, and traitors were got rid of, the Italian leader would be the man for the special service of transporting the war into the heart of the rebel States, with a Declaration of Emancipation from and an offer of amnesty in the other; not forgetting a good corps of colored gendarmerie to be within hail of the advanced posts, to repress any attempts at vagabondage among the emancipated, and under the direction of the most experienced Proving. Marshal the North can produce.
It would be all in the foreigner’s favor, that it was free from domestic loves and hates. The an of the age would be a guarantee in Europe for a right intention, and good political and perhaps the only one that would be tale. When this comes to pass, there will be a chance escaping from bondage to dupes and doubled-dealer in Europe and America.
T. PERRONET THOMPSON
—Bradford (England) Advertiser.

AN AMBIGUOUS COMPLIMENT.
The Bishop of Michigan, in his elaborate secure before the Episcopal Convention in New York <illegible>forted his hearers with the assurance that the copal church had no share in provoking this <illegible>trous rebellion. Its pulpits had never been <illegible>faned by harangues about human rights or the equity of races. By guarding its conventions all discussions on the evils of slavery, it had sustained the unity of the nation.
A church truly loyal to Christ and the would, we think, regard such a compliment crisis as a damaging libel. A church that matter boast of suppressing in the pulpit the Gospel “God hath made of one blood all nations of an for to dwell on the face of all the earth." fend Southern brethren; that refuses, in convenience to denounce the crime of man-stealing, or slave trading, lest its unity be broken, departs with from the apostolic precept which enjoins, first post then peaceable.
It is a curious fact, that a Bishop should wish dissever religion so absolutely from all connection with life that allusions to the condition of our over try, and exhortations to Christian patriotism, most be proscribed as sacrilegious in the pulpit. It is scarcely less curious, that a conventional which so far trenches upon Episcopal proprieties to review the causes of the rebellion, should be utterly silent on slavery and its aggressions, and pen its censures on Christian men at the Nest who have taught, with Paul, that the slave should treated, "not now as a servant, but above a serves a brother beloved."
It may be questioned if such religions is after the pattern of Christ, and does not rather follow in line of Pharisees, who made “broad their <illegible>ries, and enlarged the borders of their garmess” but “omitted the weightier matters of judgment, mercy and faith." We cannot that God is honored by silence in the pulpit on the ties one owes to his country or his fellow-men. The Bible enjoins duties to society and the State and preacher fails to make full proof of his who neglects to enforce them.—Christion Westman and Reflector.

SOUTHERN CHARACTERISTICS.
The New York Examiner says it is an encouraging sign when such "miserable twaddle” of the "peculiar charm" of Southern gentlemen and young men in college is censured as it desire members of Dr. Bellows’ own denomination as well as by others. The editor continues:—
"It is probable that the nonsense we hear so met of, about 'the finer qualities of the Southern character,’ arises very much from a morbid desire to be or to appear candid and unprejudiced. But is the name of practical common sense, have we had 'something too much of this’? Are injustices rapacity, cruelty, faithlessness and dishonesty redioned among the ‘finer traits of character’? Is the repudiation of public and private obligations, legalizing of cheatery and knavery of ever sign a high moral indication? Is the butchery—that the word—of hundreds of defenceless men, and every women, for mere opinion's sake, a sign of advancing civilization? Is the stripping of young ladies naked and whipping them, before robbing them of their earnings as teachers, and sending them northwest and example of the peculiar chivalry that we bears much about? What of the finger-rings, amulets drum-sticks, and drinking cups, made of the both of our soldiers? What of the shooting of prisons of war for looking out of a window? What of the heads of Union soldiers swung out of ear windows by the hair, as returning Southern regiments passed homeward? What of the hellish orgies over the dead and wounded on our battle-fields? Away with the nauseous cant about Southern chivalry finer sentiments! It stinks in the nostril.
It amounts to nothing to say that there are at the South who abhor such things, and would be no means countenance them. So much the better indeed, for the individuals who, in the midst of more leprosy, can keep themselves clean. But and governing fact is, that such an <illegible> public sentiment exists at all. Though it be in ever so small a measure, it infects and characterizes the whole. The very claim that there are favorable exceptions, admits the indictment. Nor does it best the matter to say that it would have been difference with different social institutions. There is no deed of the fact, and there lies the rub. It is slave which, by a long course of demoralization, has Southern people selfish, tyrannical, profligate, dishonest, and as a natural consequence, ill-manners bad-hearted, and unamenable to any moral success or obligation.”

JOHN S. ROCK, ESQ.,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW.
No. 6, TREMONT STREET,: BOSTON
