THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRINDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO,6.
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance.
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed, (POST PAID,) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements of a square and over inserted three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisements inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, bu are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMOND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countryman are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL XXIV. NO. 23. BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 3, 1864. WHOLE NO. 1739.
<c01>
THE LIBERATOR.
MRS. E. CADY STANTON TO MRS. DALL.
NEW YORK, May 7, 1864.
MY DEAR FRIEND-I regret that any misapprehension, on your part, of the nature and purposes of the "Woman's National League," should have caused you the confusion your letter manifests. 
In your invidious insinuation of a concealed purpose, you reveal your man of straw, alone vulnerable to your attack.
The Call for the Convention was legitimately open for a public reply; but the League is in no way responsible for my private letters. Your paradoxical letter of fragmentary thoughts, thrown together without logic or arrangement, I have pondered as I would a Chinese puzzle; and after adjusting and readjusting its conflicting assertions, the following propositions are discernable:-
1st You deny woman's political rights; she may “interest herself in national questions.” but she may not, “dictate.”
2d. Her sphere is morals; she may not descend into vulgar politics. 
3d. She is ignorant of the science of government-wholly incompetent to judge of the political fitness of a tried man for the Presidency, while, with the accuracy of a thermometer, she measures a man's moral altitude the moment he enters her presence.
4th. She must not enter the political arena until invited; “an unauthorized interference never produces any good results.”
5th. Our Presidents are made by the direct flat of Heaven; not like Moses, to lead the people, but like the golden calf of the Israelites, to be adored and borne on our shoulders, wherever the popular tide may flow.
6. You say Mr. Garrison's stand-point for the last thirty years has not been the best one for sound political judgment of men and measures.
Now, on all these points I take issue with you, and gladly embrace this opportunity to reassert rights I had supposed settled, long ago, in all advance minds.
1. I believe the best interests of the nation demand the united, equal power and influence of man and woman, in politics, religion and social life; and woman will never “interest” herself in national questions until she feels she has a right to be heard. Experience and reason alike prove that the right to dictate, in all the practical affairs of life, belongs not to them only who are crowned with the glory of manhood.
2. For the moral position of the “Woman's National League,” I refer you to our report and resolutions, in which you will find that we, so far from descending into an electioneering caucus or political cabal, by the enunciation of principles, have lifted politics into the sphere of morals and religion. Our League, formed one year ago, pledging its members loyal to freedom, with the avowed object of educating the nation into the idea of a true republic, is the first and only organization of women for the declared purpose of influencing politics. In petitioning Congress for an act of emancipation, we began with the a, b, c, of human rights, and have thus made ourselves a power for freedom with the people and their representatives.
We differ from you in that, as we near the point of reconstruction, we see “reason for renewed effort in the coming Presidential campaign.” However faithful you may have been in the past, we, with the mass of Northern women, must mourn our want of vigilance-must plead guilty to the charge, that we have not guarded the tree of liberty with the care and earnestness they of the South have shown for their “peculiar institution.” Because a careful housewife has always guarded against fire and sparks and candles, is certainly no reason why she should “not sound a special reveille” when her house is in flames. 
3. The great difficulties in the exercise of civil power “not yet surmounted by man even after years of experience,” should, you say, “make woman pause before assuming responsibilities God has not conferred." To my mind these difficulties are not traceable to the intricacy of the problem of government, for justice is a simple thing, but to the blindness of man in not seeing that freedom and equality are the cornerstones of all just and stable governments. Perchance, with woman's help, he might more easily have unrolled the tangled skein that has so sorely perplexed him unaided and alone.
As to woman's ignorance of the science of government, we Americans are proverbial for our knowledge of politics and its machinery. When the wife of old John Adams rebuked him for the fatal compromises with slavery made in the Constitutional Convention, did she not show the higher statesmanship? 
In the exciting campaign of “Tippecanoe and Tyler too,” who so firmly and eloquently kept up the standard of freedom-who so thoroughly understood the momentous issues of that hour, as did Abby Kelley Foster! a name I ever speak with reverence. Have not women for the last twenty years taught our legislators higher laws of justice, and compelled them to clean their books of many barbarous statutes? What man did more than Anna Dickinson to save the election in Connecticut and Pennsylvania? The best word yet spoken on the vexed question of retaliation is by a Connecticut woman, in the Independent of May 5.
In dooming woman to modest silence, then commanding her to arraign her rulers before the judgment seat of the people by “moral rebukes,” “the stern stand and deliver,” your logic is like that of a fond mother who bade her son “never go near the water till he had learned to swim”; and your cruelty is only <Illegible> by the rude men in Titus Andronicus, who cut out the tongue and cut off the hands of the royal daughter, then bade her “go call for water, and wash her hands.”
In judging of our public men, I am at a loss to know by what plummet you sound their moral depths. You praise President Lincoln, who holds millions of human beings in slavery, with its wholesale licentiousness and concubinage, and denies the right of suffrage to free black citizens, while you the name of Gen. Butler, whose policy is freedom-the recognition of the manhood of the slave.
<c02>
Remember, in the black man we are settling the fundamental principles of morals and government. It is not a question merely of what shall we do with four millions of Africans, but what are the rights of man. President Lincoln's proclamations are a dead letter, unless backed up by the immortal declaration, “All men are created equal,” and our revolution to no purpose, unless in the reconstruction we realize that sublime utterance of the Fathers.
4. What progress should we have made in government if men had always waited for an invitation to take their rights and privileges? Would there have been a House of Commons in the English Parliament if the people had waited for the Lords to inaugurate the movement? Would our revolutionary Fathers ever have founded a republic, and repudiated the monarch and his throne, had they waited for the permission of George III.? Did Massachusetts or New York propose to give their women their rights of property, children and wages, before we ourselves made the demand? “No, no, an aristocracy never seeks to share its privileges.”
5. “If, through the uncertainties of politicians and the quarrels of demagogues, God led Abraham Lincoln to the executive chair” to clog the wheels of civilization, a dead weight on the people for education at the very moment they needed a pillar of light to go before them in the wilderness, who should say that Pierce and Buchanan were not given for the same purpose; and thus involve God in the absurdity of changing his politics once in four years, and dividing the heavenly hosts into Republicans and Democrats? To my mind, thus to bring God and the angels down into the “muddy pool of politics” would be far worse than for the daughters of the Pilgrims, “unauthorized,” even to share all the dangers and difficulties of this earthly sphere.
The day has passed for making Providence the scape-goat for all our ignorance and folly. Our duty is to study the immutable principles of right, and bring ourselves and the nation into tune with them. We do not propose to leave the next Presidency to chance, or guess, or wire-pullers, under the very shadow of executive patronage, but that the people, in mass convention, shall decide, for themselves, whom they will have of the men already tried. We do not want “an unknown man, pledged to nobody and nothing.” Neither do we want one pledged to slavery, as President Lincoln has ever been. Had I been asked who should be President in '61, I should have said, William H. Seward. Gen. Fremont was not thought of in that campaign, though a candidate in '56. The emergencies of the war have placed Generals Butler and Fremont before the nation, admired for their military genius, their statesmanship, their executive ability, and their broad views of human rights. If Gen. Butler should be chosen for our next President, your position would be a very painful one; for four long years you would not be able to write or speak the name of the executive of the nation; but under such Providence, perhaps you might “patiently learn the lesson” of the one term principle.
6. They who, outside the excitement and competition of a game, calmly watch the moves and chances, often see the results more clearly than those who play. In the conventions of politicians, in the speeches of acknowledged statesmen, either in our day or the past, where do you find deeper, broader, higher principles of policy and government than have been uniformly enunciated in our Anti-Slavery conventions? For the last thirty years, they have been the nation's school, where new measures have been candidly and severely criticised, and where our most liberal Christians, clearest logicians, earnest oratory and wisest statesmen, have taken their best lessons for the practical work of life. Who can say that Wendell Phillips, the advance man of this hour, would not be a safer pilot at the helm of government than Thurlow Weed, the American Talleyrand, and skilled as he is in all the arts of diplomacy and management?
Yours, sincerely,
E. CADY STANTON.

SLAVERY NOT YET DEAD.
APRIL 16, 1864
MR. GARRISON:
SIR:-At the time of the Decade meeting, much was said about slavery being dead, and therefore the Anti-Slavery Societies might disband, &c. It struck me then that slavery, though partially dead practically, was far, very far from being dead morally. Witness the slang of the Copperhead press, and speeches, in and out of Congress-the slurring of George Thompson, &c. Many are opposed to slavery because it is the cause of the war, and threatens to divide the Union, and for other like causes; not because it is a highhanded sin against God and humanity. And it appears to me there is yet a great work for Abolitionists to do, so as not to have it to do over again. The churches are not yet half awake. Surely, the moral aspects of the cause belong to them to present and enforce, while the politicians are pressing its political aspects. One and all should be up and doing, while “the people have a mind to work,” and while they can work.
May 26. You will see, by the date, that the above was written some little time ago. On reading the speeches at the meetings in New York, both of the Anti-Slavery Society, and also those of the Congregational re-union, I felt stirred to say one word more. It was observed by one speaker that the Lord was educating the people by this terrible war up to anti-slavery truths, or to that effect. And what an education we need, in order to have peace, and the Union as it should be; not as it was! Oh no, no!
To-day is the meeting of the New England Anti-Slavery Convention. Ah, how it would rejoice my heart to be with you, and hear the speeches.
If you can make any good use of these lines, well; if not, well. 	
A FRIEND TO THE CAUSE.
HARPER'S MONTHLY. Harper is on hand, with a rich table of contents. It opens with a chapter on the Cooley trade, with illustrations. Likewise the “Heir of Raymond Hill,” “Three Wives,” “Your Humble Servant,” “Our Mutual Friend.” The “Small House at Arlington is concluded. A capital number. A capital number. For sale by A. Williams & Co.
<c03>
NEW ENGLAND ANTI-SLAVERY CONVENTION.
The New England Anti-Slavery Convention assembled on Thursday morning, May 26th, in the Melonaon, the smaller hall of the Tremont Temple, which was densely filled at the time of opening the meeting, in spite of the customary easterly storm. 
The meeting was called to order by Samuel May, Jr. 
On motion of Mr. Draper, of Milford, a committee of five was appointed by the chair, to report a list of officers for the Convention, as follows:
E. D. Draper, of Milford; Benj. Snow, Jr., of Fitchburg; Joseph Merrill, of Danvers; Parker Pillsbury, of Concord; Elbridge Sprague, of Abington. 
Mr. May expressed his regret at the very limited space of the hall; the largest, however, that could be obtained for to-day's meeting.
The Committee on Nominations reported the following as the organization of the Convention:-
For President:
EDMUND QUINCY, of Massachusetts.
Vice Presidents:
BOURNE SPOONER, Plymouth, Mass.; 
JOHN T. SARGENT, Boston, Mass.;
MRS. ANNA T. DRAPER, Milford, Mass.;
ASA FAIRBANKS, Rhode Island;
CLARK GREENMAN, Connecticut;
JAMES HUTCHINSOU, JR., Vermont;
JEHIEL CLAFLIN, New Hampshire. 
Secretaries:
CHARLES K. WHIPPLE, Boston, Mass.;
AARON M. POWELL, Ghent, N. Y. 
Finance Committee.
Elbridge Sprague, Eben. D. Draper,
Joseph Merrill, Joshua T. Everett.
This list of officers was chosen by the Convention, and Mr. Quincy took the chair. 
SAMUEL MAY, JR., made a few introductory remarks, respecting the Anti Slavery associations which unite in this Convention, and the agencies employed in their work, and urging an active continuance in the labors appropriate to the cause. 
In concluding his statement, Mr. May said, in former years there was only one New England Anti-Slavery Convention held here during anniversary week. That, I need not say, was the Convention of the old Abolitionists. All the other great meetings of the week, of all the various sects, orthodox or heretic, alike disowned this great cause of justice, humanity, and freedom,-passing it by in haughty silence and indifference, or fulminating charges of infidelity and treason against it. But now, sir, we are only one of several New England Anti-Slavery Conventions held in this city this week. Nearly every meeting of any considerable numbers or interest, held this week, rejoices to declare itself in favor of the oppressed slave, and of his immediate emancipation. Do we regret this, sir? Shall we be sorry when, as Abolitionists, our “occupation is gone,” altogether? No, indeed! But we shall most fervently rejoice, and give thanks to Him, who, in this great and holy work, ever has been with us, as our Captain. Meantime, let us view these meetings of to-day and to-morrow as only the closing ones of one long New-England Anti-Slavery Convention, extending through the week, and be thereby refreshed for further service, until slavery is entirely dead and buried.
WILLIAM LLOYD GARRISON wished to speak very briefly. He had feared that, in such unpropitious weather, the meeting would be thin this morning. The numbers assembled show how active, and vital, and increasing is the interest felt in the cause here represented. Mr. Garrison proposed that, in view of the numbers probably desirous to speak, the time of speakers at the day sessions be limited to twenty minutes. A vote to that effect was passed.
The President announcing that addresses to the meeting were then in order,-
GEORGE THOMPSON was called for by many voices. In a few words, Mr. T. excused himself from speaking this morning, on the ground of indisposition, which had already obliged him to decline an invitation to the public breakfast of the Tract Society. 
Mr. W. R. COLE said he came from the State of Iowa, whose soldiers took the field for the purpose of liberating the slave, and whose people would sustain the Government as long as it labored for the slave, and no longer. He wished to say a practical word in favor of his brother, the negro. The freedmen find great difficulty in obtaining employment in their new position, and those who had wished their release from slavery should now make vigorous efforts to give them needful aid in gaining an honest living. Instances of friendly conduct to the negro, and others of the old brutal prejudice still continuing against him, were mentioned. He somewhat suspected the Anti-Slavery professions of those who did not allow their colored laborers to eat with them at their tables.
Rev. DAVID THURSTON of Maine, (the first signer of the Anti-Slavery Declaration of Sentiments at Philadelphia, in 1833,) next addressed the meeting. He had preached three sermons against the sin of slavery even before that Declaration was written; and in looking over those discourses recently, he had found the statement that slavery, if not put away, would assuredly involve us in strife and war.
He wished to repeat the testimony which he had often given against the wicked and deep-rooted spirit of caste, still so prevalent in this land. The eradication of this, he believed, would be even more difficult than the abolition of slavery.
Mrs. C. H. DALL did not expect to speak; but a woman's word may be timely. The customs of society are to be kept in mind, to some extent; and she objected to any rule being laid down for the social treatment of colored people different from that of white people. Colored people should neither be called into our social and domestic circles, nor excluded from them, on any different principle or rule from those which governed us in our treatment of white persons in like situations and circumstances. She illustrated her remarks in an interesting manner. She urged that every possible influence and help, to elevate themselves to a condition of admission to any place, should be faithfully and steadily held out to the colored people of the land.
S.S. FOSTER regretted the limitation of the twenty minutes rule. This he regarded as the most import ant meeting he ever attended. We are not here to end the rebellion, but to end slavery. The rebellion
<c04>
should not end till the black is the political equal of the white. What then is our present duty? We began with the purpose to secure immediate, unconditional abolition. Everything opposed to it must be removed, be it church, party, or government. We found the church against the slave, and we were compelled to leave the church. We found the government false to the slave, and had to separate ourselves from it. We have, for twenty years, warned our fellow-countrymen to vote for no one not unqualifiedly committed to the principles of immediate emancipation and full justice. We were asked by Mr. Sumner and other good men to vote for the best of two parties, but we could not vote for the least of two compromisers. Did we then teach correctly? If not, we should acknowledge our error; if we did, we should adhere. He believed the first duty to push the present administration to a higher level-next, to prepare to have it succeeded by a better. He was opposed to re-instating Mr. Lincoln. Mr. Lincoln confessedly has no sympathy with our cause. He has freed no slave save by necessity. Mr. F. commented upon the Hodges letter. Mr. Lincoln had returned ten slaves where any of his predecessors-Van Buren or Buchanan-had returned one.
Mr. MAY made some remarks on the advantage and necessity of a limitary rule for speakers; and of the fact, that Mr. Foster himself had proposed and advocated such on a recent occasion.
Mr. PILLSBDRY made objections to the limitation, and protested against favoritism in the allowance of speakers.
Mr. GARRISON vindicated the rule as expedient for the day-sessions. He did not rise to reply to Mr. Foster's speech, but was moved to speak to the immense contrast (brought to his mind by the appearance of his venerable friend, Rev. Mr. Thurston) between the prevalent sentiments existing in 1833, when he first met him in the Anti-Slavery Convention in Philadelphia, and at the present moment. He declared himself now, as heretofore, a man of peace, a non-resistant. In spite of the war, we have never had so much of peace in this country as now; never so much wealth; never so much unity; never so little national debt; because we have never had so much liberty.
Slavery knew that its fate was sealed when Abraham Lincoln was chosen. Every rebel detests him. Every pro-slavery man reviles him. There is then no doubt in my mind where my sympathies shall go in this matter. As to the President doing nothing for the negro as the negro, I submit that he must be judged by the circumstances and necessities of his position. He is chosen according to the Constitution, and under the limits of the Constitution. This contest does mean-Liberty on one hand and Slavery on the other, and we should recognize that fact, without demanding too much of the individual combatants or leaders. 
C. C. BURLEIGH agreed that the nation was never so little in debt. Its great debt was to the bondmen. It has begun to discharge that debt. Until recently, the debt has accumulated with the hope of repudiation; but repudiation only adds damages to interest. He agreed with a previous speaker that more fugitives have been returned, under the administration of Mr. Lincoln, than under any previous one; the opportunity and occasion have been greater. He had been ready to do all for slavery that the usual interpretation of the Constitution required. He issued the Proclamation of Emancipation, and sent a provisional Governor to Tennessee, and thereby confessed the old Constitution to be abrogated. But he had held back from his anti-slavery opportunities. He had not done his duty. He (Mr. B.) did not want, in an emergency like the present, a pilot who would, to use his own word, allow the ship of State to “drift.” He was honest, but only as politicians are honest. He may be most available; I leave that for politicians to determine; if it be true, I am sorry it is so.
Mrs. ABBY KELLEY FOSTER said-We hear about Abraham Lincoln's going to the extent of his Constitutional obligations to put down slavery. But it may fairly be asked-Has he gone to the extent of his Constitutional obligations to put down the rebellion? Seeing clearly that interference with slavery was the strongest instrument to oppose to the rebellion, he has used as little of that agency as possible. He preferred to shed the blood of loyal white men, rather than to free the slaves of the Border States. Let us never talk, on the Anti-Slavery platform, of the duty of judging men by their position, rather than by the claims of principle and righteousness.
HENRY C.WRIGHT read passages of Abraham Lincoln's writings in his defence against charges that have been made here against him. Several of the expressions read called forth applause from the audience.
He also read an extract of the proclamation of Jan. 1, 1863, declaring free the slaves in the rebel States, and promising the protection of the government to them.
Judge him, said Mr. W., by his words and acts; criticise as you may deem necessary; remember he was bound to go by his own judgment, not Mr. Garrison's, or Mr. Phillips's, or Mr. Foster's, or mine. He could not, as President, emancipate a single slave on the ground of justice. He was elected to preserve the nation, not primarily to’ abolish slavery; and he must respect the oath he had taken.
WENDELL PHILLIPS said he had a resolution to read, as follows:
Resolved, That we have read with unfeigned surprise in the editorial columns of the Anti-Slavery Standard of May 21st the following:-“We presume that almost all of those who have for the last twenty years stood out from political action will feel that they can use it at this juncture without covenanting with Death and agreeing with Hell”; and remembering that no member of the American Society has, as such, ever abstained from any kind of political action except voting, and that only because of the pro-slavery character of the United States Constitution, we are utterly ignorant how, that Constitution remaining to this day unchanged, any member who has for that reason abstained from voting can consistently do so.
He then proceeded to say-
I wish now to take as a text for a moment the opening sentence of the letter of Abraham Lincoln read by Mr. Wright.
He says be never knew what it was not to think slavery wrong. Yet, as a member of Congress, he added a pro-slavery clause to the bill offered by Mason of Virginia, for the rendition of fugitive slaves. I make these two points:-
<c05>
His anti-slavery belief has been consistent with his voluntary service of slavery, whenever it was brought into peril. 
He touched slavery only when it was indispensably necessary, and when he had exhausted every other possible method.
These are exactly the reasons why I oppose his reelection.
The rebellion broke out in 1861. Military necessity authorized him, from the moment he saw it would be an efficient weapon in the war, to attack slavery. The rebellion might perhaps be subdued, without touching Richmond; without infringing on the liberty of the press; without interfering with commerce. He assails all those points and many others, as soon as he sees the advantage of it. But he touches slavery only when everything else has failed. In thirty days, he crushes habeas corpus. He imprisons individuals. He suppresses newspapers.
But he touches slavery only after trying every other possible resource. It was obvious that an assault on slavery was the readiest, the most thorough, the most deadly weapon against slavery. Slavery had heretofore been only a tolerated nuisance. Lincoln has regarded and treated it as sacred.
Congress passed a law that negroes shall be employed as soldiers. Obviously, since the contrary is not expressed, the negro is to be treated like other soldiers. Lincoln does not see it. Only after nine months' delay, involving great suffering to the families of those soldiers, does he ask the Attorney General's opinion of the meaning of that statute. Why did he not ask it before?
He refuses the suffrage to the colored men of Louisiana when Bertonneau asks it. Why did he refuse? It would offend Gov. Bramlette. It would injure the Kentucky interest.
MR. GARRISON said he could best refute Mr. Phillips's speech by quoting his own eulogistic words of Mr. Lincoln. How can he reconcile these? Mr. Garrison proceeded to read and comment upon a recent speech of Mr. Phillips.
We ought to remember the condition of the country when Mr. Lincoln was inaugurated. The large Democratic minority threatened, and manifold dangers beset him on every hand. He has been in the midst of great opposition, as if upon a volcano. If any man ever deserved sympathy, it is Mr. Lincoln. I think that Mr. Lincoln ought not, in his Proclamation, to have exempted slavery anywhere; but he went as far as he thought the Constitution would justify him in going. Now, all of slavery should be included, I have signed petitions for the abolition of all slavery, for there is now the Constitutional power to do it. The covenant with slavery is annulled. I am not here to justify all Mr. Lincoln's acts; far from it I could criticise him freely; I have done so. But now is not the time for the usual Presidential electioneering. One who has given us such a series of anti slavery measures as Mr. Lincoln has, is, on the whole, well deserving to continue in office for another term.
WENDELL PHILLIPS said-Mr. Garrison acknowledges that Abraham Lincoln is not clear-sighted. (Mr. GARRISON-I meant, not as clear-sighted as I am! (Laughter.) But he must see with his own eyes.) That is my objection to him. The American nation, never stood in such peril as it does to-day. Mr. Lincoln is honest as I have said, Kentucky honest; but we need a man who both means well and sees well. I said to the President, a year ago,-The man who will execute the Proclamation should be our next President. For want either of clear insight or good meaning, the policy of that document has not been thoroughly carried out. But this is the very point most vital to our success. 
The President wants abolition, in a certain sense, but he is not willing to use the means for it. 
Why does he keep Blair in the possession of such power and patronage, all given to the support of slavery?
Three years of the Administration have given us the means of judging it. The President told me that Banks was a failure. Now, sixteen months after, he still remains. 
The President steadily refrains from doing anti-slavery work; and the reason is, because he doesn't want it done. 
Mr. Lincoln is honest, after a certain sort. But in hit later career, Thurlow. w Weed has shaken in his eyes the glittering bauble of the next Presidency. He looks to the conservative part of the nation for his election. He interferes with slavery, even now, just us little as he possibly can. 
The letter which Mr. Wright has read is one of the most mournful ever written. It says to the negro, you owe me no gratitude. I have done nothing intending your interest I have acted only on military necessity. 
The only sound basis for the reconstruction of this nation is black citizenship. Mr. Lincoln resists and opposes it. To do this work, I want a Butler and a Fremont.
I will be bolder than Mr. Garrison. In this hour we ought to and we may prejudge the future. 
Mr. LANCET said he had fought for $ 11 per month, having been with the First Massachusetts regiment from the beginning of the war. Would Mr. Phillips do as much? He spoke in defence of Mr. Lincoln; he didn't vote for Mr. Lincoln, having been doubtful of him on anti-slavery grounds, but confident fully in him now. As was said in Tremont Temple, the others evening, by a young chaplain of the Christian Commission, when Boston's peerless orator goes down upon his knees to ask counsel of God, as President Lincoln habitually does, then may the former properly criticise the latter. 
S. MAY, Jr. said that, since that remark of Mr. Duryea had been repeated in this Convention, he desired to say, for himself, that he regarded it as a piece of impertinent cant. It was of a piece with the talk, which we had so long been accustomed to hear of all the proslavery and slave hunting Presidents, whose praying, Bible-reading and Sabbath-keeping habits had a006Cways been cantingly paraded, as an offset for their acts of servility to slavery. And what right had Mr. Duryea to tell his audience, as he virtually did, that Mr. Phillips lived and labored without God in his great work? If their lives a man whose whole life should teach even the narrowest bigot a better lesson than that, that man is Mr. Phillips.
Adjusted to quarter before 3.
<c06>
AFTERNOON Mr. Sargent, one of the Vice Presidents, called the meeting to order, and introduced to the audience 
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN. Mr. Brown hoped the interest manifested in Presidential candidates would not prevent continued action for our peculiar work, the abolition of slavery. The old work of bringing the right and wrong of slavery before the hearts and consciences of men needs to be done now as much as ever, He was pleased with the remarks of Mrs. Dall in the morning. The blacks ask only their liberty, and the opportunity of acting and working for themselves. This was all that he and his brethren asked of the people of this nation. He spoke of the much that remains to be done in the Southern country, where the blacks have nothing more than the little that the Proclamation has done for them; their chains have been removed, it is true, but there is no recognition of their rights, and no fair chance for them to gain their own subsistence. Wherever such is given them, they will be able to take care of themselves. And the part of this Society is to plead their cause until they gain this opportunity.
We have heard much debate respecting Mr. Lincoln. I enter but little into it. The colored people of the country rejoice in what Mr. Lincoln has done for them, but they all wish that Gen. Fremont had been in his place. And Gen. Butler (having larger opportunity) has done far more than Fremont. He treated black men just as he treated other men, and that is what black men want. They want justice. And those who are disposed to do justice to all are the best persona to manage the present affairs of this country.
PARKER PILLSBURY introduced the following resolutions:
[By some mistake of the Secretaries, the resolutions of Mr. Pillsbury have not been handed to us, and, therefore, we are unable to print them in this connection.]-Ed. Lib.
Rev. Mr. CALTHROP, of England, had taken deep interest in the debate of the morning. As a comparison of views, it was good. If a prelude to a division of the Anti-Slavery forces of the country, he must say, God forbid! We know the friendship between Wendell Phillips and Mr. Garrison will not be broken; may the anti-slavery movement not be broken by them! The people now are inquiring of the great anti-slavery idea. We should be ready to suggest practical measures, that the inquiring nation may be saved. He thought that two errors had been committed by Abolitionists at the outset. The first, that they had too much committed themselves to non resistance. All begin to see that some wars are righteous methods in God's Providence. John Brown opened many eyes. He would encourage every man to go and strike a blow against oppression by the bayonet. The second error was uniting abolition and disunion.
Acknowledgment of these errors should be made. Let us see to it that there be no scatteration policy among the friends of freedom. Let them speak freely, but not separate; like the noble Gen. Rice, when dying, let us have our face turned to the enemy.
The Finance Committee were instructed to take collections of contributions for the expenses of the Convention.
Rev. SAMUEL MAY. JR. suggested the need of attention to the Financial question, and gave notice that the Financial Committee would now pass round to receive the contributions of the audience. 
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH said-Our friend from England, the last speaker, has told us of two mistakes made (as he thinks) by the Abolitionists. On the other hand, they have taken two most important precautions for the success of their enterprise. First, though not taking the specific ground of Non-Resistance, they determined, in laboring for the slave, to use only moral means, and decline the use of physical force. Next, they chose to show a practical consistency with their view of the pro-slavery character of the Constitution, and refused to employ political servants to act under the vicious provisions of that Constitution; that is to say, they refused to vote for Government officers. In these two particulars they showed their belief in and their reliance on sound principle. 
Rev. EDWIN THOMPSON thought Abolitionists did well to accept principles; but Mr. Calthrop was mistaken in thinking that any considerable number of Abolitionists had ever been non-resistants. 
God had raised up witnesses to appeal to slaveholders for their conversion. There had been continual differences and free discussion. We could listen to differences without being disturbed. The work would go on. Abolitionists did not have it all to do, though having a leading responsibility. John A. Andrew, Charles Sumner, Joshua R. Gidding, J. Q. Adams, were helpers. The power of God is in the cause; but we are not yet a repentant people. We have interfered with slavery only as a “military necessity.” We need to contribute largely to continue the moral agitation of the question. All men should be free and as brethren. God has made of one blood all nations of men. Garrison's name will live-those who mobbed him will be forgotten. Let us go forward in our work till there shall be no slave left in his chains.
Rev. JEHIEL CLAFLIN said-We don't ask on the Anti-Slavery platform what a man's religious or political belief is, but whether he is an Abolitionist. Our friend from England mistook in saying that the Abolitionists generally were non-resistants. One of the glories of the Anti-Slavery platform is that it tolerates all manner of opinions. We all think variously upon all subjects, except Abolition. He himself preferred to consider the moral rather than the political aspects of the subject, and he thought that those aspects were needed by the community still.
MR. MOORE, of Lynn, thought with a previous speaker that the Abolitionists had made a mistake in advocating disunion. No possible benefit could come from disunion. He believed in fidelity to moral principle. He did not believe in isolation. He would go into the world, and combat its evils. If he could not get all be desired, he would get all he could. Abolitionists ought to go to the ballot-box. This Government, bad as it was, was the best hope of the world. We must go forward, and try to roll back the dark wave of slavery. 
HENRY C. WRIGHT said-I have held one, and only one position on the subject of the slavery, namely, that it is a self-evident wrong, and the right of all men to liberty is a self-evident right. If the Bible, or the
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far so from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subjects, not only the <Illegible> OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES......From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, civil, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of Congress extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAR IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WIT, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of states, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasions or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY ITS ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and When MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. two hostile armies have are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.” J.Q.ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Constitution, or any document or human institution deny a self-evident truth, they are self-evidently false. Each must judge for himself what is true, and must follow his conviction as a thinking being.
I believe that the negro is the only name given under heaven whereby this nation can be saved. It cannot succeed, it cannot prosper, still less lead other nations to freedom, until it does justice to the negro This nation tried to carry on this war and suppress the rebellion without the negro. They were failing, sinking, and they cried to the negro, “Save us, or we perish!” The black men of the country magnanimously answered the call, and are now putting their shoulders to the wheel to save us. No more noble example of Christian forgiveness was ever shown. 
The negro is working his way to honor and a just consideration in this nation, and he will succeed, and compel the nation to confess its wrong towards him.
Before closing, Mr. Wright wished to call the public attention to the fact that the President had placed the noble Gen. Grant in his present position, and was upholding him there. Grant is unwilling that this contest shall be settled until slavery is utterly destroyed; and Lincoln sustains and maintains him.
EDMUND QUINCY Esq., would point out the error of two speakers who had assumed that the abolitionists had refused to vote in order to promote the abolition of slavery. This was not their reason. They refused the ballot to preserve their personal honor; they would not swear to do that which they would not, and ought not, in person, or by another, perform. They could not accept political influence in violation of conscience. As dissenters in England were affected by test oaths, so the abolitionists had been debarred from political action here. But we are happy to believe that our position has been efficient for good results in political affairs.
MR.LAWSON said—We all have a right to criticise. He had stood by the side of black soldiers in the field, and could frankly testify that they had not been well treated. The annals of this war will show no courage, fortitude, fidelity, superior to that of the colored troops. Even the Tract Society now dares to praise the black man, and to talk about citizenship for him. Slavery is dead, though it in yet quivering in Kentucky. Let the black men go on as they have done, and they will yet shame this nation into giving them their rights, and an equal citizenship. Colored children, even now, are singing the John Brown song and the star-spangled banner in the house of Governor Wise. The Southern freedmen are now owning as well as working the lands at Hilton Head; and they are to be landholders and citizens all over the South. They built a school-house at Hilton Head even before any school-master was ready. All these things are most encouraging for the future.
HENRY C. WRIGHT asked what Mr. Lawson knew of any aid which the President had given to these movements of the colored men.
MR. LAWSON knew nothing upon that subject. He had had the good fortune to be at the front, and to be occupied with the work there; and he thought that some of the soldiers at the front and some of the President's councellors might advantageously have changed positions. The old hunkers and democrats are getting converted by the war. It is the negro soldiers who will emancipate the slaves.
Mr. LAWSON could testify that there had been much prayer and religious feeling in the Confederate army in Stonewall Jackson's time; now he thought it was exceeded in Gen. Grant’s army, and, therefore, he thought, we should be victorious. 
Adjourned to half past seven.
THURSDAY EVENING. Mr. QUINCY in the Chair.
Rev. A. T. Foss, of New Hampshire, said he had been full of hope, both before and since the present rebellion. He thought, with Mr. Garrison, that there was more peace now in this country than ever before. He thought Gen. Grant a better laborer for peace than Secretary Beckwith of the Peace Society. He had undergone severe family losses in the war, but he was ready to lose life itself, if necessary, in the cause of freedom.
Whatever differences of opinion exist among us in regard to measures, he felt sure we were agreed in principle. He thought also that Mr. Lincoln was disposed to do right. To be sure, Chase, or Fremont, or Butler would do better, but neither of them can be elected. If we must have Mr. Lincoln, let us by all means have the criticisms of Mr. Phillips, and Mr. Foster, and Mrs. Foster, to urge him forward.
Mr. Lincoln, after all, does something. The return of fugitive slaves is practically stopped. The colored soldiers are to have full pay. We are making progress. 
Great progress has been made in this city. The colored regiments in its streets have shown an immense change. If we are faithful to our trust, this progress will continue until the work of freedom shall be perfected. To insure the true liberty of white men, we must insure the freedom and the rights of the blacks. Thank God for it.
I accept Wendell Phillips’s criticism. On the other hand, I accept the favorable view taken by Mr. Garrison of the reelection of Abraham Lincoln. I will rather accept him for four years more than run the risk of McClellan, or any Copperhead of that sort.
Let us not hesitate about the danger of debt, in so rich a country as this. Neither will I find fault for the suppression of the habeas corpus. Let it be suspended as long as the necessity lasts. We will have it back again when we want it. [FOSTER: If you can get it.] If we can get it? We will have it, whether or no.
When liberty comes, we must all say—Not unto us, not onto us, but unto thy name, O Lord, be the glory! Abraham Lincoln will deserve no praise for it. The Republican party will deserve no praise. All of us have come short of our duty.
Mrs. ABBY KELLEY FOSTER would remind those who attended our Conventions in former years, that our discussions are very much like those which prevailed then. A choice of candidates! Twenty-four years ago to-ay, in Faneuil Hall, the question of how we shall vote was under consideration—many of the Abolitionists were inclined to be Whigs. We took the ground at that Convention, that whoever voted for a Governor, candidate, or church, became himself guilty through an agent. We took the ground that e would do right ourselves, let the consequences be what they may. Duty is ours—events are God’s. " Do right, though the heavens fall.” Our business is to preach absolute righteousness; that there is no safety except in absolute justice. Accept no small evils which are sure to prove to be large ones. Are we to give up our old position? Then we become not an Anti-Slavery Society, but a political party. We had settled this question of policy.
Mr. PHILLIPS followed with a strong speech in opposition to the administration, which we do not attempt even to sketch, for the reason that the substance of it was repeated the next evening at Tremont Temple, and that speech will be given in full hereafter.
S. S. FOSTER did not quite agree with Mr. Phillips. He regarded the Constitution now, even with the pro-slavery interpretation, as giving full control over slavery; therefore Fremont could be voted for. Fremont, as President, would entirely abolish slavery. 
Mr. FOSS replied to Mrs. Foster, that he also wished to be a fanatic as long as he lived. He was not ignorant of the old debates of the Anti-Slavery Society, but there had been a greet change within twenty-four years. [Mrs. Foster: f principle?] No; principles had not changed, but liberty was in danger, and he believed the election of Lincoln was the better way to insure its preservation.
Mr. May gave a financial notice, and then the President announced—
H. C. Wright. Mr. Lincoln, like Mr. Phillips, believes the Constitution pro-slavery. He has sworn to execute it as he believes it. Why should he not execute it?
<c02>
Mr. Phillip objects to Abraham Lincoln. Why? 
Now he presents another candidate, as he has a right to do. Now I want Wendell Phillips to show us that his candidate has better anti-slavery antecedents than Abraham Lincoln.
What are the anti-slavery antecedents of Fremont? What has he done since the rebellion broke out, except issuing that proclamation?
The Convention then adjourned, to meet in the Tremont Temple, to-morrow, at 10 A. M. 

FRIDAY MORNING. 
The President, Mr. Quincy, in the chair. 
The Resolutions offered at previous sessions were read by the Secretary.
Mr. May read the following Resolutions by request of Mrs. Dall; also reading, in connexion, a statement of an eminent loyalist of Missouri, rehearsing the circumstances of the present status of the black man there; he moved the reference of the Resolutions to the Business Committee, which was voted:—
Resolved, That with deep thankfulness to God, and in grateful recognition of all human agencies, we congratulate the State of Missouri on being the first, not merely of the loyal States, but of the world's nations, voluntarily to emancipate her own slaves, without compensation.
Resolved, That while we gratefully recognize in the Emancipation Ordinance of Missouri the substantial triumph of an anti-slavery principle, we do it only in the confident hope that, by a speedy convention of her people, she will wipe the last mark of the stain from her statute-book.
Mr. TOOHEY wished to make a general statement in regard to the people called "Spiritualists," that, as a body, they are neither pro-slavery nor anti-slavery?
 He wished also to explain, that the manifestly pro-slavery character of the Irishmen in this country is not to be attributed to their nationality, but to the ill-training they have received from the Democratic leaders of this country.
Rev. Mr. BILLINGS, formerly Lieut. Colonel of the first South Carolina Regiment of colored men, was next introduced to the Convention.
No subject, he thought, could be fitter for our consideration than the character of the men now in trial for election to the next Presidency.
There are two kinds of greatness, that of position merely, and that of character. The person in question, a man high in position, has told us-“I do not make events; events make me." It seems to me that this is an unworthy speech for a man holding so much power in his hands, and more able than any man in the nation to shape events at his pleasure.
We have been told of Mr. Lincoln's prayers, as one of the evidences of his fitness for his function. But, judging from his administration, he seems to have prayed more to the Border States than to the Creator. (Applause and hisses.) Is Mr. Lincoln great by position, or by character? Birds of a feather flock together. Who are Mr. Lincoln's, officers and associate?
Mr. Billings commented upon some persons who had received office from the President, in spite of the disqualifications of gross intemperance and disloyalty in their characters.
Now, as to the pay of colored soldiers. I recruited my men under the promise of the Secretary of War that they should have the regular pay of soldiers. For the first seven months, they did have the regular pay, both privates and non-commissioned officers; afterwards the pay was cut down, and the non-commissioned officers were paid only as private.
Mr. GARRISON presented the petition, now in course of circulation by the Women's National League, praying Congress to immediately abolish slavery throughout the country, and that the Constitution may be amended so as forever to prohibit slavery in every part of the country.
Mr. J. C. CLUER asked and received permission to read to the Convention some brief remarks of Mrs. Spence (before a Spiritualist Convention) in favor of slavery.
Mr. BRADLEY, (colored,) of Boston, declared himself in favor of Old Uncle Abe, (applause,) but yet made certain particular exceptions against him, namely:—his refusal of the suffrage to the colored men of Louisiana—his exception of certain parts of the South from the Emancipation Proclamation—his drafting colored men as soldiers, when he would not allow them to be citizens—and his refusal to allow colored officers to colored soldier.
STEPHEN S. FOSTER moved to take up the resolutions offered yesterday, and to take vote upon them at this session.
Mr. MAY hoped the Convention would not bind itself to action at any particular session.
Mr. GARRISON stated that the custom had been to delay action till the close of the meeting.
Mr. FOSTER replied, that thus many of those who had heard the debates were not present at the final vote. It was on that very account that he moved for action immediately following the debate.
Mrs. FOSTER spoke briefly in favor of the motion. 
The vote being taken, was declared by the President to be in the negative.
The vote being doubted, was repeated, with the same result.
Mrs. FOSTER moved that the vote on these resolutions be taken at 4 o'clock this afternoon.
Decided in the affirmative.
By request, the resolutions offered by Mr. PILLSBURY were then read by the Secretary.
Mr. MAY gave notice of the usual action of the Financial Committee at this time, requesting donations and pledges to the cause for the coming year. He also read a letter from a lady, of Plainfield, Conn., enclosing twenty dollars to the Convention. 
PARKER PILLSBURY then addressed the audience. 
Various Anti-Slavery associations, including the Church Anti-Slavery Society and the Emancipation League, have discovered that the moral work of Abolition yet remains to be done. Holding, myself, this idea, and seeing that the Government and the political parties are trusting mainly to operations in the field, I hold it to be our work to push forward the moral revolution in regard to slavery.
The church is right in saying that without repentance there is no remission of sins. The government does not depend upon justice, nor attempt to execute it. The nation is not penitent, nor disposed to reform. We are yet dead in trespasses and sins.
In regard to the President, I think he has well redeemed the promise be made in his inaugural address. He then said he had no objection to the pro-slavery guarantees of the Constitution being made permanent. This has been the key to his subsequent course?
He told a delegation of colored men who waited upon him—“—" You and we are of a different race; and emancipation will not bring you to equality with us.” This also is consistent with his conduct and policy ever since.
Mr. GARRISON said—
Why bring up this interview between the colored people and the President now? My friend Mr. Pills bury has, of late, nothing but accusation and condemnation for the President. I criticise some acts of Mr. Lincoln, and approve others. We must candidly consider both. We must be just, and state things fairly on both sides. (Great applause.) As to the matter of Colonization, Mr. Pillsbury omits to state that the colonization at Avache, Hayti, having failed, Mr. Lincoln had sent and brought all the colonists back to this country.
GEORGE THOMPSON next took the floor. His heart, he said, was full, but his health was inadequate to the full expression of his feelings.
He must commence with the most earnest congratulations on the progress which our cause has made. He had been amused to hear the injustice which had been used by some in speaking of the character and
<c03>
conduct of President Lincoln. (Immense applause.) His sense of justice had been violated by such treatment of the chief magistrate of America. (Tumultuous applause.)-Who has occasioned the progress which our cause has made? Have the copperheads, I have the rebels done it? We in England watched your progress with the extremest interest. We knew at first nothing of Mr. Lincoln. I sought information respecting his history, his views and principles. I judged him with the eye of an abolitionist, and by my own unbiassed sense of right and justice. (Mr. Thompson here read a passage from one of Mr. Lincoln's speeches in his debate with Stephen A. Douglas, which he said he would rather have been the author of than of all the eloquence of Burke.) Thank God that you have for your President the man who has uttered such words! (Great applause.) Now we look at your country, and see a total change. My wonder is, how so much could have been brought about.
Far be it from me to detract from the value of criticism: but its value will be proportioned to its justice. Your government was a pro-slavery, it is now an anti-slavery government.
(Mr. THOMPSON'S time being finished, it was moved and unanimously voted that he be requested to proceed.)
You were formerly trying to make freedom national, and slavery sectional. Now freedom is national. Now representatives from negro republics are sent to Washington, and honorably received there. The recognition of Hayti and Liberia were not acts of military necessity. Much complaint has been made of the President's use of these words, but they have served an important use in the phase of your nations ideas.
Mr. THOMPSON replied to complaints made against the President in regard to negro citizenship, and other matters, and claimed that no cause for despondency exists in regard to the work of national renovation.
There are now nearly ten months remaining of Mr. Lincoln's incumbency in office. If you should, instead of debating about the next election, turn your unanimous efforts towards the establishment and confirmation of a public sentiment so strongly anti-slavery as to permit his further advance in that direction, your present troubles might be settled before the time of reelection arrives.
A. M. POWELL, of New York, addressed the Convention in an argument to show that the colored population of the country had been ignored at first, and subordinated afterwards, to the greatest extent possible; and that the Administration's intention, judging it by its acts, was to leave this portion of the people with the fewest possible rights and immunities, while getting from them the greatest possible service.
Adjourned to quarter before 3.

FRIDAY AFTERNOON.
The President in the Chair.
WILLIAM WELLS BROWN was the first speaker. He spoke of the importance of reviewing our ground, ascertaining our exact position, and assuring ourselves of the nature and amount of the work yet before us.
Slavery has received a severe, it may be a fatal blow. Yet the colored man has everything yet to fear. Even when Grant's army shall be successful, we, the colored people, will be yet in danger. The advantages that we have so far received have come as much through Jeff. Davis as through President Lincoln. This war was begun with the purpose of restoring the nation as it was, and leaving the black man where he was. Now the time has come when you must recognize the black man as on the same footing with the white man. If not, the mission of the war is not ended, and we must have yet more disasters to scourge us into the right way.
WILLIAM A. DAVIS, (formerly coachman of Jefferson Davis.)
The prayers of Mr. Lincoln have been referred to repeatedly. I judge a man not so much by his praying as by what he does after he prays. I believe that no where in the world is there so much praying as in the South, nor so much deviltry.
I was born a slave. And I lived one until after Gen. Butler went to New Orleans. Then I thought the time had come for me to be free, and I began to pray, and also to act. And I made my escape.
In the South, all the slaveholders hated Abraham Lincoln, and cursed and abused him. That made us think Mr. Lincoln was on our side, and I shall now take a bright view of his character.
The Anti-Slavery work is not yet done. When the black man is forced into the army with inferior pay, and the refusal of the rights of a citizen, it is plain that the work necessary for that people is not yet finished.
Some of the speakers here have painted Mr. Lincoln in very black colors. I shall now notice some of the good things he has done. It has been said that more fugitives have been returned to slavery under Mr. Lincoln than under any other President But it is fair to observe also that more slaves have been emancipated under him than under any other President.
The difficult time for this country will be when the rebels have been whipped, and the work of reconstruction begins. Then we must take care that slavery is buried so deep as not to rise again even in the morning of the resurrection.
The time having arrived when the question was appointed to be taken upon Mr. Pillsbury's resolutions, they were again read by the Secretary.
Mr. Garrison read two resolutions, and moved that they be substituted for those offered by Mr. Pillsbury: 
Resolved, That the progress of the Anti-Slavery cause, since the rebellion broke out,—in view of the fearfully divided state of public sentiment and feeling toward the negro race throughout the North, almost verging upon bloody civil war at our own doors,—has been truly wonderful, and far beyond our most sanguine expectations; that among the signal evidences of this progress are the treaty with Great Britain for the utter suppression of the foreign slave trade the recognition of the citizenship of all native-born colored inhabitants—the enrolment of tens of thousands of free colored and governmentally emancipated slaves as soldiers under the flag, recognized by the decision of Attorney General Bates as entitled to equal compensation with white soldiers—the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia—and, above all, the proclamation of President Lincoln, emancipating forever more than three millions of the slave population; and, taking encouragement from the past, we would respect fully but earnestly urge the President to use his utmost constitutional power to secure equal rights for all under the national flag, without regard to complexion all distinctions, and to promptly and effectually discountenance all acts on the part of his subordinate violative of those rights.
Resolved, That with equal earnestness we call upon Congress, before its adjournment, to give heed to the numerous petitions of the people to pass a law abolishing slavery universally in the land, and to amend the Constitution of the United States so as to make slave holding in any State an illegal act. 
STEPHEN S. FOSTER said—
The resolution offered by Mr. Garrison as a substitute states something positively false. Our government has not recognized the citizenship of the negro.
Mr. GARRISON pointed out the ground and reasons for the statement.
Mrs. FOSTER wished to ask whether Mr. Lincoln, who urged the rebels to lay down their arms that they might keep their slaves, would not have kept his part of the bargain if they had accepted it.
A very animated and exciting debate followed, of which the Secretaries were unable to furnish any report. Those who took part in it were CHARLES C. BURLEIGH SAMUEL MAY, Jr., PARKER PILLSBURY Rev. Mr. DAVIS of Haverhill, and others.
Mr. Garrison accepted an amendment to his Resolution.
Adjourned to half past 7 o'clock.
<c04>
EVENING. The Temple was crowded to overflowing in the evening, and speeches were made by PARKER PILLSBURY, WENDELL PHILLIPS,. WM.LLOYD GARRISON, GEORGE THOMPSON, and CHARLES C. BURLEIGH—the first two, with Mr. Burleigh, taking ground against the President and the Administration, the other speakers defending them. The debate was exceedingly interesting and animated, and kept the audience until a. late hour. The friends and opponents of the Administration appeared to be about equally divided, and the rivalry between them, in the expression of approbation and disapprobation, caused, at times, considerable tumult.
At the conclusion of the speeches, the question was taken on the substitution of the resolutions offered by Mr. Garrison for those of Mr. Pillsbury, and the Convention refused to substitute them. Mr. Pillsbury's resolutions were then adopted, and (an amendment having been made to them) the resolutions offered by Mr. Garrison were also adopted.
Mr. POWELL then offered the following resolutions, which were adopted:—
Whereas, We believe slavery to have been the prolific source of our past national troubles, to be the primary cause of the present iniquitous rebellion, and, as protected in the fundamental law of the nation, to be threatening to the future of the Republic; therefore,
Resolved, That we respectfully but earnestly request of Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, by special message, to recommend, and of the House of Representatives to adopt, an article as an amendment of the Constitution of the United States which, when ratified by three-fourths of the Legislatures of the loyal States, shall be valid as part of said Constitution, namely: That neither slavery nor in voluntary servitude, except as. a punishment for crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction; and that Congress shall have full power to enforce the article by appropriate legislation.
Resolved, That the President of this Convention be instructed to transmit copies of the foregoing resolution to the President of the United States, and to the House of Representatives, through the Hon. Thomas D. Eliot, of Massachusetts, Chairman of the Committee on Slavery.
The Convention then, at 11 1-4 o'clock, adjourned. 
[A full report of the proceedings of the last evening will be printed next week.]

The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, JUNE 3, 1864.
The Editor of the Liberator is absent this week, attending the Yearly Meeting of the Progressive Friends at Longwood, pa.

THE TWO CONVENTIONS.
The New England Anti-Slavery Convention, whose proceedings, last week, are reported, in large part, in this paper, was attended by crowded audiences throughout its two days' sessions, and was marked, from beginning to end, by earnestness and vigor of debate. This debate turned very largely, as will be seen, upon the desirableness or undesirable-ness of a reelection of Abraham Lincoln to the Presidency. In regard to the expediency of this measure a decided diversity of opinion was manifested among the oldest and firmest friends of the Anti-Slavery cause, and a similar diversity appeared among the audience, dividing them not very unequally between preference for Mr. Lincoln, on one hand, and for some representative of more radical ideas and measures on the other. The speeches of the debaters were followed with the deepest interest, and vigorous applause was frequently given to the speakers on each side. The same divided opinion was manifest in the final votes upon the resolutions, so that, though a large number voted, (staying until 11, P. M., for that purpose,) the decisive majority was not great. For specimens of intense and fervid eloquence this meeting has hardly been exceeded.
The Radical Political Convention which met this week at Cleveland, Ohio, in pursuance of a Call is sued by Gratz Brown of Missouri and others, has finished its sessions and adjourned.
An attempt to nominate Grant for the next presidency met with no encouragement. The nomination of Fremont was enthusiastic and unanimous. Among the delegates to the Convention from New England were Parker Pillsbury and Stephen S. Foster. A letter sent by Wendell Phillips to the Convention, and also the resolutions passed by it, will be found in other columns.
It will be noticed, in the resolutions adopted by the Cleveland Convention, that no mention is made of the freedmen, or of the colored soldiers of the Republic, of their claim to protection, or of the injustice the latter are suffering by the refusal to pay them as other troops are paid; nor of the question of retaliation for the barbarities of Fort Pillow and elsewhere. Nor is the claim of the freed slaves to a share in the confiscated lands of the South, anywhere recognized,—" soldiers and settlers” being the only parties named as entitled to these lands, leaving it uncertain who are meant by “settlers." According to the report in the Journal, Stephen S. Foster and others opposed the fifth resolution, which declares that “the rebellion has destroyed slavery.” This, Mr. Foster pronounced to be "a lie," and said its adoption would take away their principal argument against Mr. Lincoln's administration. It was, however, adopted. Nor do we find a word of the necessity of recognizing the colored man as a citizen, or giving him the right to vote. We ask, with no little surprise and misgiving of mind, Is this the lofty moral and anti-slavery platform, which the friends of General Fremont were to give us? But we await a fuller report of the Convention's proceedings.

THE ABOLITIONISTS—THE FREEDMEN.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The Abolition movement had two objects; the immediate, unconditional emancipation of the slave, and the elevation and enfranchisement of the colored race; and I presume that nobody with the love of justice and right in the heart, and the idea fully in the head, that the negro is a man, and not merely a “nigger,” ever read the Declaration of Sentiments at Philadelphia, but became an Abolitionist. Until both these things are accomplished, emancipation and enfranchisement, the work of the Abolitionists is not accomplished. The great motive power of the Abolitionists was the conscience; justice and right demand it. The President, in his letter to Mr. Hodges, says that he, too, has a conscience, that he thinks slavery wrong, (the first intimation of his, I think, that I have seen of it. but he is careful to assure him that he had done no official act in mere deference to this abstract judgment. The President also tells the New Orleans delegation of colored men, in regard to the right of suffrage, that he has nothing to do with moral considerations; it must be a necessity of war. He lacks power. But if B F. Butler, instead of N. P. Banks, had been in command, and had summoned all, without distinction, instead of the white, merely, does anybody doubt that his power would have been ample to have countermanded the order or proclamation, or to have modified it?
 But let us look at his power in another direction. The President is very sensitive as to his oath of office to support the Constitution. Now, whatever other defects there may be in that instrument, there is nothing that gives any countenance whatever to this "nigger" idea, which led the President to the recommendation of expatriation. Did not his private
<c05>
abstract idea prevail and influence him here? Was it not the military necessity of using the negroes at home, as soldiers at present, alone, that prevented its being carried into execution? Secretary Blair, who was said to represent the President, on the 17th of June last year, at Concord N. H., assured the people that it would be done when these circumstances ceased to exist. But the President admits that he cannot control circumstances, but that they control him. The Constitutions, (Art. 4, Sec. 4,) guarantees to every State a republican form of government.
Now, to learn what a republican form of government is, we will go to the revolution. The Declaration says, all men are created equal; that is, equal in rights, or equal before the law. It says also, that all just powers of the government are derived from the will of the governed. The principle contended for was that taxation and representation should go together. Now, negroes are governed, and they are taxed, and republicanism requires that they should have the right of suffrage.
Next the Constitution itself: the preamble says, “We the people;" not we the white people, nor we the black people;, it does not say we the Protestants, nor we the Catholics, but we the people. The Constitution is entirely clear of any caste or distinction of color, race, or religion.
Now I maintain that when the President recommends expatriation of any portion of the "people," or by his amnesty proclamation prevents any portion of the loyal people, on account of their race or color, joining in the formation of a republican State government, he is acting from his own abstract feelings, (I dare not say judgment,) and violates the Constitution in its letter and spirit. I go further; I maintain that he has no more right to let the government General Banks is getting up in Louisiana exist there, than he has to let the rebel government exist there; or to let Maximilian set up his throne there, because it is not a republican form of government, and is therefore not constitutional. Neither is it a necessity of war. If precedent there and in other States be argued, even on the ground of Judge Taney, that does not change either facts or principles. Slavery and colonization and many other abominations have their precedents, but it makes them neither right nor constitutional.
Slavery itself is by no means at an end. but by the stubbornness of the rebels and by an overruling Providence we may have reasonable hope that it may be, after a while. But the great work of the Abolitionists now is to see that the freedmen are something more than mere serfs. Maryland will probably emancipate, but there is no probability that she will give the negro the right of suffrage.
As some people on the “anxious seat" wish to do just enough to escape from hell and get to heaven, so the government and the people mean to do just so much against slavery and for the slave as will save the Union, and we are compelled to drift onward. But, in spite of all the wrong and all the stubbornness of the U. S. House of Representatives, there is much that is cheering in what the Woman's organization is doing for the freedmen; even the Nassau Street Tract Society is in the current.
B. CHASE.
Auburn, N. H.

RETALIATION.
The most fiendish chapter of ancient brutality pales before the official intelligence of the Fort Pillow tragedy. It is the choicest legacy of Southern chivalry, which the future-historian in shame will record. The emblazoned characters which will reveal to the world the magnitude of their hellish plot, will also bequeath to them that just retribution which their acts so justly, deserve. There are no mitigating circumstances: which lessen Southern guilt. Their course was not prompted by the excitement of the battle-field, neither was it planned for gaining by strategy military advantage. It was simply the base concessions made to a depraved heart which yielded the superior claim of honor to the ignoble suggestions urged by the lowest considerations of a murderous heart. This act gives the strongest evidence of their mutinous policy, which they have so persistently followed, since our! constitutional flag was wrenched by treacherous hands from the stony walls of Sumter. Their ensign of infamy may be dyed in loyal blood, but even this cannot redeem it from its appointed work of treason—would the savage gleam new experience. The tomahawk and scalping-knife were never dedicated to such unholy work. The war-hoop is usurped by the damnable curses breathed by the agents of hell. The world, one vast arena of bloodshed and death, in its journey through countless ages fails to find its parallel; and it is the plain duty of the historian of the 16th century, to relate the story of Southern butchery. Treason has reared its colossal temple in which demons may offer the sacrifice of their unprofitable lives, but loyalty will wreck the labor of fiends, and rear a monument upon the smouldering ruins of despotism, which shall bear the simple inscription—" All men are born free and equal.”." Treason will yield the sceptre of human bondage, and our hands will lay the corner stone of a republic, built upon, justice, equality, and the right. Pause, and meditate upon the inglorious victory and barbarity of Fort Pillow! What infamous torture! Innocent blood crimsoned the murderer’s hand consigned to the errand of death. Draw those iron bolts from bleeding hands, and let the world gaze upon the colored shafts of agony and death.
Shall we pursue a retaliative measure? The voice of the nation makes but a single appeal—not one of mercy, but urges the demands of justice. What code of civilized warfare would justify such national butchery? Has honor no claims of retribution? The patriot willingly sacrifices his life for his country's good and honor, but what hero can feel secure against a death which adds no glory to the cause which a devoted life sustained. He who dies upon a battle-field in a just cause fills an honorable grave, and no chiselled marble can relate the sacrifice which he made; but the moment his life is sacrificed for the purpose of gratifying the lowest passions of a depraved heart, that moment the cause which demanded his blood has a right to retaliate upon such grounds as justice may entreat. Let no loyal heart advocate a retaliative course prompted by revenge, but let such a measure be adopted by the proper authorities as will guarantee the brave defenders of liberty that, if they meet death, it shall be in honorable conflict, and that their bodies shall not be the chopping blocks of an infuriated and reckless mob. Let the Government endorse this guarantee, and our army will be inspired with new life and hope; and God alone shall crown the result with speedy victory. Then shall the "battle-cry of freedom" impart a holier melody, and we shall advance one step near justice, which urges her holiest claims in behalf of a race that is slowly advancing to take its; place among the civilized nations of the world.
H. K. M.
Blackstone, May, 1864.

ANTI-SLAVERY IN A SPIRITUAL CONVENTION.
BOSTON, May 31, 1864
EDITOR LIBERATOR: 
SIR—I was requested to furnish you with copies of resolutions adopted by the Spiritual Convention at their late six days' session in this city, especially the Anti-Slavery resolves, which were adopted with a tremendous yea, after an animated discussion, with but three nays—one of whom was Rev. Robert Thayer. One gentleman who sympathized with the resolutions voted against them on the ground of policy-as he thought the Convention ought not to pass any political resolutions. The third “Nay” know nothing about.
Respectfully yours,
D. B. WILSON,
Secretary of Convention.
The following is the Anti-Slavery portion of the resolves referred to:—
Resolved, That while we deplore the many horrors attending war, and deeply sympathize with the be-
<c06>
reaved and the suffering at home, in hospitals and on battle-fields, at the same time our spiritual philosophy enables us to rejoice in view of the grand issues involved in the terrible conflict now raging in our country, and destined to triumph in radical revolutions inaugurating a new era in the progress of humanity.
Resolved, That we hail with joy the proclamation of freedom from chattel slavery as forerunner of the broader proclamation of freedom from the slavery of caste, creed, society, eclesiasticism, political partyism, and everything fettering the soul and body of man or woman.
Resolved that we hail the prospective overthrow and annihilation of the Southern Slave Oligarchy, as prophetic of the impending fate of every other false and infernal rebellion seeking to lift its hydra head against the rights and liberties of humanity.
Resolved, That in the breaking up of the Union and old political parties , and the disruptions, now agitating every department of our country, we see hopeful signs of a future reconstruction and the coming age of harmony.
Resolved, That we welcome, with heart full joy and gratitude, the war worn veterans who come back to their homes, bearing the marks of glory and honor to live in the sacred memory of all the time; and we send our warmest sympathies and encouragement to the thousands now in the army of our country, ready to thousands now in the army of our country, ready to soak the earth with their blood in defence of the principles of our government, and of the freedom we are permitted to enjoy on this platform, and wherever float the stripes and stars.
Resolved, That while we may not regard our government perfect in any of its various departments, at the same time we pledge ourselves in true and uncompromising loyalty for its defence, grateful for its protection in, our behalf, even while we take the liberty to question its laws and policies; and agitate the need of reform.
Resolved, That in the midst of this great warfare, while millions are mourning, and hundreds of thousands are marching to battle, we are to turn our gaze heavenward, and in communion with the myriad angel hosts, find our highest hopes and consolations, and receive those celestial counsels and co-operations needed to conduct our nation on in peace and prosperity.
Whereas, Slavery, whether chattel, social, civil or religious slavery, is a compromise of human right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and involves the sum of all villanies, therefore 
Resolved, That all palliations and apologies for its existence and perpetuity based on the fact, that slavery is an out growth of bad conditions and has disciplinary uses, are slaveocratic secessionism in the thin disguise of maudlin sophistry and morbid sentimentalism, and the same palliations and apologies might be put forth for the existence and perpetuity of theft, arson, treason, rape, murder and every other abomination under heaven.

JOHN BROWN.
MR. GARRISON:—In his remarks on “The Fort Pillow and Plymouth Massacres,”(Liberator May 6,) in speaking of John Brown, Gerrit Smith says: “Some of the judgments of John Brown—especially such as led him to Harper's Ferry —were unsound and visionary.”
Is this so? Let us see. Two purposes were in view in this visit of John Brown to Virginia. First, John Brown's purpose to free, and save slaves; second, God's purpose to free, and save the nation, Were those purposes both accomplished by that visit? Certainly. How?
It was John Brown's purpose to free and save slaves by fighting for them, but God's purpose was that he should give his life for the nation. By his fighting for the slaves, John Brown subjected himself to the punishment of death by Virginia law, and by that death, and not by fighting, he freed and saved the nation, (and consequently the slaves) though it was in consequence of his thus fighting, that he arrived at such a death. So true is it that, though “Calvary” may be “higher than Bunker Hill” or Mount Sinai, and may "command" both, it is only by the way of Mount Sinai that Calvary can be reached.
Then “the judgments that led John Brown to Harper's Ferry were" not "unsound and visionary," but sound and practical.
But, how was the nation saved by the death of John Brown on a Virginia scaffold?
The answer to this question will appear in the future.
Yours Respectfully,
WM. S. FLANDERS.
CORNVILLE, ME., May 11th, l864.

NEW PUBLICATIONS.
FOR TUB ALBUM. Among the many admirable productions of those enterprising lithographers, L. Prang & Co., Boston, none are superior in delicacy and fidelity of execution to the sets of cards representing the Butterflies and Moths of America, Sea Mosses, Flowers, Autumn Leaves, & c. The Burlington Free Press says, (and the statement is fully borne out by the pictures): "A lady of our acquaintance who has prepared a good deal of deal of sea-weed for herbariums, verily thought the pictures were weed itself, glued on the card, and could hardly be persuaded otherwise”. One finds it difficult to choose between the pleasing claims of these series, all true to the life and all replete with instruction. In the album, the card-basket, or the scholar's desk, they will prove an ornament and an aid to education.
Of kindred character with the foregoing are the Album, Cards of W. S. and A. Martien, 600Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, embracing Landscapes and Ocean Life. The former are quite attractive, and, like all the above-mentioned, appear in the manifold coloring of nature.
We have only space to acknowledge the receipt of the following new books, and must defer the notices they merit, to a future number.
PREIDENT LINCOLN'S ADMINSITRATION, by Henry Y. Raymond, published by Derby & Miller, New York.
GEN. BUTLER IN NEW ORLEANS, by James Parton, published by Mason Brothers, New York: People's Edition. Price 75 cents.
THE WAR POWERS OF THE PRESIDENT, MILITARY ARRESTS, AND RECONSTRUCTION OF THE UNION, by William Whiting. Eighth Edition, published by john L. Shorey, Boston.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY, at its Third Decade, held in Philadelphia, December 3d and 4th, 1863, with an Appendix, and a Catalogue of Anti-Slavery Publications in America, from 1750 to 1863. New York: American Anti-Slavery Society.
An octavo pamphlet of 180 pages, containing the speeches made by prominent friends of the Anti-Slavery cause at Philadelphia, last December, on the occasion of the celebration of the Third Decade of the American Anti-Slavery Society. It contains eloquent and characteristic addresses by William Lloyd Garrison, Henry Ward Beecher, Samuel J. May, Charles C. Burleigh, Frederic Douglas, Theodore Tilton, Susan B. Anthony, Lucretia Mott, and a number of other speakers. The letters of many prominent friends of the cause, who were unable to be personally present, add to the attractiveness of the collection. The list of Anti-Slavery publications at the end is of great value to all interested in the literature of reform.
THE WORK OF BISHOP HOPKINS ON SLAVERY, is like a child born out of due time. At a period like the present, when all the border slave States are throwing away the manacles, other and more vital questions belong to the hour. The book belongs to a former stage of the Anti-Slavery struggle, and is a mournful example of the power of a wicked institution when sanctioned by time, and sustained by the wealthy and cultivated classes, to enlist the reverence of men eminent in church and State. As a relic of the past, it has a sad interest, but that is all. We would, therefore, dismiss this disembodied sprit until we have occasion to study the various phases of the great Anti-Slavery movement. Then, and not till then, will this fossil of pro-slavery religion be of any earthly worth or use.—
Christian Register.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
THE CLEVELAND CONVENTION.
GEN FREMONT NOMINATED FOR PRESIDENT- HON. JOHN COCHRANE FOR VICE PRESIDENT.
The following sketch of proceedings is from the correspondence of the Boston Journal:-
CLEVELAND, OHIO, May 31.
The Convention met in Chapin Hall at 11 o’clock. There were two or three hundred persons present. Edward Gilbert, President of the Fremont Club of New York, called the Convention to order.
Ex-Gov. Johnson of Pennsylvania was chosen temporary Chairman, and B. H. Brooks of California, and S. Wolfe of Washington, are temporary Secretaries.
Israel P. Andrews of Maine, Parker Pillsbury and Stephen S. Foster, represented New England on the Committee on Organization.
The fact that nearly every one of Fremont’s Missouri Staff is here engineering the Convention, adds a peculiar piquancy to the resolutions, and they were received with much laughter. The man was evidently honest in introducing them.
After other preliminary proceedings, the Convention took a recess.
The time for the reassembling of the Convention was half-past three, but it was a quarter to five before the Committee on resolutions was ready to report, and before any business was done.
Meanwhile speeches were made by David Plumb of New York, who was anxious the Convention should understand themselves, and for what they had come together, which he said was to inaugurate, for the first time in the history of this country, a party on the principles of the Declaration of Independence. He denounced the Administration as having entirely failed in its devotion to liberty, and hence he would overthrow it.
Col. Moss of Missouri, boasted that this Convention would do a work to-day which would make the Administration tremble, and turn their present laughing into sorrow.
The Committee on rules reported in favor of having the votes on candidates cast by States, but Caspar Ruter of Illinois warmly opposed it, claiming that every man should have a right to vote for himself. The matter was debated warmly-the Committee contending strongly in favor of their report, as it would save the Convention from showing its weakness in members. The committee and plan of voting by States was rejected, which was a triumph of the Fremont men.
The Committee on resolutions reported as follows:
RESOLUTIONS.
1st. That the Federal Union shall be preserved.
2d. That the Constitution and Laws of the United States must be observed and obeyed.
3d. That the rebellion must be suppressed by force of arms and without compromise.
4th. That the right of free speech, press and habeas corpus must be held inviolate, save in districts in which martial law has been proclaimed.
5th. That the rebellion has destroyed slavery, and the Federal Constitution should be amended so as to prohibit its re-establishment and secure to all men absolute equality before the law.
6th. That integrity and economy are demanded at all times in the administration of the Government, and that in time of war the want of them is criminal.
7th. That the right of asylum, except for crime and subject to the law, is a recognized principle of American liberty; that any violation of it cannot be overlooked and must not go unrebuked.
8th. That the National policy known as the Monroe doctrine has become a recognized principle, and that the establishment of an anti-Republican Government on this continent by any foreign power cannot be tolerated.
9th. That the gratitude and support of the nation is due to the faithful soldiers and carnest leaders of the Union Army and Navy for their heroic achievements and deathless valor, in defiance of our imperiled country and of civil liberty.
10th. That the one term policy for the Presidency, adopted by the people, is strengthened by the force of the existing crisis, and should be maintained by a Constitutional amendment.
11th. That the Constitution should be so amended that the President and Vice President shall be elected by the direct vote of the people.
12th. That the question of the reconstruction of the rebellious States belong to the people, through their Representatives in Congress and not to the Executive.
13th. That the confiscation of the lands of rebels and their distribution among soldiers and settlers is a measure of justice.
After the reading of the resolutions Wendell Phillips’s letter was read.
Senator Calvin of New York spoke in support of the resolutions, dwelling particularly upon the alleged failure of the administration to go in for a Constitutional amendment to forever abolish slavery, its violation of the rights of asylum and interference with the liberty of the press.
The resolutions were taken up seriatim. A gentleman moved that the words—“by God’s blessing”-be introduced in the first of the series, but it was voted down by a decided majority.
There was a long discussion on the fifth resolution, which declares that the rebellion has destroyed slavery–the ultra Abolitionists, like Mr. Goodell, Stephen Foster and others opposing it on the ground that, if the convention said slavery was dead, it was lulling the nation. It was a great lie, and it would take away their grand argument against Mr. Lincoln’s administration.
The debate went largely into abstractions and thinned the hall very materially.
The Committee’s resolutions were finally adopted, as were all the resolutions.
Col. Moss moved thereupon to go into the nomination of a President on that platform.
A New Jerseyman objected and wanted to adjourn to a future Convention, to be called. This proposition was met by noes from all parts of the house.
Mr. Deman of Troy N. Y., warmly advocated the proposition, but was met with hisses.
Col. Moss denied that Missouri wished to dictate. He moved, in order to test the question, that Maj. Gen. John C. Fremont be nominated for President.
This was received with tumultuous applause—the Convention rising and swinging hats, &c.
At this time the Convention was in partial darkness-there being but one chandelier lighted, and the Convention was in a good deal of disorder—the Grant men fighting hard for a postponement. At length a direct vote was got, and Fremont was nominated unanimously with great applause.
The Convention then shouted, “Now for Vice President!” and the names of Cochrane and Brown were shouted by scores of lips.
At length order was restored, and Mr. Cochrane addressed the Convention, asking leave to withdraw, and recommending some war-worn Democrat to be put on the ticket. Still, he would leave himself in the hands of the Convention. He retired from the chair, and Mr. Gilbert took it.
Gen. Butler was named as a candidate.
A distinct motion was made to nominate Cochrane. 
Mr. Cluskey, of New York, said the war Democrats of New York would be satisfied with Cochrane. The motion was put, and Mr. Cochrane was nominated with but two or three dissenting votes.
Cheers were given for the ticket.
A Central Committee was appointed, and after speeches by Parker Pillsbury and others, it adjourned. 
In point of numbers, the Convention has been a failure. Its action was harmonious and unanimous, both on platform and candidates.
It is understood that the New York Grant men have accomplished their end, and got Cochrane nominated, but that there are New Yorkers here who very much question whether it will add strength to the ticket.
The Convention contained a good number of earnest working men, who will work for the ticket and do all they on to defeat Lincoln, even though the certain result be the success of the Copperhead ticket.

LETTER FROM WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.
The following is the letter of Mr. Phillips transmitted to the Convention:—
BOSTON, May 27, 1864.
DEAR SIR:—
I deeply regret that it is out of my power to attend the Cleveland Convention. Allow me to suggest one or two things which I hoped to urge on its attention. 
Without denying what the friends of the Administrative claim—that it has done something toward crushing the rebellion—my charge against it is that it has not done half that it should and could have done toward that end, had it used the means in its hands, with an earnest and single purpose to close the strife thoroughly and forever. It has thought more of conciliating rebels than of subduing them. It has avowedly forborne the use of lawful and efficient means, (to wit, the abolition of slavery,) until it was thought indispensable, and even then has used it in a halfhearted, halting way, wishing to save the feelings of rebels. We had three tools with which to crush the rebellion—men, money, and the emancipation of the negro. We were warned to be quick and sharp in the use of these, because every year the war lasted hardened the South from a Rebellion into a Nation, and doubled the danger of foreign interference. Slavery has been our great trouble in the past, and, as every man saw, was our great danger in the future.
<c02>
Statesmanship said, therefore, Seize at once the God given opportunity to end it, at the same time that you, in the quickest, shortest and cheapest manner, annihilate the rebellion!
For three years, the Administration has lavished money without stint, and drenched the land in blood, and it has not even yet thoroughly and heartily struck the slave system. Confessing that the use of this means is indispensable, the Administration has used it just enough to irritate the rebels, and not enough to save the State. In sixty days after the rebellion broke out, the Administration suspended Habeas Corpus, on the plea of military necessity—justly. For three years it has poured out the treasure and blood of the country like water. Meanwhile, slavery was too sacred to be used; that was saved, lest the feelings of rebels should be hurt. The Administration weighed treasure, blood and civil liberty against slavery, and, up to the present moment, has decided to exhaust them all before it uses freedom, heartily, as a means of battle.
Mr. Lincoln’s friends tell us that if is re-elected, he is re-elected to pursue the same policy and obey the same Cabinet. What will be the result of another four years of such policy? Unless the South is recognized, the war will continue; the taxation needed to sustain our immense debt, doubled by that time, will grind the laboring men of the North down to the level of the pauper labor of Europe; and we shall have a government accustomed to despotic power for eight years—a fearful peril to Democratic institutions.
Mr. Lincoln’s model of reconstruction is the experiment in Louisiana, which puts all power into the hands of the unchanged white race, soured by defeat, hating the laboring class, plotting constantly for aristocratic institutions. To reconstruct the rebel States on that model is only continuing the war in the Senate chamber after we have closed it in the field. Such reconstruction, leaving the South with its labor and capital at war, puts the whole payment of the debt on the industrious North, and in that way it will hang on us for a century. Such reconstruction makes the freedom of the negro a sham, and perpetuates slavery under a softer name. Such reconstruction, leaving the seeds of discontent and division in the South in places of power, tempts and facilitates another rebellion, at the instigation or with the aid of French Mexico. Such reconstruction dooms us to a second or third-rate place among nations, and provokes foreign insult and aggression.
There is no plan of reconstruction possible within twenty years, unless we admit the black to citizenship and the ballot, and use him, with the white, as the basis of States. There is not in the rebel States sufficient white basis to build on. If we refuse this method, we must subdue the South and hold it as territory until this generation of white men has passed away, and their sons, with other feelings, have taken their places, and Northern capital, energy and immigration have forced their way into the South. Should we adopt that plan, and wait for those changes, twenty years must elapse before we can venture to rebuild States Meanwhile, a large and expensive army, and the use of despotic power by a Government holding half its territory and citizens as subjects, make every thoughtful man tremble for the fate of free government. A quick and thorough reorganization of States, on a democratic basis, every man and race equal before the law, is the only sure way to save the Union. I urge it not for the black man’s sake alone, but for ours—for the nation’s sake.
Against such recognition of the blacks, Mr. Lincoln stands pledged by prejudice and avowal. Men say, if we elect him, he may change his views. Possibly. But three years has been a long time for a man’s education in such hours as these. The nation cannot afford more. At any rate, the Constitution gives us this summer an opportunity to make President a man fully educated. I prefer that course.
The administration, therefore, I regard as a civil and military failure, and its avowed policy ruinous to the North in every point of view. Mr. Lincoln may wish the end—peace and freedom—but he is wholly unwilling to use the means which can secure that end. If Mr. Lincoln is reelected, I do not expect to see the Union reconstructed in my day, unless on terms more disastrous to liberty than even Disunion would be. If I turn to Gen. Fremont, I see a man whose first act was to use the freedom of the negro as his weapon I see one whose thorough loyalty to democratic institutions, without regard to race—whose earnest and decisive character, whose clear-sighted statesmanship and rare military ability, justify my confidence that in his hands all will be done to save the State that foresight, skill, decision and statesmanship can do.
I think the Convention should incorporate in its platform the demand for an amendment of the Constitution, prohibiting slavery everywhere within the Republic, and forbidding the States to make any distinction among their citizens, on account of color or race. I think it should demand a reconstruction of States as speedily as possible, on the basis of every loyal man, white or black, sharing the land and the ballot.
But if some of these points are not covered, I shall still support its action with all my heart, if it puts the name of Fremont or Butler on its flag. Fremont is my first choice, but I can support either of them; and this is an hour of such peril to the Republic, that I think men should surrender all party and personal partiality, and support any man able and willing to save the State.
If the Baltimore Convention shall nominate Mr. Lincoln, then I hope we shall fling our candidate’s name, the long-honored one of J. C. Fremont, to the breeze, and appeal to the patriotism and common sense of the people to save us from another such three years as we have seen. If, on the contrary, the Baltimore Convention shall give us the name of any man whom the radicals of the loyal States can trust, I hope we shall be able to arrange some plan which will unite all on a common basis, and carry our principles into the Government.
Wishing you all success, and prepared to second your efforts to remove this Administration,
I am, yours, &c., 
WENDELL PHILLIPS.
EDWARD GILBERT, Esq., New York.

INVITATION TO THE REV. SELLA MARTIN.
NEW YORK, May 22, 1864.
REV. SELLA MARTIN—Dear Sir: Having learned through the press and otherwise of your valuable labors for the cause of the Union and humanity during your late residence in Great Britain, we, the under signed, desire some recognition of those services by a public meeting, at which we hope you will give us yourviews on our great struggle, and of English opinion and feeling in reference to it. Should this proposition prove agreeable to you, we suggest Wednesday, evening, 1st of June, as the time, and Cooper Institute as the place of meeting. 
Very truly yours, 
Wm. Cullen Bryant, Cyrus W. Field,
A. A. Low, John McClintock, 
J. W. Edmunds, Charles H. Marshall, 
Wm. Curtis Noyes, Hiram Barney,
W. Adams, Hy. Ward Beecher, 
Theodore Tilton, Richard M. Hoe, 
S. D. Burchard, Peter Cooper, 
Parke Godwin, Jas. McCune Smith, 
Wm. Allen Butler, Wm. E. Dodge,
David Dudley Field, Chas. L. Reason, 
S. H. Gay, Jonathan Sturges,
And others. 
Reply.
No. 34 LISPENARD STREET, N. Y., May 26, 1864. 
Messrs. WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT, CYRUS W. FIELD,
Rev. Dr. MCCLINTOCK, and others. 
Dear Sirs: Yours of the 22d inst. is before me. In reply permit me to say that, though my humble labors in England would bear no comparison to the honor which they have called forth in this requisition so numerously and influentially signed, yet, at a time like this, my sense of duty forbids me to shun any task, however difficult or painful, that would contribute to a better understanding between America and foreign nations, or a deeper appreciation of the value of our own institutions, or a larger spirit of self-sacrifice in maintaining them in their integrity. I therefore cheerfully accept your kind invitation to address you on the subject named, at the time and place specified. I am, gentlemen, yours truly,
SELLA MARTIN.
<c03>
The manuscript of the following lines was contributed, by Whittier, to the St. Louis Sanitary Fair:
THE CAUSE.
BY JOHN G. WHITTIER.
God mend his heart who cannot feel 
The impulse of a holy zeal; 
And sees not with his sordid eyes, 
The beauty of self-sacrifice! 
Though in the sacred place he stands, 
Uplifting consecrated hands, 
Unworthy are his lips to tell 
Of Jesus’ martyr miracle.
Not to the swift nor to the strong 
The battles of the right belong; 
For he who strikes for freedom, wears 
The armor of the captive’s prayer; 
And nature proffers to his cause 
The strength of her eternal laws; 
While he whose arm essays to bind, 
And herd with common brutes his kind, 
Strives evermore at fearful odds 
With nature and the jealous gods, 
And dares the dread recoil which, late 
Or soon, their right shall vindicate. 
14th, 3d Mo., 1864. 

VISIT OF A DELEGATION OF BAPTISTS TO THE PRESIDENT.
To-day a delegation, consisting of Rev. Dr. Bride, Senator Doolittle and Hon. A. Hubbe, waited upon president Lincoln, and presented him with a series of resolutions adopted by the American Baptist Home Mission Society, at the session recently held by them in Philadelphia. The resolutions indorse the course of President Lincoln, and express the warmest wishes for his welfare and the welfare of the country. 
The presentation was made in the East Room by Dr. Bride, in the presence of about one hundred persons. 
President Lincoln, in reply, spoke as follows: 
In the present very responsible position in which I am engaged, I have had great cause of gratitude for the support so unanimously given by all Christian denominations of the country. I have had occasion so frequently to respond to something like this assemblage that I have said all that I had to say. This particularly body is in all respects as respectable as any that have been presented to me. The resolutions I have merely heard read, and I therefore beg to be allowed an opportunity to make a short response in writing. 
The President then, after giving each minister a cordial hand shaking as they passed before him, retired.

JOSHUA REED GIDDINGS. 
A veteran in the great Anti-Slavery contest of America died yesterday—Joshua R. Giddings, at Montreal, in the 69th year of his age. 
He was born at Athens, Bradford County, Pa., Oct. 6, 1795. When he was ten years old, his parents became settlers of Ashtabula County, Ohio, in the Western Reserve, since famous by its devotedly Anti Slavery politics. When 17 years old, in 1842, he entered, the army as a substitute for his brother, and saw service against the Indians near Sandusky Bay. Subsequently he taught school, began the law in 1817, studying with Elisha Whittlesey, and was admitted to the bar in 1820. In 1826 his public political life commenced with his choice as a representative to the State Legislature. Declining a re election, he pursued his profession till 1838, and in that year was chosen to Congress to succeed his instructor, Mr. Whittlesey. Henceforward his career became part of the history of the Anti-Slavery movement. 
His principles were settled before he entered Congress. At the beginning of his service as a Representative he became identified with the champions of Anti-Slavery. By the side of John Quincy Adams, he defended the right of petition, declared for the abolition of Slavery and the slave-trade in the District of Columbia, and espoused the cause of Territorial freedom. But those were the days when freedom of speech in Congress was at the mercy of a slaveholding oligarchy, and Mr Giddings’s first attempt to be heard against the slave-trade, in 1839, was a vain one. In 1841 he found leave to speak against the Florida War as a pro-slavery contest. In 1842 came the celebrated Creole case, in which slaves on board a vesse of that name, sailing from Virginia for New Orleans, rose against their kidnappers, and carried the vessel into a British port. Mr. Webster, then Secretary of State, demanded indemnification from the British Government, and Mr. Giddings, on the 21st of March, offered a series of resolutions in Congress, declaring, after a statement of general principles of liberty, that the Africans of the Creole had violated no law in resuming their natural rights, and that any attempt to re-enslave them was unconstitutional and incompatible with the national honor. Mr. Giddings, however, at the solicitation of party friends, withdrew his resolutions, and for offering them was censured by the House. Resigning his seat he was rechosen by a great majority, and thereafter was re-elected for successive terms till 1859—a period of 21 years. 
Throughout his Congressional life his Anti-Slavery record was consistent. His political associations were with the Whig party, though in 1847 he refused to vote for Robert C. Winthrop for Speaker, and in 1848 declined to support Taylor for President—in both instances because the deemed those candidates untrustworthy on the Slavery question. He strenuously opposed the compromise measures in 1850—in these as in other cases, subordinating his party associations to the demands of conscience and of the Anti-Slavery cause. He was hated by the Pro-Slavery parties of the country, as perhaps no political leader except John Quincy Adams had been, but no amount of opposition, or of personal peril, or of sacrifice, ever caused him to falter.
Mr. Giddings was appointed, by President Lincoln, Consul-General for Canada in 1861, and has since discharged the duties of that office at Montreal. He dies ripe in years and in-fame—dies just too soon to witness the final triumph of the cause to which he gave unreservedly the energies of his life.
GEN. BUTLER. The use and object of the force an Bermuda Hundred has, we apprehend, been pretty plain to military men before the movement of a part of his command anounced to-day. It is immaterial who first projected the landing south of the James, for it was adopted by Gen. Grant as the best plan to make the most of a threatening demonstration by a force altogether too small for an independent and effective flank movement on the peninsula.
The time having now come when Gen. Grant can have direct cooperation, with perfect safety to the smaller force, Gen. Smith, on whom, more on any other general, it is believed he leaned in his last Western campaign, has already passed up the York river to join him. Where else could Gen. Butler’s command have rendered such valuable service as at Bermuda Hundred? Had it landed on the Peninsula, Beauregard would have joined Lee, and Gen. Grant might not have been at Hanover Town to-day; Butler’s column itself would have been in imminent danger, while giving Grant no direct and but little indirect support. 
Those who knew the force with which Gen. Butter landed, and who saw him intrenching as soon as landed, expected nothing so impossible as the capture of Fort Darling and holding the bridge south of Richmond. But they see ample proof of the excellence of the plan in that it has kept Beauregard with such a heavy force in his front, that Lee, in consequence, has been so weak as to be forced to allow Gen. Grant to make a series of masterly and undisputed flank movements which have placed him almost before the first line of the fortifications of Richmond.
Gen. Butler’s losses have been recklessly over-stated. A forward movement to cover the important and effective work of our cavalry has been construed into a failure to take Fort Darling, and a moderate loss at one point of an extended line into a great disaster. The enemy’s losses have exceeded ours, and the fatal fierceness with which Beauregard and Davis have attacked our intrenchments show their estimate of the importance of Gen. Butler’s works and position. When the exact force of Gen. Butler is stated, and when the full value of his direct and cooperative work is known, we believe the following extract of a letter from a cool officer at Bermuda Hundred will not be found to need much qualification: “I tell you Butler has done wonders in front of Bermuda Hundred, and I know what I tell you.”
While freely saying thus much of our appreciation of the value of Gen. Butler’s service, we must add that the heightened public expectation of the work he was to accomplish, and the consequent disappointment and dissatisfaction with results, are the natural and inevitable effects of the newspaper correspondents’ accounts of his early movements written in his interest. More folly, more bluster, more braggadocio have not been seen since the month before the first battle of Bull Run.—Boston Transcript.
COLORED SOLDIERS AHD SLAVE PENS. A regiment of colored troops passed through Baltimore to-day for the seat of war, passing directly over the same ground that our Massachusetts soldiers did three years ago. They were not in the least molested, and as they were marching past, one of the staunchest Union men of the city, who, last summer, when Lee was supposed to be at the gates, was among those who were to be furnished with a free pass to Castle Thunder, took grim satisfaction in reminding a bystander, who he knew would in that case be permitted to remain under the new rulers, that this was the 19th of April. 
Campbell’s, formerly Slater’s slave pen, one of the most infernal dens for the detention and sale of slaves in this city, was pulled down to-day. It has not been used much of late, and its destruction indicates that its dreadful occupation is gone forever.—Balt. Cor. Springfield American.
<c04>
LOUISIANA A FREE STATE.
Whatever may be said of some objectionable features of the President’s plan of reconstruction in Louisiana, every friend of freedom must rejoice that the Constitution now under consideration in the State Convention will contain an explicit prohibition of slavery. On the 10th inst., an amendment to the. 3d article of the report of the Committee on emancipation was adopted, which prohibited the Legislature from ever passing any act permitting free colored citizens to vote. The amendment was out of place, even if not unjust in principle, and calculated to bring all the proceedings of the Convention into contempt, for qualifications of electors belonged to another article of the Constitution, and not to the act of emancipation, which act was separate and distinct from all others, and ought, in the nature of the case, to stand by itself. On the next day, however, as soon as the orders of the day were called, Mr. George A. Fosdick, in a dew well-chosen remarks, exhibited the folly and inappropriateness of the amendment above referred to. It was then moved to strike out the amendment and article itself, together with the 4th and 5th articles of the report. And this motion was carried by a large majority. The report, as amended, was then put upon its final passage, and was adopted by an overwhelming vote. The Act of Emancipation, as finally passed, contains two articles, as follows:—
We, the people of the State of Louisiana, in Convention assembled, do hereby declare and ordain as follows:— 
Section 1. Slavery and involuntary servitude, except for punishment of crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, are hereby forever abolished, and prohibited throughout the State. 
Sect 2. The Legislature shall make no law recognizing the right of property in man.
On the day following the passage of the above ordinance, a national salute in honor of the event was fired on the levee in New Orleans! 
If the Constitution, as finally adopted, shall make color a disqualification for suffrage, we shall be very sorry; but we shall still rejoice in the abolition of slavery, as an act which will in time secure for the negro full equality as a citizen and a voter.
THE IMPORTANCE OF GENERAL SHERMAN'S VICTORIES. The cheering news of the continued success of General Sherman and his progress into the interior of Georgia, comes to us from official sources, though we have no particulars of the advance. The possession of Rome, Kingston and Cassville is of the highest military importance. Kingston is in Cass county, and from it a railroad deflects from the Western and Atlantic road, extending twenty miles to Rome. Cassville depot is seven miles south of Kingston, and fifty-two miles from Atlanta, which will doubtless be Sherman’s next objective point, from the line of the Etowah river. This stream is a branch of the Coosa, which latter, with the Tallapoosa, forms the Alabama river. Kingston is about 34 deg. 15 min. north latitude, and 8 deg. west longitude from Washington. Rome formerly possessed an arsenal and iron-works, but the machinery has been removed, which shows that, although the Georgia rebels were very defiant, and piled oaths upon oaths that no Federal troops should ever enter their State, still their bump of caution was well developed, and they thought an ounce of prevention better than a ton of cure. Now Rome has fallen. 
The line of the Etowah river stretches from Rome to the railroad, about seven miles below Cassville station; where there are extensive iron works which must have been of great value to the rebels for the supply of that metal. South of this line the country appears by the map to be unimpeded by any mountains, and the only obstruction between it and Atlanta is the Chattahoochee river, which crosses the railroad about 10 miles above that city. All the railway routes of Virginia and Tennessee meet at Atlanta. It is the western terminus of the Georgia road, and roads from Columbus and Montgomery, Ala., reach there. When Atlanta is in our possession, another great link of communication between the east and west of the confederacy will have been broken.—Louisville Journal.
The Cincinnati Commercial, (says the Tribune) has the following account of a man in office who actually works for nothing, and finds himself! If any one happens to know another, we will thank him to send us his portrait and biography. The Commercial’s Washington correspondent says:—
“A few weeks since I wrote of a man who didn’t want an office. Now I have a still more startling fact to announce—a man who holds an office under the Government, works hard, and won’t take any pay for it! The rara avis is Mr. Whiting, Solicitor of the War Department; and the case, as related to me by an intimate friend of his, is as follows: About two years ago, Secretary Stanton wrote to Mr. Whiting, whom he had known well and favorably as a lawyer, for many years, at his home in Massachusetts, informing him that he was about to create the office of Solicitor for the War Department, and tendered him the position, at a salary of $5,000 a year, I believe. Mr. Whiting replied that he would be glad to serve the Government in the capacity named, and would accept the office upon one condition, that he receive no pay or emoluments of any kind, and have the privilege of bearing his own expenses at the capital. This was finally, though reluctantly, acceded to by Mr. Stanton, and Mr. Whiting left his palatial home in New England, and took up his abode in Washington City. Not content with refusing to receive compensation himself, he drew up an instrument in writing, and filed it in the War Department, stipulating that, in case of his death while here, his family should not be entitled to one dollar for the services he may have rendered. Mr. Whiting is a rich man, and can afford to do all he has magnanimously agreed to; but it should be remembered there are hundreds of others equally rich, and who could equally well afford it, who would hesitate for a long time, before accepting such a non-remunerative berth.”
THE CAMPAIGN IN VIRGINIA. The Nashville Union makes the following statement with regard to the campaign in Virginia, showing that it had always contemplated a demonstration on the south side of Richmond:—
“While in front of Vicksburg, in conversation with a number of officers, Gen. Grant, without expecting to be ever called to the place, gave his views of the proper plan to capture Richmond. He said that in his view, two armies should move against the rebel capital—one by way of the Rapidan, and the other by way of Petersburg. Either of these columns should be strong enough to fight Lee out of his entrenchments—a circumstance which would compel Lee to keep his army together, as a division, with the James River between the sections, must prove fatal. The army on the south was to cut off communications, and threaten the destruction of the rebel capital from the south, and be able to take it, if Lee did not fall back; if he did fall back, the army from the north could press him, and besiege him in the capital, and by means of gunboats a perfect connection across James River could be kept up. The moment the army on the south side occupied Manchester, Richmond would become untenable; and, under any circumstances, with all its communications cut, the city could not stand a long siege; and though a portion of the rebel army might escape, it could only do so in a demoralized condition."
THE "OLD FOGIES" DISPLEASED. This is Anniversary week in Boston. The man selected to preach the discourse before the American Tract Society (Boston branch, but older than that in New York,) was Henry Ward Beecher; while at the Jubilee Breakfast of the same Society, in Faneuil Hall, Mr. Beecher was assigned a prominent place as a speaker. All this greatly displeased the “old fogy” divines, one of whom writes dolefully to the Boston Courier that it is a sign of “the declension of the times,” and goes on to give his opinion about Mr. Beecher in unmistakable terms:—“Mr. Beecher, as we all know, has assailed almost every fundamental doctrine of Christianity, as held by the Orthodox, and has been taken to task for it in the religious papers. His sermons, if sermons they can be called, are the most weak, vacillating and jejune preached by any man professing to be Orthodox, if we may except his brother of Georgetown; and yet the Tract Society, whose founders and early supporters were men sound in the faith, sober and practical men, and truly benevolent, has engaged the services of this mountebank in theology to honor the memory of the prayerful and good men who originated their institution.” Truly, these are hard times for ministers who find in the Boston Courier a fit organ of their griefs!—Anti-Slavery Standard.
WHO ARE THE PEOPLE? The getters up of the Convention at Cleveland, which meets 
to-morrow, have done a very cool thing. For some weeks they have been advertising a call “to the people of the United States” to meet at Cleveland, Ohio, there “to consult freely and deliberate peaceably” upon the next Presidential election. The New Nation, the editor of which, Gen. Cluseret, is one of the provisional committee, and which is the organ of the Fremont movement, thus exposes the utter insincerity of this call. It announces that the meeting “has been called by men who mean to assert and not to discuss the one-term principle,” and adds: “It is open to any nomination excepting that of LINCOLN. We hope that the friends of the President will understand this matter, and not attempt to disturb the peaceable proceedings of the meeting by their presence.” Upon this understanding the members of the Convention may deliberate peaceably, but how they can consult freely, it is impossible to discover. To call the people of the United States, and exclude the friends of Mr. Lincoln, something more than cool—it is icy!—Philadelphia Press.
<c05>
FROM GEN. BUTLER’S ARMY.
WAR DEPARTMENT, Washington, May 31—11.25 P. M.
MAJOR GENERAL DIX:—The following dispatch has been received from Major General Butler:
“Yesterday, all day, heavy firing was heard in the direction of Mechanicsville.” Six refugees from Richmond reported that Grant was on the Mechanicsville turnpike, fourteen miles from Richmond, yesterday, that they heard the firing, and that Grant was driving Lee.
A woman reports that a meeting was held yesterday in Richmond to see whether the city should be surrendered or burned, and that the Mayor advocated surrender, and was put into Castle Thunder.
The enemy attacked my lines yesterday, and were repulsed. To-day they have been demonstrating against my works on Spring Hill, on the easterly side of the Appomatox, but are repulsed.”
Nothing further since my telegram of this evening from Gen. Grant.
(Signed)
EDWIN M. STANTON,
Secretary of War.
NEW YORK, May 31. The World says it has information, not proper to publish at this time, giving full details of highly important movements now taking place on the Peninsula. In the meantime, news of the most important character may be expected at any moment.
The World’s Bermuda Hundred correspondent says Petersburg papers officially announce Beauregard’s loss in his fights with Gen. Butler, at 8040 wounded and in the hospital. The number killed is not counted. They also state that the people of Georgia, since the advance of Sherman, have great difficulty in procuring food and clothing.
The Herald’s correspondent, dating May 26th, says what forces Gen. Beauregard has not sent to Lee are in our front, strongly intrenched. Gen. Winder, who has had charge of Richmond prisoners, has shifted his quarters to Goldsboro.’ N. C. The Union prisoners have all been moved from Libby Prison.
The Richmond Examiner of the 26th inst., states that great gloom prevails in the city, caused by the closing of all the stores, shops, &c., for the purpose of bringing into the service all men capable of bearing arms. The families of the poor militia, it says, continue to mingle anathemas and tears with their borrowed crusts, against those in authority. The people have grown sick of the wrongs inflicted upon them within the brief space of a few weeks, and you can be sure that they will treasure them up.
SOUTH CAROLINA. A Union Convention, called “without distinction of race or color,” was held at Beaufort on the 17th, for the purpose of appointing delegates to the Presidential Convention at Baltimore. Radical resolutions were adopted, and sixteen delegates—fourteen white and two black men were chosen. Among the white delegates we observe the names of Gen. Saxton, Hon. A. D. Smith (formerly on the bench of the Supreme Court in Wisconsin, where he pronounced the Fugitive Slave law unconstitutional,) and James G. Thompson, formerly of Philadelphia. One of the black delegates is Robert Small, the hero of the “Planter.”
A COLORED WOMAN OWNING SLAVES.—A correspondent with the Banks Expedition writes as follows:— 
Near Clarksville, in Natchitoches parish, several of our officers halted at a plantation owned by a full-blooded negro woman, about forty-five years old. whom lighter colored negroes salute as their mistress, to gratify a curiosity which prompted us all to look upon and converse with a negro slaveholder. Groups of slave women and children were around her door, gazing at the Yankees and chatting familiarly with those inclined to converse with them. One of these negro women was asked where her husband was, “Gone wid de Yankees,” was the reply. “Are you not sorry that your husband has gone?” To this she rejoined, “No, massa, me bery glad he tink so much of the white man as to fight for him.” Her self-satisfaction that her John was going to fight for the white man provoked a peal of laughter, it was so contrary to the theory of many others that the white men were fighting for the nigger.
It was intimated to her that possibly she might desire to get rid of John, so that she could take another husband; but this idea she scouted indignantly, because they were both “Gospel niggers.” Being asked to what church she belonged, she replied, to the Eaptist. “Where is the church?” was the next question. With great gravity and seriousness she replied “In my heart, Massa.”
FEARFUL ACCIDENT. The Lowell News of May 31, says that on the same day, as Mrs. Milton Aldrich was driving a horse up Middlesex street from Central, the animal became frightened while approaching the railroad track, and dashed along to the track of the northern road, at the same time that an engine and tender were being backed up. The man at the station endeavored to grasp the horse, but without success, and the animal passed partially over the track; then turning to the right, upset the carriage and threw Mrs. Aldrich out towards the track. Her right arm was run over by the rear wheels of the tender, severing it so that it merely hung by the flesh to the remaining portion; her left arm was severely torn above the elbow, from contact with some portion of the tender; several of her teeth were knocked out, her lip cut, and her head severely bruised. The physicians called, we learn, have decided amputation of both arms necessary—the right above, and the left below the elbow. Her condition is critical, fears being entertained that she may not withstand the shock to her system occasioned by the sad affair.—Boston Journal. 
A Montreal dispatch gives some particulars of the death of Hon. Joshua R. Giddings. He was engaged in playing a game of billiards at St. Lawrence Hall, with Mr. Feldman, when he suddenly complained of weakness, and sat down on a sofa. Dr Turner of the Scot’s Fusileer Guards, and Dr. Pallon, both living at St. Lawrence Hall, and Dr. Sutherland, were promptly by his side, but he at once became insensible, and expired in a few minutes. 
U. S. SENATE, MAY 27. The joint resolution to amend the charter of the City of Washington was taken up, and the amendment allowing persons to be registered as voters who have heretofore borne arms, without distinction of color, was rejected by twenty against eighteen. The joint resolution was then adopted, and returned to the house. 
THE TABLES TURNED. The widow of the late Ex-President John Tyler has written to President Lincoln complaining that Gen. Wild has arrested a slave owner who had been flogging his female chattels, and that the General had had him tied, and permitted the women to repay the blows with interest. Mrs. Tyler is indignant that a Virginia gentleman should have been treated thus. 
Refugees who arrived in Washington, on Friday, from Richmond, state that during the operations of our army at Spottsylvania, Jeff. Davis and his Cabinet, becoming alarmed, started to leave Richmond, but were prevented by the riotous demonstrations of the citizens, who insisted that as the government prevented them from leaving, it should remain also. 
JEFF. DAVIS ON THE CAP OF LIBERTY. Some original correspondence between Crawford, the sculptor, Jeff. Davis, then Secretary of War, and Capt. Meigs, then in charge of the Capitol extension, on the subject of the statue of Liberty which now crowns the dome of the Capitol, has been brought to light. Jeff. Davis objected to the liberty cap which occupied the place of the present helmet in the original design, on the express ground that it was first used as a badge of a freedman who had liberated himself from slavery, and he feared that it might, at some future day, come to have the same signification again. 
The old Penn Mansion in Philadelphia, is to be purchased by the Pennsylvania Historical Society, which-has raised $30,000 for that purpose. 
The Providence Press says a church in Newport, taking high ground in favor of the equality of the colored race with whites, has still on the books of its corporation, a rule that no colored person shall be admitted into any pew in the church. Of course it is a dead letter, but why keep it there?
ZINC. A large proportion of the public may not be aware that the use of zinc vessels for domestic purposes, is extremely dangerous. Vinegar, cider, wine, and in fact all acids which have remained in zinc, become poisons more or less violent; this is even the case with milk, which contains a powerful acid, termed, acid lactique. Various cases of sickness and colic, and even many, deaths of young children, have occurred, the cause of which has been clearly traced to the use of milk that has been in contact with this metal. 
The Gifts to Yale College recently have recently the munificent sum of $480,000, viz., Ellsworth bequest, $90,000; Joseph E. Sheffield, $100,000; State of Connecticut, $100,000; J. S. Battill, $85,000; S. B. Chittenden, $80.000; A. R. Street, $35,000; unknown, $90,000; making in the aggregate, $480,000.
There are in the world 8258 freemason lodges with 50,000 active members, and nearly $3,000,000 non-active, or who have withdrawn. 
The wife of Dr. Wells of West Hartford, a lady 76 years of age, recently walked from Harwinton to West Hartford, without stopping for rest or refreshment. The distance is twenty miles, and the journey was accomplished before sunset.—Winsted, (Conn.,) Herald.
<c06>
“AN APPEAL TO THE PUBLIC.” It being a well-known fact that the brave men composing the 54th and 55th Regiments Mass. Vols. have, since they have been <illegible> their country’s service, received no pay, and also that hundreds of them have fallen in defence of the American flag, leaving here in our midst their poor, suffering and destitute wives and children, the Colored Ladies of Massachusetts, knowing the urgent necessity there is, just at this time, of doing something for these suffering ones, are preparing to hold a Fair in this city at as early a day as possible, this being, in their judgment, the most practical method of accomplishing their object. Donations, either of goods or money, will be most thankfully received by the President, Madam CARTEAUX BANNISTER, 31 Winter street, and the Treasurer, Rev. Mrs. GRIMES, 28 Grove street. As we have just sent into the field another brave regiment, the 5th Cavalry, and their families are left with us, while their husbands, brothers and fathers have gone to uphold the honor of our flag, there will be a demand for all our friends may assist us in raising. 
FREEDOM FOR ALL.—WM. WELLS BROWN will speak on the above subject as follows: 
At Gilmore Hall, Raynham, Sunday, June 5, at 2, P. M. “Baptist Church, Taunton, “7 1-2,”

COLLECTIONS BY E. H. HEYWOOD. 
Feltonville, $3; Northboro’, 7 15; South Natick, 2 48; West Boylston, 75c; Lowell, 10 00.
HENRY C. WRIGHT will attend a Yearly Meeting of the Friends of Progress in Middle Granville, N. Y. on the 10th, 11th, and 12th of June; and lecture in Washington and Saratoga counties, N. Y., till July 1st. 
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children. 
References.—Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D. Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M. 
TO LET, for the Summer season, one of the most desirable residences in Lynn, situated on Sagamore Hill, free from dust, mosquitoes and other annoyances, and within three minutes’ walk of the Beach. The house will be let with or without the furniture. Rent reasonable for the times. Inquire of J. BAILEY, on the premises.
DIED—In this city, April 29, Mrs. ELIZA JACKSON STANDISH, aged 63; for many years a member of the First Independent Baptist Church in Joy Street, and justly regarded by all her acquaintances as a devoted Christian.
At Cambridgeport, May 18, LOUISA, only daughter of William T. and Louisa M. Raymond, aged 1 year, 8 mos., 16 days. 
In Brooklyn, N. Y., on the afternoon of the 18th ult., HARRIET, wife of William H. Burleigh, Esq. She was one among the early Abolitionists. She never faltered in her devotion to the cause of freedom, but cheerfully and bravely, according to her ability and her opportunities, bore her part in the strife with oppression both by her social influence, and by her pen. Her end was calm and peaceful, and her bereaved friends feel assured that her emancipated spirit has heard the heavenly benediction-“Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least of these, my brethren, ye did it unto me.”—A. S. Standard.

Portrait of William Lloyd Garrison.
THE subscriber has in preparation a large and elegant lithographic Portrait of Mr. Garrison, from an original crayon drawing by Thomas M. Johnston, which he believes he is safe in asserting will be, in all respects, the most satisfactory portrait of this distinguished advocate of impartial freedom ever offered to the public.
Size of print 21 by 27 inches. Price $1.50 for India Proof copies, which will be sent by mail, free of postage, on receipt of price. 
A liberal discount to agents.
CHARLES H. BRAINARD.
May 20. tf
 
A. J. GROVER,
ATTORNEY AND COUNSELLOR AT LAW, 
ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA. 
Special attention given to securing and collecting claims for Eastern Merchants. 
References: 
WENDELL PHILLIPS, Esq., Boston. 
A. L. PAINE, Esq., Suffolk Bank, do. 
FARWELL, FIELD & Co., Chicago, Illinois. 
STEVENS & BARNUM, Washington, D. C.
May 20. tf

TWO VALUABLE PAMPHLETS. 
TWENTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT of the American Anti-Slavery Society, for the year ending May 1, 1861. 
PROCEEDINGS of the American Anti-Slavery Society at its Third Decade, held in the city of Philadelphia, Dec. 3d and 4th, 1863. With an Appendix; and a catalogue of Anti-Slavery Publications in America, from 1750 to 1863. 
Just published, and for sale at the Anti-Slavery Office, 221 Washington Street, Boston. 
Price, Fifty cents each pamphlet; for which a copy of either will be sent by mail, as may be directed. 
May 20. tf
ALL interested in Phonographic Shorthand should send for the PHONOGRAPHIC VISITOR, No.1, seven ceuts; Nos. 1 and 2, twelve cents. No. 2 explains the Phonographic Alphabet, given above, and all the more general principles of the Art. Address 
ANDREW J. GRAHAM, 
Dec. 1. ly New York. 

THE RED SEA FREEDMEN, 
A STIRRING Sermon for the Times; unsectarian, untrammeled and progressive, bearing upon the activities of the Church and the prosperities of the Nation. By Rev. ALEXANDER CLARK, Editor of “Clark’s School Visitor,” and Junior Pastor of the Church of the New Testament, Philadelphia. 
A handsome pamphlet. Price 10 cents. $1 a dozen. Buy it, read it, and send it to a soldier. Address 
J. W. DAUGHADAY. 
1308 Chestnut street, Philadelphia. 
April 15 3t
 
GAS FIXTURES. 
THE undersigned begs leave to inform his friends and the public, that (owing to ill health) he has been obliged to leave his situation at Messrs. H. B. Stanwood & Co’s, now Messrs. Shreve, Stanwood & Co’s, where he has been employed for the last fourteen years, the work being too heavy for his physical strength, and is now prepared to do all manner of 
JOBBING ON GAS FIXTURES,
n the most careful manner. New Fixtures furnished and put up, old Fixtures and Glass Drops cleaned, leaks stopped, Gas Fixtures done over, and Gas Glasses of all kinds furnished at short notice. Also Gas Burners of all the approved kinds. 
Particular attention given to Lighting up for Parties. 
Shop under the Marlboro’ Hotel. Orders may be left at Messrs. Hall & Stowell’s Provision Store, 132 Charles street,
Boston. NELSON L. PERKINS.
Refers to Shreve, Stanwood & Co. 
Oct. 30 ly 

IMPROVEMENT IN 
Champooing and Hair Dyeing,
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from
223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET.
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair. 
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also reached for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them. 
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER.
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.

BOARDING. 
MRS. R. A. SMITH would inform her friends and the public generally, that she has taken house No. 42, Grove Street, Boston; where Board, transient and permanent, may be obtained on reasonable terms. A share of the public patronage, is respectfully solicited. 
Boston, May 7.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry
For the Liberator
ARABEL’S CHOICE,
BT AUGUSTA COOPER KIMBALL.,
She sat at the feet of her mother—
Sat with a dreamy air,
And her delicate hand played listlessly
With a lock of her glossy hair.
Her cheeks’ sweet pink was slumbering
Under a veil of snows;
But up through the wonderful whiteness
came suddenly out a rose.
And a burning ray shot into
The depths of either eye,
As a sunbeam, vexed with cloud,
Leaps at last into open sky.
And her bedded red month trembled
Till the dimples came to see
What honey thoughts, in the central cell
Of her spirit, there could be.
And the beautiful, still disturbance,
The mother’s glance had caught:
"Arabel, daughter, give me
The wards of your present thought!
"But the though has mirrored itself,
And your voice I hardly need;
For I know the interpretations,—
They are easy signs to read.
"In the restless tint of the check,
In the glowing eyes above,
In the red lip’s nervous tremble,
I can trace the work of Love.
"Far back as I can remember,
The god betrayed his will
In the self-same way; and red and white
Are Cupid’s colors still. 
"But an anxious thought creeps blindly
In my heart, and cannot rest;
For the soul of a mother longs to know
Who her daughter loves the best.
"Is it be with the hurried footstep,
Who at twilight comes to call,
And drops bit high imperiousness,
Like a cloak, in the outer hall? 
"The glossy badge of his manhood’s prime
Waves darkly adown his breast;
And be kisses your hand in a reverent way,
More tender than all the rest.
"With a knowledge judicial, wide, profound,
He sits in a judge’s chair;
And the world has ever a garment of praise
For such wise men to wear.
"Or perhaps ‘tis the merchant, who sent a gift
On your birth-day—a pearl-set ring;
And he takes back the cost every Saturday eve,
In the ballade yon play and sing.
"And his tongue, like a word-threaded shuttle,
Weaves nothing but praise to please;
And he looks in your face till your fingers miss,
And tremble along the keys.
"His waves, and his heaped-up merchandise,
Shut out the light of the sun;
He can buy the smile of the people—
Is it Love’s smile he has won?
"It may be the man just over the way
Yon have chosen—the millionaire;
When you think of his gold you can easy forget
The silver that‘s in his hair.
"What is it that draws and knits you brow,
Whenever yon hear the creak
Of his shilling boots in the passage?
What is it that fires your cheek?
Then Arabel cleared her forehead
From the faintest shade of a frown;
On a crimson rose in the carpet
The light of her eyes fell down.
And the smile swooned off about her lips,
And she spoke with a timid voice:
"My mother will wonder—condemn, I know—
And never approve my choice.
"The royal one that my soul enthrones
A king, by Love’s own crown,
No title of honor has stretched his name,
He wears no ermined gown.
"The badge of his promising manhood
Is neither OB lip nor chin;
But it flashes out at his glorious eyes
From its sacred place within.
"He has no wealth heaped up in the square,
Or waiting at wharf or strand;
The coin in his slender purse is earned
By a hard and sun-burnt hand.
"With that man’s purse, just over the way,
His own is a mean compare;
But, counting his virtues, in lieu of gold,
He, too, is a millionaire.
"Had he lingered in these still valleys,
He would not have given a kiss,
Or ever have ventured a word of love .
From last year’s Spring till this.
"But walking, a year ago to-day,
In the country, under the shade,
Where the locust trees as sentinels stood
Along the cool arcade,
I heard the hoofs of his goodly steed
Come galloping down the lane,
And suddenly pause beside me,
As the rider drew the rein.
And he leaped to the ground, and raised his cap
From his brow, and his white lips broke
Apart with a word of tenderness
He never before had spoke:
"Sweet, I am going! Tyranny’s cloud
Is darkening Liberty’s sun;
And only by arms as stout as mine
Is Freedom’s victory won.
"Your country is perilled; I could face
The enemy’s gun and spear
Better than your pure looks, beloved,
 And the shame of idling here.
"For you there are hands brimful of gold,
And hearts of affection too;
But my hand is not worthy enough
To touch your dainty shoe.
"Yet it’s just the hand, with its roughened palm,
The bond of the slave to break;
And I know it is strong to battle for Right,
Through God and your sweet sake.
"New England reared, it is Liberty’s cause
I hold all claims above;
Humanity’s weal ranks uppermost,
And duty is more than love."
"I looked in his eyes, and their luminous depths
The fire of the hero caught;
And I looked till I saw that his soul was clean
From the trace of a selfish thought.
"My mother! I shook with reverence
In the light of that eye and brew;
For the soul that I thought I loved before,
I knew that I worshipped now.
"Then his white lips stole the purple of mine,
In a long and dinging kiss;
And mine have moved with a tweeter smile,
From that day’s hew till this.
"Then he sprang to his steed, and I heard the sound
Of Its galloping hoofs again
And he waved his hand as he passed from sight,
At the end of the Locust lane.

"I stood in a dream, and felt bow grand
The heart of a youth could be,
Whose love for Humanity over-topped
His ardent love for me.
<c02>
"My whole soul’s love, my mother,
Forever is won to the brave, 
Who could purchase a slave-freed country,
Though bought with blood and a grave."
Then Arabel ceased, and her mother laid
A hand on her daughter’s hair; 
And a tide of thought row up within,
Till it babbled over in prayer:
"Heaven give American mothers
A treasure as great as mine! 
For the soul of a patriot daughter
I bless thee, Father divine!"
Croydon, N. H. .

Selections.
BRIG. GEN.R.P. BUCKLAND.
Last week we laid before our readers a letter from F. W. Bingham, also a statement of S. M. Wheaton, in relation to a charge made in the Cleveland Leader by a correspondent, "A. D. O.," that General BUCKLAND, in the administration of affairs, as Commandant in the District of Memphis, Tennessee, had delivered up to slavery two colored children. This charge was put out about the 1st of March. At the time we pronounced the statement untrue; because we had been personally acquainted with RALPH F. BUCKLAND since the fall of 1840, doing business, and conversing with him almost daily, and we have ever known him to be an open and determined anti-slavery man, from principle. We were willing to assert that no power in the land could compel him to return to bondage any man, woman or child, that the law of the land, or "order of the President," or of the "War Department," had made free. No! The story was gotten up for the purpose of slandering General Buckland. There are thousands of men in Ohio who have known General Buckland for ten to twenty five years, who wanted no evidence from him in the case. Previous character, conduct, manly decision, a life-long reputation "known and read of all, "were all they cared to know to pronounce it a callumny of the basest character; with such, the name of General Buckland is untarnished.
 Since our last issue, a letter has been received by D. L. June, of this place, from General Buckland which letter was handed to us last Tuesday evening by Mr. June, together with the following note:

FREMONT, May 17, 1864.
MR. KKKI.ER:—I received the following letter from General Buckland, last evening. It came to me under these circumstances. When the seventy second O; V. I. left (April 5th) for Memphis, I requested Dr. Rice to express to the General my wish in common with others, that he should consent to allow his name to come before the Congressional Convention as a candidate for nomination. His letter is in answer to my request. It so completely vindicates the General from the slanderous charges made against him, that I take the liberty of sending it to you entire, for publication.
Respectfully yours, D. L. JUNE.
HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF MEMPHIS, TENS.
MEMPHIS, May 8, 1864. D. L. JUNE, ESQ.—3/y Old Friend:
Dr. Rice told me you expressed a desire that I should write to you, which I intended to have done before now, but I have been extremely busy. I understand that my name has been talked about some as a candidate before the Congressional Nominating Convention, and, as a consequence, persons opposed to my nomination have used against me a communication published in the Cleveland Leader, signed "A. D. O." accusing me of surrendering into slavery three colored children. That communication was malicious, and contained many falsehoods. My attention was called to it some time ago, but I did not suppose that my reputation at home could suffer from the statements of an anonymous newspaper correspondent. My sentiments upon the subject of slavery have been freely expressed for many years, and have undergone no change, except in intensity against the institution. There has been no time, during the last twenty years, that any earthly power could compel or induce me to aid in forcing a fugitive slave back into slavery. I have never dune such a thing, and never will Since I have been in command of the District of Memphis, I have not in any way, officially or otherwise, recognized the relation of master or slave. The only restraint upon the colored people here is exercised by the Government of the United States. No one has been compelled to remain with his or her former master to my knowledge. The colored children referred to had been ordered by General Hurlburt to be left with Dr. Wheaton, as an act of humanity towards the children. In the absence of General Hurlburt, they were forcibly taken away, in violation of General Hurlburt’s order, and against the wishes and best interest of the children themselves. They were, not held or treat- ed as slaves, but were being educated and kindly treated in every respect. There was a mutual attachment between the children and Dr. Wheaton’s family. An adopted daughter of Dr. Wheaton having no children, took great pains in teaching them to read, sing, and in religious exercises. The father had enlisted as a soldier, and the mother was in the contraband camp, the worst place in the wide world for children. Knowing these facts, I ordered the children to be taken to Dr. Wheaton’s, not as slaves, for slavery does not exist here, but as an act of humanity and duty towards the children. 1 would have done the same thing if the children had been white. The question of slavery had nothing to do with it. Dr. Wheaton pledged himself, and offered to give bonds to produce the children whenever the authorities should call for them. His residence is within my picket lines, and within range of the guns of Fort Pickering. One of the children is the child of a white roan, and not of the husband of the mother. These children are very intelligent, and are contented and happy at Dr. Wheaton’s. It would have been a great outrage upon these children to have allowed them to be forced into that contraband camp. I never did a more righteous act in my life, and if that is an objection to my going to Congress, when understood, then I have no desire to go. I entered the service with the determination to do my duty under all circumstances, regardless of personal considerations, and shall continue to act upon that principle as long as I continue in the service. I desire the good opinion of my friends at home, but I cannot sacrifice duty or principle to obtain it. My friends must do as they think best under the circumstances, about presenting my name to the convention.
Yours, truly, R. P. BUCKLAND.
We trust now that the Cleveland leader, the Oberlin News, the Boston Liberator, and other papers that have contained slanders against General Buckland. will be ready to do him justice, and publish the statement here made in the Journal. We wish also this other fact to be understood, that General Buckland has not written and sent the letter above quoted with a view to or a thought of having it ‘published; but, conscious of having done right, he was prepared to let the slander die of its own poison. Northern Ohio, the Ninth Congressional District, and Sandusky county particularly, have stronger reasons than before to be proud of their fellow-citizen—General R. P. Buckland.—Fremont Journal.

THE PRESIDENT’S VISIT.
Apart from the prestige given to the Fair by the attendance upon the introductory exercises of the President of the United States, there was a personal significance in his visit which is a subject for congratulation. The heartiness with which he was welcomed, and the unbounded applause with which he was greeted, contrasted so broadly with the antagonism which he avoided encountering on his first passage through the city after his election, that be must have been keenly and gratefully impressed with the change. The transformation that has been wrought in sentiment, in the course of three years, is so great and so striking, that Mr. Lincoln could not refrain from alluding to it. The community which, three years ago, objected to the transit of United States volunteers through their city, are now engaged in the humane work of adding to the comfort and efficiency of the soldiers.
It is very evident that the personal good qualities for which the President is distinguished—honesty, sincerity, simplicity, and native goodness of heart— have woo largely upon the esteem and affection of our citizens. The tributes of respect and admiration accorded were as genuine and cordial as they were frequent and numerous. His careworn and haggard appearance, evidencing not so much his recent illness as the heavy burden of anxiety and
<c03>
responsibility he is obliged to bear, awakened the sympathy of all, while the characteristic humor and cheerfulness which support him in his heaviest trials afforded a well-grounded trust that his health may not sink under the pressing weight of his duties. The hearty responses and plaudits which were given to the successive points in his address show how consonant with his own feelings, opinions, and wishes, are those of our people. When some enthusiastic individual proposed three cheers for the President of the United States, they were given with an energy and zest that had a meaning. They implied confidence in his past integrity, and trust in his future efforts. They implied a wish to be guided by his counsel and governed by his wisdom, during another term of office. They meant to cast no reflection upon other statesmen and patriots, but to express satisfaction with him.
"Others, good, perhaps, as he There may be;
Have we tried them in the war-time’s flame? Do we know if they will stand, Heart in hand,
Seeking for the Right, in Heaven’s name?
"Let the Nation ask him, then, Once again
To hold the rudder in this stormy sea. Tell him that each sleepless night, Dark to light,
Ushers in a morning for the Free.
"Let us not forget our rude Gratitude!
But lend our servant the poor crown we may! Give him four more years of toil, Task and moil,
Knowing God shall crown him in His day."
—Baltimore American.
SPANISH OPINIONS OF OUR OIVIL WAR.
Below we give a very interesting correspondence between the liberals of Catalonia, in Spain, and Carolina Coronado de Perry, wife of our Secretary of Legation at Madrid, a Spanish lady of great accomplishments and genius. The ode referred to in the correspondence was addressed by Mrs. Perry, or, as she is more commonly called, Carolina Coronado, to Mr. Lincoln on his inauguration, before the war broke out, but full of anticipations of the universal liberty which is now the assured fruit of the war. These give to the verses of the Spanish poetess an almost prophetic character, and the subjoined correspondence should be read with a reference to this interesting circumstance.—N. Y. Evening Post,
LETTER OF THE CATALAN LIBERALS.
BARCELONA, October, 1863. 
To the Lady Donna Carolina Coronado de Perry.
"Dear Madam: The profound and affectionate admiration with which you inspire us moves us to address you these lines. It is long since we knew, through your beautiful poetry, your delicate sentiments, and through your critical writings, the elevation of your ideas. Report has brought to our ears the fame of your private virtues, and your ode to the immortal Lincoln has shown us that that tender heart of the poetess and the mother, always ready to respond to the softest emotions, is capable also of kindling heroically to the ideas of liberty, of country, and of fraternity.
We who now address you are the same who not long since sent a felicitation to President Lincoln, covered with hundreds of signatures for his decree of emancipation of the slaves, done on the 1st of January of this year. But as there are also among ourselves some who raise altars to covetousness, it would be very grateful to us that from the bosom of our own society, there should arise a voice pure, chaste, but sensitive and thrilling, which, operating by its divine influence in our families, should draw all sympathies towards the unfortunate slaves.
If the indifferent; if those who by weakness might be inclined to wrong; should hear sounding in their ears the sweet voice of an affectionate mother; the inspired voice of the. poetess; the earnest voice of the honored matron; the energetic and burning voice of the priestess of the free; oh, what consolation, what hope, what virtue might we not promise to ourselves!
You are the person to work this prodigy—you who feel and love, and know how to inspire others with all noble affections. You can yet show, by mean not used till now, what a worthy spouse you are of that free citizen; what a worthy daughter of this Spain, whose historic glories all belong to liberty!
A book, lady! a book, beloved friend! a book which will show us the facts and tendencies of the present war in the United States of America.
Whilst so many belie the high-endowments of talent, prostituting it to any unworthy thing, if so be it go clothed in tinsel, exalt you the name of our country in your pages, which, being yours, will be beautiful, will teach the mind and move the heart, will fire the imagination so that men shall come to love one another.
Whatever be the point of view which you select, it will be good for those who desire what you desire as to the future of those who in America are unfortunate because they are not white.
We do not invoke roe rights of humanity, nor the blood already shed, to induce you to do for Spain this great service. You have children, lady, and the class of workingmen will thank you with its thousands of hearts, for the doctrine of that book which it will cherish as a treasure for the education of it children.
From this moment we give you the most heart; thanks, for the hopes which your delicate sentiments permit us to entertain; meantime we wait that the invaluable fruit of your labors may reach our hands
Your admirers and most affectionate servants, Mariano Vaque, Paul Armengol, Jose Maria Torres Jose Anselmo Clave Jose, Pirol, Narciso Monturiol, Joaquin Maria Capdevila, Jaime Ferres, Federico Borios, Joaquin Font Vila, Fernando Mavigo, and many hundreds more, whose signatures we do not repeat."
REPLY OF CAROLINA CORONADO.
"To Don Marino Vaque, Don Paul Armengol and others:
My FRIENDS: It is so long since. I abandoned my literary tasks to devote myself to the care of my children, and live forgotten in the world, that you letter has surprised me.
It is true that when the virtuous Lincoln came in to power, having a presentiment of the storm which was about to burst over the country of my children, and unquiet about the future of that noble race of Washington, I uttered a cry in favor of the slaves But I supposed nobody had heard it; and indeed it would have been lost in space if there had not been a people always careful for the misfortunes of other peoples, which gathers up all the echoes, and respond to all sensations.
Catalonia, which never sleeps, which listens always and always feels, has carried this time its perception to an extreme in listening also to my voice. But how, from the little I have said, where I could say no more in an ode, have yon divined that, could write a book upon slavery and emancipation?
You, men in whose hearts the political passion are now strugging as no other passion has ever struggled—will you be satisfied with what a woman can say? Can a woman find words to speak of that iniquity, empress of all the iniquities, which consent that men should sell other men, without fear of God or respect to the name of Christianity?
If my book were to be read only by women, should be bold to write; but it must he read by you and you are the free men of Catalonia, vanguard of ideas in Spain, to whom nothing new could be said and who would not be satisfied without something new.
A poem is a song, and it may be uttered by a woman or a bird. The book you demand is a work to the historian, for the philosopher, for the statesman and even with all these qualities, I doubt whether it would suffice to explain the scandal it is for humanity, that still in this age there should be one single slave upon the earth.
For this, our brothers of America, generous men, warriors, unyielding heroes, whose laurels shade the whole line from the Potomac to the Mississippi, fight on till the liberty of the slaves is achieved.
For this, yon bear the thunder of that monstrous artillery, whose horrible hail destroys in a single day the fruit which, in many years, many thousands of mothers have given to their country.
For this, a hundred thousand sons, who before lived tranquil in the warmth of the family firesides, lie to-day under the cold earth of the fields of Virginia.
For this, Lincoln, the patriarch, the student, the friend of peace, at the same time that be raises to Heaven a paternal band praying for mercy upon that people, sustains with the other stalwart arm the standard of the war.
The book you ask—five hundred thousand bayonets are writing it on the fields of America. Each battle if a chapter, and the freed blacks who combat be-
<c04>

tween the two great armies are the living letters which are now to be printed, and which will leave their eternal mark in that great press of the republic.
Fix your eyes on the signs which the telegraph continually brings us; count the battles and learn to know the armies. See how to the formidable hosts of the North gather from ail the world soldiers of different races, of distinct kingdoms, and of distant climes—Spaniards, Germans, French, Britons, Hungarians—suojects and princes—all to do battle for the holy cause of emancipation.
In our own beautiful Cadiz was born the avenger of Maryland, terror of the armies of Lee, who, in one sole battle, gained the renown which, from the seas of America, has come wave over wave till it reaches the shores of Spain. From Europe went those illustrious princes, sons of a king of France, whose gallant deeds in years so young have touched the hearts of the American matrons. From Europe went the valiant Schurz, bright apparition from the mists of Germany, who hears the rattle of ballets, as he heard the clapping of hands when his ardent eloquence roused the people of New York.
Look at New Orleans, yielding to the fleet of the courageous Farragut.
Look at Charleston burning under the fire of skillful Gillmore. See the invincible Grant, whose army, like a huge serpent, winds round the fortress of Vicksburg, and takes captive forty thousand slaveholders, breaking the chains of the Mississippi; and there you have the book of emancipation.
As to slavery. Jefferson Davis, when he wrote in his insolent Constitution the right to slavery, wrote its last page—wrote its epitaph. Slavery was an iniquity, suffered because of the reluctance of the people to provoke bloody wars; but when Davis, like that resplendent angel of evil, rote in arms, to give a crown to that iniquity, he damned it forever.
Already there is no slavery! Already that spot is wiped from the forehead of America, and nothing remains but the bulwark of Richmond, where the masters of slaves, fugitives from Chattanooga, take refuge to pass the last winter in which they may swing their whips.
Now soon, very soon, when the sun of spring unbinds the ice, and gives passage to the armies of the North, and to the tremendous squadron of the iron turtles, you will see that bulwark fall; and you will see unfold upon the capital the flag of liberty for white and black; and then—if you ask me for a hymn—we will all sing it.
That will be the world’s brightest day, and my heart melts to think of the delight of the poor negroes when the children who sleep the sleep of infancy will not awake to be sold by the merchants of black skins—tanners* of human kind.
No—let there be no books written upon slavery—burn those which exist, so that our children and the children of the negroes may not learn injustice. Let them be ignorant that there has been a race in the world which gave itself up to such odious cruelties, so that the blacks may not hate the whites, and the whites may not be ashamed in the presence of the negro.
For those negroes are no longer slaves; they are brave soldiers who defend their country, following the banner of the Republic; and if their faces darken the ranks, their bones whiten the fields of battle. Ah, that those fields might not again be covered with flowers to be wet with blood and tears!
Your vows for that beloved land where I had no cradle, but where I shall have my sepulchre, come to mingle with my own, and united will go to America, and will there be welcomed by our brothers.
Do not fear for them. The North will be victorious. Hear what Seward, the grave diplomatist, announces. Hear the learned Sumner—light of the American Senate. Yes, the North triumphs. Heaven protects its own justice. For the victory of slavery would be the establishment of injustice—would be the ruin of civilization, and the barbarism of the human race.
No! Slavery is doomed. God did not inspire Columbus to make a hemisphere of slaves. But even if in America slavery should triumph, still Europe, which sent a genius upon the seas to raise from their bosom a new world crowned with glory, would go again to sink it in the waters to avoid its ignominy.
Accept, my friends, the expression of my affection, and the gratitude with which I am yours, &c., 
&c. CAROLINA CORONADO.
MADRID, January 1st, 1864."
* Tanners. There is something inexplicably depressive in this epithet, which can hardly be given in English. Though the figure of speech, which makes "a tanning" to signify a very unpleasant process for young humanity, was not unknown to us who formerly learned Wisdom’s ways in New England, still the prejudice which in Spain makes the occupation of the tanner vile, and taboos him socially, is unknown to us.
In Spain, next to the standing of the public executioner, comes that of the butchers and tanners, their brethren. Every other occupation, without exception, is more respectable than these.—[TRANSLATOR.
THE RICHMOND WASHI1NGTON MONUMENT.
 The Washington Monument, as the reader who has seen it knows, is an elegant structure, both in design and artistic finish. It stands in the centre of a circular base about twenty-five feet in diameter, and consists of a column about fifteen feet in height, mounted on a polyonal pedestal, or star. On the top of the column is a statue of the father of his country, on horseback. On each projecting angle of the star, a few feet from the column, stands, on a small pedestal, one of the lesser lights of the Revolution. On the circle of the main base, opposite the points of the star, are placed large eagles, standing on blocks of stone.
On the breast of each of the revolutionary heroes surrounding Washington is a placard quoting some of his distinguished sayings in the days that tried men’s souls. As a sample, on the breast of Dr. Franklin, quoted from his remarks in that first American Congress, is written, "Independence will cut the Gordian knot at once, and give us freedom." What would that great man say now, if he could speak, at being thus made the advocate of the Slaveholders’ Rebellion?
From the beaks of the eagles are suspended placards with flaming mottoes in Latin. It must have been noticed that the rebel leaders are prone to interlarding their speeches and inscribing their banners with mottoes from the dead and foreign languages; but the reason of their doing so, no Yankee, perhaps, has ever yet guessed. It is because, to their ignorant and deluded followers, there is something awfully imposing in a dead language saying or inscription. Should they see or hear the same sentiment in English, they would scarcely notice it. But having seen it in Latin, they will not rest until they find some one who can interpret it, and then they will mentally repeat the translation until it becomes as familiar to them, and more sacred, in their estimation, than any of the Ten Commandments. To give all the inscriptions on these cards would be tedious, but one or two of them may prove interesting. On the eagle nearest them Capitol steps bung the ancient saying—"Dulce etdecorum est pro patria mori," "it is sweet and glorious to die for one’s country;" on another hung "pro aris et focis," or, "for our altars and our firesides."
There can be no doubt that the rebel leaders have succeeded by artifice and chicanery such as this in convincing many an unsophisticated youth that it is sweet and glorious to die for the Confederacy, and that they are fighting for their altars and their firesides; and many thousand more must be led to the slaughter before the terrible delusion is dispelled from the Southern mind.
Had their desecration of the monument ended here, they might perhaps be forgiven; but not a tithe of their sacrilege has yet been told. They most outrageously insulted the memory of the immortal Washington. They tied in his hand, rather in the hand of his statue, a long staff, from the top of which floated, insulting alike the Father of his Country and the pure air of heaven, a dirty rebel rag. The principal instrument of this outrage, thank God! speedily received a merited reward. He had barely secured the flag-staff, when his foot slipped, and he fell headlong to the stone base below, fracturing his skull, and dying in a few moments.
An impulsive Irishmen, who had been forced into the militia then drawn up in the square, seeing the man fall, thoughtlessly shouted," Bejabers, Washington gave him the shilalah—he will have nothing but the stars and sripes," The words bad scarcely pasted the lips of the unfortunate man when he was sabred by his Captain; and, as he fell and after be had fallen, he was kicked by the chivalry around him—his companions-in-arms—and afterward dragged by the legs to the rear in a dying condition. It is almost a wonder that at this time there was not a resurrection at Mount Vernon. The great
<c05>
spirit of the hero entombed there must have felt like resigning its high post in heaven, and taking up the flesh again. to resent the insult offered its earthy image by making it a standard-bearer for the infernal rebellion.
Demonstrations such as I have described have been common throughout the South ever since the war begun, and, trilling as they may appear to the Northern reader, they are not without their effect They are designed to delude the weak and ignorant and catch the rabble, by reminding them that Washington was a Southern man and a rebel. Speakers are always at hand to expatiate to the gaping crowd on the emblems before them, and to stuff then with sophistry that they should be proud to be called rebels because Washington was a rebel; that all rebels must be right because Washington was right; and that the portion of the rebel States toward the Federal Government a analogous to that occcupied by this country toward Great Britain in ‘76. To the Southern people such comparisons are not odious.
They never reason or reflect. They take the law and the gospel from their superiors education and craft, and have done so long that to-day they are as planets, lesser stars and meteors, who either revolve around their great luminary, Jeff. Davis, or occupy the post in the firmament he assigns to them There are, to be sure, many exceptions—Union men. To keep up the simile, I might call them fixed and shooting stars; for some of them are content to remain quietly in their places, though their lustre is for the present obscured by the brilliancy of the great rebel bodies around them, while others occasionally shoot off, explode, and disappear forever, like the poor Irishman mentioned a moment or two ago. The Southern people are generally very ignorant, and the veriest slaves of official masters of any people on earth,—Corr. New York Tribune.
RETURNING REASON.
In the House of Lords on the 29th ult., in reply to an attack by Lord Derby, Earl Russell defended the course of the Ministry with respect to the rams built by the Messrs. Laird, taking ground which will be observed with great satisfaction in this country.
Earl Russell was especially explicit in speaking of the conduct of the Lairds. He said:—
"The Messrs. Laird, whatever may be their politics—a point with which I have nothing; to do—have no right to go to war with any power in friendly relations with Her Majesty. (Cries of ‘Oh!’ and cheers.) The power of going to war is one of the prerogatives of the crown, and it is not a privilege of the Messrs. Laird, however repectable they may be as shipbuilders. Yet I have no hesitation in saying that the Messrs. Laird had it in their power to commit this country hi hostilities with the United States of America, and it was nothing but the vigilance of the government—what the noble Earl describes as their over-vigilance—which prevented those respectable gentlemen from involving us in a war with the Northern States. (Hear, hear.) In arguing this question, I must state many things which the noble Earl, in his long and able speech, has entirely omitted, and the first of those matters b the existence of the Foreign Enlistment Act."
Defending the conduct of the English Ministry at some length, Earl Russell remarked —
"The only thing with which I should be disposed to reproach myself in the present case is the degree of the credulity with which I received the assurances that were made, that the iron-clads were not intended for the Confederate States. The Collector of Customs at Liverpool, Mr. Edwards, said he believed it never was intended to use them for that purpose. The law officers, on his authority, took the same view. I was at first disposed to share that opinion, but evidence was poured in on me which there was no resisting, and I am convinced that the vessels were originally built for the Confederate States."
The concluding portion of his speech is as follows, and will be read with great interest, since it is the nearest approach to an expression of sympathetic interest in the result of the present war, which the Earl has permitted to escape his lips:—
"Having explained what was the course we took, let me again say that I think we are bound to maintain our neutrality in the contest between the two parties on the continent of North America, Great issues are there under trial, and no issue greater than the question of what will become of those four millions of the negro race which have hitherto been retained as slaves in the United States. For my part, I have never been able to feel much sympathy with either of the contending republics of the United and Confederate States. I saw that on the one side there was a declaration in favor of the perpetuity of slavery, and on the other there seemed to be no measures taken even to undo that unholy compact contained in the Constitution of the United States, by which a slave coming into a free State, however much he may have suffered in endeavoring to reach that free State, is liable to be again restored to his master. It is to be hoped, with respect to this contest in North America, with whatever calamities it may be fraught, whatever slaughter may be committed, and whatever industries interrupted, that Providence will decree that some atonement for all the misery shall be made to mankind, and that the issue will be one which will place those four millions of the black race in a condition of freedom—in that condition which may hereafter lead to their prosperity by the proper employment of that liberty which the United Slates have proclaimed as the most sacred principle of their Constitution. It is evident that it must be led to the contending powers to work out this great problem, and I, for my part, should think it a great misfortune if this country should be obliged by any paramount considerations to take a part in the present contest. It mar be that the result of this contest, the beginning of which we all regret—it may be that the end of this contest may see that sin, that crime, that detestable state of slavery forever abolished from among civilized nations.’ (Hear, hear.)
PAYING LOYAL MEN FOR THEIR SLAVES.
We are not the advocate of paying loyal men for their slaves, beyond the bounty of 9300 offered by the Government, when the negroes are enlisted in the service. It is said that it is hard for a loyal man to lose his property, and have no recompense. So it is; but human existence is full of hardships, and this rebellion subjects many truly loyal to hardships greater than the loss of slave property. We have all had our losses in this war—the mechanic and the laboring man—but who can reckon them up and pay them all? The publication of our paper was suspended when we were doing a prosperous business, and we were sent out of the State by rebels. Who is pay us for losses? We don’t expect the Federal Government to pay as, although we are as much entitled to pay as the loyal man who has lost to an extent in slave property. In God’s government the innocent suffer with the guilty. Why should w" expect man’s government to be more perfect than God’s?
But why this hue and cry for the payment of slave property only? Whence is the revenue for this purpose derived? From taxes? Upon whom and upon what? Upon the poor white man, and upon the free white laborers of the State. We must tax the poor white man, made still poorer by the war, to pay the losses of rich men, in order that the rich may suffer no loss at all! And we must tax a class of men who never favored the rebellion, to remunerate a class who were active in bringing it about This is the proposition, when carried out, and nothing less. How will such a proposition strike the conscience and judgment of the world?
But many of our slaveholders are loyal, and were all the time opposed to the rebellion, and they have lost half they owned, as their property was in slaves. Granted. But is there any reason why the loyal slaveholders should possess any peculiar exemption from the losses and calamities of .the war? Unless we are prepared to pay all the losses that the war has occasioned to loyal men, we do not see how we can fairly make an exemption of one class, and pay the slaveholder, though his loyalty is unquestionable! What, shall the slaveholder, on account of whose class this war has been brought on, and the nation plunged into such vast losses—shall he alone demand to cone oat harmless from the wreck and ruin the war has brought upon the country? Must all other men, no matter how loyal and true, be stripped without remedy of their property and homes, be reduced from affluence to poverty, and the owners of slaves alone expect to be made whole, and saved from every loss?
The debt of Tennessee—a debt incurred for our magnificent State Capitol, our railroads, our turn-
<c06>
Pikes all our internal improvements and public institutions— amounted to eighteen millions of dollars We propose to repudiate all the, debts incurred while the State was in rebellion, but we are not for repudiating the honest debt of eighteen millions, legitimately incurred. The debt incurred by rebel legislation and rebel issues of bank paper together with the stealing of the school fund back capital, and other effects of the people, by the traitors who usurped the government of the State must be repudiated and the latter restored as far as may be by seizing the property of the guilty legislators, bank officers, and guardians, and appropriating it! —Brownlow’s Whig.
HORRORS OF THE RICHMOND PRISON 
WASHINGTON May 9
The testimony of our relieved prisoner at Annapolis before the Committee on the Conduct of the War, goes to show that it is the practice of the rebel authorities to subject our soldiers and officers who fall into their hands to physical and mental suffering impossible to describe.
Many of those released from Richmond present now the appearance of living skeletons, little more than skin and bone, some maimed for life, and some frozen by lying without tent or covering on the, bare ground of Belle Isle. The general practice is shown to be the robbing of prisoners as soon as taken, of all money, valuables and good clothing The food allowed was totally insufficient to preserve the health of a child. It consisted usually of two pieces of bread made of corn and cob meal badly cooked, with about two ounces of meat unfit to eat and occasionally a few black, worm-eaten beans. They were obliged to sell clothing received from home to buy food to sustain life. Those in the hospitals were little better fed. Worn and neglected wounds remained for days undressed. One witness when asked if he was hungry, replied: Hungry I could eat anything in the world that came before us" They were submitted to unmerciful and murderous treatment from those in charge over them They were shot and killed for violating rules of which they had no knowledge!
When they arrived at Washington, their clothes were so filled with vermin that they had to be destroyed, and repeated washings failed to relieve their hands and bodies of the pests. They are now dying daily, and the physician in charge entertained no doubt that their emaciation and death are clearly caused by the brutal treatment received others of war.
The testimony shows that the treatment received at Columbia and Dalton was far more humane than at Richmond.
The committee cannot resist the conclusion, that these inhuman practices are the result of a determination on the part of the rebel authorities to reduce our soldiers, by privations and exposure, to such a condition that they never will be able to render effective service in the field. It is the result like the massacre of Fort Pillow, of a predetermined policy They deem it evident that the rebel newspaper statements, claiming for the prisoners the same treatment as their own soldiers, are glaring and unblushing falsehoods, and say no one can for a moment be deceived by such statements who will reflect that our soldiers, who when taken prisoners were stout healthy men, in the prime and vigor of life, yet they have died by hundreds under the treatment they have received, although required to perform no duties of camp or march, while the rebel soldiers are able to make long and rapid marches, and to offer stabbers resistance in the field. They refer with pride and satisfaction to the uncomplaining fortitude and undiminished patriotism exhibited by our brave men under all their privations, even in the hour of’ death
The chaplain says: There is another thing l would wish to state. All the men, without any exception, among the thousands that have come to this hospital, have never in a single instance expressed a regret, notwithstanding the privations and sufferings they have endured, that they entered their country’s service. They have been most loyal, devoted and earnest. They said all they hoped was just to live and enter the ranks again, and meet their foes. It is a glorious record in the relation, in the devotion of our men to their country. I do not think that their patriotism has ever been equaled in the history of the world."
WHY DISGUSTING?
The Louisville Journal speaks of what it call "a very disgusting thing," namely. a placard said to have been recently issued by an officer recruiting negro troops in Kentucky. The Journal describes this disgusting thing:—
"On the back of it are these words: All slaves were made freemen by Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, January 1, 1863. Come then, able bodied colored men, to the nearest United States camp, and fight for the stars and stripes’ On the other side was an engraving of the white officer in epaulets pointing a sword toward the sky with his right hand and grasping with his left the staff of the American flag inscribed Freedom to the slave a nigger school house filled and surrounded by little niggers the nigger schoolmaster is reading a newspaper, a big nigger is coat and cap of indigo-blue, striking chains from the limbs of male and female slaves, and a nigger regiment rushing after a lender, whose color is designedly undistinguishable, under the flag marked ‘United states regiment colored troops.’ The placed bear no name This is the only scrap of evidence that the recruiting officer who got it up is not. whilst seeming to court shame, stone dead to all sence of it."
The Journal ought to have explained why this placard is "disgusting." To call upon able-bodied men to fight for the stars and stripes is certainly not disgusting, except, perhaps, to the rebels at Richmond N’or can we see anything disguised in the promise held out by the placard of school in which children shall be taught to read, or of a man "striking chains from the limbs of male and female slave" or of a regiment rushing to defend the flag of the Union. That an officer who holds out such inducements to persons who enter the Union armies "courts shame," is what we cannot comprehend We think on the contrary, that his appeal does honor alike to him and to the people who can be tempted to go hardship and face death by the mere promise of liberty for themselves and schools for their children Unless liberty is shameful, and education a disgrace those who endeavor to spread both ought to be held in honor by their countrymen.-.V. 1
THE QUALITIES OF THE NEGROES FOR SOLDIERS.
In a recent edition of the Federalist edited by John C. Hamilton, the son of the author, and published by J. B. Lippincott & Co. of this city, we find in his historical notice of the authors of the Federalist, that the subject of employing colored troops as early at the days of the American Revolution, (without the aid of any societies then for emancipation and the abolition’ of slavery.) was entertained with the most favorable impressions. Concurred in by General Washington as expedient. and recommended by Congress, then sitting, to South Carolina and Georgia, for the raising of three thousand able-bodies negroes, so warm as our forefathers were then with the great theme of Civil Liberty and the Natural Rights of mankind.
I am convinced." says Hamilton. "that the whole human race is entitled to it, and that it cannot be wrenched from them without the blackest and most aggravated guilt. Civil liberty is only natural liberty modified and secured by the sanction of civil society. The negroes will make very excellent 
soldiers 
"The contempt," he writes to the president of Congress, "we have been taught to entertain for the blacks makes us fancy many thing that are founded neither in reason nor experience.
"An essential part of the plan is to give them their freedom with their sword
This will secure fidelity, animate their courage and, 1 believe will have a good influence upon those who remain, by opening a door to the emancipation
This cirecumstance, I confess, has no small weights in inducing me to wish the success of the projects, for the dictates of humanity and true policy equally interest me in favor of this unfortunate class of men."
SUN SHINE:
A NEW NAME FOR A POPULAR LECTURE ON HEALTH By Mrs DALL Author of "Woman’s Labor "Women under the Law," &c. 16mo; paper, 35cents
Sent free by mail on receipt of the prices WALKER, WISE & CO
BOSTON.
