THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, general agent.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, is advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment be made in advance.
All remittances are to be mode, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:-FBANCIS JACKSON, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WENDELL PHILLIPS.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXI NO BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1861. WHOLE NO. 1579.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
TRAITORS IN THE SENATE.
EXTRA SESSION OF THE U. S. SENATE-Washington, March 8th. Mr. Dixon's resolution to print the Inaugural Address was adopted. 
Mr. Foster offered the following resolution:-
"Whereas, Mr. Wigfall, now Senator from Texas, has declared in debate that he is a foreigner, owing to allegiance to this government, but to another, it is resolved that Louis T. Wigfall be expelled from this body."
Mr. Foster, not seeing Mr. Wigfall, let the resolution lay over.
Mr. Clingman moved to amend by substituting:—
"It is understood that the State of Texas has seceded from the Union, and is no longer one of the United States; therefore, 
Resolved, That Texas is not entitled to be represented in this body."
Mr. MASON remarked that the resolution was clearly for the expulsion of the Senator from Texas for what he had said on this floor. The Constitution enables the Senate to protect itself, and gives power to expel a member, provided that two-thirds vote for the resolution. But the expulsion of a Senator is punitive in character, and the intention of the Senator from Connecticut is to punish the Senator from Texas for what he said in debate. The Senator from Connecticut said what the Senator from Texas had avowed was inconsistent with holding a seat on this floor. The Senator had declared that be was a foreigner and not a citizen of the United States, but owed allegiance to a foreign government. If the Senator from Connecticut thought the Senator from Texas ought not to occupy a seat hero, because he is not a citizen of the United States, he ought to move to refer the subject to a committee, so that if the facts warrant, the seat will be declared vacant.
Mr. FOSTER. interposing, asked whether, after the Senator from Texas had been duly elected by his State, and admitted as a member here, they could inquire into the legality by which he holds his seat -a new fact rising which did not exist at that time.
Mr. MASON was very certain if a Senator was not entitled to his seat, it could be vacated whenever facts to warrant such a course should be discovered. If it be a punishable offence to allege a constitutional truth, then the resolution may be well founded. For one. he (Mason) recognized no allegiance to this government. He recognized and acknowledged no allegiance to this government, none whatever, and he here took his position alongside the Senator from Texas, although Virginia is a constituent of this government, and one of her representatives. He owed allegiance to Virginia, and to no one else. Did the Senator from Connecticut resist the doctrine of constitutional law, and hold that the Government of the United States is still sovereign? If he did, God help him! (Laughter.) So far as the Senator from Texas has committed an offence by saying he owed no allegiance to this government, he stood by his side. He should be unfaithful to Virginia if he did not. The old feudal idea of allegiance was the relation between the subject and sovereign, between the vassal and lord. Allegiance here is that which is due from a citizen to a sovereign power. He knew of no sovereign except the State. He took it for granted that Connecticut is the Senator's sovereign, and that if he yields allegiance to this government, he is faithless. The oath of allegiance in Virginia, to be taken by all who are admitted to the political powers of the State, is faithfully and truly to support the Commonwealth. If the Senator from Texas is a foreigner, he is not a citizen of the United States. But that is because of the fact, not because of the allegation: for the Constitution says that a foreigner shall not have a seat on this floor. The Senator from Texas said he believed he was a foreigner to this government, because Texas had separated herself from it: for the Senator did not then know the fact, nor did he know it now, unless he received the intelligence last night. The Senator believed that Texas had seceded, because he knew the popular sentiment of the State; and yet because of this declaration, the Senator from Connecticut sought his expulsion. The Senator and others and the new President declare that the ordinance declaring separation is null, and the State holds the same relation it did before the passage of the act. We (said Mr. M.) deny it, Virginia denies it. Six of the States, as far as we know, not only deny it, but have acted on it; and not only have confederated, but formed a government prepared to sustain itself if this government shall attempt to attack it If the Senator from Connecticut would say that the act was a nullity, them he then he held language which he (Mason) thought, with great respect to him, is more disrespectful tenfold than the language for which the Senator says the Senator from Texas deserves to be expelled. Why? Because, by their language, five millions of people and seven sovereign States are in insurrection. They declare the acts of secession nullities, although these States seize what they call public property. Yet, acknowledging all this, they take no means to recover it. In not acting upon the information, they are more reprehensible than the Senator from Texas. How could he owe allegiance to this government? Then he must obey the orders of this government in preference to those of his own State. He was sworn to support the Constitution, and not the government.
Mr. HUNTER regarded this movement as calculated to be dangerous. The resolution proposed to censure a member for a mere expression of opinion. The Senator from Texas had done nothing more than declare his belief in the doctrine of secession, and that his State had seceded, but that until he had the evidence of this, he would sit here. With other State-rights men, he avowed that he owed obedience to the Constitution and the laws, but not allegiance. All then he had said was, he believed a majority in all the Southern States who held to the right of secession, hold if the right was exercised, the State placed itself in foreign relation with the rest of the Union. If this was a cause for expulsion. why might not a Senator be expelled for other differences or declarations of opinion? How long might it be before it would be obnoxious to defend slavery. and perhaps a two-thirds vote obtained for upholding that institution? The power of expelling a member was never given for such purposes. Members could be punished according to the Constitution only for disorderly conduct; and according to all writers on parliamentary law. it is always to be exercised with great caution and care. If a man was to be punished for the expression of a mere abstract opinion, where was the usage to end? He maintained as the Senator from Texas had expressed no opinion that had not been expressed by all the Seceding Senators of the Seceding States, if he was to be punished, then they too must be expelled, for they have given a practical proof that they are foreigners, from the fact they have gone off. and established another government. He agreed with his colleague (Mason) that they owe allegiance to their State, and obedience to the Constitution.
<c02>
THE DELUDED ABOLITIONISTS.
To the Editor of the Herald of Progress: 
Facts prove that servitude, subordination to the white man, is the natural condition of the negro; and that unaided, unsupported, and uninformed by the white man, the negro is a poor, miserable savage, spending his time in the indulgence of the lowest propensities of animal nature; that no book, map, history or tradition ever emanated from a negro people and that the African, with the finest soils, the noblest rivers, the richest mines of the old world, has remained in the dark savagery of his nature; and there remains, till held up and sustained in the condition of helper, or servant, to his more indulgent friend, the white man. 
If there be such a thing in nature as a spirit of deviltry and discord, that spirit has possession of Abolitionists, and uses Abolitionism as his chief engine in North America to work his infernal purposes. Here are thirty millions of people put on the rack of uncertainty about African slavery! The best government destroyed; the happiest and freest people have been rendered quarrelsome, and filled with a thirst for blood, because four millions of lazy, good-for-nothing negroes, that would otherwise have been obliged to pick up a precarious living, have been taken into the keeping of their more humane white friends; been taught how to raise cotton, and rice, and tobacco; have been furnished good comfortable houses, clothing, and food, and allowed to live among their children free from the cares of poverty, and to the at a good old age, leaving a numerous offspring, the surest test of a wise, healthful, and happy life.
The abolitionized mind is psychologized by a lie. Abolitionists teach that the negro is a white man, differing only in color. All history, all experience and observation, prove that the negro is neither spiritually, mentally, nor physically, the same as the white man. Facts and nature are speaking in thunder tones; the mighty crashing, the bowlings of despair, the confusions worse confounded of disunion, secession, anarchy, pauperism, and suffering in Northern poor-houses; the absolute freedom from want, the perfect emancipation of our poor people from poverty; all these things ought to teach, and I would teach the truth. But an Abolitionist prefers to believe a lie, to the infinite jeopardy of his country, and of the white race, as well as of the negro, rather than take the truths of history and common sense, and save both his country and the negro together. I don't say the negro is "inferior" to the white man. in any other sense than that a child is inferior to its parents. The negro of America is the superior negro, because he is better fed, better clothed, better housed, better cared for, than any other negro; and better than any other poor folks elsewhere among civilized men. 
Servitude is his natural condition, as much so as it is that of the horse or ox. All experience proves that he will not work, unless put under the direction of his more sagacious and benevolent white brother and friend. Voluntary labor is not in the negro! Look at him in his native land for the past thousand years, and in the West Indies! He was never of any use till the Englishman began to spin cotton, when to the poor benighted heathen was found able and happy to wield the hoe, under the hot sun that would kill his white friend. Both white and negro must have cotton, or go naked! The white man cannot hoc cotton. The experiment has been tried, and the result is that none but the colored races can hoe cotton. What are Abolitionists going to do about it? There stands the fact. Nature has made! it so. Denying it or intermeddling with it will not alter it. As a servant, the negro is a useful, nay, an almost indispensable agricultural laborer, producing cotton to clothe the world, while he enjoys life in abundance. But as a free man, he is a paper, and a savage, unable to take care of himself, and doing no good for himself nor any one else.
Is not Abolitionism mischievous and devilish? It cannot mean to do the negro good. What then does it mean? It has demolished the Union, and laughs over its infernal work as if it were a good one. It proposes now to turn the guns of Moultrie against Sumter, to set the bravest, freest, most generous and kindly affectioned thirty millions of people that ever lived under one government, against each other with fire and sword, to murder and destroy each other, and all for what? To benefit the negro slave? No; for already he is better off than poor white folks in the North. He has plenty of food, clothing, shelter, fire-wood, and no doctor's bills to pay, no Abolition meetings to attend; but he is happy in singing his hymn, saying his prayers, reading his Bible, (for they do read.) or dancing his jig, as to him seems best. All these things suit the negro nature.
The negro is not a white man. I don't know why not. He is nothing now, never has been, nor ever will be is it likely, beyond what his white friend and brother makes him. The Abolitionist is not that friend. At the South, the negro element increases rapidly, though unassisted by emigration. At the North, the negro element decreases, though the emigration is large. Why is it? The fact is so. God Almighty has made certain laws. They are true; and no man. South or North, black or white, can alter them. The negro man is infantile, when compared to the white: the negro naturally yields homage to the white man, as a child does' to a grown person, because God has made it so. Why not be content to let God's laws be as they are? We cannot change them if we try; it will be fooling away time to make the effort May Heaven bless our country, and lead the poor deluded Abolitionists to look at facts and restore their minds to a harmonious sanity! Yours for the truth, as ever, 
D. J. BALDWIN. 
Houston, Texas, February, 1861.

Selections.
MASSACHUSETTS VINDICATED.
Extract from a speech delivered in the U. S. Senate, Feb. 21st, by Hon. Henry Wilson:-
The prophets of secession and disunion have indeed prophesied falsely, and the people of the South seem to love to have it so. Year after year these prophets, whose element is mischief, have persistently accused the people of the North of entertaining the sentiment of bitter, unreasoning, malignant hate towards the South. They and their Northern allies have stigmatized the ever loyal men of the North, who cling to the faith of the fathers, as the unrelenting enemies of the" Southern people, and too credulous people have come to believe the wicked accusation. Often have we in these Chambers been forced to listen, with aching hearts and wounded spirits, to the cruel accusation that- the Christian people we represent " hate" their countrymen of the South. During the present session, this accusation has often been made in these Chambers. The impulsive Senator from Georgia, [Mr. IVERSON,] declared that we, the people of the free States, hated the people of the South, and he would have it so in spite of the genial
<c03>
smiles and soft, words of the Senator from New Hampshire, [Mr. HALE.] The implacable Senator from Alabama, [Mr. CLAY,] pronounced us of the North, "the most bitter, relentless, and vindictive enemies on earth." The Senator from Virginia, [Mr. MASON,] who has received the greetings of the people of Massachusetts, regards the result of the late election as an evidence of our hostile feelings towards his section. I was pained to hear the Senator from Mississippi, [Mr. DAVIS,] who has received, during the past two years, so many evidences of respect and of kindness from the people of my own New England, say that the harshness of our figurative language was an evidence of the bitterness of our hatred.
In the halls of Congress, in the public journals before the people, everywhere, the Christian people of the North are accused of hatred towards their countrymen of the South, and these oft-repeated accusations have penetrated the ears and fired the hearts of the men of the South to madness. The people of Massachusetts, of New England, of the North, hate not their countrymen of the South. I know Massachusetts; I know something of the sentiments and feelings of her people. During the past fifteen years, I have traversed every portion of the State, from the sands of the Capes to the hills of Berkshire; spoken in nearly every town, sat at the tables and slept beneath the roofs of her people. Around those tables, and beneath those roots, I have heard prayers to Almighty God for blessings on slave and on master. From thousands of Christian homes in Massachusetts, New England, the North, tens of thousands of men and women daily implore God's blessing upon the whole country upon the poor slave and his proud master. Around the firesides of the liberty-loving, God-fearing families of Massachusetts, I have often heard the men. stigmatized as "malignant, unrelenting enemies of the people of the South," on their bended knees, with open Bible, implore the protection and blessing of Almighty God upon both master and slave, upon the people of the whole country. Gentlemen of the South, visiting Massachusetts on pleasure or business, are ever treated by all her people with considerate kindness and fraternal regard. The public men of the South are ever welcomed to Massachusetts; treated with courtesy by all, and sometimes with "complimentary flunkeyism" by the few. I assert positively, without hesitation or qualification, that the people of Massachusetts, ay, of New England, manifest more kindness and courtesy towards their fellow-countrymen of the South, sojourning among them, than they do towards their following countryman of the central States and of the West. Yancey, Henry, Hilliard, and other distinguished sons of the South, were, during the late canvass, listened to in New England with attention and the utmost courtesy, and that, too, when quiet citizens of Massachusetts were, in portions of the South, subjected to the greatest indignities. 
Sir, during the past seven years, I have traversed more than eighty thousand miles of seventeen States, delivered more than four hundred addresses, looked into the faces of hundreds of thousands of the people, sat with them at their tables, slept beneath their roofs, listened to their words; and what I have said of the people of Massachusetts, I can say of the people of New England and the North. During the late canvass, I attended nearly one hundred public meetings in the North, saw hundreds of thousands of people, and heard many addresses by others. I have often disclaimed for myself and for the people of the North, any feelings of hostility towards our brethren of the South; and I have heard other speakers do the same, and everywhere the people unanimously and enthusiastically applauded the sentiment. All over the free States, the Republican speakers, while firmly averring their determination to use all constitutional and legal means to arrest the extension of slavery, disclaimed for the Republican party all feelings of hostility towards the people of the South, and everywhere the whole people heartily applauded the sentiment. Not one no, not one in a thousand of the men who voted for Abraham Lincoln cherishes in his heart a feeling of hatred towards the South, or the wish to put the brand of inequality or degradation upon the brow of his countrymen of that section of the Union. They would as generously contribute of their treasure, they would as freely pour out their blood, for the defence of the South, as they would for the protection of their own Northern homes. Believers in that Christianity which unites all men as brethren, which makes man unutterably dear to his fellow-man, which impels its disciples to raise the fallen, and to labor for the elevation of the poor and the lowly of the children of men, they oppose the wrong, yet hate not the wrong-doer.
Senators and Representatives, popular orators and public journals, are swift to single out for reproach and rebuke New England, and especially the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. This, sir, is not the first time in her history that Massachusetts has drawn upon herself reproach and rebuke for unbending adherence to the rights of human nature. In the days of her Colonial existence, her unshrinking devotion to the rights of mankind often drew upon her the censures of the pliant supporters of the British Crown; but the world now quotes and commends her inspiring example Now her abhorrence of human slavery brings upon her the condemnation of its advocates and apologists; but the hour will yet. come, in the march of time, when her unwavering fidelity to an unpopular cause, in spite of obloquy and reproach, will be a source of inspiration to men struggling to recover lost rights. Massachusetts clings with the tenacity of profound conviction to the teachings of her own illustrious sons. She was taught by Benjamin Franklin, that "slavery is an atrocious debasement of human nature “by John; Adams, that " consenting to slavery is a sacrilegious breach of trust"-by John Quincy Adams, that " slavery taints the very sources of moral principle, and establishes false estimates of virtue and vice” by Daniel Webster, that " it is a continual and permanent violation of human rights," "opposed to the whole spirit of the Gospel, and to the teachings of Jesus Christ by William Ellery Channing, that " to extend and perpetuate the evil, we cut ourselves? of from the communion of nations; we sink below the civilization of our age; we invite the scorn, indignation, and abhorrence of the world." Massachusetts cannot forget or repudiate these words of her immortal sons. Enemies may censure her fidelity, timid friends may chide her zeal, but she moves on, right on, assured, confident,-conscious she "has the future grand and great,-the safe appeal of truth to time."
Men, who are quenching Freedom's holy fire in this age in Republican America, may level their taunts and gibes at Massachusetts, but she will continue to have unfaltering faith in the conviction that human slavery is a crime against humanity. She opens God's Holy Word, and the imperative injunction inspiration” Break every yoke-undo the heavy burden-let the oppressed go free"-flashes upon her vision. She gazes into the graves of perished nations sees that slavery poisoned their national life, hastened their decay, decline, fall. She reads in the brilliant pages of Bancroft: "It is a calumny
<c04>
to charge the devastation of Italy upon the barbarians. The large Roman plantations, tilled by slaves' labor, were its ruin. Slavery had effected the decline of the Roman people, and had wasted the land, before a Scythian or a Scandinavian had crossed the Alps. Slavery had destroyed the Democracy; had destroyed the Aristocracy; had destroyed the Empire; and at last it left the traces of its ruinous power deeply furrowed on the face of nature itself." She also reads in Gurowski's "Slavery in History," that" it was domestic slavery, single-handed, which did the work, for Greece, and particularly in Sparta and Athens. Domestic slavery enervated the nation, and made it an easy prey to foreign conquest. It converted into a putrescent mass the once great and brilliant Grecian world." In the pages of poets, philosophers, philanthropists, jurists, statesmen, of the ages, of the mighty dead of both hemispheres,-of Plato, Socrates, Montesquieu, Burke, Fox, Pitt, Wilberforce, Humboldt, Washington, and Jefferson, Massachusetts finds testimonies which deepen her conviction and quicken her zeal against slavery expansion and domination in America.
The distinguishing opinion of Massachusetts, concerning slavery in America, is often flippantly branded in these Halls as wild, passionate, unreasoning fanaticism. Senators of the South! tell me, I pray you tell me, if it be fanaticism for Massachusetts to see in this age, what your peerless Washington saw in his age, "the direful effects of slavery "? Is it fanaticism for Massachusetts to believe, as your Henry believed, that "slavery is as repugnant to humanity as it is inconsistent with the Bible, and destructive to liberty "? Is it fanaticism for her to believe, as your Madison believed, that "slavery is a dreadful clarity”? it fanaticism for her to believe with your Monroe, that " slavery has preyed upon the vitals of the Union, and has been prejudicial to all the States in which it has existed "? Is it fanaticism for her to believe with your Martin, that "slavery lessens the sense of the equal rights of mankind, and habituates us to tyranny and oppression "? Is it fanaticism for her to believe with your Pinckney, that "it will one day destroy the reverence for liberty, which is the vital principle of a Republic"? Is it fanaticism for her to believe with your Henry Clay, that "slavery is a wrong, a grievous wrong, and no contingency can make it right”? Surely, Senators who are wont to accuse Massachusetts of being drunk with fanaticism, should not forget that the noblest men the South has given to the service of the Republic, in peace and in war, were her teachers. 
Massachusetts, in her heart of hearts, loves liberty-loathes slavery. I glory in her sentiments, for the heart of our common humanity is throbbing in sympathy with her opinions. But she is not unmindful of her constitutional duties, of her obligations to the Union and to her sister States. Up to the verge of constitutional power she will go in maintenance of her cherished convictions; but she has not shrunk, and she does not mean to shrink, from the performance of her obligations as a member of this confederation of constellated States. She has never sought, she does not seek, to encroach by her own acts, or by the action of the Federal Government, upon the constitutional rights of her sister States. Jealous of her own rights, she will respect the rights of others. Claiming the power to control her own domestic policy, she freely accords that power to her sister States. Conceding the rights of others, she demands her own. Loyal to the Union, she demands loyalty in others. Here, and now, I demand of her accusers, that they file their bill of specifications, and produce the proofs of their allegations, or forever hold their peace.
Has Massachusetts proposed, either by State or Federal action, to interfere directly or indirectly with slavery in the States? Never. Her colored seamen are arrested and imprisoned for no offence under the laws of South Carolina laws which Judge Johnson and William Wirt pronounced unconstitual all and South Carolina has made it a penitentiary offence to defend their legal rights in the judicial tribunals. Has Massachusetts ever interfered with the rights of South Carolina? Never. The ships of Massachusetts are searched, under the laws of Virginia, and made to pay five dollars for each illegal visitation. Has she wronged Virginia? Never. Her sons, sojourning in the South, are often subjected to insults and indignities arrested, imprisoned, banished, and their lives put in peril. Has she proposed, does she propose, to interfere with the legal rights of those offending States? No, sir, no! In face of the country, before the nations, Massachusetts can lay her hand upon God's Holy Word, and declare by Him who liveth ever more that she has never proposed, does not now propose, and never intends to propose, to interfere with the legal and constitutional rights of the Southern States.
But gentlemen of the South tell me that Massachusetts has a Personal Liberty Law; that it is designed to defeat the provisions of the Constitution, concerning the rendition of fugitive slaves from service; that it is unconstitutional an evidence of her hostility. Sir, this law may be of doubtful constitutionality in some of its provisions; the profoundest jurists of the Commonwealth differ in opinion upon that issue; but it is no evidence of her hostility-it was not designed to evade her constitutional obligations nor was it intended to defeat the provisions of the Constitution. Massachusetts, sir, entertains the profound conviction that your Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 conflicts with provisions of the Constitution of the United States; that it disregards those maxims of the common law which the wisdom of ages has devised for the security of personal liberty; that it degrades man and dishonors the nation before the Christian and civilized world; that it puts in extreme peril the security, peace, and liberties of her colored inhabitants. She feels that it is harsh, cruel, inhuman, and unchristian. So believing, she enacted this Personal Liberty Law; it was designed to afford protection to her own inhabitants to be also in perfect harmony with the Constitution of the United States. No case has ever arisen under the act it has not been judicially interpreted its constitutionality has not been decided upon nor has it in the slightest degree worked the injury of the people of the slaveholding States. If unconstitutional, it would, should case arise under it, work them no harm; if in harmony with the Constitution, it would afford protection to her colored inhabitants against mistakes, hasty or corrupt proceedings; but it could hardly work injury to the claimant of a real fugitive from service. Massachusetts sought, in common with several of her sister States, by constitutional and legal action, to protect her own people against the abuses which might grow up under the summary proceedings of the arbitrary act of 1850. The right of no slaveholder in America has been put in jeopardy by its enactment, nor do I believe it possible that those rights could be jeopardized, should the act continue to the end of time upon her statute-book.
A FOREIGN-BORN TRAITOR. Wm. M. Browne, late editor of the Washington Union, (Mr., Buchanan's organ,) has been appointed Assistant Secretary of State of the Southern Confederacy. He is an Englishman.
<c05>
WHAT HAS BEEN MAJOR ANDERSON'S POLICY.
CHARLESTON, S., S. C., March 9, 1861. 
The rebels have of late turned special attention to the harbor defences, as though the game they are playing depended on them. Capt Hartstene, late of the United States Navy, and the most regretted deserter from it, has been giving the subject his special attention since he entered the service of the rebels; and it is evident that important results are believed to depend on their completeness. The plan clearly is, to render the reenforcement of Port Sumter, or, what is of quite as much consequence, the supply of the garrison with provisions, as near an I impossibility as they can. If Major Anderson is not supplied with provisions, he must in time surrender, if he is not withdrawn by the Government. There has been a deep game in this part of the business by the rebels, and I am able to state for a certainty that it proceeded from Jeff. Davis, upward of two months ago, while he was yet in the Senate. He urged the cultivating and maintaining of a good understanding with Major Anderson, and made a special plea in a letter to Governor Pickens that he might be permitted to purchase supplies for Fort Sumter in Charleston market. The reasons he assigned were fit for traitors only. His advice was followed, and it was about this time that protracted interviews took place at the fort between Major Anderson and leading Rebels who visited him on two successive days under a flag of truce. Then followed the mission of Col. Hayne and a messenger from Major Anderson to Washington, and the promise by Mr. Buchanan to do nothing but maintain the present status of affairs in Charleston Harbor, and the other movements by which the Rebels gained time, which they improved to render their position as nearly impregnable as possible. All the while the Government did nothing, and Major Anderson continued to advise no movement to relieve him. It was about this tune also that reports leaked out from the Executive branch of the Government, prejudicial to Major Anderson, and which were, mentioned at the time in this correspondence. With a magnanimity extraordinary as it was unexpected, the permission was accorded the garrison to obtain provisions from Charleston, though in small quantities. Fort Sumter, if not then actually short of provisions, could count the days when it would be. I but record a piece of the history of the last two months, when I state that, nevertheless, Major Anderson not once, but twice and thrice assured the Government at Washington that he stood in need of neither men, provisions, nor fuel. He steadily advised against any attempt to supply him with either, although at that time it was entirely practicable to do so, and everybody but he said he might soon have these supplies. During the ensuing six or eight weeks, he saw going on all around him the gigantic preparations to wall him in. His fate was as clear as the unclouded sun, if he was not relieved. I made no mention of the fact that he failed to assist the Star of the West to enter with men and provisions, or to protest even with so much as a single shot against the driving of her back; nor of the fact that he has permitted the rebels to transport their munitions daily and hourly under the walls of Fort Sumter. For near two months he has seen the harbor close gradually but surely against his Government, and he could almost count the days when any attempt to throw into the Fort provisions or men would be attended with extraordinary difficulties, if not an impossibility. And he saw at the same time going on all around him preparations to besiege him, that told for a certainty that the time must come when he must have provisions and men, or his garrison sacrificed, if he did not evacuate the Fort. And yet, if we are to credit undenied reports, he assured his Government as late as twenty days ago that he required nothing, and, later still, that he could maintain his position, while then, and for some time before, he was in a large measure subsisting from day to day on the bounty of the rebels-a bounty which they could at any moment cut off. I mean no injustice to Major Anderson. While for the time that I have been in Charleston, which is upward of three months, I have seen these and many other similar things, I have invariably spoken of him as a brave and meritorious officer, not daring to oppose any suggestion of my own against his wisdom. Not to be egotistical, I may say that repeatedly have I described the preparations going on, and predicted the very state of things which we now see, namely, the evacuation of Fort Sumter imperative, or its reenforcement under circumstances of the greatest difficulties, if not an absolute impracticability. I described it as the crime of Mr. Buchanan's Administration that the Fort was not relieved, and foretold, as any one might have done, what would be the in evitable result of the treasonous policy of withholding relief. The reader will recollect that I more than once referred to the fact, that notwithstanding the preparations of the rebels, and their evident intentions, in face of the clear indications of what must surely come from maintaining the status, to which there was such a strange committal, Major Anderson, for reasons which, as I then observed, were probably sufficient for himself, though not seen by others, continued to report that he stood in need of nothing, and to advise against reinforcements. This he did, as the world knows. What those reasons were, I trust the world is about to know. For, I conclude, no one longer doubts, not even Major Anderson himself, that what was foretold, and what he certainly should have been as capable of foreseeing as the correspondent of the Tribune, has come to pass, namely: that Fort Sumter must be evacuted, or the garrison left to be starved out, or relieved by employing thousands of men at the sacrifice of many; lives, and with the certainty of inaugurating civil’ war. The rebels saw the state of things to which we have now arrived; everybody saw it, and Major Anderson. The fact fills the country with interest; whether he now sees it clearly, I do not know. Were he in the streets of Charleston to-day, if he is really the true man and faithful soldier, his dears would tingle at the remarks he might hear made concerning him. To be praised by rebels is at best a doubtful compliment. To have them claim him as an ally is either his disgrace or their injustice.-Charleston correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune. 

THE EVACUTATION OF FORT SUMTER. 
The news of the probable withdrawal of the United States troops from Fort Sumter, flashing by telegraph all over the land, has profoundly affected the public mind of the country. This lowering of the national flag in the face of the traitorous bands that beleaguer it this conspicuous and undeniable confession of defeat by the National Government this surrender of a post so important and so strong to the revolutionary Government which now rules at the South it is, to say the least, immensely unfortunate that such should be the first prominent public act of the new Republican Administration. We have all confidence in the wisdom and the manhood of the gentlemen who constitute this Administration. Their fidelity to Freedom is altogether unquestionable. We know that they have had the
<c06>
whole case before them, while we see only its more obvious features. The mature judgment of Gen. Scott should be of right a most influential, if not indeed a controlling element, in their deliberations. And if it has become, as is now alleged, a military necessity there being no longer any possibility of reenforcing the fort, and the alternative to surrender being simply the speedy starvation of the garrison then the event is not only to be submitted to, as Death itself must be when it comes, but it is to be attributed to the late Administration, which neglected its duty when it might have been performed, not to the present one, which has had no possible chance of performing it. 
But the fullest explanations will certainly be needed to satisfy the patriotic and resolute men who compose the great mass of the voters at the North that such a necessity has existed. They will demand to know, they have a right to be informed, on what basis the persistent representations of Major Anderson, that he needed no further supplies, have been founded. And they will claim to know, at least, that the various modes of reaching and reenforcing the fort which have at different times been suggested, and which hundreds of men have been ready to take part in, have been severally considered, and proved impracticable, before they will be satisfied that so signal and stupendous a sacrifice should have been made, of the dignity, prestige, and strength of the Government. Unless it shall be plainly shown that its hands were not manacled only, but really paralyzed by circumstances, the indignation will be well-nigh universal that this key to the gate of South Carolina should have thus been relinquished. 
The effect of this surrender on the minds of foreign nations can hardly be overestimated. Their prompt recognition of the integrity and independence of the Southern Confederacy, whose path has been so early strewn with a succession of triumphs, is hardly too large or too important a result to follow logically from it. Its effect at home, unless counteracted by prompt, wise, and efficient action in other quarters and a different direction, cannot fail to be disastrous. It is the most unexpected and prodigious national humiliation known to our history. It seems to offer license to rebellion, and to put the largest premium upon treason. Unless it be speedily followed by measures positive and emphatic, in distinct affirmation of the rights, purposes, and power of the Government, we shall have no longer any Government, except for such as are too lazy to question it, or too timid to withstand the most empty of menaces. There will be nothing left for insurrection to fear; nothing left for patriotism to cling to. The old flag will trail in the dust so that the very swine may run over it. Our national airs will become the merest souvenirs. The Revolutionary blood will be shown to have turned to the thinnest of milk in our degenerate veins. We had better all bow down at once to the Hotspurs at Montgomery, and entreat the congress there assembled to let us come into the manlier and more stalwart confederacy which they have inaugurated. An immense responsibility will rest upon those who have advised or consented to such an act. From it they must go, either forward or backward; making it the last step on the path of submission and national surrender, or else making it the first step on the path toward the full and cordial recognition of the Southern Confederacy. Standing disconnected from one or the other of these policies, a simple acknowledgment of complete defeat and ignominious expulsion suffered by the Government, the significance of the event will be fearful; and we shall be fortunate if the consequences of it are not anarchy at home, and the loosening of all the feeble restraints that hitherto have surrounded the rebellious elements in Northern cities, with a more profuse and a more prolonged bloodshed and battle with the stimulated South, made haughtier and fiercer by the vast success, in the near Future.-N. Y. Independent. 

BOLD VINDICATION OF SLAVERY.
The political philosophy which underlies the secession movement is well expressed by the late Mr. T. S. Gourdin of Florida, editor of the Southern Confederacy, one of the ablest writers of the new nation:-
"With the formation of the Confederate States of America a new era in civilization has commenced—an era in which, if we hope to gain the respect of the civilized world, we must abandon the old idea of our forefathers that "all men were born free and equal" and teach the doctrine of the diversity of the races, and of the supremacy of the Anglo-Saxon race over all others. We must take the ground never dreamed of by the men of '76, that African slavery is right in itself, and, therefore, should be preserved. African slavery is either morally right, or it is morally wrong. If wrong, no excuse will suffice, in the eyes of the Almighty, for its continuance. He is perfect, and cannot tolerate iniquity. The same moral and physical laws which in the beginning (of this earth) He laid down for the government of this world in which we live, were, are, and will be right, yesterday, to-day, and forever. Earthly legislators may change their laws to suit the emergencies of the times for they are fallible but the Almighty—“that great being whom the heaven of heavens cannot contain “never. If, therefore, we, after due investigation of the subject, honestly come to the conclusion that slavery per see is morally wrong, let us, as honest men and Christians, abolish it at once, without regard to cost. There can be no such thing as a "necessary evil" Evil is the misapplication or perversion of what is good. But if, on the other hand, we believe slavery to be morally right, and, in addition thereto, find it to our interest to keep up the institution, let us be manly enough to maintain our principles in opposition to the rest of the world. But, for God's sake, and the sake of consistency, do not let us form a Union for the express purpose of maintaining and propagating African slavery, and then, as the Southern Congress has done, confess our error by enacting a constitutional provision abolishing the African slave-trade. The opening of the African slave-trade is a mere question of expediency to be determined by legislative enactment hereafter, but not by a constitutional provision.
The fact of the matter is this: All these erroneous ideas of the rights of man, and the equality of the races, we derive from our ancestors of the Revolution. We blame them not for the ideas which they entertained; we honor them for the valiant manner in which they contended for what they believed to be the truth. But, it does not follow that because our ancestors entertained, fought, and bled for certain principles, we, their descendants, should be compelled to entertain, fight, and bleed far the same principles. No! far from it! Our ancestors claimed the privilege of thinking and acting for themselves, without regard to the opinions of their forefathers, We, their descendants, claim the same privilege."
This is all fair and above-board. Let the issue be met as thus boldly but truthfully presented.
The United States Constitution it "a covenant with death, and an agreement with hell."
"What order of men under the most absolute of monarchies, or the most aristocratic of republics, was ever invested with such as odious and unjust privilege as that of the separate and exclusive representation of lees than half a million owners of slaves, in the Hall of this House, in the chair of the Senate, and in the Presidential mansion? This investment of power in the owners of one species of property concentrated in the highest authorities of the nation, and disseminated through thirteen of the twenty-six States of the Union, constitutes a privileged order of men in the community, more adverse to the rights of all, and more pernicious to the interests of the whole, than any order of nobility ever known. To call government thus constituted a Democracy is to insult the understanding of mankind. It is doubly tainted with the infection of riches and of slavery. There is no name in the language of national jurisprudence that can define it- no model in the records of ancient history, or in the political theories of Aristotle, with which it can be likened. It was introduced into the Constitution of the United States by an equivocation-a representation of property under the name of persons. Little did the members of the Convention from the Free States imagine or foresee what a sacrifice to Moloch was hidden under the mask of this concession."-JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
PLEAS FOR SLAVERY.
Now that our eyes are fixed upon the crisis in the United Statesï¿½a crisis which is wholly owing to the struggle between the doctrines of slavery and freedom-it may be worth while calmly to inquire what pleas slavery has to urge in its own favor, and how far those pleas are true. It is only in our own day that a theoretical defence of slavery has been attempted. Fifty years ago, the Southern planters did not seek to justify their domestic institution, except by the inexorable logic of facts. We all know in what terms Jefferson and the other patriarchs of the United States spoke of it, although slave-owners themselves. Of late years, this candor has been at an end. Since a party has arisen in the Northern States which denounces slavery as cruel and unchristian, the planters naturally have been driven to meet argument with argument, principle with principle, until at length they have constructed a body of reasons in favor of slavery which seem to afford them infinite satisfaction. 
Their main principle is, that nature has drawn a broad line between the negro and the white man, and has not endowed the former with those qualities which alone can fit men for freedom. According to them, the difference between the negro race and the white race is not one of color, but of species. The self-reliance, the courage, the strength of will that, upon the whole, characterize the white man, have not been imparted by the Creator to the African race. The experiment of negro self-government has failed in Africa, has failed in Hayti. Actual trial has shown (what acquaintance with negroes might suggest} that they require guidance from the hand of a superior. In short, Providence actually designed them to be the bondsmen of the true human race.
Nor is this view without some facts to rest upon. Undoubtedly, the negroes in the slave States are lower in the scale of being than the Anglo-Saxon race. This might be owing to a natural inferiority; but it may quite as reasonably be attributed to the fact of their being slaves. The same thing might have been predicated of every race that has been reduced to slavery. Inevitably, slavery makes men slavish. Inevitably, their self-reliance, their courage, their force of will, are weakened, and in many cases destroyed. by the want of use. The manifold examples of vigorous minds and strongly marked characters among negroes tell far more in favor of their true humanity than their debasement under slavery can tell the other way. And as to their experiments in self-government, the researches of recent travellers have dispelled the illusion that West Africa is occupied by a mere horde of savages. Many negro nations possess an organized form of society, are engaged in agriculture and trade; justice is fairly administered among them, and a high degree of happiness enjoyed; and even Hayti seems not unlikely, before long, to furnish a satisfactory example of negro self-government. Be that as it may, the grand principle on which the slave-owners dwell with such delight is overthrown by the plain fact that a very large number of the American slaves do not belong to the negro so much as to the white race. Vast numbers of them are mulattoes. A very large number are quadroons, sprung not merely from a white father, but from several generations of white forefathers. Now the planters hold negro blood in such abhorrence that a mere taint of it in the veins makes them regard the mulatto or quadroon as belonging to the enslaved race; and yet it is obvious that the child of a white parent and a black one appertains as much to the one stock as to the other. The Anglo-Saxon stock has the whole of the father's interest in him, and in the case of quadroons the amount of negro blood has been halved and halved again, until at last the slave is incomparably more a white man than a negro. The planters' principle would be plausible if a gulf were fixed between the white and the negro race; but it can have no force at all when we find the two races combining with perfect facility, the result being that a very large portion of the slave population is in truth more Saxon than negro.
The next argument which the planters are in the habit of using is, that only by means of slavery can the negro race be raised from barbarism. Under this pretext, the revival of the slave trade with Africa has of late years been advocated (by those slave owners who do not grow slaves for the market), inasmuch as it would be a boon and a blessing to the negroes themselves. This is like Richard Cromwell, who, in writing to the Speaker from Ireland, to say that he would "catch up " some thousand boys and girls to send to the plantations, added, " Doubtless this is a work in which God will appear." To fill Africa with slave wars, to cram the hold of the slave ship with a cargo of men, women, and children, and consign them to bonds and stripes on the Southern plantations, so far from being cruel, would be philanthropy itself.
This extravagance needs no reply; but setting aside the idea of importing slaves from Africa, may not the "domestic institution" itself, as the planters assert, be a great engine of civilization to the slaves? Now, it is easy to imagine a form of slavery in which the slave should be the object of almost parental solicitude on the part of his master ï¿½ in which he should come into daily contact with those over him, and, although he had been taken from a state of barbarism, might rise, under the influence of their example and companionship, to a higher stage of civilization. But practically, is that the case with the negro slaves in the United States? It is certainly not the case as a general rule with the domestic slaves. There may be exceptions where, both the master and mistress being humane and kindly, the slave is accepted as a member of the family. But in the vast multitude of cases, the slave is regarded as a mere drudge, despised for his color, his caste, and his slavish faults. As he cannot be dismissed from the master's service for misconduct, other punishments of a more degrading kind are requisite, and these are inflicted at the caprice, not only of the master, but of the mistress too. His indolence having no other spur but the dread of such inflictions, it becomes the main object of his life to dodge his owner and to conceal his own shortcomings. Hence the intellectual qualities developed in him go little beyond a low cunning; while as regards morality, the race of domestic slaves, whether in the United States or elsewhere, has ever been proverbial for its sensuality, falsehood, and thievishness. But the great bulk of the slaves in the United States are not employed as servants, but in the production of cotton. What are the civilizing agencies brought to bear upon all those millions of men? Their only contact with the superior race is, that they see the everseer riding about on his horse and superintending the operations of the estate, urging the black drivers to keep the gangs to their work, and occasionally, as Mr. Olmsted shows, flogging an idler. Are we to suppose that a gang of forty or fifty negroes rises in the scale of being by the occasional sight of a white man (he very probably a drunken ruffian) with whom their only intercourse is that of being often sworn at, and sometimes flogged? And yet this is literally the sum total of the intercourse between ninety-nine out of every hundred negroes and the white class over them. True, however, that in other ways they do see something of white men. The mean whites who hang about the plantations, living in a state of squalid penury, and despising all regular work, are the pest of the planters, because they are the receivers of stolen goods, and the tempters of the slaves to plunder their masters. This, however, can hardly be looked upon as a civilizing or a Christianizing influence.
But, even were slavery a blessing to the negro race, that good would be more than compensated by its degrading influence on the white race above them. The Southern planters have boasted of their chivalry and high breeding till we believe the impression has become general that they are sprung from the Cavaliers, and still retain unusual refinement, living, feeling, and acting much like the gentry in England, but with even a loftier sense of dignity, and with habits of command engendered by their absolute rule over a subject race. On no point have Mr. Olmsted's almost photographic representations of Southern society brought to light more unexpected results than under this head. The real fact is that, as a general rule, the slave-owners are rough, vulgar, ignorant men, with the manners which, a priori, might have been expected from those who have been surrounded from childhood by cringing wretches.
If the effect of slavery is not to elevate, but to degrade both the slave and the masterï¿½if its moral influence is so ruinousï¿½no less fallacious is the third leading argument adduced by the planters, that at any rate slavery enhances the wealth of the land. The fallacy that slavery is a cheap kind of labor is a natural one. At first sight, it does look frugal to get work done without paying the doer of it If a switch of the whip will give you what others have to pay for in silver and gold, surely that must be cheaper. Such is the short and simple reasoning that has led to the introduction of slavery in so many countries in the world; yet no fallacy can be more ob-
<c02>
viously fallacious. The slave, like the white man, has to be maintained. He must live in a house, he must be clothed, he must be fedï¿½so, too, must his wife and family. If all this is not done from the purse of the workman himself, it must be done from the purse of the master. If the slave is to live in a manner at all equal to that in which he would live if free, the cost of his maintenance must be equal to the amount of the freeman's wages. The only saving to the employer is that obtained by cheating the slave of some necessaries or comforts. Against this saving is to be set the loss arising from the inevitable indolence, shiftlessness, and stupidity of the slave. Naturally, a man who is driven to his work by the cart-whip hates his work' with the whole force of his heart and soul It is a perpetual struggle between himself and the masterï¿½the master goading him on by sheer force to his work, the slave always resisting to the uttermost; and it can readily be conceived that, in the long run, a body of millions of men, striving with all their heart and soul to shirk the work set before them, might be eminently successful in that endeavor. All this is so obvious that it scarcely needs to be confirmed by actual experience, but it is what all travellers tell us. Apparently, there never was a slave-owner who did not complain in the bitterest way of what he calls the natural indolence and negligence of his negroes. Hence it is an invariable effect of slavery that no machinery beyond the very simplest tools can be employed, because, although slaves can be flogged into giving manual labor, they cannot be flogged into giving intelligence. Not that they have not intelligence to give. In the free States, the negroes are entrusted ï¿½and satisfactorily entrustedï¿½with machines; but in the slave States this is impossible. All this explains that most remarkable and pregnant fact which has of late years been brought to light by various inquirersï¿½the fact that slavery, so far from enhancing the wealth of the slave States, has been a millstone about their neck. No one, indeed, denies that there are individuals in the slave States who have accumulated vast wealth. Of course, a proprietor with a thousand negroes belonging to him, cultivating cotton for the English market, stands a fair chance of making a fortune. But upon the whole, the effect of slavery has been not to enrich, but to impoverish the country. The free States and the slave States started eighty years ago on their career in precisely the same condition of agriculture, of trade, and of general prosperity, as well as of population. The one was curiously on a par with the other at the time of the Declaration of Independence. And yet, since that time, while the free States have advanced with prodigious strides in population, in trade, in agriculture, in the instruction of their people, in the production of literature, in manufactories, in the establishment of railways and canals, and whatever else could enhance the wealth and comfort of the people, there is no one of these things in which the Southern States do not lag behind at a vast distance. This pregnant fact that slavery has been eating away the prosperity of the slave States, instead of raising them to wealth, was unknown thirty years ago. It is a discovery of our own day, and has already produced most important results-one of them being the rise of the Republican party to political power. Thence the present crisis, and the probable disruption of the United States.-London Saturday Review. 
TO THE POINT.
In a speech recently delivered in Congress by Hon. Charles H. Van Wyck, occurs the scathing and merited rebuke to Treason and its abettors, which we publish below. Did ruffians attempt his life because of his honesty and candor? 
"Your unholy crusade, therefore, against the Union, is to extend the area of slavery. For that purpose you invoke the God of battles, when your system ignores all His attributes, and defies the spirit of His teachings. You talk of the sacredness of your homes, when for years you have been despoiling the homes of thousands, and suffer four million human beings to have no hearthstones around which the affections may cluster. You talk about the recollection of wives and children to nerve your arm, when your system destroys the relation of husband and wife, and violates the holiest tie of parent and child. You talk of reconstruction. Believe it not. The compromise of the present Constitution once lost, you never can regain. Think you another Senate can be formed wherein Delaware and Florida can equal New York and Pennsylvania? Another House of Representatives wherein you will be allowed twenty Representatives on account of your property in man? You are now opposed to the Army and Navy, because you boldly assert that an enforcement of the laws means a coercion of the States. You were willing to vote millions to transport troops and provisions two thousand miles, over prairie and desert, to coerce our brethren in Utah, when you said they were in rebellion to the Government. You sent the Army into Kansas to subdue the freemen in the North. You have used the Federal troops to enforce the Fugitive Slave Law. When John Brown, with as much authority to seize the property of the nation as you possess, took the arsenal at Harper's Ferry, the marines of the United States were sent to its rescue. You dreaded not then its despotic power. The camp had no terrors. The plume of the soldier and the gilded trappings of the officer did not fill you with disgust. You opposed coercion, yet, by force of armed men, you seized the forts and navy-yards of the United States, and trample the stars and stripes in the dust."
ANOTHER TALE OF HORROR.
Charleston (S. C.) Correspondence of the New York Tribune.
"Union men increase on every side. Find a Northern man, or a German, wherever you likeï¿½let him see, and know, that he can trust you, and will not be betrayed into the clutches of wild beasts, and you find that he is a Union man. I have seen fifty men to-day, whom I know to be Union men, storekeepers, mechanics, and some of the City Police were among the number; and they are increasing I have just left a Georgian, hailing from a small town midway between Macon and Augusta, who tells me that, although in his immediate neighborhood the Secessionists have the majority, yet that even there many of his relatives are true to their country and loyal to its flag. He has just communicated to me a tale of horror which I have no right to keep back 
It occurred in the town, or rather village, of which I have already spoken, only four weeks ago; at home he dared not speak of it, and he has no correspondent in the North. The victim of lawless and barbaric cruelty in this instance was a printer who had been for some time employed by an Atlanta newspaper. He was noticed by the ruffians to speak to a negro man, probably only requesting to be directed to some house. He was seized, a rope was placed around his neck, and he was several times drawn from the ground, and dangled between earth and heaven. After tormenting him for half an hour, and threatening him with further punishment unless he confessed that he was an Abolitionist, the villains gave him another jerk, and he came down. This time, however, he was beyond the reach of their maliceï¿½his neck had been broken. 
His poor murdered body lay before them, a glaring but powerless witness; his spirit had flown to the region of eternal peace, where he was beyond the wrath of man. His remains were immediately buried without shroud or coffin. The man who gave me this account is a respectable, honest and truthful man, who witnessed it, and who, if in a free and civilized State, would be willing at any moment to substantiate it by oath. He is very near to me while I write, and says that the death-struggle which he witnessed will never be obliterated from his memory. This is not romance; the man who attempts to get out of this by contradiction will speak falsely. But this is no singular instance; these things, which cannot often take place in large cities, because of the number of Northern men residing in them, are every day occurrences in the rural districts."
R. S. Tharen. Esq., of Wetumpka, Alabama, once law-partner of the Hon. W. L. Yancey, and recently expelled from the State of his residence by a mob, for the expression of opinions unfavorable to the present movements in the South, is now in Cincinnati. He proposes at an early day to deliver a lecture upon the condition of society at the South, in which he will relate his own adventures, and review the statements of his late partner, Mr. Yancey. Mr. Tharen is not an Abolitionist, but was opposed to Secession, for which he was expelled, and was not even allowed to visit his wife and children, only a few miles distant. In the course of his hegira., Mr. Tharen was several times in peril of his life, from mobs who preferred a hanging as the proper method to deal with the Abolitionists, to the milder process of expulsion.
<c03>
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1861.
VINDICATION OF MASSACHUSETTS,
We have already briefly noticed and commended the speech of Senator Wilson, of this State, delivered in the U. S. Senate, Feb. 21st, for its uncompromising opposition to the proposed Amendments to the Constitution by Mr. Crittenden of Kentucky, whereby new and perpetual guaranties in behalf of slavery were to be added to those yet recognized and enforced in that "covenant with death." That portion of it which ably and eloquently vindicated the character and condition of the free colored people of New England we copied into our last number. This week we give another extract from it, vindicating Massachusets from the imputations cast upon her by the upholders and abettors of slavery at the South.
It is certainly to the credit of Massachusetts that she is more hated, more feared, and, consequenty, more reviled by the South than any other State in the Union; because it implies that she combines more of intelligence and virtue, more of industry and enterprise, more of anti-slavery feeling and sentiment, more of the elements of true development and progress, than any other State; and these necessarily widen the breach between her and the half-educated, slavery-ridden, impoverished, shiftless, and brutalized South. Still, even Mr. Wilson's generous defence of herï¿½the best, perhaps, that can be madeï¿½is a jumble of contradictions, and shows how any voluntary connection with slavery clouds the vision, perverts the moral sense, and leads to the most paradoxical action.
Mr. Wilson earnestly and truthfully repels the accusation, that the people of Massachusetts are "the malignant, unrelenting enemies of the people of the South "; for there is nothing in their history to warrant it. On the contrary, it is true, as he declares, that "the public men of the South, visiting Massachusetts on pleasure or business, are ever treated with considerate kindness and fraternal regard," even when "quiet citizens of Massachusetts are, in portions of the South, subjected to the greatest indignities" But is this to her credit? Wherein does she show any moral consistency, or an unswerving regard for principle? If, as Mr. Wilson asserts, " Massachusetts, in her heart of hearts, loves liberty, and loathes slavery "ï¿½if she believes that " slavery is as repugrant to humanity as it is inconsistent with the Bibe and destructive to liberty "-if she believes that it " lessens the sense of the equal rights of mankind, and habituates us to tyranny and oppression "ï¿½if she believes that " it is a wrong, a grievous wrong, and no contingency can make it right"ï¿½if she believes that " it is an atrocious debasement of human nature," that " consenting to it is a sacrilegious breach of trust," that " it taints the very sources of moral principle, and establishes false estimates of virtue and vice," and that "it is opposed to the whole spirit of the Gospel, and to the teachings of Jesus Christ"-if she believes, finally, that " to extend and perpetuate the evil, and cut ourselves off from the communion of nations, we sink below the civilization of our age, we invite the scorn, indignation and abhorrence of the world "-how does it happen, or on what principle can it be defended, that she has ever treated the stanch upholders and shameless advocates of unending and forever extending slavery, visiting her from the South, " with considerate kindness and fraternal regard"? Does it not prove that she has always been lacking in self-respect, in common decency, in humanity, and that her professed abhorrence of slavery is " empty as the whistling wind "? In one breath we are told that " she opens God's Holy Word, and the imperative injunction of inspiration,' Break every yoke, undo the heavy burden, let the oppressed go free,' flashes upon her vision." and in the next, that she treats " with considerate kindness and fraternal regard " those who are furiously trampling that injunction under their feet! Now Mr. Wilson claims for her "an unbending adherence to the rights of human nature," and " an unfaltering faith in the conviction that human slavery is a crime against humanity "-and anon, boasts that " she is not unmindful of her constitutional duties, of her obligations to the Union and to her sister States." A pregnant and ominous qualification! What does it mean but that she is, after all, most profligate and hypocritical? Her constitutional duties, her obligations to the Union and to her sister States, here referred to, to what else do they relate, in such a connection, but to all the pro-slavery compromises of the Constitution? For the Southern charge against her is, that she wishes to shirk this responsibility, particularly with reference to fugitive slaves claiming succor and protection at her hands. To meet this charge, Mr. Wilson, with a show of solemnity not called for, and not in good taste, says-" In face of the country, before the nations, Massachusetts can lay her hand upon God's Holy Word, and declare by Him who liveth ever more that she has never proposed, does not now propose, and never intends to propose to interfere with the legal and constitutional rights of the Southern States." One of these admitted "rights," but really a most atrocious wrong, equal to that of kidnapping on the African coast, is the right of Southern slaveholders to hunt and recapture their fugitive slaves within the limits of Massachusetts, and by the consent of her people! So Mr. Wilson proceeds soothingly to say, touching her Personal Liberty Law, that "it was not designed to evade her constitutional obligation" to allow the hunted fugitives to be taken upon her soil, but only" to afford protection to her own inhabitants, and to be also in perfect harmony with the Constitution of the United States. "True, he says that she regards the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 as clearly unconstitutional, and disregardful of the maxims of the common law, and is "profoundly convinced that it degrades man and dishonors the nation before the Christian and civilized world "; but, for all that, she is willing to abide by it, to the extent that her own Personal Liberty Law may be judicially pronounced in conflict with the Constitution, in regard to some of its provisions, but not to slave-catching itself! Still farther to appease the exasperated South, he assures her that the Massachusetts Law has not "in the slightest degree worked the injury of the people [meaning the slave-claimants and slave-hunters] of the slaveholding States." Even if it is unconstitutional, he says, "it would, should a case arise under it, work them no harm," as it does not forbid the bona fide capture and rendition of any fugitive; and if it is constitutional, "it could hardly work injury to the claimant" of such fugitive. She is only anxious "to protect her own people against the abuses which may grow up under the summary proceedings of the arbitrary act of 1850 "-for the hunted fugitives, she has no bowels of mercy! Again he soothingly saysï¿½ "The right [meaning the piratical claim] of no slaveholder in America has been put in jeopardy by the enactment of the Personal Liberty Law, nor do I believe it possible that those rights [meaning nefarious wrongs] could be jeopardized, should the act continue to the end of time upon her statute-book "!
Granting all this, is it not most humiliating? Does it not show thorough moral stultification on the part of Senator Wilson, and of the people of Massachusetts? He begins by proclaiming their abhorrence and repudiation of slavery as an almost infinite curse and crime, at war with the whole spirit of the Gospel, and winds up by declaring that they are ready to continue accomplices with the South in the matter of slave-catching, and in keeping millions groaning for deliverance still in their terrible bondage! "They would," he says, "as generously contribute of their treasure, they would as freely pour out their blood, for the defence of the South, as they would for the protection of their own Northern homes "! And this they are ready to do, though not one of them can travel at the South with a free tongue, and as a freeman should, except at the peril of his life! What infatuation!
<c04>
THE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
BOSTON, March 20, 1861.
JOHN S. RAREY, ESQ.:
DEAR SIRï¿½Though wholly a stranger to you, permit me to express the high gratification I have felt in listening to your sensible and excellent instruction, and in witnessing your simple but humane and effectual method, respecting the training of horses, however vicious they may be.
Twenty years ago, on my first visit to Dublin, Ireland, I made the acquaintance of a most amiable and worthy gentleman,ï¿½WILLIAM H. DRUMMOND, D. D., Honorary Member of the Belfast Natural History Society; and on taking leave of him, he kindly put into my hands a thin volume written by himself, entitled "THE RIGHTS OF ANIMALS, AND MAN'S OBLIGATION TO TREAT THEM WITH HUMANITY." I read it with inexpressible delight, every page of it indicating a truly benevolent spirit, and inculcating, by apt illustrations and the most cogent reasoning, lessons of kindness to the whole animal creation. My heart actually leaped within me as I read the expressive title, " THE RIGHTS OF ANIMALS"! I was myself then, as now, engaged in vindicating " THE RIGHTS OF MAN"; but here was a claim even for animals, affirming the possession, on their part, of certain absolute and inherent rights, which could not be disregarded without great wrong, as well as positive suffering; and, yet, which had been systematically violated through ignorance, caprice, thoughtlessness, or brutality, to the infliction of an amount of suffering and crime beyond all power of computation:ï¿½ 
"O man! tyrannic lord, how long, how long 
Shall prostrate nature groan beneath your rage, 
Awaiting renovation?"
Truly, "the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now." The causes of this state of things are manifold, but not such as to forbid the hope of a general redemption, in the progress of light and knowledge. Hence, I regard yours as a messianic mission in behalf of the brute race, who, though incapable of articulate speech, possess feeling, memory, instinct, forecast, a certain power of reasoning, with large capacity for enjoyment and suffering; and whose claims to rational and humane consideration, at the hands of man, ought ever to be sacredly regarded. It is true, the sphere of your benevolent labors is confined mainly to the treatment of the horse, that noblest and most valuable of domesticated animals, and perhaps the most shamefully outraged of them all; but the sound philosophy upon which you base your theory, and the lessons of patience, kindness and self-government which you teach, embrace "every beast of the earth" as well. Thus you are destined to exert a wide influence, favorable to the cause of suffering humanity, in all its complicated phases. You are instructing men, not less than subduing horses. Few can listen to your words, or witness your dealings with the most intractable animals, without feeling ashamed that they have given so little attention to the nature and capacity of the horse, and also painfully conscious of gross neglect, or irrational conduct, or positive barbarity, in their past treatment of him. It is desirable therefore, that your exhibitions should be as widely extended as possible, and witnessed by people of every tongue and clime. To this end, may your life long be spared! 
Your method of controlling, almost to instantaneous obedience, every horse submitted to your hands, is as simple as its results are almost miraculous. There is no mystery, no legerdemain about it. Not a wound is made, not a blow given, not a wrathful word uttered: all is quietly done, with serenity and confidence, in a friendly spirit, the termination of the struggle being as sure as the law of gravitation. The transformation wrought in the spirit of the animal must be as singular to him as it is surprising to the spectator. "Old things are passed away; and behold, all things are become new!" Where, only a few minutes before, all was obstinacy, nervous excitability, furious temper, ungovernable control, and imminent personal perilï¿½now are witnessed ready obedience, unshrinking nrmness, a <illegile> spirit, and absolute safety even with the heels of the horse in close contact with your naked head. For years a nuisance or a terror, and subjected to the worst usage in order to break his will, he now stands erect, "clothed and in his right mind," requiring but a look or word to insure prompt obedience! A conquest like this is as sublime as it is beneficent.
The field of your labors expands to a boundless extent. You are needed every where in the two-fold capacity of teacher and savior. If it be true that
"Man's inhumanity to man makes countless thousands mourn,"
it is equally true that his barbarity to fish, and fowl, and cattle, mightily augments the sum of mortal agony. The lesson of humanity is the slowest, if not the hardest, to be learnt by mankind. It constitutes no part of our educational processes, from the primary school to the university; whereas, it should be the earliest taught, and the soonest reduced to practice. But how many, who assume to fill the high and responsible office of instructor, are capable of instilling it into the plastic minds committed to their charge? How many are able to present an exemplification of its power and beauty in their own persons? True, there is much less of brutality in our schools than in bygone days; but the reign of violence is only mitigated, not fully ended. If the wildest horse that ever bounded over plain or prairie can be easily controlled by kind and judicious treatment, surely this renders inexcusable a tyrannous severity in the government of children and youth. Your method is a fresh and striking demonstration of the proverb, that "like begets like. "Love responds to love; friendship to friendship; gentleness to gentleness; and likewise force to force, and hatred to hatred. "Overcome evil with good" is the process of redemption marked out by Jesus: it is equally yours, as applied to the brute creation. Exalt your mission of philanthropy by a clear perception of its scope and importance. Go on, taming both man and beast, and showing them their exact relations to each other. We, Anglo-Saxons, being somewhat ferocious and exceedingly stubborn in our nature, need " line upon line, and precept upon precept, "to make us noble and good toward each other, and to those whose place in the scale of mankind is lower than our own.
The ancient proverb says, "A merciful man is merciful to his beast." If this be the test of character, how many can be safely measured by it? Human conduct, however, is often strangely paradoxical.
What you have already achieved, Mr. Rarey, as an educator in the treatment of animals, seems almost to warrant a literal interpretation of the prophecy of the arrival of a period when " the wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together; and a little child shall lead them. And the cow and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall lie down together; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and the weaned shall put his hand on the cockatrice's den."
Yours, for the recognition of " the rights of man " and " the rights of animals,"
WM. LLOYD GARRISON.
MR. RAREY IN BOSTON. The world-renowned tamer of wild and ungovernable horses has just given three public exhibitions of his marvellous skill and power, at the Music Hall, in this city, to overflowing, admiring and astonished audiences, notwithstanding a large admission fee and the worst kind of weather. A number of vicious horses were quickly subdued, in the most quiet manner. His final exhibition will be given to-morrow (Saturday) afternoon. Go and see it.
The Metropolitan Police Bill Committee of the Legislature will be addressed this (Friday) morning, at 9 o'clock, at the State House, by Mr. Healy, City Solicitor, in behalf of the city, and by Wendell Phillips, Esq., George W. Smalley, Esq., Rev. Mr. Miner, and Rev. J. Freeman Clarke, in behalf of the State.
<c05>
LETTER FROM RICHARD D. WEBB.
DUBLIN, Feb. 19,1861. 
MY DEAR GARRISON-I have just read, with great satisfaction, a speech made by Gerrit Smith in Toronto, on the Anderson case, in which all his views, both legal and moral, against the extradition of the fugitive, precisely coincide with those of the English press and the English bar. It seems to be the general conclusion on here, that the Canadian Chief Justice was mistaken in his interpretation of the Ashburton Treaty, and that it would be as illegal as it would be base to give up Anderson. I have seen some rumors in the papers that the Canadians regard as an invasion of their privileges the order of the Court of Queen's Bench at Westminster Hall, to have the fugitive brought before it, although they are utterly opposed to the demands of Missouri. The Court in London claims, as I am informed, only a concurrent jurisdiction, and any other of the higher courts might have given a similar order, if it had been so minded, so that no invasion of colonial rights was intended by the measure. But if the Canadians wish to make the attempt to liberate Anderson a ground for a quarrel, they are doubtless at liberty to do so. I have even seen a hint thrown out that Anderson's case would give Canada a good opportunity for throwing off her allegiance, and forming an alliance or a union with the Free States, which would thus constitute a far more powerful empire than that which is in the a very article of dissolution. In such an event, this poor prisoner would become the most eminent of all the Andersons; just as Dred Scott (with the exception of the author of Waverley, and possibly General Scott) has taken his place on the roll of fame as by far the most renowned of all that illustrious border family.
Amidst all the talk of compromise in the present great crisis of your national affairs, we are sorely puzzled that not a word is spoken of concession on the part of the South. Lawlessness, cruelty and murder have raged with impunity against Northern citizens, ever since John Brown's invasion of Virginia, and, except in the papers of the Abolitionists, I have seen scarcely a suggestion that this high-handed course should be abated, much less atoned for. How any real union can ever again exist between vast territories like the Free and the Slave States, ruled by such opposite moral codes and impelled by interests so various, it is difficult to imagine. The league between them, hitherto, has been shown to be like a rope of sand; and if a hollow truce should now be patched up, it cannot last, and must, before long, come to a violent end. I apprehend that, until the breaking out of actual warfare between England and the Colonies, previous to your own revolution, the mutual feelings of the English and the Colonists were far more cordial and affectionate than that which now exists in any part of the Slave States towards their Northern brethren. Here, the prevalent sentiment is undoubtedly one of regret at the impending dissolution, and, under present circumstances, a peaceful separation is regarded as the least of the evils to be apprehended. The interest which American affairs has excited in Great Britain and Ireland has been attended with the development of an intimacy of acquaintance with your institutions and the state of your parties, which could not have been looked for from the previous apparent apathy or indifference. On the whole, the impression we receive from the progress of events has not been favorable to any greater approximation, on our part, to a more democratic form of government. It is natural that we should look on universal suffrage with distrust, when we learn that the secession of the far Southern States is the work of the " mean whites," with a view to the restoration of the slave trade and the perpetuation of slavery; that the great slaveowners are dragged into this movement against their will; and that, even in the North, the mob-the multitude-the sovereign people, are in favor of slavery, and ready to make any concession, no matter how disgraceful, in order to continue the ascendancy of slaveholders in your National Government, which is what is implied in the preservation of the Union. For this object, the North must give up every thing that makes the nation really free and respectable- whilst the South is asked for nothing. This does not say much for the wisdom, patriotism or self-respect of the people.

I send herewith slips of an admirable article, called " Pleas for Slavery," taken from the last number of the Saturday Review, the ablest of English weekly periodicals.(1) You will not find a word in it of which you would disapprove, and I regard it as a proof of a correct appreciation, in our highest literary circles, of the common-place apologies for slavery, and also as a mark of progress in the right direction; for it has been too much the course of such writers to discuss slavery merely on grounds of expediency. When the system is generally felt to be impolitic, unwise, and as bad for the slave-owner as for the slave, we may look with confidence to its speedy downfall. 
The Illustrated London News is this week furnished with several illustrations of slavery-such as " A Slave Auction in Richmond, Virginia "; " Inspecting a Slave previous to purchasing," &c., which will carry all over the world impressive evidence of the character of the peculiar institution. They are accompanied by a letter from the artist, who says he did not make the sketches until he had got permission to do so, and had given his word of honor that in any thing he might publish, he would misstate or exaggerate nothing. He gives rather a glowing account of the apparent comfort, good looks and happiness of the slaves in Richmond; but he declares that while the first sale of a human being was going on before him, he felt the greatest difficulty in preventing himself from fainting; that a dreadful, indescribable sickness came over him, which defied all his efforts to conquer; that he felt giddy, and must have fainted outright, had he not, by smelling at a strip of tobacco which he held in his hand, and by getting at some iced water, got over this his first visit to a slave auction. The result of his testimony is utterly hostile to slavery, although I have never seen a more determined effort to evince judicial impartiality in detailing what the writer actually witnessed. This pictorial newspaper has an enormous and world-wide circulation.
In your notice of "Boston under Mob Law," in the Liberator just come to hand, you speak of "Irish ragamuffins " as conspicuous among the rioters. What is there more natural than that our poor people, who are sedulously brought up by their priests at home in ignorance and superstition; who are the warm allies of the Pope, the ex-king of Naples, and all the other tyrants, crowned and discrowned, of Europe, should be readily converted into tools of the slaveholders when they land on your shores? No doubt they sincerely believe that- the slavery of the blacks is, on the whole, beneficial to the Irish; just as they regard the power of the Pope over his people as indispensable to his position as their own supreme spiritual pastor, Under such circumstances, the rights of that class of Americans called Africans, as well as of that European nation called Italians, are regarded as unworthy of interest or sympathy. We talk of the light of the nineteenth, century. It is a light that shines for a very small fraction of the human race. There are none so blind as those who won't see; and, accordingly, if the people who pay others to shut out the light from them, amidst the chances which surround them for liberty and free thought, they can be just as blind, and just as great " ragamuffins," as if they had lived in the days of the Crusades.
Yours, ever truly,
RICHARD D. WEBB.
(1) For the well-written article here referred to, see a preceding column.-Ed. Lib.
The Charleston Courier wants to be jolly, and asks, 'When the Palmetto flag waves over Fort Sumter, whence it will only be removed for the Confederate flag, shall we not have a grand evacuation jubilee and celebration? Let us have also an illumination.' The last report is, that the fort has been blown up!

<c06>
RELATION OF THE RELIGIOUS SECTS IN
THE UNITED STATES TO SLAVERY. 
A friend of Theodore Parker, in Switzerland, expressed the opinion that " orthodox intolerance is the natural ally of slavery in the United States.ï¿½
A representative of orthodoxy there vehemently controverted this idea, maintaining, on the contrary, that the orthodox throughout the North go for freedom, and that this could be proved by their whole conduct, and by the contents of their religious news-papers.
It seemed to me that both these parties were in error, and that the matter in debate might be truly thus stated:ï¿½ 
The notion that orthodox intolerance is the naturally of slavery in the United States seems a very plausible one to those who, holding the theological ideas which Theodore Parker taught, also recognize the mutual relationship and alliance which truths of every class have with each other, especially if they infer a like relationship and alliance among errors.
The following, however, must be admitted as unquestionable facts upon the other side:
From the beginning of the Anti-Slavery movement, some of the most hearty, and thorough, and persistent of its friends have been men and women of rigid orthodoxy. Many abolitionists still hold that faith. Dr. Cheever, Lewis Tappan, Beriah Green and William Goodell are widely known specimens of this class; but great numbers of private and obscure persons are equally so.
Neither is it just to say that the peculiar and distinguishing ideas of orthodoxy are favorable to slavery. It is indeed true, not only that the Church is the main bulwark of slavery, but that many of its leaders have quoted Scripture in favor of that wickedness, and pressed their peculiar theological tenets into advocacy of it. Still, it can be shown that these are preversions, alike of the Bible and the creed, and that the motives to this policy in the clergy spring entirely from other sources. 
But another fact bears with equal force against the hypothesis of a natural connexion between orthodoxy and slavery. The two principal sects that represent heterodoxy, the Universalists and Unitarians are no more favorable to anti-slavery, either in their denominational action, or as represented by the action and influence of the mass of their clergy, than the orthodox. Both these, like the orthodox sects, afford illustrious examples of individual action against slavery; but in neither is the energy of the body brought to bear against it; in neither do the majority of the preachers attempt to produce such a movement, or even to urge their individual hearers to energetic and persistent effort in this direction. Their number is less than that of the representatives of the popular religion; and, so far, their weight of influence is less; but, as far as character and action (or inaction) are concerned, it is true alike of both these great; parties, the orthodox and the heterodox, that " the church is the main bulwark of slavery." 
The truth is-a truth which makes it very difficult for a person newly entering upon this investigation to get the entire truth, or even a just average of the diverse facts-you can cull evidence from orthodoxy or from heterodoxy, or from any of the constituent bodies of either, which shall seem to indicate an anti-slavery position, or a pro-slavery position, at your pleasure. Nay, you may call evidence seeming to require either of these opposite conclusions, from the life of a single individual. 
Take, for instance, the life of Rev. Dr. Channing. He wrote a great deal against slavery; yet, during far the greater portion of the time intervening between his first mention of that subject and his death, he held a position practically midway between slavery and anti-slavery. He was an advocate of Colonization in Liberia; (ignorant, no doubt, of the facts clearly proved respecting that scheme, that it was devised and commenced by slaveholders, for the greater security of slavery, and that many of the persons taken out as voluntary emigrants were as truly coerced as if they had been driven with a cart-whip.) He was also, in most of these writings, an advocate of gradual, not immediate, emancipation; that is to say, he thought it needful to allow the continuance of slavery for the present: which was all that the South then asked of the North. Moreover, during the period referred to, he made severe criticisms upon the abolitionists, and distinctly marked, in his writings, the material difference between his position and theirs, although he gave repeated and hearty testimony to the great value of their services in maintaining freedom of speech and of the press. In fact, Dr. Channing came into thorough and entire coincidence with the principles and measures of the abolitionists only during the last year of his life; and his last public act in regard to slavery (the address delivered at Lenox, Mass., only a month or two before his death,) is the only one of his works upon that subject in which such absolute and thorough coincidence will be found, although, for many years before, he had spoken very strongly of the evil and vicious characteristics of slavery. 
A similar diversity of evidence will be found by one who examines the record of Henry Ward Beecher upon this subject. No doubt he is making progress, both in the direction of Mr. Garrison's anti-slavery, and of Mr. Parker's reformed theology. Yet he has said many grossly unjust things, which still remain unretracted, of the character and position of both these men. And although he has spoken for years against slavery with the full energy and severity of truth, in the pulpit and elsewhere, he took pains, only a year ago, to make a special effort to shield from condemnation one of the worst representatives of religious complicity with slavery, (the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions,) and he actually persuaded his hesitating people to give it their support. As between the slaveholder and the slave, he sides with the latter; nay, he even sends rifles into Kansas to drive the pro-slavery invaders out of it; but where faithful opposition to slavery tends to divide the orthodox Church, or one of its great propagandist agencies, there he pauses. That is the clergyman's tender point.
If such diversity of testimony (and of fact) can be found in the life of a single individual,. in a position prominently before the public, how much rather must it exist in the case of a sect or a party, which is judged partly by its combined action, and partly by the action and speech of its individual members!
It is thus very possible to produce a great body of evidence culled from the words and acts of orthodox ecclesiastical bodies, churches, clergymen and religious periodicals at the North, which shall seem, to the hasty reader, to show that " the orthodox go for freedom throughout the North." But he who carefully examines this evidence will find that it fails to prove the point in question.
1. It will be found that very much of the evidence relied upon to establish an anti-slavery character for orthodoxy consists merely of words, not pledging the parties uttering it, or voting for it, to any action, and not, in fact, followed by any action on their part; but merely expressing the sentiment of the moment, or the acquiescence of the majority (Probably for the sake of getting rid of "agitation") in some from a expression urged upon them by a minority. The absence of efficient character and practical value in many "resolutions" of churches and ecclesiastical bodies purporting to be "anti-slavery," results from the paring down, under debate, of the salient points originally belonging to them, without the removal of which, the majority would not have voted for them at all.
2. Among those " resolutions " of churches, ecclesiastical Associations, &c., the phraseology of which does promise efficient action, it will be found, in a majority of cases, that no corresponding action was really taken, and that those bodies continued in a state of quietude respecting slavery, of practical acquiescence in the existing state of things, which left slavery undisturbed, granting all that the South then asked.
3. Examination will show that the great majority of churches, Associations, &c., in the North, have taken
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
neither the position above-mentioned; but have either been entirely silent in regard to slavery, (favoring, by their inertia, the continuance of an institution already prosperous,) or have expressed their consent to its undisturbed continuance, and their dislike of " agitation" in regard to it.
4. Examination will prove, further, that, of all the newspapers and magazines in the North called “religious," a majority have decidedly, discouraged "agitation" in regard to slavery, and have favored a quiet acquiescence in its continuance; while, in the minority remaining, there has been quite as much complaint of abolitionism as of slavery. The "religious" papers (like the secular papers) that maintain a thorough and persistent practical testimony against slavery in all its aspects and relations, are exceedingly few; too few to be called a minority.
5. It is true that the increased developments of desperate wickedness in the Slave Power, during the last six months, are producing a change in the minds of Northern men in regard to slavery, which change will continue and increase, and will ultimately affect the churches, because the church-members are also affected in their political and commercial relations by the outrageous demands of the Slave Power. The views of Northern men, I say, in regard to slavery, are changing, and will change yet more; but this change has not yet been manifested by any action of the churches, nor will it be, until the churches find themselves lagging behind “the world” in their relation to slavery, and obliged, in self-defence, to say against it, in theological phrase, what the individual members of the church have already said, in secular language, as members of political and commercial bodies. “The world" will precede the church in this warfare, as it has hitherto done, because the clergy, the leaders of the church, discourage prominence in action in this department. They cherish, above all things, the unity of their respective denominations, and the credit of their associates in the priestly office; and they avoid and discourage action which would tend, sooner or later, to division among their parishioners, and to the ecclesiastical censure (perhaps the excommunication) of their actively pro-slavery clerical brethren, North and South; brethren whom they still recognize as good Christians.—C. K. W.

FREEDOM VERSUS SLAVERY.
WENDELL PHILLIPS, ESQ.:
DEAR SIR—I am a stranger to you, but not you to me. The display of the forensic powers of Wendell Phillips in the interests of FREEDOM versus SLAVERY, for the last quarter of a century, has made his name,’ throughout the land, as " familiar as household words." 
The undersigned was educated in a district school, and graduated between the plow-handles, consequently he is frank and blunt, and ventures to criticise your efforts in this department of your unwearied labors. 
I had the pleasure, recently, of an interview, for the first time, with Miss Anthony and Mrs. Stanton, at our county seat, Albion, when I made the same objection, (and they accorded to the truth of my position,) I now make to your instrumentality, as not combining all the forces it might and ought; and hence the slow progress of the Abolition cause. H. R Helper's Resurrection of the Dry Bones, or Impending Crisis of the South, and how to meet it,” is the only American Abolition work that, in my, opinion, has done justice to the subject, or reached any where near the bottom of the sore. 
In perfecting the steam-engine as a propelling power, Fulton caught the idea from observing the operation of the engines of the English artists, Watt, Stephens, and others, than two wheels—a dual force, instead of a single one—were needed to overcome the difficulty, and make it go. A second wheel was added, and it was a success. 
So I told those ladies what I now tell you, that you have been laboring all this time with one wheel; and hence the reason, or one of the reasons, of no better success. Nay, when you portray the miseries and villanies of the system of slavery, affecting the black race, less than half the story is told. Perhaps Mr. Helper has, in setting forth the degradation of his non-slaveholding white brethren, placed less stress thin truth requires on the condition of the slaves;’ but bore it is, and placed in the Abolition machinery, could be more speedy and certain. While looking into the dark chambers of slavery, consider the helpless and degraded condition of the poor whites as well as the blacks—shake them up together, slaveholders and all, then view the barbarian mass. 
Nor does the evil stop here. I am an agriculturist—have looked into slavedom—have seen the dilapidated cotton fields. Reasoning from analogy, and judging from what I have seen, a very few decades of years would elapse ere the whole of those cotton lands,’ except the bottoms, would be denuded of their reproductive forces from the blight and tread of slavery, Nothing but the skill, enterprise and energy that a system of free labor imparts will arrest this destructive tendency. “These lands," as I told some of the planters when we were among them in 1858, “run off faster than your negroes, and no fugitive law can reclaim them. Nothing but cutting your large plantations of a thousand or two acres up into small farms, and putting upon them skillful farmers, will do it. Kill off your dogs, and introduce sheep. Sheep and dogs will not flourish together. Sheep would return to the land much that the cotton and other crops absorb and wool and cotton husbandry would be a splendid business." 
And this must be the order of natural laws—the inevitable laws of population and emigration. The population of the world is struggling to gain its level, and this hole portion of it must feel and yield to its equalizing power. 
On the contrary, the government, from the start, had one wheel too many in the machinery, like a five-wheel carriage, and will not longer run: there is too mach wear and tear. The defect is organic, and must be removed before it will run smoothly. 
In your recent speech at Music Hall, Boston, you suggest the education of the slaves, preparatory to freedom. It appears to me that, on this point, all anti-slavery philosophers, of whatever school, fail, as on the points above suggested, to elaborate or state the true position of the case. In one of the most essential departments of knowledge, in that department without which, the returning every day animal wants cannot be supplied, they are already highly educated; even many of them have taken a scientific course. All of them understand all kinds of common labor, and not a few are masters in all in-door and out-door work. 
In 1842, we boarded at oar house a runaway slave man from Kentucky, through the winter, for his work, while he attended our district school near by; and I venture to say that no white man in the State of New York could turn his hand so skilfully to any and every kind of work in the house, as house-keeper, in all its numerous departments, and out-doors in all branches of farm work. 
Now the moment they can have pay for labor done, that moment they are prepared for freedom, and all subsequent education would come almost as a matter of course. Though there is a mutual dependence between them—of the slave upon the master, and the master upon the slave—which will take time to out-grow before either can walk erect and independent, without that sense of long accustomed mutual support yet the thus emancipated slave would be far the better off of the two, and better qualified for self-support Very respectfully yours,
Holley, N. Y. C. Robinson.
Our respected and venerable correspondent certainly misapprehends Mr. Phillips in supposing that he advocates educating the slaves preparatory to their freedom; for he believes freedom most precede their education. Nor is he “laboring with one wheel," but with all the wheels rightly adjusted—arguing the politico-economical advantages of emancipation as well as its moral and governmental bearings. Mr. Helper's work is indeed most valuable.—[Ed. Lib.

<C02>
LETTER TO A FEMALE FRIEND.
“The frankness of your note, as well as your talk on Thursday, gave me pleasure, and at the same time caused the old feelings of wonder and regret that you should not have a juster appreciation of the method of the Abolitionists in their great work. You who are so familiar with the steps of progress marking the world's history, that have been effected by direct moral teaching, as well as Mr. Buckle's climate and industry; you know that the world has been carried forward by the enthusiasm and consecration of individuals. You know the grandeur and stupendous power of the human soul to strike down the strongholds of Satan, and that all the freedom and larger life we enjoy, more than they of past ages, is the finer growth that follows the brave reformer's axe. It always surprises me that, with your comprehensive knowledge of the process of the development of the kingdom of heaven on earth, you should not recognize and heartily embrace the anti slavery movement in its leaders and measures. Like other spiritual epochs of the world, it numbers prophets, saints, confessors and martyrs, of more or less agreeable aspect. And it seems to me their attitudes, as they smite shivery, are as graceful, their spirit as sweet, their souls as single, their hearts as high and bold, and their voices as melodious in chorus, as any company of reformers lent from heaven to any age. But Guido's Michael would not look so wholly celestial to one who felt a mite of tenderness towards the dragon. The  ‘abolition harangues' are of every quality of oratorical and temperamental excellence. There are silver trumpets and ram's-horns; and so they are tuned to the key-note of Liberty, it is philosophy, if not musical taste, to admit their performance. The ‘unjust personalities and one-sided exaggerations' I justify—that is, what you characterize as such—first, because they are not unjust, and then that the very strength of slavery is in the support given to it by scholars, ministers, merchants, and popular leaders. Let these withdraw their influence, and really treat it, as the Abolitionists do, as the moral leprosy of the nation, and it withers and shrinks under the indignation of the many, as it does even now before the few; the Secessionists saying they go out of the Union because they cannot abide the sentiment that they are moral outlaws, and their institution villany. 
These personal reputations are made the subject of criticism, and’ while all minds are receptive,’ as the ‘argument’ most clearly understood. Not so much from the hope that those who come in for censure will themselves repent, and even do works meet for repentance, as to deliver the people from their pernicious influence, seducing them to compromise. These persons are asking the suffrages of the people for themselves or their party, and if these, ore hostile to the slave, then Mr. P. is bound, both for the slave and the people, to expose the timidity, cowardice, hypocrisy, blindness by position and interest, of those who would betray the safety of freedom, either by wilfulness or mistake. This is, as I understand, the wisdom and philosophy of Mr. Phillips. It is not true that he has’ indulged in abuse until it has become unconscious and tyrannical.' He never abuses any body. When he condemns or censures a person, it is with far-thoughted intention. It is principle, not bitter feeling with him. A man whose whole life is passed in sweetness has no spleen to gratify. I, too, want fair, cool, well-thoughted affirmations,' and I get them pre-eminently at the anti-slavery conventions. 
You say of their policy, they have been right in denouncing compromises; and yet you tell me in conversation, you would keep the old and worst compromise to return the fugitive. The Abolitionists say with Shakspeare—
‘It is a sin to swear onto a sin, 
But greater gin to keep the sinful oath.’
Where there is an abstract sin, there must be a concrete sinner. While you and Mr. Dana are doing, or, the same thing, saying the awful wrong ought to be done, (because you say it is so written in the Constitution, and ask what becomes of honor,) you certainly and clearly, to my mind, take the responsibility of siding with the gross and wicked tyranny of Legree, and must not deny the fact, though you may shrink from the odium of such affiliation. As Jesus told the Jews,’ It shall be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for you'—making the difference in age, light, opportunity, and all the circumstances. So in Mr. Dana's case, Mr. Phillips allows the difference in culture, light, association, surroundings and privileges, as increasing Mr. D.’s guilt The wretch Legree possessed none of these advantages. 
I do justify, both as policy and right,’ invective and irony' directed to personal reputations that are of public interest, when these serve as a screen to such enormous sin and barbarism as American slavery. The more respectable, the more dangerous to liberty; and therefore the more salient objects of attack, the fairer the hit. Shivery is never so plausible as when wrapped up in the fine linen of a deceiving, scholarly phrase. 
Your own great loving heart needs no appeal from the horrors of the lot of a hapless fugitive, who, in the words of the terrible clause,’ shall be delivered up.' When you surround yourself with all the woes of the slave institution as wife, mother and woman, can you sit in judgment over Mr. Phillips, and declare he is not justified before God and man? 
Mr. Phillips is ‘no respecter of persons,' (God bless him!) and stands for the slave's defence and protection, using every available weapon or missile of assault upon all who would invade the sanctuary of his freedom. All honor to him when he faces a reputable foe, and unmasks the cruelty of an apparently, and, it may be, really innocent intention, like Mr. Dana's. His ‘abusive satire' becomes the lightning of God that clears the moral atmosphere for our purer breath; and future generations of all races will live in greater light, and peace, and security, for his faithfulness in this’ furious storm.' Mr. Phillips has nobly taken the hardest part, the post of obloquy, suffered ostracism, borne the cross brave’y and long, for the sake of the most precious rights of humanity. 
In these’ misty and lurid' times, we may remember the comforting words of Jesus, ‘Let not your hearts be troubled, when ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars; for the end is not yet.' 
And I rejoice, our faith is one, that’ all barbarisms must die out, and order necessarily come out of disorder.' As Henry Ware so beautifully sings in that prophetic hymn, beginning—
‘Oppression shall Dot always reign; 
There comes a brighter day, 
When freedom, burst from every chain, 
Shall hare triumphant sway.' "
Affectionately yours, 
SALLIE HOLLEY.

WENDELL PHILLIPS IN NEW HAVEN.
MY DEAR EDITOR,—Last evening, March 14th, Mr. Phillips addressed a large and highly respectable audience in Music Hall, in this city, upon the “National Crisis.” I am moved by feelings of unusual pride for! my college home to inform you that the man whom Boston mobs, New Haven hears with respect, and even applause. It touches my State pride to confess it but, to the honor of Connecticut, and New Haven, and Yale College, be it said, that free speech is upheld, and mob law awed down, by the self-respect and intelligence of the people. I need not tell you that the good will of the audience was not bought by the slightest modification or withholding of the orator's opinions and principles. There was, throughout the speech the same merciless exposure of political parties, leading statesmen, the clergy, and the press, which Mr. Phillips is wont to make. 
The temper of the audience, as well as the courage of the speaker, was well shown at the opening of the address. Mr. Phillips remarked— “I have been asked to address you upon the ‘National Crisis.’ All my grown-up years have been devoted to creating just such a crisis at that which is now upon us." - The sentence evidently smote terribly upon the feelings of most of his audience, yet it was heard in silence, though the sensation was great.

<C03>
Mr. Phillips spoke an hour and a half, enforcing with all his unequalled eloquence the great lesson that “Disunion is virtue, honor, peace, prosperity."
After the orator's return to his hotel, the Yale Glee Club, of the Class of’63, gave him a beautiful serenade, which called out a graceful and feeling response. A large number of students then were introduced to Mr. Phillips, and enjoyed die pleasure at his charming conversation. Mr. Phillips remarked that it was the first time in his life that he had been the recipient of such delicate and unexpected attentions.
I am rejoiced that there is found one seat of culture, and refinement, and learning, where oar greatest orator is thus honored. His power with such an audience is great, and the permanent influence he leaves much greater than we are apt to imagine. Four-fifths of this New Haven audience, I think, must have been opposed to his doctrines; and yet I doubt much if one went away without the loss of much of that senseless terror of Disunion, and blind attachment to the Union, which Mr. Seward is now inculcating. God speed to all such influences! They are making themselves felt and acknowledged in the strongholds of Hunkerism. How glorious is Genius when allied to Truth and Right! It is not merely that Mr. Phillips is the greatest orator of our times, that we should most admire him, but because, in the words of the sainted Parker, “his marvellous eloquence is only surpassed by the humanity which wields that fiery sword wrought of Justice and Beauty."
God speed you and your coadjutors in the blessed work of breaking all fetters of all men! 
YALENSIS.
Yale College, March 15, 1861.	

A GREAT COUNTRY!
This is a great country! Rather, it was a great country; but now it is two or three great countries! It was one great country so long as the Slave Power could elect a President and control the offices. The very first time the sceptre changes hands, the rope of sand is broken, and out of the Union a number of States go; and those that remain, how do they stand, and what is their attitude?  Shivering in the wind, and fearful lest some more of the paupers and robbers shall leave the Union almshouse! And Virginia, worn out, prostrate, retrograding Virginia, with the assuming impudence of an independent beggar, elects herself umpire to offer the terms of settlement and the conditions upon which the remaining paupers will continue to hold their constitutional relations to the Free States. Free States! Let me qualify the phrase—the Servile States calling themselves free. I look over the papers, and my blood boils with indignation, and my soul sickens with disgust, at the outrages on the one hand, and the pusillanimity displayed on the other. 
We can scarcely take up a paper without meeting with accounts of lynching Northern men somewhere, and almost every where, in the Slave States; and yet, no voice of indignation, no demand for redress, is heard from any party in the North! Democrats and Bell-men, calling themselves Union men, secretly or openly rejoice that these things are; and the cowardly, sneaking Republicans are consulting and inquiring how they shall appease the wrath of the fiend! Like pagans who offer sacrifices, yes, human sacrifices, to the devil to propitiate his wrath, that he may spare their dear personal selves. I admire the pluck of the South, while I abhor her conduct, and feel every pulse to quicken at the contemplation of her impudence. 
The Southerners are brave. They are full of daredevil courage, which, however misapplied, is infinitely preferable to the spaniel-like slinking of the people of the north. I write north with a small n, as the most appropriate manner of representing it. In all the discussion and all the controversy about conciliation and compromises, all the demands have come from the South. They demand concessions and constitutional amendments in behalf of slavery. From the north, not a voice, (that I know of,) even from the most determined of the Republicans, has been lifted up to denounce Southern outrages upon Northern citizens, or to demand redress. And at this hour, the Cabinet at Washington is considering how they may sell the Republican party and the servile non-slaveholding States to the Slave Power.
Mrs. Child, in her Letter to Gov. Wise, was mistaken when she told him that our insane love of the Union had been mistaken for cowardice. He was not mistaken. The north are cowards. They are afraid of their skins as much as they are of their pockets. If Northern men are lynched, they repeal Personal Liberty Bills. If the forts are taken, they talk of enforcing the laws, but do not do it. If the Southerners denounce coercion, the Northerners let them strengthen themselves, and then evacuate forts; and, in fact, the Republicans, having secured the government and the offices, are preparing to make concessions. The very fact of the new President making Mr. Seward chief in the Cabinet is strong presumptive evidence that the administration will cave in. 
Why should we feel so much more the insolence of Senator Wigfall than all the other brutal conduct to which Congress has tamely submitted? They deserve it. It is refreshing to learn that they can be stung into some degree of resentment, if not of self-respect. 
I believe, notwithstanding the danger from her slaves, that the South can conquer the north, if she chooses to execute the threat. The South, with an army of ten thousand men marching upon the Free (?) States, would throw them all into a panic. In the cities of Philadelphia, New York and Boston, more men could be found to join the invaders than to defend their own soil! The Irish population, in each of those cities, would join the enemy, and be sufficient to subdue the citizens who could be found with sufficient courage to take up arms. The anti-republican Union men would encourage the invaders, and the Republicans dare not fight. When was it ever known before that a party fought and won a battle to subdue themselves? 
I see that James Haughton has again been addressing an appeal to his countrymen in America. He seems determined to be faithful to the last, and never despair; but he labors to no end. When the Catholic priesthood find that they can gain more by advocating freedom for all men than slavery for black men, then the Irish in America will be all right; for they are wholly controlled by the Jesuits, and are too besotted to get at the truth in any other way. All Protestant Irishmen in this country are against slavery—all the Catholics are for it. The number of Protestants is a mere handful, but of the Catholics, their name is legion. 
I rejoice, in the midst of all this prevailing cowardice, that there are some of the Republican States which stand firm, and refuse to repeal Personal Liberty Bills. All honor to Vermont, Michigan and Wisconsin, and any other State that has acted likewise! Shame to Maine, Rhode Island, and almost to Massachusetts! We will see if Governors Washburn and Andrew will veto the acts of their respective States. Shame on the Republicans of Cleveland for their “alacrity” in conquering “their prejudices” as soon as they are in power! O, the South estimate the north truly, when, as was said by Cassias M. Clay in Portland, they consider Northern and Eastern men as mean men, sneaks, who, when spit upon and kicked, will not resent it, lest it cost a picayune! 
No Union with Slaveholders! D. S. G.

THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY—devoted to Literature, Art and Politics—for April, is, as usual, most seasonably published, and presents the following table of contents :—1. April Days. 2. The Professor's Story. 3. Babbles. 4. Cities and Parks. 5. Life in the Iron-Mills. 6.- The Reign of King Cotton: 7. Glimpses of Garibaldi. 8. Two or Three Troubles. 9. Marion Dale. 10. Charleston under Arms. 11. Reviews and Literary Notices. List of recent American Publications. A spicy and varied number. 
Ticknor & Fields, Publishers, 135 Washington St

<C04>
A GOOD MAN DEPAETED.
Departed this life, in Hubbardston, March 9th, JAMES ALSON WAITE, aged 53. In this event, every cause of Truth and Benevolence, Justice and Bight, mourns the loss of a helper and a friend. Early an active member and officer of the Unitarian Church of his native town, and for fifteen yean teacher and superintendent in the Sabbath School, it was no ordinary trial of integrity and fidelity to duty when, for the sake of the perishing slave, whose cause the Church would not maintain up to his idea of Christian principle, he left the Church; that adding his example to that high standard of Christ, that it is better to leave father and mother, and all dear and cherished associations, for the sake of God's truth, when by remaining with such, countenance is given to injustice and wrong. Thus faithful was he, before, to too Temperance reform; for which he endured, possibly, more coldness and trial in his community than in the Anti-Slavery Cause. He was always an earnest and conscientious seeker for truth; and in whatever form it came, he heartily embraced it, and openly declared his adherence to it, at whatever cost of popular sympathy, and pain of being misunderstood. 
For the last fifteen years, he read and loved the Liberator. To his mind, the ideas of Land Reform, Peace, Freedom, Temperance, the Rights of Women, were those that mast be carried out to accomplish the grand destiny of the human race, and to redeem the world. In these views he had the happy fortune to share the true and intelligent interest and sympathy of his devoted wife. 
His illness was a lingering and painful one, which he bore with great patience and sweetness; and when, at last, he felt beyond recovery, he expressed his desire to do everything to get well, yet he was resigned to go then, to what he fully believed was the life before him of progress and immortal improvement. 
The funeral services were impressive. Both himself and Mrs. Waite were unwilling a minister should attend these, who was not earnestly engaged in promoting the cause of truth they loved so well. Mr. Waite had always taken great comfort in reading Adin Ballou's work on Practical Christianity, and he felt that he should like best to have Mr. Ballou address his relatives and neighbors on the great truths in which their souls were one. 
On the afternoon of Monday, Dec. 11th, the house received its crowd of funeral guests. Some appropriate selections from the Scriptures were read, and a beautiful hymn repeated by Miss Holley. Mr. Ballou, after a prayer, gave a very clear and forcible statement of the doctrines of immortality, the love of God for man, letting forth there was no allowance for sin, and no cause for despair; the duty of man to his brother man; dwelling with persuasive emphasis on the duty of all to the lowest and poorest, to the slave, and closing his discourse with the full and glorious hope that our friend and brother was not dead, but “gone before”" us all, to the paradise of God's truth and love. 
Miss Holley and Miss Putnam added a feeling tribute of personal gratitude for the kindness and the faithfulness with which Mr. Waite had always welcomed them as Anti-Slavery laborers. All present must have felt an atmosphere of cairn peace and holy trust, and been quickened in good purposes, and upward striving, and new longing for the perennial life typified by the wreath of myrtle that lay fresh and green on the casket that held what was mortal of their friend and neighbor. There were also a few blossom—
“Tokens to the wintry earth that Beauty liveth still”!
“The good die not: 
God calls our loved ones, but we lose not wholly 
What be has given;
They live on earth, in thought and deed, as truly 
As in his heaven."
DEAR MR. GARRISON: 
I want to second and emphasize what is so well and truthfully said above, of my translated friend Mr. Waite. Before 1858,I knew him only in business relations, over the counter—that is, I did not know him. Since then, through the various Reforms, to the achievement of which, what there was of this world to him was so unreservedly and heartily consecrated. Of rare spiritual insight, an analytic brain, a resolute moral purpose, and a marvellous faith in the power of truth to renovate and rule the world—one of the whitest, most transparent and unvictimizable of souls—no man in all that region has impressed me so deeply. One of those natural elevations of human nature which catch and reflect the dawn of new ideas, his thought travelled abreast of the most progressive minds of the age, and every just and laudable reform, the more despised and hated the sooner, found hospitality in his heart and home. All classes of lecturers, anti-slavery in particular, will remember his glad, generous welcome, and the quiet, inspiring God-speed with which his horse was always anxious to take them to the next town. 
The most casual observer could not fail to detect, under the plain, blunt fanner, a mind singularly at home, scorning gossip and gadding, and habitually self-poised, and given to “high-thinking.” Young men, perverted in a “college course,” went to him to get educated. The world hung so loosely upon his spirit, that duty was inclination; faith, sight; hope, have. Intelligent, executive, uncommon for his common sense and sound judgment, a leader by natural right, sect and party would have been to him easy stepping-stones to social and legislative honors. But, “the firstlings of his heart ever the firstlings of his hand," when he saw that, intertwined with this Federal Compact with oppression, politics and ecclesiasticism are the real fetters of the slave, he serenely and firmly repudiated the ballot, his church, his dear Sunday School, and a minister he loved as the apple of his eye, and went “without the camp, bearing the reproach” of Jesus in his crushed “little ones.” 
The Peace reform was especially dear to him. Dowered with universal, impartial love, his moral sense was keenly alive to the demoralizing and barbarizing influences of the war-principle as incorporated in a government of force, in a State based on bullets. His soul was joyfully loyal to the entrancing beauty of that divine philosophy of the New Testament which incarnates God in the forlorn and outcast, and makes human life everywhere and always sacred. He was especially and earnestly solicitous lest the Anti-Slavery enterprise should be degraded from the high moral plane upon which it was launched, to that brutish method which breaks the neck of tyrants one hour, to fasten chains upon a weaker brother the next He had wit enough to see that Calvary is higher than Bunker Hill, and that the cross always rules the crown. He lived the love principle. Ever impartial and scathing in rebuke of popular crime and cowardice, he was yet universally esteemed. The very “scourge of God," he walked his village, smiting the idols of his fellows, yet from them I never heard a syllable but of respect and reverence for him. 
He was emphatically an idealist, and could not but transcend all popular shams. The cobwebs of government and church disappeared under the broad noon of truth. Hubbardston has had clergymen, lawyers, and energetic business men she may not shame to compare with her neighbors; but I can recall no other of her sons who has plowed the intellect and conscience of that community so deeply, or sown with a more broadcast, harvest-evoking hand. Abolition, Non-Resistance, Temperance, Woman’s Rights, Theological Reform. What a record! “Five points” of a creed that will plow under the Alps with their Genevan celebrity, if you give it time! Of course, he was a man of "one idea," had "no influence," "threw his life away." But, fifty years hence, the very efflorescence of those churches and schools will think itself honored in coming down to the State-house to inaugurate one of the many ideas my sainted friend made himself of no reputation to assert Indeed, this vigorous thinker strode so far ahead of his fellows, that the today town will not come up with him for centuries. And sure as God lives, and truth is immortal, it must travel in the path he struck out.

<C05>
Of his brave; gentle, loving partner, it is enough that she was the wife of his heart, his thought, his purpose, his life—the soul and head of the “Anti-Slavery Circle," the “Temperance Circle," and every good work into which her sisters were glad to be marshalled. She survives alone! But who would not rather be the widow of inch a resolute, clear-sighted truth seeker and truth liver, than the wife of this stupid, purblind hypocrisy, which walks about, and calls itself alive! Too thankful for his love and his life, she will not mourn that he heralds her to higher spheres. I think more of human nature that it has been ennobled by such an example, and shall take fresh heart in this struggle for human redemption, now it is represented at higher courts by such a character. To me that soil will have an unwonted moral sacredness, and the familiar gate, the modest cottage, the little library, and the carefully filed Liberators, will be redolent of the spirit that still pursues its upward path beyond our mortal sight E. H. H.
General Scott is the best abused man in the country, at the present time. Many of the Southern papers are boiling over with fury and wrath. Read what the Florida Sentinel, published at Tallahassee, says of him :—
“Our indignation, contempt, and abhorrence of this plebeian demagogue (Lincoln) are only equalled by what we feel for his friend and adviser, the traitor to the home of his birth,’ the jackass in politics and Jupiter in vanity,’ Lieutenant-General Winfield Scott, If there be not ‘some chosen curse, some hidden thunder in the stores of heaven,’ to blast this wretch who causes his country's ruin, the curses of unborn millions will damn him to the lowest depth of human degradation." 
The Richmond Examiner, edited by John M. Daniel, in the course of a recent diatribe on General Scott, says:—
"The infamy of this man constitutes no small portion of the crushing load of shame under which Virginia is now struggling. She gave birth to this unnatural monster. She has heaped honors and rewards upon this war mandarin of the Abolitionists. That Scott was born in Virginia is a misfortune which cannot be remedied; but there are means by which the State may brand him with the marks of her indignant scorn.”
The Examiner finishes its infamy by recommending that the Legislature should expunge from the record every mark of Virginia's confidence, respect and admiration for “this man," and that the medals and swords which have been given him be repurchased of him, even at a pecuniary consideration of fifty times their value.—Journal.
A SCHOONER FIRED INTO. — The United States Flag “not worth a d—n." We make the following extract from a letter to the Macon Telegraph of the 16th ult., from a member of the Jackson Artillery, stationed at Fort Brown, Georgia: — "On Tuesday morning, a schooner was discovered off Jokyll Point, which soon showed a disposition to pass us without calling. Lieut. Cummings was the officer of the day, and in a few minutes he had the guns manned and a ball whistling across the bow of the craft. This the schooner did not heed, but a shell from one of our howitzers passing uncomfortably near her bow, brough her to as quick as possible. A boat was lowered, and the captain came ashore, with the crown of his hat full of papers. To Lieut. Cummings's inquiry why he did not show a flag, he answered that he had none onboard, but a United States flag, which he supposed was not worth much. The lieutenant answered, “Not a d—n;" and after examining his papers, invited him to the officers' quarters, and then dismissed him. Today, we have overhauled two more schooners, but have found them all right, and let them go on their way rejoicing.

“THAT SHOT AT FORT SUMTER. The Charleston correspondent of the Philadelphia Inquirer, alluding to the accidental shot fired from the battery at Cummings Point, which took effect upon the gate at Fort Sumter, says: — “Having moved about Charleston a great deal lately, and having heard the unanimously expressed opinion that Major Anderson would capitulate on the first attack, I have no hesitation in saying that it was a plot, the design of which was to test his loyalty to his country and his country's flag. I am happy to tell you that they are perfectly satisfied, or rather dissatisfied, that Major Anderson is neither a coward nor a traitor. The men who expected that he was of Twiggs's calibre are entirely deceived, and the promptitude with which he opened his battery this morning proves that traitors need expect no quarter from him."

TEXAS. Lieut. Putnam has arrived from Texas, with despatches from Col. Waite, who has been instructed to withdraw from Texas, and was concentrating the troops at Indianola. Col. Waite will remain till all the troops have left. All the stores and munitions of war were in the hands of the Texas Commissioners, who allowed the necessary supplies to go to the troops.
The military post on Brazos Island was surrendered by Lieutenant Thompson to General Nichols, first insisting that the flag should be saluted. He had only fifteen men and two guns.
The Texas Rangers are stationed from Brazos to Brownsville, and it is anticipated that they would attempt to prevent the government troops from taking away the stores and artillery.

FROM THE SOUTHERN COSFEDERACY. Congress has confirmed the nominations for District Judges. They are as follows: A. G. Magrath, South Carolina; H. R. Jackson, Georgia; Wm. Lancer Harris, Mississippi; Thos. J. Semmes, Louisiana; John Hemp-hill, Texas; Jesse J. Finley, Florida.
The following nominations have also been confirmed: McQueen McIntosh, Judge of Admiralty Court at Key West; David Hubbard, of Alabama, Commissioner of Indian Affairs; Alex. B. Wetherell, of Alabama, Register of the Treasury; Bollency Baker of Georgia, Auditor of the Treasury.

WASHINGTON, March 18. The President to-day sent the following nominations to the Senate: Charles F. Adams, of Massachusetts, for Minister to England George P. Marsh, of Vermont, for Minister to Sardinia; James Watson Webb, of New York, for Minister to Turkey; Wm. L. Dayton, of New Jersey, for Minister to France. The last named was immediately confirmed, the rule requiring a reference being suspended, as Mr. Dayton was formerly a member of the Senate, and his character was sufficiently known without further investigation.

ESCAPE OF A SLAVE CAPTAIN. Capt. Latham, alias Ruez, who has been in prison in New York since the 8th of January, has escaped. He was charged with taking slaves from the coast of Africa on board the slave ship Cora, of which he was master and part owner, and which was captured by a government vessel with slaves on board. It appears that he was taken from prison by an officer, to a clothing store on Broadway, to make some purchases, as alleged, on Friday evening, and while thus engaged, he succeeded in making his escape. Of course.

COLLECTING THE REVENUES. It is certainly a very grave problem which confronts the Government, as to the collection of import duties in the seceded States It is asserted that $20,000 a day are taken at New Orleans, in the shape of duties levied on foreign goods, and large sums of a similar nature are also collected at Charleston, Savannah, Mobile and Galveston. At this rate, the United States Government would be annually defrauded of from ten to twenty millions of dollars, which sum would go into the treasury of the Confederated States.

The Nashville Banner says the following is a specimen of the general character of the business letters received in that city from citizens under Jeff Davis's government:—"This internal secession business, I am fearful, will ruin the country. It was certainly conceived in sin and born in iniquity—its father's eldest son the devil; and I have no doubt but all the little devils, together with the esquire, are now having a good time over it"

NEW ORLEANS, March 16. The Convention rejected an ordinance admitting the Constitution of the Confederated States to the people by a vote of 74 against 26. The Constitution will come before the Convention for ratification on Monday.

THE MISSION TO EUROPE. Messrs. Yancey, Maine and Rost will leave for New Orleans soon, and will go from thence to Havana, where they will take the steamer on the 27th for Southampton, to fulfill their mission to the European powers.

DEATH OF A HEROIC LADY. Mrs. Marr Ann Patten, widow of the late Capt. Joshua Patten died in this city yesterday, of consumption. Mrs. Patten, it will be remembered by many, says the courier, was the heroic wife who, some three or four years ago nursed her sick husband when prostrated by illness and incurable blindness, and took charge of his ship, the Neptune's Car, and, in spite of the officers' desire to put into Valparaiso, navigated the vessel to San Francisco, and thus saved much detention, as well as expense to the underwriters. Mrs. Patten had nearly completed her twenty-fourth year.—Boston Traveller, 12th inst.

<C06>
MRS. M.B. JACKSON, M. D., having had fifteen years' experience in the Homeopathic treatment of disease, offers her professional service to the Ladies and Children of Boston and vicinity.
References.—David Thayer, M. D. : Luther Clark, M. D. : John M. Tarball, M.D., Boston. Eliphalet Clark, M. D., Portland, Me.
Rooms No.34 Bowdoin and 10 Allston streets. Office hours from 2 to 4, P.

BESSIE S. LOCKWOOD, M. D., No. 34 Auburn Street, Boston. Particular attention paid to the Diagnosis and Treatment of Chronic Disease4.
OFFICE HOURS from 11, A. M., till 2, P. M. Nov.23—3m.

FREE DISPENSARY, for women and Children, 274 Washington Street, Boston. Open every day, from 12 to 1 o'clock.
The above institution (in connection with the LADIES' MEDICAL ACADEMY) is now open for the gratuitous treatment of Woman and Children, and for Surgical Patients of both sexes. Difficult may have the benefits of a consultation on Wednesdays, at 12 o' clock.
MIDWIFERY. Attendance by duly qualified female <illegible> will be provided for the poor, at their own homes, free of charge.

NO COMPROMISE WITH SLAVEHOLDERS.—
Conventions, in the State of New York, to be addressed by PARKER PILLSBURY and SUSAN B. ANTHONY, will be held as follows:—at
Brackett's Bridge, Sunday, March 24. 
North Easton, Wednesday, “27. 
Easton, Thursday and Friday, March 28, 29.
Union Village, Sunday, March 31.

NASHUA, N. H.—A. T. Foss and HENRY C. WRIGHT will speak at Nashua, N. H., Sunday, March 24, day and evening.
A. T. FOSS will speak at Rochester, N. H., Sunday, March 31st.

MARRIED—In this city, March 6th, at the Church of the Advent, by Rev. Dr. Bowles, Mr. GEORGE W ASHINGTON, Jr., to Miss SERENA A. M. DOWNING.

DIED—In this city, March 9th, MARIA HOWARD WILSON, aged 33. 
March 10, MARY A. CLASH, daughter of HENRY THACKER, aged 32.

$40 PARKER $40 
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLARS.
This is a new style, first class, double thread, Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and its construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a silver Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street. 
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent. 
Agents wanted everywhere. 
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice. Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m. 

The British Reviews,
AND
Blackwood's Magazine.
1.
THE LONDON QUARTERLY, (Conservative.) 
2. 
THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, (Whig.) 
3. 
THE NORTH BRITISH REVIEW, (Free Church.) 
4. 
THE WESTMINSTER REVIEW, (Liberal.) 
5. 
BLACKWOOD’S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE, (Tory.)
TERMS.
					Per ann. 
For any one of the four Reviews, $3 00 
For any two of the four Reviews, 5 00
For any three of the four Reviews, 7 00
For all four of the Reviews, 8 00 
For Blackwood's Magazine, 3 00
For Blackwood and one Review,		 5 00
For Blackwood and two Review		 7 00
For Blackwood and Three Reviews,	 9 00
For Blackwood and the Four Reviews,	 10 00
N.B.—The price in Great Britain of The five periodicals above-named id $31 per annum.
Republished by LEONARD SCOTT& CO.,
54 Gold Street, New York
Dec. 28. 6m

SELF-CONTRADICTIONS OF THE BIBLE 
Sixth Edition.
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY-FOUR, Propositions, theological, moral, historical and speculative, each, proved affirmatively and negatively, by quotations from Scripture; embodying most of the palpable and striking; self-contradictions of the so-called inspired Word of God. Fourth Edition. Price 15 cents post paid. Eight for a dollar. Sold by all liberal booksellers, and by publishers. 
 A. J. DAVIS & Co.,
 05 6m 274 Canal street, New York.

LINDA.
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SLAVE GIRL, 
Seven Years concealed in Slavery; narrated by herself; with an Introduction by LYDIA MARIA CHILD, and s Letter by AMY POST. A handsome book of 306 pages, just issued, which is receiving highly commendatory notices from the press. Price, $1.00. Orders for mailing include sixteen cents in postage stamps. 
Address WM. C. NELL, 
F8 tf 221 Washington street.
A FEW Photographs of WENDELL PHILLIPS, by HORTON, are on sale at the Anti-Slavery Rooms for $1.00 each. They are much admired. F8 tf

TRANSIENT BOARDERS. 
THE subscriber has just opened house No. 77 Myrtle street, for the accommodation of transient Boarders. The location is a pleasant one, within a few minutes walk the most central portions of the city. Every exertion will be made for the comfort of those who may favor the house with a call. Rooms furnished with or without beard. Terms moderate.
Jan 11, S. NEWELL. 

NEW SERIOUS OF TRACTS.
PUBLISHED BY THE 
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY,
AND TO BE OBTAINED AT THE
Anti-Slavery Offices, 5 Beckman Street, New York; 107 North Fifth Street, Philadelphia; 15 Steuben Street Albany; and 221 Washington Street, Boston.
No 1—Correspondence between Lydia Maria Child and Governor Wise and Mrs. Mason, of Virginia. PP.28 , 5 cents No. 2. —Victor Hugo on American Slavery With Letters of other distinguished individuals, viz, DeTocqueville, Mazzini. Humboldt, Lafayette, &c pp. 24. 5 cents.
No. 3. — An Account of some of the Principal Slave Insurrections during the last two centuries. By JOSHUA COFFIN. pp. 36. 5 cents.
No. 4. — The New Reign of Terror in the Slave holding States, for 1859 and 1860. pp. 144. 10 cents
No. 5. Daniel O'Connell on American Slavery; with other Irish Testimonies. Pp. 48. 5 cents.
No. 6.—The Right Way the Safe Way, proved by Emancipation in the West Indies and elsewhere. By L.MARIA CHILD. pp95. 10 cents.
No. 7.—Testimonies of Capt. John Brown at Harper's Ferry, with his Address to the Court. pp16. 3 cents.
No. 8. —The Philosophy of the Abolition Movement. By WENDELL PHILLIPS. pp,47. 5 cents.
No 9—The Duty of Disobedience to the Fugitive Slave Act: An Appeal to the Legislators of Massachusetts. By L.MARIA CHILD. pp. 5 cents
N0 10.—The Infidelity of Abolitionism By Wm. LLOYD GARRISON.pp.12 3 cents
No 11— Speech of John Hossack convicted of a Chicago, Ill. pp. 12 3 cents
No 12— The Patriarchal Institution, as described by Members of its Own Family. Compiled by L.MARIA CHILD. pp 55. 5 cents
No 13—No Slave-Hunting in the Old Bay-Stage: An Appeal to the People and Legislature of <illegible>. pp. 24. 5 cents.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
THE HERO OF HARPER'S FERRY.
BY REV. J. T. POWERS.
Sword of the Lord and Gideon!
Amidst the battle-smoke,
E'en in the thickest of the fight,
Thine arm for freedom spoke!
Sword of the Lord and Gideon!
One of a faithful band, 
With sword and spear, and heart of flame,
Stood forth to free thy land!
Sword of the Lord and Gideon!
Shall men like cowards quail,
When on th' oppressor's hoary head 
Thy strokes fall like God's hail?
Sword of the Lord and Gideon!
Great Captain of the Age;
Thy name in characters of light 
Shall live on History's page!
Sword of the Lord and Gideon!
Such was thy battle-cry
As thy brave vow to Heaven uprose,
That slavery should die!
Sword of the Lord and Gideon!
Servant of God! well done—
O Conqueror in life and death,
Thou hast the victory won!
Sword of the Lord and Gideon!
Soon thine own land shall be,
Because of word and deed of thine,
From curse of slavery free!
Sword of the Lord and Gideon!
Then, then thy name of power
Shall be the watchword of the age,
Its heritage and dower!
Sword of the Lord and Gideon!
Speak, speak, O martyr-blood
That poured from wounds by slavery made,
A rich and holy flood!
Carlisle, Mass.
For the Liberator.
THE SLAVE'S APPEAL TO FREEMEN.
Up, freemen, in the name of God!
Break, now, the vile oppressor's rod!
Let not the haughty tyrant's tread
Pollute the soil where freemen bled!
Now is the time to strike the blow,
And lay the monster, Slavery, low!
Now is the time to dare and do,
And show yourselves to Freedom true!
Hear Lexington and Concord speak,
Where freemen fought their chains to break;
The waters in yon harbor see,
Where freemen poured the British tea.
And as ye gaze on Bunker's height,
Where freemen put their foes to flight,
Swear by each hallowed memory
That every man shall here be free.
Stand firm!’tis Freedom's trial-hour;
And let not despots make you cower;
Rally at Freedom's trumpet-call,
And save your country from her thrall.
Say to the haughty South—Stand back!
Take from the negro's trail your pack;
God has created all men free;
Nor shall you thwart His just decree.
Boston, March 12, 1861. JUSTITIA.
From the Claremont Advocate.
NO COMPROMISE WITH TRAITORS.
Freemen, stand firm! Though shadows thick and dun
May seem to darken Liberty's bright sun,
And wrap in gloom the glories of the day
Till stern, strong hearts are trembling with dismay,
Yet stand ye firm with spirits pure and brave,
And never let your fears dig Freedom's grave.
Concede to traitors? Not while Freedom lives,
And we enjoy the happiness she gives.
Entrenched upon that heaven-aspiring height,
Where sits enthroned that sacred goddess—Right,
We fling our banner to the morning breeze—
Emblem of Freedom on remotest seas—
And bending lowly with uplifted eye,
In Liberty's blest cause we swear to die,
Ere we will yield to Slavery's foul claim—
The nation's black reproach and deepest shame 
Shall we, the living children of the free,
Reared at the base of Liberty's fair tree,
Yield to the men who, in the pride of power,
Have brought upon our land the darkest hour
That she has known since that eventful strife
From which she sprang victorious to life?
Tarnish the honor of our Fathers' graves,
And treat with traitors who would make us slaves?
And treat for what? To push the black domains
Of branded servitude and clanking chains
To unborn States that yet in darkness lie
In the dim distance of futurity?
When men, with hatred burning in their eyes,
Offer that loathed thing—a Compromise—
Let us, with dignity and calm disdain,
Reply to them with honest speech and plain,
And say that that no compromise we call,
Which giveth nothing, but exacteth all.
The nation is in danger—not from those
Who openly proclaim themselves her foes,
And who, if need, will let their life-blood flow
To compass her disgraceful overthrow;
But here at home th' impending danger lies,
In th' hearts of those who fain would compromise,
And give to traitors what should ever be
The heaven-protected birthright of the free.
Then let us be resolved that, come what may,
No Southron's threat shall fill us with dismay,
But firm until the end the right maintain,
Nor forfeit aught except for Freedom's gain.
Let us, the free-born children of the free,
Rallying around the shrine of Liberty,
Proclaim aloud, let come what will, that we
Will never ignominiously bend the knee
To traitors who have dared to desecrate
The solemn places that were consecrate
To Freedom and to human rights. We stand
Where stood the long-tried fathers of the land;
And there, if need be, at our country's call,
We will defend her to the last, or fall.
If from the free-born millions of the North,
Such words as these may manfully go forth,
Telling the world how eminently great,
How super-worthy of this high estate,
How firm, unyielding, undismayed by fear,
How steadfast to the truths that they hold dear,
Is this free people,-all will yet be well;
And Freedom, child of Heaven, will ring the knell
That tells the doom of traitors. Let us then
Before the world proclaim that we are men,
Worthy to be the children of the sires
Who, in the midst of purifying fires,
Forged out the noble heritage that we
Have sworn with solemn lips shall be forever free.
New Haven, Ct E. A. DARBY.
From the Ohio Anti-Slavery Bugle.
TO THE HOUNDS OF LAW AT CLEVELAND
Now, God, for fitting words, that I might pour
The lava torrents of my burning soul
On your base heads, who in the dust adore
The bloody Moloch; ever crying, more!
Unsated with his victims. O, to roll
Such, avalanches of indignant scorn,
Should’whelm you in oblivion! Coward knaves,
Who in this hour when Freedom calls for MEN,
Shrink from the contest, weak and trembling slaves!
Poor earth-born souls, back to the earth again!
Go, hide your heads in your dishonored graves!
You who can grovel at the tyrant's feet,
But to his wretched victim shut the door.
As you to others measure, so God mete
To you, false heart—pressed down, and running o'er!
C. L. M.
<c02>
The Liberator.
SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
By the Constitution of the United States, Congress has an exclusive legislation over this District in all cases whatsoever. This language is so comprehensive in its import, that it would place Congress on the same footing in relation to the internal affairs of this District, with the different State legislatures in relation to the internal affairs of their several States, unless there exist some difference between the relation which Congress bears to the people of the District, and the relation which a State legislature bears to the people of the State. And it has been contended that there is a difference. It is said that a State legislature proceeds directly from the people of the State, and is chosen to represent the interests and sentiments of their constituents; and that they are bound in all their measures to be governed by these interests and sentiments. It is said, on the other hand, that the members of Congress proceed from the great body of the people of the United States, and not from the people of the District; and do not, therefore, represent the interests and sentiments of the people of the District in relation to any of their local concerns. And this being the case, it is said that where a measure affecting the welfare and interest of the District is made the subject of legislation in Congress, the sentiments of the people of the District ought to be ascertained before the measure is acted upon; and should not pass into a law, unless a majority of the people of the District should be ascertained to be in favor of it. It is therefore contended that slavery in the District of Columbia cannot be abolished, unless with the consent of the people of the District, or a majority of them.
To these views in relation to the power of Congress upon this subject, I would state in reply two objections, which, in my judgment, go to destroy their force, and prove them unsound. One of these objections arises out of the character of a representative government, whether in Congress or in the State legislatures. The other objection is, that Congress is bound to regard as well the interests and sentiments of the slaves, in legislating upon this subject, as of the white population, and much more so, as their interests at stake are of a much more vital and imperative nature than those of the latter.
The first objection to be considered arises out of the character of a representative government, whether in Congress or the State legislatures. A representative government does not, I apprehend, imply that the representatives are the mere agents or attorneys of their constituents, bound to act agreeably to their wishes, whether these wishes are right or wrong, and whether they interfere or not with the welfare and rights of others. A representative government is intended to be a deliberative body, who are to discuss the measures proposed for their adoption, to compare opinions with one another, and to elicit all the information and arguments that can be brought to bear upon the subject; and, finally, to decide in reference to the justice of a measure, and its influence in promoting the happiness of the whole people, and not merely their immediate constituents. It is more in the nature of a jury, or a board of referees, who are bound to decide according to the merits of the case, and not with a view to the interest of either of the parties to it. Were the representatives the mere agents of the people, bound merely to expound and act out their views, it is evident that all deliberation and argument would be precluded, as their opinions would admit of no change, and they must decide according to their instructions, right or wrong, just or unjust, reasonable or unreasonable. One great advantage, then, of this form of government would be lost,-to act as an enlightened and impartial body, free from the passion and prejudice and ignorance which might be supposed to operate upon the opinions of the people themselves. If this view of the subject, then, be correct, it is obvious that Congress would have the right to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia, notwithstanding the wishes of the white population of the District should be opposed to it, if they considered the measure called for by justice and humanity, and the welfare of the whole population, black as well as white. 
The second objection to be considered is, that Congress, in legislating for the District, is bound to consult the interests and welfare of the slaves, as well as the white population. And this is a view of the subject which is always left out of sight, in considering the duty of Congress in relation to this matter. It seems always to be assumed that slaves have no rights of any kind, and that their welfare is never to be consulted; that they are not human beings with the same rights and the same feelings with other human beings, but the mere property of their masters; and that it is merely in reference to the effect of this measure upon this property, that their emancipation is to be considered. The slaveholders claim that they have a rightful property in their slaves, as much as in any other articles, and that Congress has no right to divest them of this kind of property, more than of any other kind of property. They assume this position as sound, and then hang all their reasoning upon it. But this very position is denied, and is one which, if it fails, carries away with it all the arguments built upon it. They have, as I contend, no rightful property in their slaves; and Congress is not bound by the Constitution nor the principles of justice to recognize such as property:-that slaves are human beings, with all the faculties of human beings, and all the rights of human beings. This being the case, Congress is as much bound to consider them as its constituents, when acting as the Legislature of the District, as it has the white population, and to act as much in reference to their interests and welfare as to those of the white population. If this view is correct, then the question is easily disposed of, and the right and duty of Congress to abolish slavery in the District easily shown. There are said to be more than six thousand slaves in the District. Now, if the holding of these persons in slavery is clearly wrong, if it is an injustice and oppression, the right of Congress to remove this injustice and oppression is as clear as their right to remove any other injustice and oppression. Suppose a portion of the white population of the District should be disfranchised of any of their rights, which the other portion of the white population enjoyed, would not Congress have the right to restore to them these rights? Suppose so high a property qualification was required to entitle persons to the right of voting, or of being eligible to office in their municipal affairs, that a large portion of the white population would be excluded from this privilege, would not Congress have the right to remove this disqualification? I think it will not be denied. Why, then, have they not the right to restore to the colored race, who are as much their constituents as the white race, all the rights, personal, domestic and civil, so far as they are qualified to exercise them, of which they have been unjustly deprived? When the contest is between two different classes of their constituents-on the one side, one which relates merely to property, and that too in a human being-and on the other, the great and fundamental rights of mankind, whether black or white, which have never been forfeited or transferred; when it is between force and right, injustice and justice, oppression and duty-then why should not Congress step in, and so exercise its constitutional power as to turn the scale in favor of humanity, justice, and the rights of man?
Again, it seems to me that the language used in the preamble to the Constitution of the United States is sufficient to authorize Congress to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia. The language used in this preamble is as follows, viz:
"We, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to themselves and their posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution." 
Now, here are certain great objects which are said 
<c03>
to be the object of this instrument to obtain, among which are, "to establish justice" and "secure the blessings of liberty." It is true that the declaration is made in the name of "the people of the United States," "for ourselves and our posterity;" and therefore, it may be said, was intended to be restricted in its application to the people who adopted it, and their posterity-viz: the white people of the United States. But though this may be the letter of the preamble, I think it cannot be the spirit of it; but that the general principle was intended to be asserted, that the object of this instrument was "to establish justice," and "secure the blessings of liberty" to all over whom the National Government has jurisdiction, as such, and who do not come under the operation of the State governments. It is true, that there are certain provisions in the National Constitution which were intended to recognize slavery in some of the States, as an existing institution in them, and which make certain requisitions of the non-slaveholding States during the continuance of this institution, which was then supposed would not be for a long period. But these provisions relate only to slavery as it exists under the State government, and subject to their State constitutions, and can be considered as recognizing it only to this extent. They can have no application to slavery as existing within that portion of the United States subject to the jurisdiction of the National Government, and not within the operation of any of the State constitutions. The District of Columbia is in this situation, in relation to the National Government. It is solely within its jurisdiction, and no State constitution has any authority over it. Congress has, by the Constitution of the United States, "exclusive jurisdiction" over such District. There being, then, no Constitution having particular reference to the District of Columbia, Congress is bound, in legislating for it, to be governed by the great principles of liberty, justice and humanity, which lie at the foundation of all righteous government, which the people of the United States acknowledge to be imperative, and paramount in their obligation, and which they have embodied in the National Constitution framed for the government of these United States. The spirit, therefore, of the preamble of this Constitution should govern them in their legislation, respecting the District of Columbia, as well as the United States at large-viz: "to establish justice and secure the blessings of liberty;" and this in reference to the colored population, who have been held as slaves, as well as the white population.
That slavery is a violation of "justice," and a privation of "the blessings of liberty," it would be wasting time to endeavor to show.
Such being the case, slavery was, I conceive, legally abolished in the District of Columbia as soon as it was ceded to the United States, and the laws of Maryland and Virginia ceased to operate within it, and it became subject to the control of Congress, who were bound to look to the principles promulgated in the National Constitution as their land-marks of power and rules of duty. And that Congress, consistently with these principles, could no longer, by any of their acts, recognize slavery as still existing within the District, or make any laws for its continuance, but were bound to consider it as having been abolished by the spirit of the National Constitution, as the State of Massachusetts did by her own Bill of Rights.
W. S. A.

SOLOMON SIZZLE ON WENDELL PHILLIPS. 
Wendell Phillips!-I shudder with horror at the theme! I am nauseated with disgust at the remembrances which the name calls up! Abomination of abominations! All is abomination! Boston, our beloved Boston, so respectably connected, so rich, so elegant, is fast becoming a byword and a hissing because of him. Mr. Parker-Joel, of course-is right. O, what mischief the accursed eloquence of one impracticable man can do! "Our whole head is sick, our whole heart is faint" by reason of his ravings. "From the crown of our heads to the soles of our feet, we are full of wounds, and bruises, and putrifying sores." We are very low. We feel as if we should never get up again. We are obliged to neglect our business. Our trade will be ruined. Who has done all this? Who has made us a laughing-stock and a reproach, in our own eyes and in the eyes of all the world?—WENDELL PHILLIPS! He has bruised us; he has made us sore; and the sores will not heal, because he will not let them alone.
Talk of freedom of speech! He is the only man that has any now-a-days. We have none. We cannot get a word out to any purpose. We do not get the ear of the people; he gets the start of us, and fills it with his clamor. We do not dare to say much. If, in our humble way, we venture upon an utterance, he picks it to pieces before our eyes, and makes a show of us to the public. We have been wont to speak with authority; but now, if we get up a meeting or a petition, the very people who hear us talk, go straight from us to him, to hear what he says about it, and laugh at the fun that he makes of us. In spite of all our solemn looks and grave talk, we cannot make the people feel solemn. 
We have done wrong. We ought not to have allowed Wendell Phillips to get such an influence in the community. He ought to have been nipped in the bud. When he began to talk ultra, he should have been peremptorily put down. We have allowed too much liberty in Massachusetts. Year after year, men have been permitted to speak out their convictions, until it has become a habit. Now that people are so used to it, we find it very difficult to prevent it. It was a great mistake. Personal convictions belong to individuals, not to the public; to the inner life, not to society. It is well enough to have them, if one can keep them to himself. The general welfare requires that they should be suppressed, whenever they would excite opposition and create a disturbance.
We must silence this man by some means or other-peaceably if we can, forcibly if we must. I have heard it intimated, that a noble band of patriots in Boston have bound themselves with an oath, that they "will suppress Wendell Phillips, or eat their own heads." Under ordinary circumstances we should not countenance any such attempt; but this is no time to mince matters or have a delicate stomach. Something must be done very soon, or our case will be hopeless. These self-sacrificing gentlemen say they will prevent him from speaking again at the Sunday service in the Music Hall, if they have to shoot him or tear the building down. This sounds like business. I am afraid they will have to do it. Personally, I do not like shooting. The noise and the risk of hitting the wrong man, possibly of getting hit in return, make it disagreeable. But if it comes to that, I do not know that I could discountenance it. Great evils require great remedies. Wendell Phillips is a very dangerous man; an impracticably plain talker. In spite of our expressed wishes to the contrary, he persists in saying just what he thinks. He can be neither coaxed, hired nor driven to hold his tongue. The language he uses, too, is awful. I have been told that he actually swears at slavery; that he curses the North for upholding it. This is dreadful. If he gets shot, no one will be to blame. He will be out of the way of doing any more harm, and we shall be quiet again. We can afford to make an example of him for the sake of peace and the Union. It will have a salutary effect upon all other disturbers of our beloved city. Let him take warning, therefore. The merchants of Boston are exasperated. They will not brook any further aggravation. They "may do that they will be sorry for." Let him beware of tempting them any more!

THE CHURCH MILITANT. Rev. T. P. Crawford, Baptist missionary at Shanghai, writes of the prospective assault by the rebels on that city: "I sleep at night with an English sword at my bedside. American missionaries will defend their hearth-stones as readily as other Americans."
The Michigan Homestead Law, which has passed both Houses of the Legislature, donates to the actual settler 80 acres instead of 40 acres, as under the old law. It also throws around the State new safeguards against imposition and spoliation.
<c04>
FREE SPEECH, MOBS, &c.
From the Boston Investigator.
MR. EDITOR—I don't know whether you know that I have been in Albany at two conventions-Anti-Slavery and Woman's Rights-and that Mrs. Mott, Mrs. Stanton and myself had a hearing before the Judiciary Committee, on the Divorce Bill, now before the House. The first afternoon of the Anti-Slavery Convention, we had to contend against the mob spirit, ever ready to crush free speech; but the Mayor of Albany, unlike those of other cities, took a noble stand against mob law, and conquered the evil spirit that says, "You shall not speak what I don't wish to hear." I spoke, that afternoon, on the laws that regulate steamboats, hotels, and public meetings-the tacit agreement entered into by a speaker and those who choose to come and hear him speak. The effect seemed to be good, for we had no more disturbance that afternoon, nor evening; but upon coming out in the evening, it seemed as though all Bedlam was let loose, and were it not for the energetic action of the Mayor, and about sixty efficient policemen, who escorted us home, the mob demon would have done his work. But finding they could not vent their malice on us, the mob burned the Mayor in effigy. It will be an unfading crown of glory to him to have been made a martyr for vindicating the right of free speech. Enclosed you will find a copy of his letter. I hope you will give it a place in the Investigator, for I am sorry to see that some of the readers and contributors of your paper don't yet understand the A, B, and C, of the right of free speech.
ERNESTINE L. ROSE.
New York, Feb. 21, 1861.
CITY OF ALBANY, MAYOR'S OFFICE,
February 1, 1861.
To D. V. King, and 100 others, Petitioners:—

GENTLEMEN—I have received from you a petition, of which the following is a copy:-
"To His Honor, Geo. H. Teacher, Mayor of Albany: It having been publicly announced that the Anti-Slavery Convention will be held in this city early in February, the undersigned, citizens of Albany, earnestly entreat your interposition, as the Chief Magistrate of the city, to prevent the gathering of an association of individuals, whose well-known sentiments, expressed at this time, while the country is in such a distracted condition, we fear would lead to disorderly demonstrations, tending to disturb the public peace and cast discredit upon our city. While we recognize the right of Free Speech, and would not in the least circumscribe it, we feel that everything tending to disturb the public mind, or calculated to embitter public feeling, should be studiously avoided; and deeming that a meeting of this kind would result in disorder, we trust you will exercise your authority, by taking immediate steps to prevent its being held.
Albany, January, 1861."
You do not inform me who the parties are by whom the "disorderly demonstrations" are likely to be made. My long acquaintance with the people of Albany, and their proverbial reputation as order loving and law-abiding citizens, preclude the idea that they, or any portion of them, would so far forget themselves and their duties to their country, as to originate or participate in any "disorderly demonstrations, tending to disturb the public peace, or to cast discredit upon the city." They surely cannot be the disturbers of the public peace to whom you refer. I have a right, therefore, to suppose that you apprehend disorderly conduct on the part of the members of the proposed convention. You may rest assured that, should those persons commit any act of a disorderly nature, should they violate any of the laws of the city, during the holding of their convention, they will be promptly arrested by the authorities, and punished as they shall deserve. If, however, I have misapprehended the purpose of your communication, if you intend to invoke my interposition to prevent the assembling of a convention in our city, and a free discussion and expression of the views of those who participate in its proceedings, I most respectfully but decidedly decline to comply with your request.
When I assumed my present position as Mayor of the city, I took the following official oath:-"I do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of New York, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Mayor of the city of Albany, to the best of my ability."
The Constitution of the United States prohibits Congress from passing any law "abridging the freedom of speech or of the press, or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and petition the government for a redress of grievances." The Constitution of the State of New York declares that "every citizen may speak, write, and publish his sentiments on all subjects, bring responsible for the abuse of that right." Under these two Constitutions, the people of New York have reserved and secured the most perfect individual liberty to speak, write, and publish their sentiments on all subjects. They have jealously guarded themselves against interference on the part of Congress, the Legislature, or any subordinate authority whatever. So long as the citizen confines himself within the sphere of legitimate free discussion, so long as he violates no law, he is amenable to no power but his God for any sentiment he may entertain or express. The right in question is one of the essential attributes of citizenship, and entitles him to immunity in its enjoyment and protection in its exercise. Did the people except slavery from the "all subjects" on which free discussion should be allowed when they ratified our State Constitution? By no means. "Slavery existed and anti-slavery agitation existed at the time, and long before its adoption. Their intention to include that as a subject of free discussion is as obvious, therefore, from the circumstances of the times as from the explicitness and comprehensiveness of the language in which their will is expressed. Should I interpose and suppress the proposed convention, where will be my justification?
Would I not violate my official oath? When and by whom was I constituted a censor over other men's opinions? By what authority am I authorized to prescribe the sentiments which they may utter? or to say when they may speak, and when they shall be silent? My own opinions and sympathies are diametrically opposed to the "well-known sentiments" of the persons who usually compose these conventions. Those who know me will not accuse me of the least proclivity in that direction. But while I say this, I must also say that I shall most strenuously resist any and all attempts to put them down by illegal violence. Of all despotisms, the despotism of a mob is the most to be deprecated. Mob rule carries with it all the evils of anarchy, and will sooner or later terminate in the establishment of martial law, a dictatorship, or a monarchy. Experience proves that nations will prefer any form of government to anarchy. Our institutions are now passing through an ordeal of extraordinary peril. The great question to be decided by the American people is whether our constitutions and laws are to be obeyed or to be set at naught? "To be, or not to be; that's the question." Will our citizens, who justly complain of the reign of mob law in other parts of the country, themselves set the example of placing the laws at defiance? God spare the sight! The Emperor of France, under the pressure of an advancing civilization, has just conceded to that great nation freedom of speech and of the press. Is that movement a harbinger of good to the downtrodden millions of Europe? Shall we retrograde while Europe progresses?
Consider this subject, also, in the light of prudence and of policy. Is it wise, in the "present distracted state of the country," to raise a new and needless issue among ourselves? Shall we add to existing complications and perplexities by forcing upon the people a controversy involving the right of assemblage and of free discussion? If so, it becomes a matter of privilege to every individual in the State, and like the previous question in parliamentary bodies, is entitled to priority of decision. Shall we strengthen the power and influence of these conventions by this kind of opposition? Is it not the identical issue they wish to raise? Will you gratify them? Will you make them martyrs to a most sacred right of citizenship? Remember the past. When these persons were opposed in former years, through the instrumentality of the mob, thousands upon thousands rallied to their defence, not because they endorsed their sentiments, but because the right of free discussion was in jeopardy. Repeat the experiment, and you will repeat the result.
Gamaliel, a Jewish Doctor, addressed a crowd that had collected to mob the Apostles, in the following words:-"And now I say unto you, refrain from these men, and let them alone; for if this council or this work be of man, it will come to naught; but if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it." I have always thought there was much sound philosophy in this advice. Violence is a sorry weapon
<c05>
with which to combat erroneous opinions. Those who resort to it pay but a poor compliment to truth; for they thereby virtually confess the weakness of their own cause. Allow me, then, to exhort you, and all other good citizens, to "refrain from these men, and let them alone." No one is compelled to attend their meetings. Why then molest them? You express anxiety that no "disorderly demonstrations" shall take place which will "cast discredit upon the city." In that you speak like true Albanians. City pride, as well as patriotism, demands that all should throw their influence, and, if need be, their active exertions, in favor of the preservation of quiet and good order. Let at least the Capital of the Empire State be kept tree from the disgraceful proceedings, which, in other localities, have brought dishonor upon our institutions. At all events, come what may, mob-law shall never prevail in our good old city with my consent or connivance.
GEORGE H. THACHER, Mayor.

THE SOUTHERN CONGRESS.
SOUTHERN CONFEDERACY,
MONTGOMERY, Ala., Feb. 4, 1861.
The city is filled with strangers. Crowds of beautiful ladies throng the streets; all direct their steps to the capitol. Is n’t it a glorious day for the first meeting of the Congress? Here is the hall in which the body is to assemble. Ten o'clock! why it is two hours yet before the Assembly will be called together, and even at this hour the capitol is thronged. In their respective chambers, the Senate and House of Representatives are assembled. In all the passages and corridors of the building, eager crowds spy out the delegates as they pass by.

REMARKS OF THE PEOPLE.
Let us stand aside, and note the delegates and the remarks that are made about them by the people. See that tall, booby-looking fellow from the country, how he stares at the rotund, burly frame of Cobb, of Georgia, as he waddles through the throng. "What a short, dumpy man he is!" "Pity, isn't it, that his wide-brimmed hat conceals the forehead!"
"There goes Rhett, of South Carolina," says another. "What’s the matter with his nose?"
"Living too high, I suppose," is the response."
"Do you observe him? How fast he talks! What vehement action!"
"Yes; there. He's button-holed Toombs, of Georgia. Do you know Toombs?"
"Oh, yes, I have seen him often. What heavy, dark lines scar his face! The corners of his mouth hang down like General Cass. There is great similarity in the two faces. Toombs looks more like a demagogue, however. His tinged, fat, flabby cheeks seem as though he, too, lived pretty freely. I do not see any great amount of intellectuality in the face. There-he raises his hat. The forehead and eyes are excellent. How they relieve the heavy features!’
"Who is that very small gentleman walking by himself over there? I heard him bid a gentleman good morning just now, in a weak, womanish voice. Who is he? A delegate?"
"Oh, yes; don’t you recognize him? That's Stephens-Alexander H. Stephens, of Georgia-one of the first men of the country. He, and Cobb and others, were great cooperationists. They fought manfully for the Union, but were forced along with the tide. That is W. P. Chilton, of Alabama, who has joined Mr. Stephens."
"Judge Chilton is a partner of W. L. Yancey. Isn’t it a pity both members of the law firm are not in Congress?"
"’T is true, Yancey ought to have been sent here; but he is too impetuous. He should have been kept out of the State Convention. It was the policy of his friends, but he would not mind them. They knew if he was sent to the Convention, he would never sit in the Congress. He made many enemies by his fiery temperament."
"How roughly Chilton dresses! His coat looks like a laborer's corduroy overall. What an ugly snuff-color it is! Had you not told me, I should have taken the wearer for a drayman."
"I acknowledge the man is rather negligent in dress. His shirt-bosom, collar and cravat do look as if he had slept in them; but then, it is his careless habit. If I possessed his brains, I should willingly doom myself to dress as meanly. See what a handsome forehead-wide and deep-he has. Intelligence sparkles in his large eyes. The mouth, though, is heavy. The features are very regular and prominent. The face altogether is eminently indicative of force of character."
"That group, over there, near the door, is composed of R. W. Barnwell, L. M. Keitt, C. G. Memminger, and James Chesnut, Jr., all from South Carolina."
"You are right. South Carolina has a fine delegation. She has decidedly sent some of her very best men. Barnwell and Chesnut are wealthy planters. The latter, I believe, was educated for the bar, and did practice for twenty years in his native State. His father is one of the wealthiest men in South Carolina. He owns above a thousand negroes, and can ride all day without going round his paternal estate. The son has served in the United States Senate. He is, as you see, still quite young -being not more than forty-five. Mr. Memminger, with whom he now converses, wears a very German cast of features, but the skin of the face is wrinkled, and looks like parchment."
"I understand he is of German extraction. He was born in this country, though the contrary has been asserted, where, quite young, he was nurtured and educated at that noble institution, the Orphan House, Charleston. His education was received at the hands of ex-Governor Bennett, of South Carolina, under whose roof the present statesman was reared."
"That is Keitt, with the bushy head of curly black hair, is it not?"
"Very right. His face betokens energy and fire., I wonder how he came by that deep semicircular scar on the forehead. He looks marvellously like he had been in a college row, when a roystering blade, and had been struck over the sconce with a bottle."
Such conversations as these gratified the curiosity of the people, and satisfied them as to the personal appearance of those into whose hands the destinies of a new empire had been placed.

SCENE IN THE CONGRESS CHAMBER.
Slowly wandering through the thronged halls, I gained the "Congress Chamber," now completely fitted up and ready for occupancy. The galleries were, crowded with ladies, many of them as beautiful as Peris. All was excitement around me, as I took a seat at one of the member's desks to ruminate upon the great political changes that were crowding around us. 
On the eve of the inauguration of a new government by people whom I love, and with whom I had associated and called countrymen, my thoughts could not be otherwise than sad. I could not but contrast Philadelphia, 1776, with Montgomery, 1861. One people in the dawn of independence-two people at its meridian! Brothers born of the same parents, living under separate governments in the same land. The crowd of bright deeds and glorious achievements of our fathers flitted across the mind, and the wish it 	could be otherwise. There is no hope, however. It must be so. The differences are irreconcilable. 
The one people must be two.—Correspondence of the Baltimore American.

TEARING DOWN THE STARS AND STRIPES.
The Richmond Whig of the 9th gives the following account of a popular demonstration in that city:-
Yesterday evening, at 3 1/2 o'clock, the Union flag, which has floated for many a day on a towering pole near the Old Market, was hauled down forever, and the proud Palmetto was elevated in its place, amid the thundering cheers of a now thoroughly aroused people. At first, the Union flag was hauled down half-mast, and the Palmetto was placed above it, the crowd at the moment giving a hearty hurrah for South Carolina. Soon a band arrived on the ground, accompanied by hundreds of citizens, and then a dozen willing hands laid hold of the halliards, and the Palmetto was run up until it floated bravely in the glorious sunlight. Then was there waving of hats and fervent wishes that the goodly banner might ever in triumph wave, and the band played "Dixie," and the people cheered and cheered again. It was a heart-stirring and significant demonstration. There were gathered the muscle and sinew of our people-those who can and will do the fighting, if fight there is to be. The sturdy laborer, the brawny mechanic, the butcher from his stall, the fish-monger from his mart; and there, too, were assembled some of our most prominent citizens, all
<c06>
filled with one purpose, that submission should be no longer. These were the men whom Carlile applied foul epithets to; men who are now determined that, standing by their own hearth-sones, standing under the shadow of that old fane where Patrick Henry uttered the immortal words, "Give me liberty or give me death," they will not be insulted or wronged any longer, but will hurl back Carlile sneers in a way ever to be remembered, and will not only resist Black Republican rule, but fight to the death any attempt to coerce that gallant old State, whose flag they had so bravely hoisted, and not only resist coercion of that gallant State, but of any of the States that have linked their destiny with hers. When the cheering subsided, there were enthusiastic calls for Senator Douglas. That gentleman, in response to the call, ascended the platform, and made a heart-stirring appeal to the people, every sentiment expressive of hatred of Black Republican rule. Every sentiment of disapprobation of the action of the Convention, every sentiment in favor of secession was received enthusiastically, and when Mr. Douglas, at the conclusion of his remarks, declared that Virginia would stand with her face to the foe, and fall into a glorious grave, before she would permit the march of Lincoln's myrmidons through Virginia, or permit coercion, the people responded to the sentiment with vociferous applause. Mr. Douglas was followed by Mr. Gordon, Mr. Willoughby Newton, Mr. Charles Irving and Mr. Cropper, and we noted especially that when some of these gentlemen asked what would Virginia do, the people answered, with loud acclamation, "Secede!" Mr. Irving, in the course of his remarks, impressed on the people that resistance to coercion was not enough, that the true policy was to drive the Convention out of the city. Scarcely had Mr. Irving uttered these words when the people shouted, "That’s it," "That’s right," "Drive them out," and these cries were followed by a thundering cheer. After Mr. Cropper concluded, the crowd, which was an immense one, marched to the music of the band to the Exchange Hotel, where Mr. Isbell took his stand on the steps, of the hotel, and was cheered most warmly. He addressed the multitude in a thoroughly Southern rights, secession, and anti-coercion speech, and was applauded to the echo throughout. The people then took up their line of march through Franklin street to the Examiner. office, where they stopped, and gave three hearty cheers for John M. Daniel, editor of the Examiner.

STARVING OUT MASSACHUSETTS.
I have heard a good story, as told by Mr. Edwin Forrest. A few days since, he was going to Philadelphia, and in the seat in front of him were two gentlemen from the South, and opposite them, in the car, a Massachusetts Yankee. The Southerners were sure that Cotton is King, and in a few weeks the South would bring the people of the North, especially those of Massachusetts, to their senses, and make them do justice to the South. "Before the 1st of March," said one of them, "there will be riots and mobs, and starving laborers crying for bread in their streets. We will starve out the Abolitionists, so that they will be glad to protect slave property in the Territories, and allow Southern gentlemen to travel with their slaves." And the Yankee broke in upon them:—"Yeou will starve us eout, will ye? Wall, I live down in Massachusetts-and look here, strangers, the laboring people have more money deposited in the Savings' Banks in Massachusetts than all the deposits in your Banks amount to in the five going out States, as ye call’em. They ken live five years, without working, on what they have saved. Now, look here, you don't know anything about the people of Massachusetts. I do. Let me tell you about starving us eout. The day before Thanksgiving, last November, I had in my house two turkeys that weighed sixteen pounds apiece. Wife said we don't want but one, and that I had better try, and find some family to give the other to. So I harnessed up my horse, and put him before the buggy, and started; and in a circle of five miles, I could not find a family that would accept the turkey. And yeou will starve us eout, will yeou? Yeou had better try it. The fact is, strangers, yeou don't know the Yankees. They grow fat and prosper on rocks-get rich on ice-can calkalate anything but the price of ‘Liberty and Union,' and with a Bible in one hand, and a rifle in the other, when they are in earnest, are very ugly critters to encounter. Yeou had better let’em alone, and not start’em up." I rather guess he was right.

EXTRAORDINARY MEANNESS, OR MORE EXTRAORDINARY MALICE.
The proprietors of Harper's Weekly Journal have seemed determined to show the utmost extent of meanness to which a dastardly fear of losing their Southern customers can carry men who are otherwise decent-unless, indeed, we in charity assume that a partisan malice has helped the meanness, and that detestation of the Republican principles of righteousness and liberty has in part inspired their recent course. In one of their recent papers, they try to conciliate their Southern patrons-whose only ground of offence against them seems to have been that a tolerable picture of President Lincoln was displayed in the Journal just after the election-by representing Mr. Beecher and John Brown as presiding at a communion service where Lincoln, Sumner and others are partakers, but where the Sacrament is violently and scornfully refused to Washington on the ground of "No communion with slaveholders"; and beneath this, they show a still more odious and disgusting caricature of the present President of the United States, in which he whom so many millions of his countrymen honor and confide in, as among the purest and most eminent of statesmen, is represented as a stupid, driveling, maudlin sot, rehearsing silly and tipsy jests to a company of wretched old sots like himself, while the Constitution and the Union are in the distance borne by upon a hearse.
No language seems to us adequate to characterize the detestable meanness or the criminal malice of these mendacious misrepresentations of men whom the best portion of their countrymen are every day learning more and more to honor and to trust. If any such scurrilous and libelous exhibitions shall be made by them in future, it will be a duty which every respectable Northern man owes to himself, to his family, to his country, to make his reprobation of such elaborate foulness of falsehood felt by these people where only they can be expected to feel it-in the pocket-by refusing to purchase another number of the sheet which they defile with such poisonous scum, to make it precious in the eyes of the South. If they are willing thus to violate truth, and override all public decencies, let them learn at any rate that the North has some sense of what is due to itself, and that such ribald slang will not be purchased by those who heretofore have been their best patrons.-N. Y. Independent.

"SHE MUST FIGHT."
The following is a specimen of the inflammatory articles put forth by the editors of the Richmond (Va) Enquirer, for the purpose of exciting the people of that State against the North, and precipitating them into a union with the seceded States:-
Mr. Lincoln's Inaugural Address is before our readers. No action of our Convention can now maintain the peace. She must fight! The liberty of choice is yet hers. She may march to the contest with her sister States of the South, or she must march to the conflict against them. There is left no middle course; there is left no more peace; war must settle the conflict, and the God of battle give victory to the right!
We must be invaded by Davis or by Lincoln. The former can rally fifty thousand of the best and bravest sons of Virginia, who will rush with willing hearts and ready hands to the standard that protects the rights and defends the honor of the South-for every traitor heart that offers aid to Lincoln, there will be many, many who will glory in the opportunity to avenge the treason by a sharp and certain death. Let no Virginians be arrayed against each other; and since we cannot avoid war, let us determine that together, as people of the same State, we will defend each other, and preserve the soil of the State from the polluting foot of the Black Republican invader.
The question, "Where shall Virginia go?" is answered by Mr. Lincoln. She must go to war-and she must decide with whom she wars-whether with those who have suffered her wrongs, or with those who have inflicted her injuries.
Our ultimate destruction pales before the present emergency. To war! to arms! is now the cry, and when peace is declared, if ever, in our day, Virginia may decide where she will finally rest.
