<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars and fifty cents in advance
Four copies will be sent to one address for TWELVE dollars, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID), to the General Agent Advertisements of square and over inserted three times at ten cents per line; less than a square, $1.50 for three insertions. Yearly and half yearly advertisement inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financia committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz:- WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY,
<illegible> JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM.LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our country is the world, our countrymen are all mankind.
VOL. XXXV.NO. 39. BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29,1865. WHOLE NO. 1808.
Selections.
THE WORK OF RECONSTRUCTION
Extracts from an able and uncompromising Address delivered by Hon. William P. Cutler, at Belpre, Ohio, July 4, 1865, on “The Duty of Citizens in the Work of Reconstruction”:-
I believe that it is the right and duty of the General Government to interpose directly to “establish justice" to its own citizens; to protect them from oppression and outrage; to maintain the Union" which has been rescued from the grasp of the rebellion by the bravery of our soldiers, and the sacrifices of our people.
And in order to accomplish this great practical result. I would punish the leaders of the rebellion by inflicting the penalty prescribed by the law for treason- that is, death I do not say this from revengeful or vindictive feelings, but because it is the only way that rightful authority and the law can be vindicated. It is the only way that “treason can be made odious" To waive the just penalties of the law is to offer a premium in advance for another rebellion.
Confiscation should do its appropriate work in lessening the power of an aristocracy, who, by their crimes, have forfeited all claim to leniency. And the landed estates thus forfeited should be brought within the reach of those by whose unpaid toil they have hitherto been cultivated, and who must here-after form a considerable basis of the future population of that portion of our country.
The active participants in the sanguinary effort to destroy the nation's life should be excluded from any participation in its future political management. Were it not for the solemn and momentous purport of the proposition to place the political power of this nation again in the hands of these bloody <illegible> traitors, it would be absolutely ridiculous You might as well take a convicted felon from the bar of justice and place him on the bench to administer law, as to permit traitors to exercise political control in a Government they have so persistently sought to destroy If the active participants in the rebellion are still permitted to live in the land, it is the highest act of clemency they have any right to expect The political power should be <illegible> by true and faithful men, of whatever color or condition.
This brings us to face the question, Shall the Negro be allowed to vote? I say unhesitatingly, <illegible> him vote; and I say further, that the Federal power ought to secure to him the right to vote, beyond the possibility of any interference by State authorities It is said that hitherto the States have fixed the qualifications of voters This may be, <illegible> we are not now dealing with States occupying their proper relation to the Federal power A much nearer parallel is found in the case of the Territories In that case were found citizens of the United States in a disorganized state, requiring the interposition of some appropriate authority to direct incipient organization. Congress, in the Ordinance of 1787, said, “All free male inhabitants of full age” shall vote. This precedent (which was adhered to by the Government in all Territorial cases up to 1812) applies as nearly as any other to the reconstruction of Government over a Territory-certainly belonging to the United States-and which has been rescued from rebellion by the blood and treasure of the whole nation.
But I do not rest the decision on precedents, none of which can be found exactly in point It is a case requiring the exercise of those extraordinary powers of sovereignty which may always be called forth when self-preservation demands; and by self-preservation, I mean the great purposes for which the sovereignty itself was created, viz:-“Union, Justice, Peace, Welfare, Defence and Liberty."
I know that the prevailing impression is, that these extraordinary powers can only be used as war powers; but such has not been the practice of our nation.
It was universally admitted, even by the friends of the measure, that there was no constitutional warrant for the purchase of Louisiana. It was done by Congress in time of peace-not as a war measure-and was understood at the time to have been made in the exercise of those extraordinary powers which inhere in all sovereignties, which cannot be defined or limited The building of the Pacific Railroad, absorbing millions of the public treasure, is another instance where Congress, for reasons apparent to all, undertook to do that which the Constitution certainly did not authorize-for railroads were unknown at the time of its formation. It was prompted by a wise forecast, in order to bind the extremes of the nation closely together, and to provide for the “common defence" and “general welfare," all objects within the purposes and intendments of the great organic law. 
Now, in the case of reconstruction, we are met with the practical question, (and these questions of the application of the extraordinary powers of the National Government are always practical in their character,) how can you guard against disunion in the future? How can you establish justice for citizens, and protect them from oppression?
It seems to me the only way is to give political power to those you know must be faithful to the Union, and exclude those who have given the strongest possible evidence of hostility to its longer continuance. It is to place a friend upon your bodyguard instead of an enemy It is to deal justly with the laboring masses, and allow them a voice in making the laws by which they are to be governed, and which are to regulate all the relations between themselves and capital.
I do not claim that suffrage is, in itself, a right. It is a means to an end Justice is the right-the inalienable right of all Suffrage in the hands of the negro is the only means by which he can be assured of that end. It is claimed that upon the same theory women and minors should vote. But the great end-justice-is secured to them without voting. The father, the husband, and brother represent the excluded members of the family at the ballot-box, and their relations are such that there is practically no danger that injustice will be done. But here we have, not a family united and controlled by the dearest sympathies of humanity, but a race of despised and hitherto down-trodden laborers; and it is proposed to place their ballot in the hands of that greedy capital which has already fattened, and grown strong and arrogant, upon the toil and blood of these laborers.
Look over the subjugated South to-day. Do you see any disposition to deal fairly with the freedmen-any sincere determination to do them justice? On the contrary, you see combinations at work, fixing their wages at a pittance-cruelties the most revolting perpetrated-in a word, oppression organizing for its victims.
It is true, you have an alternative to placing pofieal power in the hands of the freedmen as th
<C02>
means of securing justice to themselves, in the constant interposition of the Federal power, either by its war power or Congressional legislation. But either of these, however necessary for a time, (and I doubt not that such interference will be necessary,) would be more objectionable than to allow the whole people to make their own laws.
There is another consideration which should have great weight in the decision of this great question. The public faith is plighted to the negro. To enslave him again, or to permit his enslavement-or to allow the gross injustice and oppression which now form the staple of all plans of reconstruction of the Southern States upon the “State Rights” theory-would be a most disgraceful violation of the public faith. What was the meaning of that great National Act performed through the highest Executive authority, and upon which was solemnly invoked the “considerate judgment of mankind, and the gracious favor of Almighty God"? Was it intended to remove the yoke of slavery, and substitute in its place still more grievous oppressions? Under what circumstances was the nation's faith thus pledged? It was in the dark days of the struggle-when rebels and their Northern sympathizers were rampant-when you needed help. In your extremity, you called upon the negro to help you through with the conflict, with a distinct promise of freedom. He answered to the nation's call, and has done well his part. Mr. Lincoln, as Commander-in-Chief, has said that, without his aid, he could not have succeeded in crushing the rebellion. Now, when you owe so much to him, will you stand carelessly by, and see him practically re-enslaved? Will you permit the miserable plea to prevail, that you have no constitutional power to fulfill such sacred pledges? Will you turn the Emancipation Proclamation into a mere man-trap-a dodge-to get soldiers to help you out of a tight place?
But there is another consideration of more weight than all others. If ever there, was a demonstration of the great truth, that God interposes in the affairs of men-that “He sets up one, and puts down another, according to His own will” -we have it in the history of this rebellion. During its progress, the appeal has been distinctly made to the Almighty for his interposition in behalf of the nation. Particular days have been set apart, and they have been observed. No matter what your creed or form of religion or irreligion, those days, as a general thing, were observed, and were national acknowledgement of need of help-an appeal to God to vindicate the righteousness of our cause.
In like manner, the rebels made their appeals to the same High authority. The arbitrament of Jehovah was fairly invoked. In no case since the trial made by Elijah with the rebels of his day has there been as clear and distinct an avowal of the need of divine interposition, or as complete a submission to God of the merits of a cause. And how clear and distinct has been the award! How sudden and overwhelming has been the downfall of the nation's enemies!
In the Southern States, it is of vast importance to capital to deprive the laboring mass of the ballot. In fact, the whole controversy turns upon this. If capital succeeds, then, upon the plea of color or unfitness of the negro to cast his vote properly, the success thus secured will be claimed as a fixed principle, equally applicable to all other laborers. Now, if the Yankee or Irishman of the North consents to and approves of this principle of excluding laborers from the ballot-box on the ground of ignorance or unfitness, with a full knowledge that the object of this exclusion is to control the wages of the laborer, why should not capital apply the same principle to them, whenever the opportunity may offer? If you approve of its application to other laborers, you cannot complain if it is, at some future time, applied to you or your children. “With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again." That is the inexorable decree of the Highest Authority.
This plea, that the masses are not prepared for suffrage, is the old pretext for depriving them of all political power.
Probably the negro population of the Southern States are not well prepared; but one thing is quite clear to my mind, and that is, they cannot make a greater failure in its exercise than the white population have hitherto made. But grant that they need preparation-then educate them. A boy cannot learn to swim on dry land. He must try the water, and run the risk of being drowned. So the use of the ballot is the best training for the responsibilities of the citizen, although blunders may for a while result. Put the Bible, the Spelling-book and the Ballot in the field together, and they will win the victory. But will you trust their training to the hands of the men who have hitherto made it a crime to teach them to read? Is it likely that the same governing classes who have hitherto held the political, power, and have systematically kept the poor whites as well as the laboring blacks in ignorance, for the purpose of easier control over them-is it at all probable that they will provide instruction, when that very instruction would deprive them of their wonted control?
If you want them educated, then you must give them a voice in making laws; for education of the masses is, after all, only to be attained by law. If you deprive them of the ballot because they are ignorant, why does not the same rule apply to white men who are equally ignorant? It is the old claim of the aristocracy, that only the educated and wealthy can manage public affairs. This is the slaveholder's theory. But it does not work in practice. Look at West Virginia, the younger sister born to us in our time of trouble. Who kept her loyal to the Government, and defended her from the assaults of traitors? It was not the aristocracy. It was the middle class, true, earnest men, with the solid substratum of honesty, common sense and loyally. They laid her foundations wisely and firmly, while the aristocracy either went off into the rebellion, or remained helpless imbeciles in the way at home.
There is another objection to negro suffrage, and that is, if you extend it to him in reconstructing the Southern States, he ought to have it in Ohio. Then, I say, let him have it in Ohio. If he requires it here as a means of securing for his race justice, then let justice be done in Ohio.

WHAT IS THE QUESTION?
The question is not merely, Should the colored man have a vote? If that were all, we would not now so persistently press the matter upon the attention of our readers. It the withholding of that right brought in its train no evil results, we might then rest in silence, or rejoice over the victories already won. But the results involved change the nature of the issues, and now the question is: How shall we prevent the enemies of our government accomplishing by political trickery what they failed to do by the sword?
After four years of terrible physical conflict, we have scattered the armies of our enemies; but they are only scattered. Already they begin to marshal
<C03>
their forces for a new conflict. One rallying-cry which they found very effective in gathering forces under the rebel banner four years ago was, “One Southern man can whip five Yankees. “If it had been true, we know not what the result would have been. But in this new conflict on which we are entering, if we deny the colored man a vote, we make it true that one rebel can defeat two loyal men. Deny the colored man his vote, and his rebel neighbor casts that vote for him. The South will have some thirty Congressmen more than she would have had, if the colored population were not counted. And in districts where the colored and white population are equal, the vote of the white rebel (now of course loyal) will count as much as two in the North 
Just think of it! Are we prepared to allow the ignorant rebel soldier, parolled from Lee or Johnston's army, to defeat by his vote the votes of both Grant and Sherman? Can we afford to give them such vantage ground at the beginning of this contest? Are we sure, in such a case, that they will not succeed, assisted as they will be by their northern allies, far more skilful in fighting political than physical battles? And if they do succeed, then what? Repudiation of our national debt, and under another form, the reenslavement of the colored people! Once give them the control of the government, and they will have no scruples respecting the passage of any measure within their power, however base it might be. They well know that the North would not, after spending so much blood and treasure during the last four years to put down the rebellion, rebel herself.
Thus, the question is not merely, shall the colored man vote, but how shall we prevent the rebels from accomplishing by political trickery what they failed to do by the sword?
We now have both the power and the right to require, in order to the restoration of the rebel States to their former status in the Union, that colored men be allowed to vote. We have just as much right to say the colored man shall vote, as to say the traitor shall not vote. Both are admitted rights of the conqueror. But once allow these States to assume their position in the Union, and our right to say who shall vote is gone; it is then in the hands of the people of the States. We have, therefore, only a short time in which to decide the question; let us be up and doing. If the present opportunity is allowed to slip, we may mourn our neglect for years, but we will then be helpless to amend it. Christians and patriots, as you love the right and your country, be up and doing. Let your representatives in Congress know that you are in earnest in this matter; and, by the blessing of God, it will yet be well with our land-we shall yet be a nation exalted in righteousness.-Cincinnati Christian Press.
HON. HORACE GREELEY AND A. O. P. NICHOLSON ON THE BLACK MAN
In the columns of the Tribune of August 26th, we have nearly four columns taken up in a discussion of matters and things about the black man.
We often wish white men would learn one thing from us. It is this; sensible black men do not cansider themselves benefited, edified, or complimented, by a great many things which the wisest white men say about us. What seems to be most flat to us is, that questions long since, and over and over again settled, in reference to the black man, should be made matter of elaborate discussion, when the case is so plain. Every time our great white men get their own brains into a muddle, they betake themselves to ventilating the black man-as if there was any great mystery about him-as to whether he has any brains, or whether he is made of any other material than that spoken of in the 17th chapter of the Acts of the Apostles.
The points raised in these papers have been settled in every instance where negro emancipation has taken place, within the last seventy-five years, and more. The black man of this country has been a representative man as a slave; he is now to be henceforth a representative man as a free man. There, he is in the history of slavery; now, give him his place in the future history of freedom, and he will be all right, and the white man will suffer no wrong.
But the bother is, that such men as Nicholson do not wish to give the black man his proper place in history as a free man, but wish to have him assigned some other position; and this, alas! is the trouble with the Southerners and their Northern sympathizers. Hence, they wish to kill time in discussion, instead of doing a simple act of justice. The black man's position in the history of this nation is just as plainly defined as that of any other man, or class of men. He has borne the nation's yoke as a slave, and taken care of himself and his master. He has fought the nation's battles in the field, and saved the Government from being overthrown, and conquered his own freedom. The next thing in the order is for the American people and Government to gracefully yield his claim of citizenship.
We confess, we never expected to witness such a spectacle as that of a Northern or Republican paper going into a long discussion with the late rebels about the manhood of the black man, after the exhibition he has made of himself on the battle-fields of the Union. The few lines of Nicholson's letter below show plainly enough what his object is:
"SIR: You and I have been accustomed to regard the negro, in his condition of slavery, from standpoints so different, that we cannot expect to come suddenly to the same conclusions when viewing him in the condition of freedom.”
“We cannot expect to come suddenly," etc. Come down into the “plain of Ono," and let us talk over this man: let us spend some time over him; let us compare logic and philosophy about him: there is no need of being in too much of a hurry about his case. Such is evidently the present scheme -to get up a long discussion, with a view to delay a simple act of naked justice-the giving the black man his hard-earned right. The most sensible thing in the whole discussion is said by Mr. Greeley in these lines:
"IV. It is easy to say that the blacks cannot be benefited by allowing a small portion of their number to vote under such laws as I demand; but we both know better. The tens of thousands who are to vote next year, the hundreds of thousands who may be voters the year afterward if they will, have power, as well as the thousands who vote this year. Our immigrants not yet naturalized are here a power; so are our boys who will vote next year, or the year hereafter. I need not enlarge on this head.”
"I need not enlarge on this head;” and the same might be said of all other heads Let our friends be aware that black men are becoming justly impatient on this subject-black soldiers yet in the service are anxious about it. Are we to have our rights, or are we to be cheated out of them? If we are cheated out of our rights, what can this nation and Government expect of us in case of another conflict with the South, or with some power on the Monroe doctrine? Is it to be expected that black men will continue to fight the battles of those who
<C04>
continue to cheat them, and whose leading policy is to degrade the race everywhere? We can tell the American people that they must not be surprised if black men become suspicious of the sincerity of their intentions 
We ask, in conclusion, Shall the late rebels now come in, and dictate what shall be the future status of the freedmen? Will four millions of people consent to return to slavery at the bidding of their former masters? Shall black men be so unfortunate as hereafter to find that they have been instrumental in making the nation and Government stronger than ever, that their cruel policy may be the more crushing upon the race? Let us hope that the God of nations will yet take away the American heart of stone toward the black man, and give them a heart of flesh.-Anglo-African.

IN A NEW FIELD
Robert E. Lee, already weary of obscurity, has taken the presidency of the college at Lexington, Va. His friends, North and South, hail his return to the world with banners and trumpets. The institution is, we believe, an old one, and educated very many of those chivalric Virginians who, after receiving all the honors the Union could bestow upon them, shamefully conspired to destroy it. Like all the institutions of that section, it passed for a while under a cloud; but, more fortunate than some of them, it comes to the light again under a leader every way suited to its historical renown. The trustees announce the accession of General Lee to his new post in the following triumphant manner:
"In dedicating his future life to the holy work of educating the youth of his country, Gen. Lee presents a new and interesting phase of his grand and heroic character-a character than which no more perfect model exists among living men. Tis a solid fabric, and will well support the laurels that adorn it.' Let the young men of the country, North as well as South, be wise, and profit not less by his precepts than by his great example.”
It should not, perhaps, occasion much surprise that the subdued but unrepentant rebels who preside over this Virginia Helicon consider it in good taste to flaunt their essential disloyalty in the face of the country in this remarkable manner. Of pure, unadulterated audacity the educated Virginians of this generation have presented the sublimest specimens. Obviously, adversity has not reduced their spirit, nor improved their manners, or they would not have chosen for their exemplar and chief the man whose example, above all others, the young men of the country should religiously refuse to follow. But they are not alone in their misplaced enthusiasm. We read in the New York Flunky of yesterday-better known to some as the New York World-that. “it argues well for the future tranquillity of the country, that the controlling minds of that section in the next generation are to be moulded by such a man as Gen. Lee.” It will be well for the future tranquillity of the country, if the example of his base and inexcusable perfidy does not fill the minds of the young Virginians with the same political heresies which, under the lead of Robert Lee, came so near making a wreck of our whole political system. The Flunky continues: “He surrounds himself with a moral atmosphere which calls forth instinctive respect and love, and inspires a devoted enthusiasm.” Wirz, whose atrocious cruelties are every day coming into clearer light, was an element in that moral atmosphere with which Lee surrounded himself during the later stages of the war, and the Andersonville prison system was a part of that refined system of tactics which commends this “perfect model” of a hero to the respect of all flunkies. To conclude a eulogy which might have been applied to Washington himself with greater propriety, the World says: ”The people of the North, who regret that so fine and naturally loyal a mind made the mistaken choice it did at the beginning of the late struggle, will wish Gen. Lee a long career of usefulness in the interesting duties he is about to undertake.” Fudge! Gen. Lee was guilty of the basest ingratitude, as well as the greatest of crimes; and the grace of deportment and a name unsullied till he bore it will not be permitted to shield him from the consequences of his treason. He joined the rebellion deliberately, adhered to it till the end, and, when he and his army of insurgents could do no farther mischief, he congratulated them on their devotion to duty, and the service they had rendered to their country! The circumstances under which he went into the rebellion and under which he came out of it were alike disgraceful. He had been educated at the expense of the nation, and held a high confidential position in its military councils for months after the rebellion was matured. He had no cause to desert He did not believe that Virginia herself had any just cause of complaint. He had every reason of gratitude, honor and good faith to remain loyal. But he preferred to desert, choosing with detestable cunning the hour when he could do most harm to the cause he proposed to abandon. Having once committed his own fortunes to the rebellion, he was never known to check or discountenance the most revolting crimes committed in its name. The wretched keeper of Libby prison received promotion at his hands; and the pitiful story of the prisons, scattered all the way from Danville to the Gulf, came up to him every day with proofs that could not be doubted. But neither the appeals of the living nor the wails of the dying moved the stony heart of Robert Lee. Let those who followed him, and believed with him that all these things were right, take him for their guide, philosopher, and friend. But wherever hearts are loyal and humane, wherever perfidy is hated or honor cherished with jealous regard, that name will be execrated until its friends permit it to be forgotten.-Massachusetts Spy.
DISSOLUTION OF THE EMANCIPATION SOCIETY.
The committee of the Manchester (Eng.) Emancipation Society have issued the following address, announcing the dissolution of that association:-
To the Members of the Emancipation Society:
GENTLEMEN,-Nearly three years have elapsed since the preliminary meeting was held which resulted in the organization of the Emancipation Society. The conference to which we allude was attended by some twenty or thirty gentlemen who were deeply impressed with the conviction that many of our leading journals and public men were imbued with wholly erroneous and mischievous views of the origin, the nature and the objects of the war which then distracted the United States, and that there was grave danger, not only that these unsound opinions and the studied misrepresentations with which they were accompanied might provoke serious misunderstandings, if not actual hostilities, between the two nations, but that they might place this country in a position of antagonism to that great cause of freedom and civilization with which its best interests are inseparably identified. They moreover believed that whatever surface opinions migh,
<C05>
appear to exist, whatever prejudices might be nursed in coteries, or prevail among certain classes of politicians who could have no feeling of sympathy with the principles that were embodied in the contest which the loyal States were waging with a haughty and barbarous Slave Power, the heart of the British people would prove to be as sound as it was when Clarkson and Wilberforce appealed from a West India Parliament to the popular conscience. The resolution adopted by the meeting which was held in London on the 11th of November, 1862, reads thus:
"That this meeting, being impressed with the importance of adopting means to counteract the alleged sympathy of this country with the so called Southern Confederacy of America, and especially to encourage the United States Government in the prosecution of an emancipation policy, resolves itself into a Society to carry out the above named object, to be called the Emancipation Society.”
It is unnecessary for us to dwell upon the wide and hearty response which this resolution and the address with which it was followed both evoked. Kindred associations were organized in Manchester and other great towns; public meetings were spontaneously held in all parts of the country, and the demonstrations which took place under our own auspices in London were never surpassed, and rarely equalled, in the history of public movements in this country. The noble operatives of Lancashire, although they suffered severe privations from the cotton famine, resisted all the efforts which were made to induce them to assist the movement for the recognition of the South, and gave their warmest sympathy to the cause of the Union and Emancipation. The conduct of the working classes throughout Great Britain was equally admirable; and while our movement was sustained by the enthusiastic support of the masses, it was not less sanctioned by the approval and active cooperation of many names which are illustrious in the intellectual world. The result of our united labors was seen in the failure of every attempt which was made by the able, untiring partizans of the South to compel the Government to adopt a policy of interference, under the guise of recognizing the independence of the slaveholders' Confederacy. It was seen in the more stringent measures adopted by the Government to enforce English neutrality, and notably in the seizure of the steam rams. It was seen ultimately in the despair of those who had hoped to employ England as the lever by which to achieve the success of an unprovoked and nefarious rebellion.
The dream of a slave empire is now dispelled. Not only has the pro-slavery government established at Richmond so utterly collapsed that, no trace of its existence can be discovered save in the misery which it has occasioned, but negro slavery itself has perished, and a war which was begun for the extension and consolidation of the most ruthless system of oppression the world had ever seen, has ended in the emancipation of every slave. So far, then, as the peculiar work of our Society is concerned, it is practically accomplished; and in resolving that our existence as an association shall be formally dissolved, it only remains for us to thank our friends and fellow-laborers for the good service they have rendered, and to express the hope that the great Republic may long enjoy peace and prosperity, and that equal laws may be reestablished throughout the now reunited States and Territories of the American Union.
Signed on behalf of the Committee, August, 1865,
WILLIAM EVANS, Chairman.
P. A. TAYLOR, Treasurer.
W. T. MALLESON, Treasurer.
F. W. CHESSON, Hon. Sec.

A CLEAN SOMERSAULT-AND WHAT IT MEANS.
The New York State Democracy's “occupation's gone," and the leaders are hunting wildly for another. They have already “stolen the livery of Heaven to serve the devil in," and are endeavoring to “throw dirt" over their past sins, and to feign sentiments to which, as long as the rebellion lived, they gave no expression. Without a word of ceremony, ”in the twinkling of an eye," with an audacity that almost takes one's breath away, they change front, back water, ignore the past, throw Seymour & Co. overboard, hoist the Stars and Stripes, and “sail in” for the full campaign, with brass enough to sink a craft of ordinary political tonnage.
Scarcely a man or a principle of the once cherished Democracy is left by the wholesale surrender to the Unionists which Mr. Dean Richmond has manipulated. No Democrats can be found among the present adherents of the party fit, for candidates.,(for with the withdrawal of thousands of such men as Dix, Dickinson and Tremaine, they were indeed left without their “war horses,") and among all the principles of their Conventions of the past four years, not one could be found worthy to be reiterated The fortunes of the party were at every step the fortunes of the rebellion, and when it lay harmless in the “last ditch," Democracy found itself breathless and floundering in the mire of political debasement and treachery. No such somersault as this has ever been known in the history of parties. It is as much as one can do to keep on a straight face while reading their resolutions, and they deserve to be indicted for Grand Larceny in stealing Union men and Union principles. The broadest recent enunciation of their cardinal principles was the Chicago platform, which complained of “four years of FAILURE to restore the Union by the experiment of War," and “demanded a cessation of hostilities;" they now take occasion to “congratulate the people of this State and of the nation upon the termination of civil war and upon the return of peace, and especially that this blessing is attained with a preserved Union, an undivided country, and the reassertion of constitutional liberty throughout the land.”
A few months ago, they were wont to call President Johnson a “boorish tailor," and later, “a drunken rowdy," they now pledge him their “cordial and energetic support.” The patriots of the nation's army then were “Lincoln's hirelings," and “hired cowards”-they are now favored with the “thanks and gratitude” of the Copperheads. A year ago, the vilest sympathizers of secession, the most open-mouthed Woods and Vallandighams and Seymours were the only men who were thought worthy the honors of “the party”-now their leading candidates are Republicans, of whom they dare not even ask an acceptance of the nominations extended.
What does all this mean? Is repentance sincere? Is sorrow for the past real, and the purposes of the future pure? The key to the problem is found in the first resolution, which reads:-
"Resolved, That the PAST HISTORY of the Democratic party is found in the proudest records of the country and its creed in the Constitution; and that it is ready to meet the great questions of the future with the patriotism, fidelity to principle, and practical wisdom, that HAVE CHARACTERIZED its long and suspicious identification with the history of the nation.”
<C06>
The promises which follow this must be taken with the foregoing provision The ”patriotism, fidelity to principle, and practical wisdom, which HAVE CHARACTERIZED" “the PAST HISTORY" of the party, are, it is said, to be applied to” the great questions of the future" “THE PAST" The words will come up before Democrats for years to come Let us revive a little of it 
The patriotism which ”has characterized" the party led it into rebellion The majority of its leaders became prominent rebels. Its “PAST HISTORY” is of its Vice President, its Secretary of the Treasury, its Secretary of War, and its Secretary of the Interior, who became Major-Generals in the rebellion -of twenty-four of its Senators and sixty of its Representatives who personally joined the rebellion-of its twelve out of fifteen Governors who cooperated with the Jeff. Davis Government-of its thirteen, out of sixteen States that voted against Abraham Lincoln, which went into the Confederacy. From the beginning of the rebellion to its close, hardly a man exercised power in it, either civil or military, who had not been a Democrat. The brains and backbone of the Democratic party made the rebellion, and then became its brains and backbone. It is hardly a strain of speech to say that the Democratic party was the rebellion, and that the rebellion was the Democratic party.
In the light of this resolution, then, the platform means, not repentance, but a low-lived trick in the hope of success-not an earnest purpose to preserve the Union and perpetuate its free institutions, but another attempt to place the Democratic party into possession of that power, the usurpation of which, for the overthrow of the Government, “has characterized” their “past history”-not an endorsement of President Johnson, but a lick-spittle attempt to curry favor with his admirers at the ballot-box. The deceptions of the Chicago platform defeated the ticket; and so will those of the Albany platform.-Little Falls Journal and Courier.

MAJOR-GEN. BUTLER'S ADDRESS
At the Republican State Convention, September 14.
Gentlemen of the Convention:-With a unanimity without parallel, by exertions the most herculean, by an expenditure of treasure without a limit, by forts and armies without precedent, and by the inextinguishable patriotism of our people, a more formidable rebellion than history has ever recorded has been overthrown and “crushed out," and a war more gigantic in its proportions, more bloody and decisive in its results than the world ever saw, has been fought out and gloriously ended.
We, the delegates of the Union party of Massachusetts, the glorious old Commonwealth, whose blood was first shed in the conflict, and whose ideas of governmental policy led the van of the contest, have met, together with more cause of congratulation than ever before, as the sons of the Old commonwealth, having an honest pride in her efforts in arms, her expenditures of money, and above all, in the adoption of her principles. But as citizens of one Union we rejoice in the triumph of national strength, which has placed us among the foremost of the nations of the earth. (Applause.) Hereafter we take place in the front rank of the arbiters of national law for the world. But especially do we triumph that hereafter, with us as a nation, truth, justice and righteousness shall prevail, that the great blot upon our escutcheon is erased, and slavery is no more forever.(“Good, good.” Applause.)
We rejoice in the authoritative hope that hereafter the great Massachusetts idea, that every man has the right to be the equal of every other man, shall be the vital essence of government upon this continent forever. (Applause.) To this end must we address ourselves. We have an earnest faith that the good gifts of God in political science were not all granted to our fathers, any more than in other respects. We have the railway, the steam engine, the telegraph, which our fathers had not. Progress in the science of government, in its adaptability to the political state of our people, did not cease with the Virginia resolutions of 1798. The framers of our Constitution, great and good men as they were, never contemplated the emergency of States shooting madly from their spheres, their citizens with singular unanimity abjuring their allegiance to the government, and banding together for the purpose of overthrowing that government and expelling all authority of the United States, seeking an alliance with foreign and monarchical governments, and holding us as enemies in peace and in war. Our fathers did not foresee that in one section of our common country, one-half of the people, through four years of terrible war, should, as a rule, hate us with a hatred that nothing could satisfy, while the other portion of the people have looked to us with more than filial affection as the Mecca of their hopes. Nor did our fathers foresee, above all and beyond all, that, under the Constitution of the United States, all political power should be vested in these repudiators of Constitutional obligations because they were white men, while the loyal and true black men, whose eyes have followed our flag with hope and joy, as the Israelites of old looked upon the pillar of fire by night and the pillar of cloud by day, should be politically ostracised upon the very soil they helped to save to the Union with their blood. Our fathers no more foresaw this state of things in public affairs, than they foresaw the possibility of a telegraphic communication of our proceedings hence to Washington even while we are speaking. Nor did they foresee that two hundred thousand black men in arms should fight to save the very Constitution that they had framed, against the parricidal hands of their sons who should fight to overthrow it.
But these questions, which they neither grappled with nor foresaw, are before us to be settled for the future good of the country and for the benefit of mankind. Shall any rights be given to the black men who have upheld the government, or shall they be only held as “three-fifths of all other persons" to swell the power of these subdued but <illegible> ant rebels, these unconverted sinners, who claim the right hand, not of fellowship, but of power?
There are two theories upon which these questions can be settled, and it seems to me, two only. One is, that the rebel States, by the armed rebellion of their citizens, lost none of their rights under the Constitution of the United States, that their powers were all in abeyance, or at worst reside in the few loyal citizens within their borders, so that when the armed rebellion was crushed out, although the rebellion was substantially of all the citizens, the rebels at once sprang into all their relations with the other States, civil and political, equal in right and power, with full authority to pass upon the laws which had been enacted by the loyal Congress during the war. As, for example, to pass upon the amendment to the Constitution which prohibits slavery, which, according to this theory, cannot be ratified without the consent of a portion of the late rebel States.
The other theory is that these rebel States, after their citizens by concerted action threw off their allegiance to the Union, banded themselves together in a new confederacy, and swore fealty to the new 
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof” “I lay this down as the law of nations I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power It is a war power I say it is a was power and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war to invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR; and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory” —J Q ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
government, took up arms and seized upon the property of the United States, expelled every vestige of the authority of the Union within their limits, and defied its power for four years, treating us as public enemies, burning our ships upon the ocean, starving our soldiers, their prisoners, on the land, and murdering our President in the capital, they lost, at least by capture, their rights and powers under our Constitution and laws, although they could not by their own illegal acts rid themselves of their duties and obligations as citizens and subjects of the Government.(Applause.)
They were not less subjects because they were rebels; they were less citizens in their rights because they were traitors. As a familiar example of such forfeiture, a criminal may lose all his rights as a citizen by a conviction and sentence to the penitentiary for his crimes, but he thereby escapes none of his duties or obligations to the Government whose laws he has broken. (Applause and cries of " good.") So the rebel could not fight against the Constitution for its overthrow with one hand, and raise the other in invocation for its protection of his political rights. This doctrine is recognized by President Johnson, when he proclaims that in reconstruction no unrepentant rebel has the right to vote, although a legal voter by the Constitution of his State.(Applause) 
It follows, of course, as a part of this theory, that the States, as political organizations, and their citizens, have lost their rights under the Constitution, which they have repudiated, and are no longer entitled, as of right, to be represented in Congress, to take part in making the laws for the government of the loyal States; that they ought to and must remain in the condition and character in which they have voluntarily placed themselves and have been brought by the heroic valor of our soldiers, "subdued rebels," until by "works meet for repentance," by acts of loyalty and fealty to the Government, love of the flag and justice to the negro, as unequivocal, determinate and formal as their acts of secession and rebellion by which they withdrew from the Union, they show themselves fit to be members of a government which hereafter is to be conducted on the true principles of republican democracy-equality of right and justice to all-the glorious stars of our banner for our friends, its avenging stripes for our enemies-foreign and domestic.(Loud applause.)
In my judgment, the differences arising from these opposite theories of the result of the rebellion will form the dividing lines between political parties in the future. All other issues are of the dead past, and have glided away. Upon the principles and political action flowing out of the last-mentioned of these theories, all true, loyal and progressive men will unite together to carry on the government. I have said "progressive men,” for this is an age of progress. The world moves. Gen. Henry A. Wise, the executioner of John Brown, in whose mansion-house, near Norfolk, I had a negro school,(laughter and applause,) in his recent letter, claiming that same house, declares himself to have been an original abolitionist..(Renewed merriment.)
Upon the other theory, that rebels retain all their rights, will come together all rebels, all sympathizers with rebellion, all doubtful of the strength of our institutions, all lukewarm friends of the country, and all those whose "pride of race" teaches them to fear that the negro will outstrip them in the race of life if he has a fair field and no favor. Evidences of this may be seen all around us. The late democracy of New York have just met in convention, given Horatio Seymour a back seat; forgot McClellan and Pendleton; ignored all former platforms, whether of Cincinnati or Chicago; faintly praised our soldiers; nominated republican office-holders for reelection, and endorsed the reconstruction policy of a Republican President, so far only as it recognizes the rights of power and property in the rebels.
The democracy of Maine, who were so gallantly beaten the other day, likewise resolved in convention to sustain a Republican President in his policy of reconstruction, so far as it was in accordance with the Constitution; and, complaining of the burden of public debt, declared in favor of "equality of taxation,” which seems to be but a euphonious phrase for the repudiation of governmental obligations solemnly undertaken by the Congress of the nation. One might suggest to the Democracy of Maine a more constitutional mode of lightening public burdens. That is to say, sell the confiscated lands of the $20,000 rebels excepted by President Johnson, whose reconstruction policy they endorse, and pay the public debt, wholly incurred in whipping these rebels into submission.(Applause.)
The late Democracy of Iowa still more clearly show the inevitable tendency of political issues. They honestly and formally disband as a Democratic party, and attempt reorganization upon the new questions which the times present. They, too, however, endorse the reconstruction policy of a Republican President, as they understand it.
We, the Union men of Massachusetts, also endorse President Johnson's policy, as we understand it. We aided to elect President Johnson. We know his antecedents. He accepted the platform upon which we helped to place him at Baltimore. He declared over and over again, upon his accession to the chief power, his political convictions, and they were, never-ceasing hostility to rebels and rebellion, and punishment to chief traitors with hanging by the neck[applause]; and we have seen that he has hanged all that have as yet been convicted.[Renewed applause.] We find that he has excepted from all amnesty the property of the principal rebels. He has approved the action of the Freedman's Bureau in taking all captured and abandoned lands for the negro and refugee. He has declared that no rebel shall vote in the reconstruction of a State, whatever may have been his constitutional right of voting before the war. He has claimed and exercised the right to say, when in his judgment it shall be for the good of the country, who shall not vote, and this implies the right and power to say who shall vote, when it shall be for the best interests of the whole.
Certainly the President has the same right in the rebel States, under the Constitution, if in his judgment best, to say that black loyal soldiers shall vote, as that the white rebel soldier shall not vote.. The right to do both is admitted in the right to do one. All these actings, sayings and doings of the President's reconstruction policy are in direct opposition to the theory that the rebels have forfeited none of their rights under the Constitution, and are consistent with the theory we have adopted that they have forfeited their rights by rebellion, and must, when subdued, take such rights and powers only as the general government, the Executive and Congress, may deem it best for the country to give them.
All this, and more, let me remind the "pseudo" Democrats and rebel sympathizers, they sanction when they endorse the reconstruction policy of a Republican President.
 While we may differ from President Johnson as to whether the time has arrived in which it is safe to reinvest rebels with political power and allow them to reorganize themselves in arms, or as to the effect of their former Constitutions upon their present political rights, yet there is by no means a necessity that this difference should be a disagreement; certainly not until it is seen by results that some vital principle is involved or some detriment to the republic is produced.
 We look at the attempt to reconstruct the rebel States, as we believe the President looks upon it, as experimental merely, but an experiment well enough to be tried. The President, upon the cessation of active hositilities, had information that in the Southern States, as he knew the fact to be in Tennessee,(thanks to his patriotic and untiring labors,) there were loyal and true men who had never faltered in their fealty to the Union, and also that there were many truly repentant and converted rebels, who, tired of feeding on the husks of the prodigal, were desirous of returning to the plenty of their father's house. The President was further informed that such men were in a majority, and were in such temper of mind and train of thought as to be in unison with the loyal States; willing to do justice to all men, forget the past, and endeavor to make bright the future, and willing to resume their "proper, practical relations with the other States."
Acting upon a belief in the truth of this information, without withdrawing or in any degree relaxing the military power and government in these States; by decree shutting out all apparently unrepented rebels from participation in the work; in the most liberal spirit of compromise and conciliation, it was offered to these rebellious States that if in good faith they repudiated the confederacy and all its works, and actually abolished slavery by provisions of their Constitutions, they should be empowered to re-organize their State governments, to elect Senators and Representatives to Congress, who would or would not be admitted to seats, according to the spirit exhibited by their constituency, their own loyalty, and as they truly represented a State in which a republican form of government was indeed established.
<c02>
If the facts upon which it was attempted were realities, can any man say the experiment was not worth the trial? Indeed, if only to convince all right-minded and loyal men by its want of success even, that every means had been used to bring back the loyal and erring even if truly repentant, the attempt was useful.[Applause.] And if successful, if the rebellious States, or either of them, would, by a majority of its voters, put itself in true communion and fellowship with the loyal North, no men would hail the event with truer satisfaction or more fervent delight than the Republicans and loyal men of Massachusetts.[Applause.]
Further, true it is, we believe, that if a failure, no man will be more willing to change that policy or adapt himself to a new state of facts than President Johnson. We know his patriotism and devotion to the country, and detestation of traitors, treason and rebellion in the past, and we believe in his firmness of convictions and honesty of purpose in the future.[Applause.] But we fear and deplore that the result of this experimental policy is a failure. We know that a majority of the South have for more than a generation been taught by the fireside, in schools, at the hustings, and in the churches, even, hatred and bitterness toward the North; that "Yankee" has for years been a term of decision of derision and reproach scarcely less contemptuous and derisive than "Abolitionist;" that the very considerable party at one time in the South favor ing the Union, overborne either by fraud, force or numbers, yielded to the madness of secession, and believing the Union lost and severed forever, became as a rule more bitter and relentless in their opposition even than the original secessionists, in order to testify their full adhesion and identification with the Confederacy, which, through foreign intervention, they doubted not would be a complete success. This would seem to be especially true of a majority of the New England men who had made their homes and identified themselves with the South. This became the fact, perhaps, from the necessities of their position, but "true it is, and pity ‘tis ‘tis true” that the fiercest and bitterest of secessionists were those Yankees who, false to their early education and better training, became slaveholders and rebels We see the women and clergy of the South, those true exponents of social feeling and all thought, unrelenting, defiant and regretful only of the want of success of the unholy attempt to divide the Union and set up the Confederacy, and with a frankness and truthfulness which, at least, is commendable, having no motives for concealment which actuate the politicians and time-servers, still avowing their undying hate and unchangeable abhorrence of the Union and the loyal North, their ad miration and love of the rebel soldier, and their disdain and dislike of our victorious heroes, even while the latter are protecting and preserving them from the sad effects of their disloyalty. 
We do not understand how these teachings of years-how this hate, embittered by loss of sons and brothers, fathers, husbands and lovers, property, position, political power, prestige, self-love and self aggrandizement, as the result of four years of bloody, relentless war, carried on their part with an unscrupulousness of means unparalleled, even to the burning of their own capital as they were driven from it, lest it should be. of use to the despised Union-can all be obliterated and changed to fraternal love, kindness and loyalty to the Union in a moment, " in the twinkling of an eye," by an oath of amnesty and allegiance taken by force to save the swearer from the pains and penalties of treason, and for the purpose of restoring him to social, political and proprietary rights and power.
We have, unfortunately, less faith in the efficiency of an oath than the drunken soldier, who, when his comrades had caught a copperhead snake, and were consulting what to do to render the reptile harmless, exclaimed, either in satire or in drunken wisdom, “Swear in the varmint, and let him go."(Laughter and applause.) 
It is true, we see in favor of the policy of reconstruction the very general acquiescence of the South in the proposition, that in form, at least, slavery is no more. But then we are painfully convinced that the spirit of slavery is not dead, and that the desire to limit the rights of the negro; to take his labor without remuneration; to hold him degraded, disfranchised and enthralled in serfdom by means of vagrant acts; deprivation of the right of testimony in courts of justice; combinations not to employ him at remunerative wages, and to abandon the old, feeble and helpless to starvation and death to oppress him with armed organizations of police companies and home guards, is still as rampant as ever in the rebellious States. We see evidences everywhere that the former slaveholder is determined, as far as he may, to so fix the status of the negro as to show that emancipation is a mistake that a state of freedom is unsuited and useless to him, and endeavor either to reduce him to peonage or drive him out from among them. Indeed, we hear mutterings everywhere as to what they will do with the negro when they shall have obtained their full powers as States, and can treat his condition as a question of domestic and State policy only. It is needless to say that the loyal North has spent too much of its treasure and substance and sacrificed too many of its best loved sons upon the altar of the country's safety, ever to consent to such a state of injustice and wrong, at least without equal sacrifices to prevent it.
We are grieved, also, to say that we do not see those evidences of love of the Union which ought to have been called forth by the kindness of President Johnson. We do see that on the 30th of August, three young men of the first families of Augusta, Georgia, called out from his house a captain of colored troops and murdered him in cold blood, for no other offence than commanding Union soldiers. We see a Union meeting called at Richmond and only some two hundred Union men attending; and that the quality of Unionism does not seem to have been so much strained as to keep men away because the orator of the occasion, Mr. James Lyon, who, unmindful of the horrors of Libby prison and Belle Isle, then declared that the people of Virginia "had done nothing to forfeit their rights in the Union“-the universal theory, as we have seen, of all the rebels and their sympathizers-was the same person who, in March last, from the same spot, proclaimed that " he would wade up to his arm-pits in the blood of the detested Yankees before they should have possession of our beautiful capital." Is Lyon one of the kind of whom you would say-“ Swear him and let him go"?(Laughter.) 
We see no evidence of fraternal feeling in the facts recited in the well-considered and admirable order of General Slocum, the candidate of the New York Democracy for Secretary of State, which I believe has been countermanded by the Government because it was not submitted for approval before it was issued, which recites the fact that armed bodies of guerrillas in Mississippi are engaged in committing outrages upon and robbing negroes, Northern men and Government couriers, apologizing to a Southern man when they stop him by mistake, and that these villains are protected in so doing by the citizens of the several counties. Shall we say of them as of the copperhead snake, " Swear them, and let them go "?
We are constrained to believe that this experiment is not a success, because we see that in the only three States in which elections have been held, Virginia, Kentucky and Tennessee-and these, too, border States-martial law had to be proclaimed by the department commander of each before any election was possible; and in Kentucky a majority of anti-emancipationists were elected upon the direct issue made; and in Tennessee, even, some of the most bitter personal enemies of the President and former secessionists have been elected, and Governor Brownlow is investigating the frauds of perjured rebels on the elections. 
And again, in Richmond, where alone, since the war ended, in a rebel State, has an election of officers having local powers and authority been held, so determinedly hostile to the Union were the officers chosen, that it was necessary to set aside the election because the voters deliberately preferred the candidates whose claims were that they fought well in the rebel army, over those who have been true to the Union in this fearful struggle, and the judges of election permitted the Richmond soldier, absent in the rebel army, fighting against the Union, to vote, while the Richmond soldier, absent in the Union army, fighting for his country, was disfranchised. What shall we say of this class of copperhead snakes in Richmond? Shall we administer the oath to them and let them go? 
With all these evidences of disloyalty to the Government, of injustice to loyal black men, hatred to the loyal white, of clinging to the dead carcass of the confederacy, of incompatibility of habit, of thought and ideas of government with the loyal States clustering around us, are not our judgments convinced and our reason constrained to the conclusion that reconstruction at the present time, and
<c03>
on the present basis, of necessity must be and is a failure? Can we doubt that, this being apparent, a loyal and patriotic President and Congress will devise means by which these rebellions States shall be held, as in fact they are, conquered territory, captured in public war, until by free schools, a free press, a public sentiment softened by the soothing hand of time acting upon the present inhabitants, and emigration from the North and abroad, shall have formed communities at the South ignoring the traditions of the past, acting upon new ideas, with a love and pride in the Union glowing in their hearts; with a civilization and system of labor in consonance with those of the North; ready, willing, fit and desirous of forming political connections with loyal States, and making, indeed, that which our fathers formed, a "Union of hearts and a Union of hands," of strength, vigor and power, to defy the world in the arts of peace or the deeds of war? (Loud applause.) 
If any one should suggest that we are putting too far away the time for the reconstruction of the government, to him I say, that we are as ready and auxions to receive back the South into the Union as he can be, provided only that it is a loyal South, ready to aid in bearing the national burdens, paying the national debts and sustaining the national glory, and illustrating the nation's justice to all men. Does he wish to receive the South without these conditions? Nay, more; if still in haste for loyal reconstruction, let me point him to the fact that at the South there are nearly six millions of people, more than one-third of the inhabitants, always true, always faithful to the Government, fighting its battles and almost worshipping its flag, as loyal as they are black; but I am sorry to say the admixture of the white blood of their former masters prevents me from saying, " in every instance," as black as they are loyal. (Loud laughter and applause.) I am ready to have these vote, and then I have no fear of a disloyal South. (Applause) In this I am answered that the negoes are too ignorant to vote. They know more about government than their masters-they knew enough to be loyal. They knew enough to celebrate the Fourth of July this year down South, and they were the only Southerners who did know enough to do that. Besides, if one must choose now, I had rather trust loyal ignorance than disloyal intelligence. (Loud applause.) Again, I am answered that if the blacks vote they will vote as their masters tell them. Why then is not the master in favor of their voting? Besides, the white man will have all the votes if the negro does not vote; will he have, any more than all if the negro votes with him? (Applause.) Again, it is objected, if the negro votes he will be the equal of the white man, and I am triumphantly asked, "Are you in favor of negro equality?" I answer yes, equality of political rights.(Loud applause.) As to any other equality, my " pride of race" teaches me that my race is superior to his; I am not afraid of a contest with him for that superiority, giving him fair play. If God has mode him my superior, he will show it. I certainly will not attempt to prevent him from asserting that superiority if he has it, by wrong and injustice. (Applause.)
Those who are continually crying out that the negro is their inferior, act as if they were afraid that, giving him a fair field, he would show himself equal or superior. The principle of justice asserted this, that every man should have the right to be the equal of every other man if he can. (Applause.) Now, as I understand it, the true, loyal Union men do not insist that every negro shall vote, any more than that every white man shall vote. But what we do ask, in the name of justice and right, is that the qualification of voters shall be equal. Fix the standard where you please. If the black man comes up to it, let him vote. If the white man comes up to it, let him vote. If neither, neither.(Loud applause.)
I would be content that the Massachusetts qualifications of reading and writing should apply to all men, white and black, although I am so much of an old-fashioned Democrat that I believe that the right of self-government resides in the man rather than in his accidents. But, practically, throughout the country, I(ear such qualification would be impossible. But there is one claim I do make, and although not provided for by the Constitution, and only to be reached by amendment, military order or other device that may be expedient.
Soldiers who have fought our battles for us and saved the country, shall have a vote in the government of the county, wherever they may be.(Applause.) He who is worthy of handling a bullet in defence of the country, should carry a ballot in the government of the country. The fact of serving his country in the field should be his certificate of naturalization, his enfranchisement, his citizenship, his qualification to vote everywhere. (Loud applause.) It is due to those in whose hands we have trusted the musket that they should have the ballot. Grant this, and the equality of right to the ballot in white or black is settled at once and forever. We are called radicals because we advocate this measure, and thus point out the way for the more speedy reconstruction of the Southern States; but we are the true conservatives. Put the ballot in the hand of the negro under whatever reasonable restriction, and you send a guard with him for his protection at all times and everywhere. Having the power to redress his own wrongs and to assert his manhood, you may withdraw your armies from the slaveholding States, as far as he is concerned. He can protect himself, and will not rebel against the laws he helps to make with the ballot. Your national expenses may be lessened, and your debt diminished. The negro will vote joyfully to pay for the war expenses which gave him liberty, property and life, while his master will repudiate that debt which was contracted in subjugating him. It is for the interest of bond-holders in the United States that the negro should vote. Your 7-30s are worth a premium of ten per cent, if the negro has the ballot. There will be" neither fear of assumption of the rebel debt, or the repudiation of our own from his vote.(Applause.)
To this was objected that neither Congress nor the President can give this franchise; it is placed by the Constitution of our fathers in the hands of the several States. True, but it was not placed by our fathers in the hands of the rebellious, disloyal inhabitants of conquered territory, who, by their treason, have forfeited not only all their political rights, but their lives, and now have under the Constitution and the laws no right to breathe, save by the clemency of the government. Does the Constitution place exclusive power in the hands of men who can have no rights save by pardon of their crimes, to be used, it may be, to subvert the very Constitution itself?
Independently of the question whether the States did or did not maintain their existence during the rebellion, it would seem that their rebellious inhabitants must have forfeited, by their treason, any supposed right to exclude loyal inhabitants from a share in the government of the country, which the latter had defended and the former tried to overthrow.
Upon any theory the President and Congress have full power in their own hands. Let them refuse a State any political power to give any representatives their seats who shall have been elected by an exclusion of any portion of the loyal citizens of his district from the polls in consequence of a constitutional provision of a State during the existence of slavery, made when no such considerable class of citizens existed, and the matter will be reformed by the States themselves, and a just and equal qualification of voters, applicable alike to black and white, will be provided.
True, loyal men of Massachusetts, upon the views of the living issues of the hour thus cursorily presented, I propose to act with you in the coming election.(Prolonged and enthusiastic applause. A life-long democrat, by the disbandment of the democratic party, I have nowhere else to go.(Laughter and applause.) In your devotion to country, in your adherence to principle, in carrying out the ideas and policy which has made Massachusetts rich and prosperous, and her people, intelligent and happy, but ready at all times to sacrifice. ALL for the country, you have commanded the respect and admiration of all loyal men.(Applause.)
Go on, as ever, in the vanguard of human liberty, equality and right, and the hopes of the human race, the wishes of the oppressed in all nations, and the prayers of all good men, will ever be with you..(Great applause.)
At a coroner's inquest recently held at Jefferson ville, Ky., on the body of a white man who was killed by a negro, the jury returned a verdict that "the deceased came to his death from the effects of a gunshot wound inflicted by a d-d black s-of a b-h,”(verbatim.)
<cO4>
The Liberator.
BOSTON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29,1865. 
ALEXANDER H. STEPHENS.
The Transcript thinks that a. favorable answer should be given to the request of certain friends of this notorious individual, asking his release from incarceration as a rebel. This measure is urged, first on the ground of his health, which " it is thought" may be injuriously affected by confinement during the cold season-then because " his great personal popularity with the class of men in Georgia now engaged in restoring that State to the Union will materially aid that object”-and lastly, for the strange reason that, "since the release of R. M. T. Hunter from Fort Pulaski, it seems hardly necessary that Mr. Stephens should be longer kept in confinement.”
It seems a singular argument to use, that because we have made one great blunder, we may as well make another. Hunter was precisely the sort of person who should not have been released. If President Johnson has forgotten that " treason is a crime," and is willing to dispense with its appropriate retribution, he should at least observe the common prudence of keeping the worst of the traitors from mingling potential voices in the councils of reconstruction. The great necessity of the present time is to infuse new blood into the withered veins of those diseased, debauched, corrupted, slavery-loving States. It is a special mercy of Heaven that we hold now in our hands the legitimate power to regulate this matter. We are authorized by every right of war and peace, by the experience of the past, and by a prudent forecast in regard to the future, to see to it that the foundation of a new historical period in the South, shall be laid in the best ideas, the purest and ripest civilization to be found in any part of our country. The South should be made even better than New England, for New England herself has been corrupted by the pernicious influence of slavery. All our efforts should be bent to weed out from the new society now forming itself at the South every vestige of the slave system, and of those ideas and customs which grew out of the slave system. For this purpose, a large infusion of new population is needed there, and the best young men and young women of the North should go and help to form it. Freedom, full freedom for all, under law, should be at once established there, as here. Liberty of speech, freedom of the press, free common school education, the thorough abrogation of all class distinctions, and active repression of that brutal custom of individual assault, with or without weapons-that odious habit of taking the law into one's own hands, which was not only the practice but the pride and boast of the South-ought to be firmly established at the commencement of the new era. What folly, then, what madness, to send South as the contrivers and managers of the new system, men who were not only rebels as long as the rebellion lasted, but slaveholders-ld slaveholders, who have passed a long life in the corruptions of that system-ld and practised leaders of the arrogant aristocracy of the South-en whose chief idea always was to constitute the governing class, and to transmit that distinction to their children! What worse infatuation could we fall into than a favoring of this idea? If the President, unfortunately, has conceived it, and is bent upon it, we seem driven to the alternative of choosing between support of the President, on the one hand, and the most vital interests the character and life of the country, on the other.
If it is feared that Mr. Stephens's health may suffer when the cold season arrives, let proper precautions be taken. Let his exercise be provided for by a suitable assignment of daily labor. Let his workroom and his bedroom be properly warmed and ventilated; and let him have such daily access to the open air as may be compatible with the safe keeping of a person eminently dangerous to the community. The immediate and unconditional enlargement of any ten persons now occupying our State Prison would be less injurious to the country than that of Alexander H. Stephens. To let loose upon the country ten common murderers and ravishers would be nothing compared with the release of one eminently able and influential man, who has devoted his great talents, through his whole life, to the work of advocating, vindicating and perpetuating a system of rape and murder, and that on a national scale. But if this man is to go free with the expressed favor of the Government-f he is to have formal or informal authority to collect together men of his own sort, and contrive with them what least variation from the old customs and ideas of Georgia will enable her to resume her place as " a sovereign State" in Congress-o such comparison would begin to express the greatness of the calamity. 
That sort of men is a sort not one of which should be taken into the Councils of the new nation. Every pardon given to a rebel of the aristocratic class is a public misfortune, doing great present harm, and most seriously complicating the future of the country. Their experience is experience in doing harm. Their acquaintance with the art of governing is skill in the art of oppression. Their friends, the persons whom their " influence " would draw together, are the country's worst enemies. If justice is not to be executed upon them by keeping them confined in a prison, and in felons' dress, at hard labor for life, the next safest thing for the country would be their perpetual banishment. Our liberty and our welfare are in peril while they have a vote or a voice in public affairs. 
It is the more amazing that the Transcript takes the ground above mentioned, since its leading article in the same number, entitled " Preparing for Future Conflicts," distinctly admits the danger that lies before us from the crafty machinations of partisan politicians, alike South and North. The leading men of the South, Stephens and his like, have been among the worst of these " partisan politicians." The article I have named distinctly takes the ground that these men are striving to bring about a reconstruction which will enable them hereafter to bring into dispute all the results which the war has gained for us. It declares that no more of the heresy of State Sovereignty is to be abandoned-no more of the abolition of the peculiar dogmas and spirit of the peculiar institution is to be conceded-o more repudiation of the temper, false reasoning, and arrogant sectionalism of the rebellion is to be professed-may be deemed necessary to squeeze a strictly Southern representation, as nearly as possible after the old pattern, into Congress. And the Transcript admits that when this shall be accomplished, the fight that failed the rebels in the field will be renewed at the Capitol and in electioneering campaigns. 
We cannot possibly obtain perfect immunity from this danger. So many of the worst class of leading rebels have already been pardoned, and so many more of similar dispositions have kept clear from arraignment on the charge of complicity with the rebellion, that much of the spirit above deprecated will certainly find place in the councils of reconstruction. All that we can now do is to take measures against the addition of more conspirators of this sort. Every old exslave holder of eminence and influence who is now suffered to take part in arranging the details of reconstruction 
will increase our danger not merely in a direct, but in a geometrical ratio. All the efforts that we can make against the Executive weakness of multiplying these pardons, and all the infusion of sound ideas and good principles that we can introduce into the minds of those whose action is to settle this matter, may prove too little: to avert the present danger. But, in the name of common sense and decency, let us not voluntarily add fuel to the fire that threatens to consume us-. K. W.
The Editor of the Liberator is absent, this week, on a visit to Vermont. He contemplates making a lecturing tour to the West, from about the middle of October to the first of December. Any oververtures will be promptly attended to
<c05>
LETTERS FROM NEW YORK. NO. XLIII.
New York, Sept. 21, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
When John Thomas, or whoever else it was that Hood made use of in taking off the Millerites, was about concluding the epistle in which he had described with great satisfaction the failure of the world to be destroyed as predicted, you remember "how the preacher dropped in to say that they had discovered the mistake in reckoning, and that doomsday was positively fixed for a not distant date. Perhaps, too, you remember John Thomas's exclamation: " So there we go again! " Not otherwise I had persuaded myself by what seemed straight-forward reasoning on simple facts, that neither the war power nor a state of war had ceased with the termination of hostilities, and that peace existed chiefly in the minds of men who had never quite ranted enough against politics in the pulpit, and purposely anticipated the signs of the slow-returning epoch. Thus I wrote in my last letter, instancing Holden and Ruger in North Carolina, and Sharkey and Slocum in Mississippi, and claiming the sanction of the Executive for the military position 
in each case. You could hardly have received my letter before the President had snubbed Slocum and endorsed Sharkey; " so there we go again!"
"Is it peace or war? Civil war, as I think, and that of a kind
The viler, as underhand, not openly bearing the sword."
 If there was peace in Mississippi before, it was a violent peace, which meant liberty and democracy and law for all men; and it has been exchanged for a violent peace which has quite the reverse signification. Or if there was war, it was civilization armed and barbarism defenceless; and now there is war in which barbarism resumes its weapons, with the permission of its conqueror, and civilization sheathes its blade and draws it charges.
It is worth while to review the grounds on which Gen. Slocum acted (before he was nominated by a Democratic Convention.) In the first place, having had not a little trouble and risked his life on more than one occasion with the rebel soldiers of Mississippi, he could not regard with indifference the call of the Provisional Governor, himself a disloyalist, upon "the young men of the State, who have so distinguished themselves for gallantry." There was as little gallantry as chivalry, he thought, in treason and insurrection, and to invite these recent members of the Confederate 
army to reorganize in their military capacity, seemed to him a most monstrous and unwarrantable procedure. He could not forget that there were colored troops in certain counties of the State, and freedmen everywhere, against whom the gallant youth of Mississippi had a particular and diabolical spite, which they would be sure to exercise as soon as they were equipped with an authority superior to that of the United States forces. But, besides this, to quote his own language:
"The proclamation of the Provisional Governor is based on the supposed necessity of increasing; the military forces in the State, to prevent the commission of crime by bad men. It is a remarkable fact, that most of the outrages have been committed against Northern men, Government couriers, and colored people Southern citizens have been halted by these outlaws, but at once released, and informed that they had been stopped by mistake; and those citizens have refused to give information as to the parties by whom they were halted, although frankly acknowledging that they knew them."
If any unprejudiced mind were to be asked what was most unmistakably implied in Gen. Slocum's assignment to the command of his department, the answer would be, to suppress all forcible combinations of the late enemies of the Union. And similarly, of all functions not belonging to a Provisional Governor of a subjugated State, would be pronounced that of arming citizens who had just been disarmed on the field of battle. How undeserved a censure, then, is conveyed in the words of the President: " I presume Gen. Slocum will issue no order interfering with Gov. Sharkey in restoring the functions of the State Government, without first consulting the Government, giving reasons for such proposed interference." As if the burden of giving reasons was not wholly with the Governor. It has been well remarked, that the latter contemplated exactly the state of things which Sherman had arranged with Johnston, and which the Government disapproved so promptly and energetically. This was, to let the soldiers go home with their weapons, which was justly condemned as dangerous, and accordingly prohibited. What is the odds between such an arrangement and arming them anew in their old haunts? Mr. Johnson's conduct seems still more reprehensible when we are told, as we are on good authority, that his very decided telegram to Gen. Schurz was in response to one from that General, begging him not to take sides with Sharkey. Without waiting for the official documents on either side, the President (as if in duty bound) sustains his creature, and disappoints the hopes and confident expectations of all loyal men. 
There can be no question of the present very critical attitude of the Government. The man who talked so largely about hanging traitors is building his scaffold of pardons, and twisting his rope of conciliation. From such a structure himself only is likely to drop, and the time is rapidly approaching when the President must either remove the distrust of those who elected him, or leap to the dishonorable, infamous embrace of the party which is busy in licking him clean of its own defilement. As yet there has been no break with the Cabinet, perhaps because, as in the Sharkey-Slocum case, he does not deign to consult them. He may be fairly charged with a determination to carry out his experiment, and to discover no faults in his officers of reconstruction. How else explain his forbearance toward the Governor of South Carolina-that Blundering Fellow Perry? Take his last extraordinary message to the State Convention now in session at Columbia. There are some good things in the document; let us acknowledge them. He urges a change in the form of government by which it may be made more popular in its elections and more equal in its representation. He utters the usual formula about accomplished facts, the death of slavery beyond resuscitation, the necessity of abolishing and prohibiting it in the State Constitution, etc. etc. When he comes to the elective franchise, be sure he does not recommend it for the negro. Yet he talks vaguely about counting the freedmen, "in some way and to some extent," in the population which is to constitute the basis of representation He even favors, apparently, a three-fifths clause, in imitation of the greater charter. He borrows the President's arguments against negro suffrage, and points out the influence which the great landed proprietors would have upon the votes of their employees. He ingeniously cites the example of many Northern States which obstruct or close entirely their polls against the blacks. Then we have an eloquent burst about "a white man’s government," the decision of the Supreme Court against negro citizenship, and the right of each State to determine its electoral qualifications. And in conclusion, we learn that "the interest and honor of the State demand " the continued oppression and subordination of the newly emancipated. All this is no better and no worse than the speeches, messages and actions of his fellow-governors, with barely an exception. But there is one paragraph which contains a calumny that reflects directly upon the Commander-in-Chief of the forces of the United States. Says Gov. Perry:
"It is also a source of congratulation to know that the colored troops, whose atrocions conduct has disgraced the service and filled the public mind with the most horrible apprehensions, have been withdrawn from the interior of the State, and are to be placed in garrisons on the coast, where they can do no further mischief. In all of my personal interviews with the President, and in all of my dispatches to him, I urged this course most earnestly. The white troops are., I believe, doing their duty beneficially to the country, in preserving the peace and good order of the State. It is thought that their presence amongst us for some time will be necessary, in order to enforce the relative duties of the freedmen and their employers."
<CO6>
Is the President ready to subscribe to this charge against the character of the colored troops who have hitherto garrisoned South Carolina faithfully and well, enduring insults and assaults even from their own white comrades in arms? Is it true that our white soldiers have been distinguished for sobriety and self-restraint, to the manifest disparagement of the objects Gov. Perry's complaint? And is the removal of the colored troops due to their misconduct, or to the pressing petition of a negro hating community, at whose head is the honorable falsifier just mentioned? We should like to hear an answer from the White House, provided it be something more than a sickening echo of Palmetto mendacity.
M.DU.PAYS
REPUBLICAN STATE PLATFORM.
The following are the resolutions adopted by the Republican Convention held at Worcester on the 14th inst.:-
Resolved, That the people of Massachusetts reverently recognize the Divine and Almighty Hand 
which, during the struggle of four years with a wicked and audacious rebellion, has directed our councils and led our armies and inspired our people, enabling them to re-establish their institutions on the sure foundation of Equity and Righteousness.
Resolved That in the hour of national congratulation and joy over the restoration of peace and of the supremacy of the Constitution and the laws, thanks are especially due to the brave soldiers and sailors of the country, who have upheld by land and sea the national cause, and by whom, under God, the great triumph has been accomplished. The brave defenders of the country were the representatives of the people, and the people will remember and reward them..
Resolved, That Massachusetts renews, the expression of her profound sorrow for the death of our late beloved President, of her warm admiration of his virtues and public services, and of her heart felt sympathy with his bereaved family and country.
Resolved, That Massachusetts, that gave to Abraham Lincoln a unanimous support throughout his entire term of office, extends cordial welcome and confidence to his successor and the representative of his principles, Andrew Johnson, "faithful found among the faithless," and pledges to him the same unanimous good will and support, in his efforts to restore order among the communities so lately in revolt, and to re-establish government there on the basis of equality and exact justice to all men.
Resolved, That the rebellion, now so successfully put down by the loyal masses of the country, was the most wicked ever known in the annals of history, its whole purpose being the extension of the most abominable system of human bondage, and its immediate occasion of the loss of a fairly conducted and constitutionally ordered election, that we agree with our chief magistrate that "Treason is the greatest of crimes," and that those who are especially guilty of the crime ought to suffer condign punishment. Upon the mass of the rebels we would inflict no punishment, 
simply requiring that reformation of those laws and customs which is indispensable, that the country may be speedily pacified and made united and powerful for all future time.
Resolved, That we have fought a four years war for the supremacy of the Constitution and the laws, and that as good citizens, who believe in democratic government, we pledge ourselves anew to the State and the nation, that we will submit to the constitutional rule of the majority, and we call upon all good citizens throughout the country to vindicate democratic institutions, by observing and enforcing the laws, so long as they remain upon the statute book.
Resolved, That Massachusetts went no farther than political necessity and national safety required, when, in 1864, in common with the Republicans of all the States, she declared in national convention that "slavery was the cause of the rebellion;" that it must be always and everywhere hostile to the principles of republican government," and that "justice and the national safety demand its utter and complete extirpation from the soil of the republic." And now, in accordance with these declarations, she only asks that there shall be on the part of Congress and the administration no relaxation whatever of vigor or vigilance in the government of the revolted States, which puts at hazard the rights of the people to whom the national faith is pledged, or which leaves in Southern society any seeds of the national crime which brought upon us the rebellion, which has involved us in a debt of $3,000,000,000, for the payment of which the honor and property of the country are pledged, and which has slain by the bullet, or by starvation and cruelty, 400,000 of the best men of the loyal States.
Resolved, That the entire pacification of the country and the restoration of order is an object of the first importance, and one which requires the exercise of the most deliberate and cautious wisdom in order that there may be no necessity of retracing our steps. And we agree with the Republicans of Pennsylvania, who in their recent State Convention resolved that "the people lately in rebellion cannot be safely entrusted with the political rights which they forfeited by their treason, until they have proved their acceptance of the results of the war by incorporating them in constitutional provisions, and securing all within their borders" the "inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." And we call upon Congress, before whom must speedily come the whole question of reorganizing the Southern communities,. to see to it that the loyal people, white and black, shall have the most perfect guarantees for safety, before any final steps are taken towards the re-admission of the revolted people of the South to their forfeited rights.
Resolved, That we stand by the pledge given by the Convention which nominated Lincoln and Johnson in 1864, and will not only "maintain the acts and proclamations by which the government, in self-defence, has aimed a death-blow at the gigantic evil of" slavery, but will continue to ask for such amendments of the Constitution as will prohibit the existence of that institution in every part of the country; that we claim that no slaveholding constitution, law or custom, broken up or placed at the mercy of the government by the act of rebellion, shall be repaired or reinstated for the purpose or with the tendency of practically re-enslaving the enfranchised blacks and leaving loyal men under the control of rebel power. And we warn the people that the purpose and intent of the party which plunged the country into war in 1860, and declared it a failure in 1864, is to sacrifice all which has been secured to liberty by a four years' contest, by repudiating its former demands for universal suffrage, and all for the sake of place and power.
Resolved, That so long as any important political questions growing out of the war remain unadjusted no part of the powers of the government can be safely committed to any political party composed of Southern men, who were lately rebels in arms, and Northern men, who, in national convention only a year ago, declared that "after four years of failure to restore the Union by the experiment of war, during which, under the pretence of military necessity, or war power, higher than the Constitution, the Constitution itself has been disregarded in every part, and public and private right alike trodden down, and the material prosperity of the country essentially impaired, justice, humanity, liberty, and the public welfare demand that immediate efforts be made for a cessation of hostilities."
And further.
Resolved, That no confidence ought to be placed in the professions of an organization that declared the necessary protection of the polls from the assaults of ruffians and traitors to be "a shameful violation of the Constitution," which ought to be held as " revolutionary, and resisted," and that now seeks to reinstate itself in power by nominating soldiers and provost marshals, and passing resolutions of confidence in a republican administration.
Resolved, That we have no theories to promulgate

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
SEPTEMBER 29.
in relation to the right of suffrage. But as a political question, we declare that so long as the great issues of the day are the maintenance of the government, the complete integrity of the Union, the preservation of the national credit and the national faith, and the extirpation of slavery, no test can be made or encouraged which will admit to the elective franchise rebel soldiers and traitorous politicians, and at the same time will exclude loyal men of equal intelligence, thousands of whom have borne arms and shed their blood in the nation's defence, and whose vote may be indispensable hereafter, as President Lincoln said in his letter to Governor Hahn, to “keep the jewel of liberty in the family of freedom." Such tests cannot stand the scrutiny of the loyal American people. If incorporated into the new Constitutions of the Southern States, Congress should rectify the abuse, and maintain the public faith towards the freedman, while it provides for the peace, solvency and security of the country.
Resolved, That in the appointment of a commission by the Legislature to investigate the condition of labor in the Commonwealth, we recognize an attempt to ameliorate the burdens of toil and to elevate and protect the laboring classes.
Resolved. That in behalf of Massachusetts, we tender to His Excellency John A. Andrew, our cordial gratitude for his eminent services to Massachusetts and to the Union, who, with conscientious fidelity, with unselfish patriotism, with prophetic foresight, and practical statesmanship inspired the policy of the government. He has devoted four years of unexampled labor to the cause of National Unity and the rights of man, and we bid him God speed to whatever field of duty the Commonwealth or the country shall call him.
Hon. Amasa Walker, of North Brookfield, in a brief speech, alluded to the death of Richard Cobden, of England, the friend of the United States, and presented the following resolutions, which were adopted:
Resolved, That in the death of Richard Cobden, of England, late member of the British House of Commons, we feel that our country has lost one of its earnest and devoted friends, and England one of her ablest statesmen; and we mourn his loss as that of a great benefactor of the human race, one who not only loved and served his country, but all mankind; who devoted his entire being to the advancement of human interests, irrespective of clime, color or condition, whose wonderful genius and untiring industry enabled him to accomplish more for the good of England and the world than any other statesman of the present age; and we take this occasion gratefully to recognize the valuable service he rendered to our cause during the long and dreary struggle through which, as a people, we have been called to pass, and rejoice that he lived long enough to be assured of its certain and glorious triumph.
Resolved, That while we thus acknowledge our high obligations to the distinguished statesman whose death has been felt as a public calamity in every part of the civilized world, we do not forget how much we are indebted to his worthy coadjutor, John Bright, who, through obloquy and reproach, ever stood forth as a firm and fearless friend of our country and its cause.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be forwarded by the Secretary of this Convention to the family of Mr. Cobden, to whom in their bereavement we tender our sincere and heartfelt sympathy.

THE ADMINISTRATION.
The Worcester Freedom Club, at a special meeting recently, unanimously adopted and entered upon is records the following expression, which was ordered to be printed:-
Resolved, That as a body of New England citizens, untrammelled by party, but vigilant for the welfare of our common country, we observe with great anxiety the multiplying signs of an intended coalition on the part of the Democracy (falsely so called) with the present National Administration, in what they, the Democracy, term "the avowed policy " of re-construction and re-admission into the Union of States lately in rebellion, without the guarantee of suffrage to the black man, and leaving it optional with recent slaveholding rebels to give or refuse to loyal freedmen the American citizen's right of the ballot.
Resolved, That the experience of the past should <illegible> leading Republicans that the Tylerization of their party, and its virtual betrayal into the hands of the twice-vanquished Democratic party, so far from being an impossibility, is the most practicable and tempting method of lifting the prostrate pro-slavery Democracy again into power.
Resolved, That the Nation's security of Suffrage to the Rlack Man throughout the entire South is the only sure means of restoring and maintaining the Union of these United States, as well as of preventing the late slaveholding section of the country, with the political power again in the hands of its old masters, from uniting with itself as heretofore the friendly Northern Democracy, and securing their cooperation in the demand of a national adoption of the debt of the late Rebel Confederacy, or its equivalent in the payment from the National Treasury of the money value of all the Freedmen,-a measure, the mere agitation of which, is certain to depreciate the value, if not to hazard the repudiation of the Bonds representing the present debt.

RECEPTION OF SECRETARY STANTON IN NEW YORK.
Secretary Stanton is receiving very marked attention in New York. On Wednesday, the Chamber of Commerce unanimously passed a resolution inviting Chief Justice Chase and him to their rooms to have a personal introduction. On Thursday evening, Senator Morgan gave the honorable Secretary a splendid entertainment, which is thus reported by the Post:
"It was in some respects one of the finest tributes of respect ever paid in this city to a statesman and public officer. The entertainment was chaste and elegant; there was but little formality; the ceremonies consisted entirely of the introduction of some of the persons who had been invited by Senator Morgan to meet the Secretary, and the affair was social, pleasing, and thoroughly dignified throughout. From three to four hundred persons, representing the best classes of New York society, were present in the course of the evening, as well as distinguished military and naval officers, members of the bench and the bar, clergymen, artists, and professional men.
Among the visitors were the following: Admiral <illegible>, Generals Hooker, Anderson, Dix, Barlow, De Trobriand, Cullum, Barnard, Parke, Dodge, Graham, Sickles, Arthur, Harvey (of Governor Fenton's staff,) Coles, Howe, Bliss, Block, Colyer, Jarvis (of the British army,) Judges Daily, Pierpont, Benedict, <illegible>, Russell, Roosevelt, Bonney, James T. <illegilbe>, besides Senator Laimbeer, Preston King, George Opdyke, Moses F. Odell, John J. Phelps, S. B. Ruggles, Alexander Stuart, A. T. Stewart, <illegible> Sturgis. J. S. S. T. Stranahan, H. H. Van Dyck, Abraham Wakeman, W. B. Astor, Mr. Busteed, Thomas C. Acton, Senor Romero, (Mexican minister,) Mr. Archibald, (British consul,) James Brown, John Brown, John C. Green, William E. Dodge, Henry A Harlbut, William Brady, Isaac A. Bailey, J. C. Bergen, E. C. Caydin, Abram Bell, Andrew H. Green, Peter Cooper, Mr. Jennings, (the new correspondent of the London Times,) Edwin Stevens, (of Hoboken,) Mr. C. A. Stansbury, Parke Godwin, Abram M. <illegible>, Governor Andrew of Massachusetts, R. C. McCormick, Henry Ward Beecher, Rev. Drs. Chapin, Adams, Vermilyea and Joseph P. Thompson. There were numerous other well-known gentlemen.
As the guests entered, they were received by Senator Morgan and presented to Mr. Stanton in the drawing-room. The genial manner of the Secretary showed that he was highly gratified with the quiet character of the reception and the courtesies tendered to him; and the conversations were entirely without the restraint incident to ordinary public gatherings."
The daughters of the Senator did the honors. There were several ladies present, among them, Mrs. Stanton. Two hands were also present, and enlivened the scene by some very fine music. A crowd had congregated outside who clamored for speeches, but they were disappointed.
Encke, the great German astronomer, died recently at Berlin, Prussia.
<c02>
RECEPTION OF THE FIFTY FIFTH MASSACHUSETTS REGIMENT.
This thoroughly disciplined and heroic command- with the smoke of battle hardly yet removed from the garments of its brave members-was received by the people of Boston, this forenoon, with most spontaneous demonstrations of approval. The regiment came up from Gallop's Island about nine o'clock, when a procession was immediately formed at Commercial Wharf in the following order: Platoon of Police, under the lead of Sergeant Dunn; Gilmore's Band; Shaw Guards. Capt. Gaul; Germania Band; Rev. Mr. Grimes' Society; Cambridge Band, (colored.) escorting a delegation of citizens from Cambridge; Brigade Band; Members of the Fifty-Fourth; Band of the Regiment; the illustrious Fifty Fifth-wounded veterans in carriages.
The principal streets through which the procession moved on the way to the Common-where a substantial collation had been provided for the veterans-contained crowds of people, notwithstanding the unfavorable aspect of the weather. In State street, the sidewalks and windows of the buildings were occupied by many ladies, who joined with the other sex in commending the Union soldiers passing in solid column through the avenue.
The admirable marching of the regiment could not fail to be noticed by the greatest novice in military matters. The firm, solid tread of the sections gave an impression of overwhelming power, while the accuracy with which they wheeled, in almost all cases keeping the line intact, displayed the admirable drill of the command. On passing by the State House, the regiment gave a marching salute to Adjutant-General Schouler and staff, (Gov. Andrew being unavoidably absent in New York.) Senator Sumner and Senator Wilson, who were viewing the 55th, were cheered by the spectators. 
On the Common, as a guest, was Lieut. Col. C. B. Fox, recently honorably discharged from service, who was at its head when Gen. Hartwell was on detached duty and after his promotion, and to whose fidelity it has owed not a little of its present excellent appearance. Col. N. P. Hallowell, the first accomplished commander, was detained in New York, and therefore could not be present at the parade, as had been confidently expected. The roster of the 55th is as follows:
Colonel-Alfred S. Hartwell, Natick, Brevet-Brigadier General.
Lieutenant Colonel-Wm. Nutt, Natick.
Major-Wheeloek Pratt, Sterling.
Surgeon-Bent G. Wilder, Newton.
Assistant Surgeon-W. H. Lothrop. Boston.
Captains--Robert Jones Hamilton,Springfield;
Charles E. Grant, Boston; Charles C. Soule, Brook-line; Frank Goodwin, Boston; James D. Thurber, Plymouth; George M. Woodward, Worcester; Josiah C. Hall, George T. Garrison, Boston; George J. McKay, Boston; Nathaniel E. Ladd, Groveland.
First Lieutenants-John O. Mowry, Alhol; M. C. Roberts, Weston; Wyllys Gannett, St. Louis, Mo.; Josiah A. Bean, Natick; E. Harris Jewett, Henry N. Sheldon, Boston; Peter N. Sprague, Weymouth; Solomon B. Starbird, George H. Carter, Boston; Charles L. Roberts, Weston; Charles W. Mutell, Springfield; Charles F. Lee, Templeton.
Second Lieutenants-John F. Shuter, Delaware Co., Ohio; James M. Trotle, Grand Gulf, Miss.; Wm. H. Dupree, Chilicothe, Ohio; Geo. A. Glidden, Natick; Marshall E. Hunter.
Upon the Common, the regiment was drilled in the manual of arms, and the uniformity, spirit and accuracy with which the corps executed the orders of their commander elicited merited applause. It is not too high encomium to say that no regiment from Massachusetts has exceeded the proficiency which the 55th displayed in these exercises. The dress parade, with the excellent music furnished by the colored band attached to the regiment, was highly enjoyed by the throng of persons upon the parade ground.
An untoward occurrence took place while the officers were forming the regimental line. Robert J. Breckinridge, formerly member of Co. I, interfered in some way with Sergeant Oglesby, of Co. I, who ordered him to desist. But the private did not heed the order, and using some irritating words, was knocked down by the sergeant with the butt of his musket, receiving quite severe injuries about the head. Ogles-by was taken into custody by the police.
After the bountiful collation had been partaken of by the veterans, the command was dismissed, those living out of the city taking the earliest trains for their homes.-Transcript of Monday Evening.
POOR WHITES.
The Ohio Democrats, at their late State Convention, gravely
8. Resolved, That the experience of four thousand years has demonstrated that the negroes are not equal to white men, and all attempts to place them on a footing of equality, politically and socially, with the whites, ever have proved and ever will prove failures; and all such attempts ever have proved and ever will prove injurious to both races.
10. Resolved, That under the rule of Abolitionism, and especially under the recent military orders in Kentucky, the emigration of negroes into Ohio is a growing evil, and in order that white labor should be protected against negro labor, and the people against negro pauperism, it is the duty of the Legislature to discourage negro emigration into our State.
We propose to exhibit these human, and sagacious resolves in a little brighter light, as follows:
 8. Resolved, That sheep are not equal in strength and ferocity to wolves.
10. Resolved, That it is the duty of our Legislature to pass an act for the protection of our wolves; for if they don't, those ferocious, blood-thirsty sheep will hunt them all down and eat them up.
Such resolves as those of Ohio Democrats would he laughable, if they were not so base and cruel.-N. Y. Tribune.
THE DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM.
The Knoxville Whig says the Democratic platform at present consists of the following planks:
 Resolved, That we are superior to colored citizens of African descent.
 Resolved, That we were mistaken when we resolved that the South could not be coerced.
Resolved, That if we had believed that our two-sided Chicago platform would have been so well 
understood, we would have made it more ambiguous.
Resolved, That as the war is over, we are ready to join the Union party and divide the offices.
Resolved, That the Democracy always held the offices, and it is unconstitutional to take advantage of our unpopularity and rule Democrats out in their old age.
Resolved, That if Democrats rejoice over the assassination of Lincoln, it is not owing to their exuberance of good feeling, but the deepest grief.
KEITT'S PLANTATION. The colored man who dug the grave of the notorious Keitt, and who says 'he dug it deep, so that he might be as far out of sight as possible,' said, to-day, that the' hands' on Keitt's old plantation have some three hundred acres of cornplanted; potatoes, peas and sorghum are also largely planted; one third of the crop is to be divided between the forty 'hands.' This is the time for stripping the corn blades, and in a few days 'blades' will be plenty in the market. Later in the month the corn will be plucked.
Mrs. Keitt is 'up country,' and threatens to teach school to supply present wants.
If the 'hands' are asked why their employers do not plan some improvements to the premises while the crops need no attention, they grin and reply, 'speckdey don't link of dat.' No Yankee detects waste of time that might be used in whitewashing, pruning or land cleaning sooner than the colored man. One young colored man said yesterday that he proposed going to school, let the expenses be what they would. He has a wife to whom he is constant, and he declares that hereafter no one can engage her services without his consent: they live fifteen miles apart, and he is not allowed this year to live under the control of their former owners. These people express great it indignation if asked if they can support themselves 'If we raised enough for master and we, I'speck we can raise' nuff for we alone, is their answer, and the rich harvest now corroborates it. If asked whether they can be trusted to vote, they say. "Well, it mought be dat we dun no 'nuff to vote, but one thing is sure, we can't trust de whites to do de law makin' alone, coz dey are sure to cheat us out of our rights.'
WASHINGTON, Sept. 19
Gen. Howard of the Freedmen's Bureau intends to make a thorough personal investigation into the affairs of the freedmen of Virginia, and for this purpose leaves here within a day or two. After returning to Washington, he will journey through all of the Southern States for the same purpose.
An official letter recently received from an officer of the Freedmen's Bureau at Sheridan, Miss., states that of 22,770 destitute people subsisted by the Government, but 770 are negroes.
Another private letter from Mississippi says that most of the militia now being organized in that State express their determination not to be mustered under any other but the State flag, the stars and stripes not excepted. The same letter also states that a regularly organized gang, composed of ex-rebel soldiers, has recently been formed at Vicksburg for the purpose of embarrassing, in every way possible, the action of Government officers in the State.
Two young Virginians who were recently discharged from the Union army, returned to their homes in Green County, where they were informed that they would certainly be assassinated, if they remained, by ex-rebel soldiers.
<c03>
NEW YORK, Sept. 19. The steamer Quaker City, from Charleston, has arrived.
The Courier contains Governor Perry's message to the State Convention. He acknowledges the death of slavery, and counsels wise, just and humane treatment of the freedmen, by which they may become as strongly attached to the whites as while they were slaves. Legislation will be required to regulate the relative duties of employer and employees.
He is opposed to extending the suffrage to the freedmen in their present ignorant and degraded condition as little less than folly and madness. He contends that this is the white man's government and the white man's only, that the Supreme Court has decided that negroes are not citizens, and that each State has the unquestioned right to decide for herself who shall vote.
He suggests that the election of Governor, members of Congress, and the Legislature and Presidential electors be made directly by the people, and that the Legislature should be elected and convened in season to order an election for Congressmen before the first Monday in December.
"The future," he says, “will be bright and glorious. As long as civilization continues, this great Republic will flourish and increase in numbers, wealth and grandeur. In less than ten years we shall realize in the loss of slavery a blessing in disguise to ourselves and our children." He notifies the convention of the reestablishment of the civil law and courts, and the withdrawal of negro troops from the interior to garrisons on the coast. The presence of white troops will be necessary for some time to enforce the relative duties of freedmen and employees.
THE PIRATE SEMMES.
A correspondent of the Springfield Republican, who is travelling down South, met the pirate Semmes, and thus describes him:
"Semmes, whom loyal men call' pirate,' and rebels, call 'admiral,' was on board, and I studied him closely to discover the noble, chivalric bearing which I have heard asoribed to him by those who used to be thrilled with rapture at his brave and gallant attack upon unarmed whalers and merchantmen.
I think this bearing must have entirely left him when the Kearsarge bore down on the Alabama. To me he looked like a repentant sinner who had sinned a long time before, the work of repentance began. On the whole, he is a cheap, rheumy-looking man of about fifty-five years, the only expreasive feature about him being his nose, which must have cost a great deal of money to bring to its present bright ruby color. He neither courted nor avoided observation, was travelling alone, and had little conversation with any one."
"A TRUE BILL. Hon. John Cessna, in his recent speech in Philadelphia, in describing the present <illegible> of the Democratic politicians to get the votes of the soldiers, says:
"When volunteers were needed for the army, these Democrats were opposed to volunteering. Drafting was the fair way-only Democrats would volunteer- in the draft ail would have a fair chance. When the draft came, they were violently opposed to the $300 commutation clause. That was a discrimination against the poor man. The rich would all pay out and only the poor would go. When the commutation clause was repealed, they became more clamorous because the only chance for the poor man was now taken away-he must now go, while the rich man could get a substitute. For a time it was a negro war, and no white man should go. When negro troops were called for, they were aroused to the highest state of indignation. 'The South would never stand it. It is an evidence of our weakness. If you can't conquer them with white troops, you never can with negroes.' Thus they continued during the whole four years of the war. No single measure of the Government ever received their approbation. No matter what course might be adopted, they were found in opposition. Are these men to be now placed in power?"
With regard to Mr. Cessna's closing question, the States of California, Maine and Vermont have just been giving a most significant answer.
THE FENIANS. The Fenian Brotherhood in the United States numbers two hundred and fifty thousand; in the British Provinces, forty-five thousand; in Ireland, two hundred thousand; in England, sixty-five thousand, of which thirty-five thousand are in the city of London. There are over five thousand soldiers belonging to the fraternity in the English army. The monthly expenses of the body amount to $60,000, and it is said that a tax of $20 per man on the Fenians in the United States is nearly paid up, and that the aggregate assessment will reach five millions of dollars. Eight per cent, bonds of " The Irish Republic" are" in course of being manufactured, and will soon be in the market. The English government are taking active measures to meet a Fenian outbreak in Ireland.
The New York Times is informed that the Fenian Society is largely engaged in the wagon manufactory in the upper part of the city, and treats the subject as playfully perhaps as its importance will allow. It says:
"The vehicles already built are marked as the property of the Order, and they have very much the appearance of the conveyances which go to make up an army train. It is quite possible, however, that they may be merely covered carriages, to be used for picnic excursions. On this supposition, the enterprise of the brotherhood resolves itself into a very harmless pastime, and no diplomatic complications need grow out of it. So much the better for the peace of the world. A few more picnics at Jones' Wood will hurt nobody; and a procession of canvas-covered wagons will be a novel feature in the demonstration."
FREEDMEN'S BUREAU. Gen. Howard issued a circular on the 12th inst., to the assistant commissioners, making important modifications in previous regulations. It provides that, instead of, as previously, all lands and real property in the possession of the Bureau being set apart for the use of the loyal refugees and freedmen, only so much of them shall be appropriated to such purposes as are necessary for immediate use. When the assistant commissioners become satisfied that the property in their charge is not abandoned, and the government has no title in it, they are to surrender it to the authorized claimant.
The Washington correspondent of the Boston Journal states that General Howard has just received from General Saxton, Commissioner of the Freedmen's Bureau for the States of South Carolina and Georgia, a report which gives some startling facts about the condition of affairs in the interior districts. He relates the murder of Capt. Healey, an officer of the Bureau, at Augusta, on the 2d inst., and says that an unsuccessful attempt on the life of General Wild has been made, and that Capt. Bryant, another of his agents, has been notified anonymously that his life will next be taken.
Capt. Healy was assassinated when returning from his office by three men, who fired numerous shots, three of them taking effect in his body, and either of which would have produced almost instant death. His corpse was afterward horribly mutilated with knives by the cowardly assassins.
PRESIDENT LINCOLN'S TOMB. Last Wednesday, Gen. Grant paid a visit to the tomb of Abraham Lincoln, at Oak Ridge Cemetery, near Springfield, Illinois. The remains of the martyred patriot are still unburied, and lie in the reception-house, just as they came from Washington, watered by the tears of the nation. A guard-tent is pitched opposite to this house of the dead, on a rising knoll, surrounded by trees. Three sentries guard the sacred remains night and day, and the stone doors are kept open, so that the air may circulate freely through the place. An iron gate protects the remains from a close intrusion, although one can see the two coffins-those of the father and of the little son, who was carried there from Washington with him to their final resting place. Gen. Grant entered the tomb, was very much impressed with the sight, and stood gazing upon the coffin containing the mortal remains for a long time. He afterward wrote his autograph in the register at the cemetery.
ALABAMA. The following is the ordinance passed by the Alabama Convention in regard to slavery:
 "Be it ordained by the people of the State of Alabama in convention assembled, That as the institution of slavery has been destroyed in the State of Alabama, hereafter there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in this State, otherwise than for the punishment of crime, whereof the party shall be duly convicted.
And be it further ordained, That the Constitution be amended by striking out all provisions in relation to slaves and slavery.
 And be it further ordained, That it shall be the duty of the Legislature, at its next session, to pass such laws as will protect the freedmen of this State in the full enjoyment of all their rights of person and property, and guard them and the State against all evil that may arise from their sudden emancipation."
Another ordinance has been introduced granting to freedmen the rights of holding property and testifying in Courts of justice.
OLD BAY STATE LECTURES. The second annual course of these popular lectures commences in Tremont Temple, Thursday evening, Oct. 12. There is an imposing array of talent, the opening address being by Miss Anna E. Dickinson. Other speakers include John B. Gough, Rev. E. H. Chapin, Wendell Phillips, Bayard Taylor, Rev. J. D. Fulton, Rev. A. A. Willets, J. B. Merwin. Dr. J. G. Holland will give a poem entitled "Brother Jonathan at School."
<c04>
BALTIMORE, Sept. 19. There are now here representatives from the Odd Fellows of every Southern State except North Carolina and Florida, and they are not represented simply because of the lodges in those States having been almost annihilated by the war. The intercourse between the members of the Order from the Northern States and those from the States lately in rebellion has been of a most pleasing and gratifying character.
The Right Rev. Bishop Johns is out in a long address to the Diocesan Council of the Episcopal Church of Virginia, advocating the re-union of the Episcopal Church North and South. It is published in the Richmond Times, which drags into its remarks upon the subject a fervent eulogium upon John C. Calhoun.
The Richmond Times concludes a long editorial upon immigration in the following language: "Indeed, we must adopt a plan for bringing in immigrants generally, for it is quite evident the negroes do not mean to work. Some other labor must therefore be procured, and that at very short notice, or this country, the noblest the sun shines upon, will become a wilderness like Jamaica."
It seems that the colleges of Virginia have fallen utterly into the hands of ex-traitors. The Virginia Military Institute, which gave Stonewall Jackson and many other officers to the rebel cause, has been revived, with Gen. G. A. Custis Lee, son of Robert E., Professor of Civil and Military Engineering and applied Mechanics, and a number of rebel officers in other professorships. The Board of Visitors, who are appointed by Gov. Peirpont, has among its numbers the rebel Generals D. H. Strother and Wm. H. Richardson. The Institute is situated at Lexington, close by Washington College, over which, in the language of the Richmond Times, "the warrior Lee now presides."
An investigation by the Russian government shows that the frequent and terrible fires which have desolated large districts in Russia, destroying hundreds of villages and turning thousands of people out of their homes, were caused by Polish plotters, who incited "all true patriots" to lay waste the enemy's property. Women were employed in some of these incendiary deeds.
 Mr. C. G. Baylor, who during the rebellion was sent abroad as commercial agent for the State of Georgia, has written a letter taking strong ground in favor of negro suffrage.
In Louisiana, families who before the war rolled in wealth and luxuries, having horses and carriages and plenty of servants, now ride about in carts drawn by mules. The ladies do their own work- spin, weave and cook-and are better for it, no doubt.
Out of 22,770 destitutes fed by the Freedmen's Bureau at Sheridan, Miss., but 770 are negroes. Similar comparisons are recorded of many other neighborhoods South.
Among the rebels pardoned on Wednesday last was Joseph R. Anderson, of the Richmond Tredegar Iron Works. His case was embarrassed by coming under three special exceptions. He is a graduate of West Point, was a General in the rebel service, and is worth over twenty thousand dollars. In consequence of Gov. Peirpont's urgent recommendation, the President gave the case more than ordinary consideration, and finally granted the pardon. Anderson has lost $1,200,000 by confiscation, damage to property and worthless rebel securities, of which he is the holder to the amount of a million of dollars, and would seem to have been punished pretty severely in a pecuniary respect.
R. B. Rhett is soon to resume the publication of the Charleston Mercury. The Independent African will be started about the same time, by T. Hurley, a white man, and John Brown, a black man. It will probably not agree with the Mercury very closely.
The body of Lord Douglas, the unfortunate nobleman, who with a party of three companions, including a Swiss guide, fell down the sheer precipice of the Alpene "Materhorn," a distance of four thousand feet, was subsequently found in the glacier below. His head was driven right into the chest, and one leg was off altogether.
Recent investigations show that three leading horse railroads in Philadelphia have been swindled out of one hundred thousand dollars through dishonest conductors. About one hundred and thirty conductors and drivers are implicated.
The one hundred thousand dollars in coin, captured in Georgia, from the train which Jeff. Davis carried with him on his flight, has arrived safely in Washington, and been deposited in the national Treasury.
Among the daily evidences of pardon-seeking rebels glorying in their treason instead of repenting, it is observed that several who arrived here to-day sign themselves on the hotel registers "late Col. C. S. A.," etc.
John Minor Botts has written another letter to Virginia, advising them to elect men to the next Congress who have not been mixed up in the late rebellion. Any others, he assures them, will not be admittee to the next Congress.
At Webster, Mass., on the 9th inst., Francis McCue quarrelled with his wife, and seizing a lighted kerosene lamp, broke it over her head, setting her on fire, and causing her death. Rum was the cause.
The Herald's dispatch says additional reports from Arkansas and Mississippi, concerning freedmen, represent these people as thriving handsomely under the management of the Freedmen's Bureau.
From a return of the condition of the Russian peasants, just published at St. Petersburg, it appears that 4,663,585 peasants are still under engagements to work for the land-owners, and that 5,112,432 are either entirely free from any obligation to their ancient masters, or shortly will be so. Of these, 2,849,307 are now freeholders.
The Tribune's Washington dispatch says the evidence in the boat burners' trial shows that Jeff. Davis sent men to burn the great bridge near Nashville, and that Benjamin promised $400,000 for their services.
 Gov. Hamilton, of Texas, has ordered the present courts to continue, and put the negroes on the same equality with the whites in respect to the punishment for crime. In Montgomery (Ala.) chaingang punishment for negroes has been revived.
WISCONSIN. According to the official returns of the State census, the population of this State, on the first of June, was 868,847, which shows a gain of 93,227 since 1860.
Of six Parish Judges in the city of New Orleans, three are graduates of the rebel army. The offices of Sheriff and Clerk of Probate, the two most lucrative offices in the State, are held by signers of the Ordinance of Secession. Over twenty original Union men have recently been removed by Governor Wells, to make room for as many original secessionists.
The evidence against Mrs. Grinder, of Pittsburg, Pa., the modern Lucretia Borgia, shows that she has been engaged for years in poisoning her acquaintances, and new cases are discovered daily. It now appears that she murdered two brothers of her husband about a year ago. She seems to have been actuated by mere wantonness.
A letter from Chattanooga says that a white soldier was recently killed by a negro soldier at Camp Thomas, near Chattanooga. The deceased man's comrades buried him, and, while returning from the burial, they fell in with a party of negro soldiers. Filled with resentment and revenge, they attacked the latter, and killed five or six of them on the spot.
A son of the late President Polk is employed, with two blacks, the three at five dollars per day, in taking care of mules purchased by a Northern speculator at the army sales near Nashville.
The editor of a Chicago newspaper has declared, in speaking of the filth of that city, that he has two hundred and twenty several and distinct smells, with three wards still to hear from.
Fitz-Greene Halleck, the poet, now seventy-three years of age, is passing the evening of his life in a quiet home by the sea-side at Guiltord, Conn.
Late accounts from Constantinople place the destruction of buildings by the Stamboul fire at 2800. Twenty-two thousand persons were rendered houseless. One estimate is as high as 12,000 buildings.
The Wisconsin Democratic State Convention adopted resolutions endorsing President Johnson's policy, and opposing negro suffrage and suspension of the writ of habeas corpus.
COLORED CELEBRATION. The colored people of New York and Brooklyn, celebrated Friday last the anniversary of President Lincoln's proclamation freeing the slaves in the District of Columbia.
The Washington Star states that the number of Southerners around that city is enormous. They "spread themselves on the sofas of the East Room, with all the license accorded to a Georgia bar aoom" Would it not be well to apply to these people the rule adopted toward the negroes in Texas, and make them bring certificates that they "earn a living."
MAINE STATE ELECTION. Returns from 451 towns, cities and plantations show that Cony's vote is 53,449, and that of Howard 31,117-Union majority 22,332. The Union majority of last year was 16,283, so that the Union gain on the majority this year is 6049.
<c05>
SOUTHERN ESTIMATION OF COPPERHEADS. The Albany Evening Journal reports the son of a distinguished Southern statesman, now visiting at the North, as saying:-
"We are loyal-the great mass of us-far more loyal than some of your own people. You can far better afford to trust us than you can your miserable copperheads. They are the vilest offscouring of the earth. Had it not been for them, we should not have rushed into war. And yet they have the impudence to come to us, claiming to be our friends, advising us to he stiff necked, and asking us to strike hands with them and form a new alliance. The vipers! They have cheated us once; they will never cheat us again. We had rather trust the vilest abolitionist that ever howled and bounded us down, than the best of them.
HEAVY BANK ROBBERY. On Monday afternoon, the National Bank of Concord, Mass., was entered by robbers, the safe broken open, and the sum of Three Hundred Thousand Dollars in bills and bonds abstracted and carried away.
The property stolen consists in part of $27,000 U. S. Five-twenty certificates, $400,000 registered U. S. bondf, $91,000 Sixes of 1881, $25,000 Seven thirties. $5000 Ten-forties, $10,200 Compound Interest notes, $4300 bills of Concord Bank, $14,000 Rhode Island State bonds, $19,000 Maine State bonds, $5000 Vermont State bonds.
The bank has offered a reward of $20,000 for the apprehension of the robbers, and the police and other authorities all over the country have been notified of the robbery and details of the stolen property.
WISCONSIN POLITICS. A large number of the Union party in Wisconsin are dissatisfied with the action of the recent State Convention, as the resolutions, which were adopted, did not speak out, plainly and frankly enough in favor of permitting colored men to vote on the same conditions as white men. Another Convention has been called, which will probably adopt the same candidates, but put them on a new platform.
IMPORTANT ORDERS IN GEORGIA. General Stedman has issued an order at Augusta, Ga., that all firearms, together with all ammunition and munitions of war whatever, now in the hands of private persons in Georgia, must be turned over to the Provost Marshals. All persons not complying with the order will be arrested. The marshals are allowed to grant permits to use firearms for sporting purposes to such persons as they may deem proper to have them.
Lieut General Grant, after his extended tour through the East and in the Canadas, came westward, and beside a brief visit to his former residence at Galena, in this State, has accepted numerous invitations from towns and cities in Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota. Everywhere the noble patriot has been received with the utmost enthusiasm.
MONTGOMERY, (Ala.) Sept. 22. The Alabama State Convention passed an ordinance to-day abolishing slavery, by a vote of eighty-nine to three. The ordinance abrogates all previous relations to the slave, protects the person and property of freedmen, and guards the State against the evils likely to arise from sudden emancipation. The Convention also passed an ordinance dividing the State into Congressional districts.
A despatch from Shreveport, (Louisiana,) says: "The Provost Marshal of the Freedmen has arrested the Judge, Sheriff, District Attorney and Jury of the 10th Judicial District for trying a negro on the charge of larceny. The Superintendent of Freedmen says the jurisdiction over negroes during the existing interpretation of the civil law belongs exclusively to his bureau. The Judge gives notice of an appeal."
THE NATIONAL EQUAL RIGHTS LEAGUE is now holding its annual meeting in Cleveland, Ohio. About one hundred and fifty delegates are present, comprising representatives from Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee. New York, Michigan, New Jersey, Connecticut, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and other States. The meeting is largely attended by the best colored men in the South.
The main purpose of the Equal Rights League, in this meeting and in all meetings, is to secure for the colored people of this country equality before State and national laws.
DEATH OF THE ARTIST NEAGLE. John Neagle, a well-known artist, died at his residence in Philadelphia on Friday, at the age of 71 years.
Surgeon Hogan, of the Freedmen's Bureau, who was despatched to North Carolina to inspect the Freedmen's settlements at Newbern, Roanoke Island and Beaufort, reports that out of a population of about twelve thousand people, about one-third draw rations from the Government. As a general thing, the people live in good, comfortable log houses, but a large portion of those residing near Newbern and on Roanoke Island are suffering from the various forms of intermittent and remittent fevers.
A CALUMNY REFUTED. In his Clarksville speech, Mr. Montgomery Blair charged Secretary Stanton with having, at the beginning of the war, denounced the attempt to maintain the Union by force, and that he continued his denunciations until he entered Mr. Lincoln's Cabinet. In reply to this charge, a writer in the New York Times recalls the fact that when the Union citizens of West Virginia, in April, 1861, found difficulty in obtaining arms from the Alleghany Arsenal, Mr. Stanton interposed in their behalf, first applying to Mr. Blair himself, who declined taking action in the premises, and afterward to Mr. Cameron, offering to be personally responsible for the proper use and return of the arms, and the order for their issue was accordingly given.-Pittsburg Gazette.
Mr. Joseph May, son of Rev. Samuel J. May, late graduate of the Divinity School, Cambridge, was ordained over the Unitarian Church at Yonkers, New York, Sept. 14th.
 Secretary Seward has been officially informed that the Canadian authorities have paid over to the St. Albans banks $39,512,75 in gold, and $30,000 in bank notes, being the treasure stolen by the St. Alban's raiders.
Forts Slocum, Stevens, Sumner, Lincoln, Reno and Totten, of the Washington defences, will be dismantled during the present autumn.
William S. Tower of Hingham has made a bucket containing 27,568 pieces.
At the New York Bull Frog Exhibition, the first prize of $100 was awarded to  Mr. Grenouille, who exhibited a frog that measured 15 inches long and weighed 2 pounds. He is supposed to be a descendant in a direct line from the frog who, "would a wooing go."
An ingenious Frenchman has made a mosaic landscape composed of insects. It contains more than 45,000 beetles, besides big and little bugs of various hues.
A Spanish sailor, with a dark complexion, was on Monday passing up Main street, in Brooklyn, with three children of one of his neighbors, whom he had taken out to walk. A number of Irish women followed him, crying out, "See the naygar kidnapping the white childer,"and in a short time a mob collected, who stoned him and took away the children. A detachment of police rescued them afterwards.
NEGRO SUFFRAGE. A Washington correspondent of the World says that Senator Wilson, at the opening of the next session of Congress, will introduce a bill giving the elective franchise to the negroes in the District of Columbia, which will bring the question of negro suffrage to an early test.
We see it announced that a number of capitalists holding coal lands on the James River have applied to the Freedman's Bureau for a "thousand workmen to labor in the mines at wages. "It seems to us that if capitalists want labor they should take it from the open market and not ask the Government to become an overseer for them.-N. Y. Tribune.
A CHINESE DINNER TO SPEAKER COLFAX. A grand complimentary dinner was given to Hon. orable Schuyler Colfax and party and a number of local celebrities, by the "Six Chinese Companies in California, "at San Francisco, on the 17th of August. The teast began at six o'clock, P. M., and lasted till twelve. It consisted of 336 dishes, forming 130 courses, and was served at three distinct sittings.
DESTRUCTIVE FIRE IN EAST BOSTON. The largest fire which has visited the city for several weeks, occurred on Tuesday last. It originated in the planning mill of Messrs. Peak & Clark, situated at the corner of Chelsea and Decatur streets, East Boston, which was entirely consumed, and a dwelling-house near by was also injured to the extent of some $1500. The house was occupied by four families, who saved their furniture. The total loss is about $10,000.
COLUMBIA, S. C, Sept. 15. The State Convention has passed an ordinance repealing the ordinance of secession, without debate. There was no applause. Three delegates voted nay.
NEW ORLEANS, Sept. 18. Gen. Beauregard took the oath of allegiance yesterday, and will make application for pardon.
Theresa Kossuth, wife of the celebrated Hungarian patriot, died at Turin on the 1st of September. She was 55 years of age.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 13,1865. The voters of the 1st Maine Heavy Artillery, stationed in the fortifications, around this city, held an election on Monday last and cast nine hundred votes, out of one thousand, for the Union State ticket.
<c06>
PARKER FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The eighth annual Course of these favorite and eminently popular lectures will be delivered in MUSIC HALL on successive TUESDAY EVENINGS, at 7 1-2 o'clock, by the following distinguished orators:-
Oct. 17-WENDELL PHILLIPS, of Boston.
24-FREDERICK DOUGLASS, of Rochester.
31-HENARY WARD BEECHER, of Brooklyn.
Nov.7-JACOB M. MANNING, of Bosten.
14-ANNA E. DICKINSON, of Philadelphia.
Dec.12-GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS, of New York.
19-DAVID A. WASSON. of Boston.
26-(To be announced.)
Jan. 2-GEORGE H. HEPWORTH, of Boston.
9-THEODORE TILTON, of New York.
16-(To be announced.)
Concert on the Great Organ each evening at 7 o'clock.
Mrs. FROHOCK, Organist.
Tickets admitting "The Bearer and Lady" to the course, $3. Tickets admitting "One Person" to the course, $2. For sale at OLIVER DITSON & CO.'S, 277 Washington street; JOHN C. HAYNES & CO.'S, 33 Court street; JOHN S. ROGERS', 1077 Washington street, and of the Lecture Committee
Checks for seats reserved until 7 1-2 o'clock, at one dollar each for the coarse, for sale only at DITSON & CO'S, and at J. S. ROGERS'.
N. B. Only a portion of the seats in the body of the house (those to the right of the speaker) will be reserved, leaving a large number on the lower floor and both balconies to the other ticket-holders.
ANNUAL MEETING.-The Twenty-eighth Annual Meeting of the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society will be held in Horticultural Hall, West Chester, Oct. 27th, day and evening. A more particular notice hereafter.
JAMES MOTT, President.
BENJAMIN C. BACON, Cor. Sec.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Quincy, Sunday' October 1.

LESSONS IN ORNITHOLOGY.
PARLOR CLASSES.
GRACEANNA LEWIS will give Instruction in the NATURAL HISTORY OF BIRDS, to Schools and Private Classes of Ladies and Gentlemen.
It is not intended, by these Lessons, merely to interest and amuse the learner, but while these objects will be kept in view, efforts will also be made to use the feathered tribes in all their beauty and attractiveness, as a means of affording an insight of the wonderful Order found in every portion of creation.
The familiar Habits of Birds; their Manner of Flight; their Migrations; their Songs; their Guiding Instincts; their Affections; their Nests and Eggs; their Plumage, with its exquisite colors and ornamentation; Microscopic Examinations of the Down of the Young, and the General Structure and Classification of Birds, will be treated of, as well as the relations of Physical Causes to the Residences of Birds; their Geographical Distribution, and their importance to Agriculture.
Geology, in its connection with Ornithology, will also be considered; and the position of the Class of Birds in the Progressive Order of Creation, so far as revealed by Modern Science, will be made apparent.
Many of the most beautiful or remarkable Birds of the World will be noticed, and their location in the Museum of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, designated.
These Lessons will be finely illustrated by numerous Elegant Engravings, and Specimens of the majority of our common Song Birds may be seen by the Class during the continuance of the Courses, while the subject will be further elucidated by Charts prepared for the purpose.
TERMS, for a Course of Six Lessons, $3.00 each.
Liberal deduction made to schools and classes of over fifty persons. Those who desire lessons will address
GRACEANNA LEWIS,
Care of EDWARD PARRISH,
South west corner of Eighth and South Sts,
PHILADELPHIA.
TESTIMONIALS:
The undersigned have great pleasure in recommending the Lectures of Miss Graceanna Lewis, as in all respects worthy the confidence and encouragement of persons disposed to study Natural History, and especially Ornithology.
JOHN CASSIN.
Vice-President of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia, and author of "Birds of California and Texas," &c., &c., &c.
T. C. PORTER,
President of Franklin Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa.
ISAAC P. TRIMBLE, M. D.,
Author of "Insect Enemies of Fruit and Fruit Trees," and Entomologist of the State Agricultural Society of New Jersey, Newark, N. J.
N. J. VINCENT BARNARD,
Kennet Square, Chester County, Pennsylvanis. April 10th, 1865.
The undersigned, who have enjoyed the pleasure of Graceanna Lewis' instructions on Ornithology deem it due to her to testify to the interest with which she succeeded in clothing the subject, and the clear and lucid method adopted in her Lectures. We greatly desire that she may find a wide field for her valuable and elevating instructions.
DILLWYN PARRISH, E. H. CLEVELAND,
HELEN LONGSTRETH, MARGARET J. BURLEIGH,
ANN PRESTON, EDWARD PARRISH,
MARTHA KIMBER, CALEB S. HALLOWELL,
EDWARD TOWNSEND, E. M. DAVIS.
J. G. HUNT, M. D.,
Philadelphia, 7th mo., 1865.
GREAT CHANCE FOR AGENTS.
WHAT THE PEOPLE WANT.
COMPLETE History of the War, in one large volume, splendidly illustrated, with over 125 fine portraits of Generals and Battle scenes. The most candid, lucid, complete, authentic and reliable history published. It contains reading matter equal to three large octavo volumes. Send for circulars and see our terms. Address
"JONES, BROS & CO., Philadelphia., Pa."Sept. 29.
Sept. 29.
WM. P. POWELL,
ATTORNEY AND SOLICITOR,
IN THE ADJUSTMENT AND COLLECTION OFCLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATES,
Office Nos. 1 and 2, Dover St, New York.
NOTARY PUBLIC AND COMMISSIONER FOR THE
STATES OF VERMONT, MASSACHUSETTS AND CONNECTICUT.
Passports and Protections Procured.New York, Aug. 2.
NEW ENGLAND
FEMALE MEDICAL COLLEGE.
THE Eighteenth Annual Term of seventeen weeks will commence Nov. 1, 1865. PROFESSORS-Stephen Tracy, M. D., Theory and Practice of Medicine; Frances S. Cooke, M. D., Anatomy, also of Physiology and Hygiene; Edward Aiken, M. D., Materia Medica, Therapeutics and Chemistry; Minerva C. Meriam, M. D., Obstetries and Diseases of Women and Children; Albert B. Robinson, M. D., Principles and Practice of Surgery and Medical Jurisprudence; Mercie H. Dyer, M. D., Demonstrator of Anatomy. Tuition fees, to the six Professors and Demonstrators, <illegible> free to students needing aid.
SAMUEL GREGORY, Secretary,
30, Canton Street, Boston, Mass.
Sept 8. 3w
Ayer's Sarsaparilla
IS a concentrated extract of the choice root, as combined with other substances of still greater alterative power as to afford an effectual antidote for diseases Sarsaparilla is reputed to cure. Such a remedy is surely wanted by those who suffer from Strumous complaints; and that one which will accomplish their cure must prove, as this has, of immense service to this large class of our afflicted fellow-citizens. How completely this compound will do it has been proven by experiment on many of the worst cases to be found in the following complaints:-
Scrofula, Scrofulous Swellings and Sores, Skin Diseases, Pimples, Pustules, Blotches, Eruptions, St. Anthony's Fire, Rose or Erysipelas, Tetter or Salt Rheum, Sealt Head, Ringworm, &c.
Syphilis or Venereal Disease is expelled from the system by the prolonged use of this SARSAPARILLA, and the patient is left in comparative health.
Female Diseases are caused by Scrofula in the blood, and are often soon cured by this EXTRACT OF SARSAPABILLA.
Do not discard this invaluable medicine because you have been imposed upon by something pretending to be Sarcaparilla, while it was not. When you have used AYER'S, then, and not till then, will you know the virtues of Sarsaparilla. For minute particulars of the diseases it cures, we refer you to Ayers American Almanae, which the agent below named will furnish, gratis to all who call for it.
AYER'S CATHARTIC PILLS, for, the cure of Costiveness, Jaundice, <illegible> Indigestion, Dysentery, Foul Stomach, Headache, Piles, Rheumatism, Heartburn arising from Disordered Stomach, Pain, or Morbid Inaction of the Bowels, Flatulency, Loss of Appetite, Liver Complaint, Dropay, Worms, Gout, Neuralgia, and for a Dinner Pill.
They are sugar-coated, <illegible> that the most sensitive can take them pleasantly, and they are the best <illegible> in the world for all the purposes of a family physic.
Prepared by J, C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass, and sold by all druggists.
Aug. 4. 2m.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
Poetry.
TRIBUTE TO ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
Extract from a Poem, written by Rev. JOHN PIERPONT, and read by him at the Celebration by the Colored People's Educational Monument Association, in Memory of Abraham Lincoln, at Washington, July 4, 1865:-
To that low point had slavery brought down
Proud old Virginia ere she hanged John Brown;
And the same cause that wrought Virginia's fall
Was, like the cholera, sweeping over all,
That sat in darkness on the plains that spread
‘Twixt Rio Grande's and Potomac’s bed,
Where Abel tilled the ground, and Cain ate up the bread.
Brown saw Virginia as she, languid, stood,
In her slave shambles, selling her own blood,
In her slave shambles, selling her own blood,
And would have freed her laborer from his chains,
And clothed with verdure her old native plains;
But she would still on her destroyer doat,
And hug the vampyre closer to her throat,
Till, as her pulses faint and fainter throb,
Finding that she must either die or rob,
She bargains with her sisters, who combine,
Such as fair Flora and warm Caroline,
To lay their hands on all that they can get,
To eat at leisure, and not pay the sweat.
The boldest backwoods hunter justly fears
The hungry wolf he holds but by the ears.
Seeing his hold's so weak, the brute so strong,
That, without help, he cannot hold him long,
And fearing that, if he lets go, his grim
And wide-mouthed game will soon make game of him,
Calls on his fellow-huntsmen for their help,
In keeping down and mastering the whelp;
And if his neighbors come not at his call,
He grows profane, and swears he'll whip them all;
So our man-hunters, grappling with a foe
They scarce can hold, and dare not let him go,
Call, in their terror, upon Northern smiths
And woodmen, for new fetters and green withes,
To bind their shaggy Sampson in his mill,
To help them hold, and keep him grinding still,
Nor him alone; his children must they bind,
Build them more mills wherein his boys may grind,
Purchase new acres at their proper cost,
Get new Virginias for them to exhaust,
Throw up new dikes' gainst Freedom's overflow,
And to her surges say ”No farther go!”
And now, forsooth, because those neighbors stand,
Look calmly on, and lend no helping band,
To their demand for aid make no reply,
Or coolly say, “We've our own fish to fry;
Good friends, we're weary of this thankless task,
We've given you more than you've a right to ask;
Till now, we've helped you in your time of need,
Conceded till we can no more concede,
Done for you all that should or will be done,
So, hold your wolf yourselves, or-let him run”-
Our Nimrods-mighty hunters-grow profane,
Break three commandments, take God's name in vain,
Steal from their neighbors till they've stolen their fill,
And then proceed to bully and to kill.
And that is War! But War, that burns and blights,
God makes his minister, and clothes with rights:
The right a bondman's fetters to unclasp,
To wrest the sceptre from a rebel's grasp,
And say, “Lay down your cowskin and your dirk,
And take your choice, sir-starve, or go to work!”
This said the man, raised up and sent, through grace,
To be” a prince and savior” of a race;
A race long doomed to servitude and scorn;
But through this Prince's word, to freedom born.
The man to whom the bloody hand of War
Brought the commission, so long waited for
“Deliverance to the captives” to proclaim,
Like him whose name “is above every name.”
For him a Nation's eyes with tears are dim:
He slavery slew, then slavery murdered him.
But, in a race redeemed, he made his mark
On History's page. But that race, O how dark-
When darkness covered all the cloud-wrapped land,
And the Oppressor laid his heaviest hand
Upon its eye-balls, to “put out the light”
Of hope and science from both soul and sight—
Must it now be, from its “long despair.”
Brought out to feel the sun, and breathe the upper air!
Father of lights! for these, thy children, long
Held in the dark, by robbery and wrong,
Held, groping on in more than Egypt's night,
Hear we not now thy word, “Let there be light!”
For them didst Thou a great Deliverer raise,
For him we all now offer Thee our praise;
And, that his name may never be forgot,
“Would his redeemed ones, near the holy spot,
Where his great word went forth, and where he fell
Build up a monument, the world to tell,
The gratitude, that all, who now are free,
Should feel, and do feel both to him and Thee.
Not such a monument as Egypt’s kings
Built for their bones; but such a one as brings
Out, from the hidings of oblivion's veil,
The hallowed name of Harvard or of Yale;
Within whose shadow, thirsty youths, who think,
With Solomon, that “light is sweet,” may drink
From the sweet fountain Thou hast made o'erflow
From all thy works, above, around, below;
Fountain of Knowledge, that, like thine own grace,
Debars no color, and excludes no race,
Where every child may see that, every hour
He’s gaining knowledge, he is gaining power;
The power to labor for the common weal;
To soothe some grief, some malady to heal;
And, by example, to make all men see,
That it is best for all that all men should be free.
Our Lincoln Monument of One shall speak,
Like Moses faithful, and like Moses meek;
Who led thy people through a redder sea
Than Israel passed, to light and liberty;
Of him, who, humbly trusting in the Lord,
Moved by thy Holy Spirit, spake thy word;
And, as that word was plainly, firmly spoken,
The bondman's chains fell off, the tyrant's rod was broken.
AFTER THE WAR!
FARMER.
He! Blacksmith, are you busy?
My horse has lost a shoe,
Long road have I to travel,
You must fit us out anew.
BLACKSMITH.
Look round my forge, good Farmer,
And tell me what you see;
Am I busy? am I idle?
Ask the anvil at my knee.
FARMER.
I see around your workshop
Stark implements of War-
Can it be that you are forging
Some new-born quarrel for?
Not so, my jovial Farmer,
The weapons that I forge
Not many limbs shall sever,
Draw no gore-drops, cut no gorge:
Sword I'm turning into ploughshare,
Into reaping-hook the gun,
Here are bayonets by the bushel-
Shall I shoe your horse with one?
Or if a broken fetter
From the South his hoof will fit,
Lead in your horse good Farmer,
And I'll iron <illegible> with it!

TO JOHN B. GOUGH.
Great Champion of the Right! thy clarion voice
The erring world checks in its thorny path,
Securing oft absolvement from God's wrath!
Thy rare persuasive power makes those rejoice
To whom life had before been baleful blight
Thou hast outvied the Alchemist of old-
Hast turned the brass of Wrong to Truth's pure gold!
Thy armor girded on, in fearless fight
‘Gainst Error and Oppression's base array,
Combatting Sin with all its hydra heads,
The blood of Acrotus thy sharp sword sheds!
Brave Conqueror! Truth's standard high display,
Till, for thy shining seal, the angel’s hand
Shall lift the veil before the Better Land!
EDWARD P. NOWELL.
<c02>
The Liberator.
PROGEESS IN RHODE ISLAND.
PROVIDENCE, (R. I.) Sept. 19, 1865.
To the Editor of the Liberator:
The great wave of progress toward an acknowledgment of the equality of all men, which is now sweeping through the world, has not left our little State of Rhode Island untouched, although too many of our citizens are yet endeavoring to row their little boats in opposition to the tide. You are aware that we have had in three towns of our State, Providence, Newport and Bristol, a relic of the barbarism of slavery, in the shape of separate and inferior schools, which alone our colored children have been allowed to attend. For twelve years, by remonstrance and petition, have they knocked at the doors of our City Council and Legislature, asking for justice, and have been denied. 
Last year, a law guaranteeing to them their rights passed our House of Representatives, but was defeated by a small majority in the Senate, chiefly through the influence of the Newport members, who were combined in opposition to it. But this year, our City Solicitor, to whom the question was referred by the Superintendent, has decided that the ordinance establishing separate schools for colored children does not exclude them from any other public school; and our School Committee has rescinded a resolution placing that construction upon the ordinance. A colored girl has been admitted to the High School, and colored children have entered several of the public schools; yet they are still arbitrarily excluded in several districts by the District Committee. But Newport, through her School Committee, on recommendation of the Superintendent, Rev. Mr. Talbot, a man of right impulses, has dared to admit them into all the schools, and trust in the safety of doing justice.
This result was as unexpected as it was welcome to the friends of equal rights, for Newport was the centre of the most determined opposition to the movement. No doubt it is in no small degree owing to the influence of Rev. T. W. Higginson, late Colonel of the 1st South Carolina Colored Regiment, who is now a member of the School Committee. The friends of the movement in Providence are determined that this city shall not be long behind Newport in this matter. A majority of the lower branch of our Common Council are known to be favorable to it, but if they should fail to do justice, there is little doubt that the Legislature will complete the good work this winter.
Without doing injustice to others, I may say, that great assistance has been rendered by the untiring efforts of Rev. Dr. Swain, and Charles L. Thomas, Esq., a member of our Common Council, in forwarding the good cause. We have, too, the influence of the Union League on the right side. At a meeting of this body, among a series of resolutions affirming the duty of our people in reference to the colored man, was one declaring that “caste schools, by denying to one portion of our fellow-citizens certain rights and privileges which are enjoyed by the people in general, are rendered anomalous to the principles of republicanism, and ought to be immediately abolished. Hoping to be able soon to inform you of the complete triumph of justice in our Slate, I remain
Yours, for the good cause, L. G. J.

A MOST GRATIFYING CHANGE.
FRIEND GARRISON-Three weeks’ visiting Washington, and what I have seen there, convince me that everything relating to the black man's rights looks hopeful and encouraging. There are two classes of peoples to be benefited by this new change-to wit, the Northern white slaves and the poor white Southern trash. Already these two forces begin to show evident signs of new birth. For instance, it would do your soul good to see the perfect equality pervading between the colored and white street-car travellers, street cars jam full—black and white passengers forming a complete checker-board What a contrast is this with the prejudices of the citizens of the city of” Brotherly Love”-Philadelphia! There they have it their own way. Just look into that street car running through Arch Street, the Quaker stronghold. What a sickley, motley, lantern-jawed jam of pale faces! No “niggers” allowed in these cars. Now, it does seem to me that the good old Quaker element has died out. Not a broad-brim nor a coal-scuttle bonnet to be seen. Oh, those were good old faces to look upon, even if we had the had manners to gape at them. By the way, passing by Pennsylvania Hospital last Wednesday, I noticed that the statue of William Penn had fallen from its pedestal. When a boy, from five years old and upwards, I made it my duty to look up to that old statue as something more than human. Now, since I come to think, I am not at all surprised at its falling down. It was ashamed to be seen standing for the last seventy-five years in front of the Hospital, with the charter in one hand, and pointing to it with the other as an emblem of peace and good will between the red and white man. Alas! there is no peace in the city of Penn for the black man; and so the old Penn statue comes down. There is one consolation: it will not always be so. God still reigns; and his scepter of righteousness will not depart, nor the sword of justice be sheathed, until equal and exact justice shall be enjoyed by all mankind.
Yours, faithfully, W. P. P.

FREDERICK DOUGLASS ON THE EDUCATIONAL MONUMENT ASSOCIATION.
ROCHESTER, N. Y. Aug., 8th, 1865.
W. J. WILSON, ESQ.-My Dear Sir: In answer to your note requesting me to allow my name to stand as one of the officers of the “Educational Monument Association,” I beg to state that I cannot allow my name as you request, nor can I, with my present views, favor the plan adopted by the Association. On many accounts, I wish I could unite with you in this enterprise, and not the least among them is the pleasure I experience in finding myself cooperating with yourself, and other gentlemen connected with this Educational Monument Association, for the common elevation and improvement of our condition as a people. But I must be true to my conviction of fitness.
When I go for anything, I like to go strong, and when I cannot go thus, I had better not go at all. You cannot want a man among you who cannot bring his whole heart to the work. I can't do this, and hence will not fill the place, which, if filled at all, should be filled more worthily.
You will, my old friend, naturally inquire why I cannot do this? Here there is no difficulty but the time required to answer. There is much I could say, but I must be brief. First of all, then, I must say, this whole monument business, in its present shape, strikes me as an offence against good taste, and as calculated to place the colored people in an undesirable and discreditable position before the country. Such, I say, is my present conviction. Do not consider me hostile to monuments nor to colleges; I am not to either. Things good in standing alone are not always good when mixed.
Now, a monument by the colored people, erected at the expense of the colored people, in honor of the memory of Abraham Lincoln, expressive of their gratitude and affection for their friend and great benefactor, however humble and inexpensive the marble, I could understand and appreciate, and the world would understand and appreciate the effort. A monument like this would express one of the holiest sentiments of the human heart. It would be, as all such offerings should be, free from all taint of self-love or self-interest on our part, as a class. It would be our own act and deed, and would show to after-coming generations, in some degree, the sentiments awakened among the oppressed by the death of Mr. Lincoln. A monument of this kind, erected by the colored people—that is, by the voluntary offerings of the colored people—is a very different thing from a monument built’ by money contributed by white men to enable colored people to build a monument. We should bury
<co3>
our own dead and build our own monuments, and all monuments which we would build to the memory of our friends, if we would not invite the continued contempt of the white race upon our heads. Now, whenever a movement shall be made for such a monument, I am with it, heart and soul, and will do my best to make it a success. So much for the monument part of your plan.
Now a word of the college. I am heartily in favor of all needful educational institutions for the present education of colored people, even though they be separate institutions. Present circumstances are the only apology for such institutions. When a colored lad or girl can go to school or college with the white people of the country, it is best for all that they should do so. Hence, I am not for building up permanent separate institutions for colored people of any kind. Even in the matter of the college, therefore, in so far as the idea of permanent isolation is contemplated, I am opposed to your plan. The lesson now flashed upon the attention of the American people, the lesson which they must learn, or neglect to do so at their peril, is that “equal manhood means equal rights,” and further, that the American people must stand each for all and all for each, without respect to color or race. The spirit of the age is against all institutions based upon prejudice, or providing for prejudice of race. I, therefore, am opposed to doing anything looking to the perpetuity of prejudice. I expect to see the colored people of this country enjoying the same freedom, voting at the same ballot-box, using the same cartridge box, going to the same schools, attending the same churches, travelling in the same street-cars, in the same railroad-cars, on the same steamboats, proud of the same country, fighting the same foe, and enjoying the same peace and all its advantages. This is no new position with me. Having held it when the prospect was dark, I shall not relinquish it now when the clouds are disappearing and the heavens are bright.
But, supposing the college a desirable thing, I am opposed to obtaining it in the way proposed. As I understand the matter, you propose to establish a general collecting agency, persons to travel and solicit five hundred thousand dollars from the public, white as well as colored, to enable you to build a monument to the memory of your departed friend and benefactor, which monument you propose shall be in the form of a college, for the exclusive use of colored people. If I am right in this statement, I beg you to hear me a moment further.
A college is a college, and has its own peculiar claims, and ought to stand upon its own merits. A monument is a monument, and has its own peculiar claims and merits. The two things spring from different motives, and are suggestive of different ideas and sentiments. For a monument, by itself, and upon its own merits, I say good. For a college, by itself, (with the limitations already suggested,) and upon its own merits, I say good. But for a college-monument, or for a monument-college, I do not say good; for the things, however good separately, are incongruous and offensive when connected as now proposed. The whole scheme is derogatory to the character of the colored people of the United States. It carries on its front a distasteful implication. It looks to me like an attempt to wash the black man's face in the nation's tears for Abraham Lincoln! It places the paddle-wheels of the colored man's boat in the tide of the popular grief, with a view to his special advantage. I am for washing the black man's face, (that is, educating his mind,) for that is a good thing to be done, and I appreciate the nation's tears for Abraham Lincoln; but I am not so enterprising as to think of turning the nation's veneration for our martyred President into a means of advantage to the colored people, and of sending around the hat to a mourning public.
When the colored people want a college, let them beg for a college on its own merits, and in the name of the living, and I am with them. When they want a monument to perpetuate the memory of a good man, I am with them. But when they want to raise a college for themselves out of the general affection of the American people for the dead, I am not with them, and frankness requires me to say so in all earnestness. If these views are ill-founded, and you can show them to be so, I shall only be too happy to abandon them.
With best wishes and great respect for you, personally, I am, dear sir, very truly yours,
FREDERICK DOUGLASS.
THE FAIR OF THE AMERICAN INSTITUTE. The thirty-sixth annual fair of the American Institute was opened in New York on Tuesday evening of last week. Major Gen. Sickles gave the opening oration, which was well received by those present.
Among the curiosities on exhibition is an “In Memoriam” of Washington, got up by A. B. Waldron, who has devoted two hours a day for eleven months in making it. It is a portrait of the hero, and a collection of appropriate sentiments all expressed in bits of colored paper carefully cut out and affixed to a pasteboard surface.
There is also on exhibition a curious object called “The Hair Eagle” It is a representation of our national bird, made by a Brooklyn firm from the hair of President Lincoln, Vice-President Hamlin, Secretaries Seward, Chase, Welles, Stanton, Usher, Bates and Blair, Speaker Colfax, Senators Fessenden, Johnson, Foote, Sumner, Corwin, Grimes, Harris, Trumbull, Wilson, Sherman, Sprague, Lane, Howard, Foster, Harlan, Hicks, Hale, Morgan, Wade, Ramsey, Hone, Morrill and Wilkinson, and Mesdames Lincoln Welles, Bates and Blair.
Among those who have been reduced from affluence to squalid poverty by the results of war in Virginia, and who have been compelled to seek charity at the hands of Governor Peirpont, of that State, is a daughter of the late venerable Chief Justice Marshall. Before the war, this family was one of the wealthiest in the State. The husband of the lady referred to, being old and a cripple, and his family helpless, had sold his real estate, and invested his funds in railroad stocks and negroes, and now, at the close of the war, finds this source of income entirely removed from their control, and themselves reduced to the most abject poverty.
TROOPS FURNISHED. Provost Marshal General Fry states that Wisconsin has furnished ninety-six thousand troops to the Federal government, whose terms of service vary from three months to three years. This is about one-half of the arms-bearing population of the State. Indiana furnished 193,337, and Pennsylvania 361,939.
Official documents prove the facts of the horrible treatment by Tom Long, one of Governor Holden's magistrates, of the freed man, Richard Cotton, who was beaten on the head with a pistol by an official, then whipped with thirty-nine lashes and tied up by the two thumbs two hours, in accordance with the sentence by said Long. General Hardin has ordered the arrest of the guilty parties.
THE STATE CENSUS. The census returns from nearly three hundred cities and towns in Massachusetts, taken in May last, give a population in the aggregate of 1,147,985. The towns which remain to be heard from will probably swell the total population of the State to about 1,275,000. There has been a decrease in population, in the last five years, in 192 of the towns and cities reported, and an increase in 107.
There are in Washington nine colored day-schools, whose teachers are supported by tuition fees. There are also twenty five free schools, supported by Northern philanthropy, and eight free morning schools, taught by clerks in the different departments. The city of Washington, as a corporation, pays nothing for the education of its own colored people.
R. M. T. Hunter has been released from <illegible> Pulaski on parole.
<c04>
Selections.
VITALITY OF THE FREED NEGROES.
Want of space prevented us, in our last number, from fortifying our conclusions in regard to the probable, extinction of the freedmen, by a reference to the history of the colored population of the British West Indies. It was a prevalent supposition not many years ago, that emancipation had ruined the commerce and material prosperity of those islands. We imagine that the general impression at the present time, as to the population of those islands, is that it is dwindling away, and only kept up by the importation of coolies. Mr. Sewell's thorough work on “The Ordeal of Free Labor in the British West Indies,” showed conclusively that emancipation had advanced them commercially and materially, as well as socially and morally. It is our pleasure to exhibit the increased progress of the population, which has also resulted from emancipation. In Mr. Bryan Edwards' standard history of the British Colonies, a table of the populations of the different islands in 1791, including the Bahamas, but not including the Bermudas, St. Lucia, and Trinidad, gives as the total population of the rest of the islands 544,000, in round numbers. By Parliamentary returns for the year 1826 and neighboring years, the population of the same islands footed up only 689,000, that is, 135,000 more than in 1791, though between 1791 and 1807, when the slave trade to all British possessions was stopped, from 160,000 to 240,000 slaves must have been introduced and retained. This estimate of the number of slaves introduced may seem high, but Humboldt states that at the time of the French Revolution, 38,000 slaves, of whom these islands would take more than half, were annually absorbed by the British West India Colonies, and a Parliamentary return for the. two years of 1802 and 1803 gives an annual mean of 10,500 slaves imported into and retained in these islands. From 1826 to 1844, when the next census was taken, a period embracing eight years of slavery, four of apprenticeship, and six of freedom, the increase of the whole population in all the islands was 48,000 on a population of 734,000, or 3.5 per cent, for a period of ten years. The last Parliamentary return of the population of the British West Indies is for the year 1862. The total black and colored population was then 874,604. In 1844, no distinction was made between the white and the colored part of the population, except in Jamaica, St. Vincent, St. Lucia, and the Bahamas. If we take the white population in the other islands at the same number that it was in 1834, whatever error there will be will tend to reduce the real increase of the free colored between the years 1844 and 1862, since the white population in these islands somewhat increased between 1834 and 1844. Thus calculated, the white population in 1844 was 48,339 and the colored population was 733,736. The gain of the colored population in the eighteen years was 140.868. The number of coolie immigrants included in this number (estimating from the data given by Cochin for all the islands up to 1856, and from the numbers stated by other authorities as being in several of the islands in 1860) cannot be more than 45,000. The increase of the colored population from 1844 to 1862 will then be reduced to 95.800, which gives a decennial rate of increase of 7.37 per cent. This increase was made in spite of the general insalubrity of great portions of the islands, of which an idea can be gained from the fact that the annual mortality among the British troops is as high as one in twenty, and in spite of cholera epidemics in Jamaica and Barbados, which were said to have carried off nearly 60,000 inhabitants in all. The increase of the white population during the same period was not more than 4 per cent. If the accuracy of the return for Jamaica, which makes the population 66,000 greater than in 1844, and very much greater than Mr. Sewell estimated it in 1860, be questioned, we will throw Jamaica altogether out of consideration. Taking only the other islands, and calculating the increase by the same means as before, the increase, after deducting 25.000 for the coolies who may have swelled the sum, is 49,000 over a population of 373,000 in 1844, or at the rate of 7.37 per cent, for ten years. To sum up the results we have exhibited, while in 35 years of slavery the population of the British West Indies diminished one and a half to five percent every ten years, and in 18 years, two-thirds of which were passed under slavery or the apprentice system, it increased only at the rate of 3.5 in ten years, in the following 18 years of freedom, the colored population increased at the rate of 7.37—a rate more than double the preceding.-The Nation.

PARDON OF JEFFERSON DAVIS.
Appeal of the Members of the Mississippi Convention in behalf of Jeff. Davis and Ex-Gov. Clark.
The following address to the President was prepared and signed in the Mississippi State Convention before its adjournment:
JACKSON, Miss., Aug. 22d, 1865.
To the President of life United Slates:
The members of the Convention of the State of Mississippi, assembled for the purpose of amending the State Constitution so as to restore our relations with the Federal Government, as Mississippians and individuals, respectfully present the following petition:
Charles Clark, late acting Governor of this State, is, we learn, held in confinement by authority of the United States Government at Fort Pulaski. He is old, maimed, shattered in constitution and wrecked in fortune. He has long been known as a gentleman of high social position, of great worth, integrity and intelligence.
Jefferson Davis, lately the President of the States in rebellion against the Federal Government, is said to be in strict confinement, and debarred the privilege of corresponding or conversing with his family or friends. He is said to be suffering ill health, and to be threatened with the loss of sight. His family is reduced to poverty.
Here, resistance to the authority of the United States is at an end. There is no longer among out people any intention or wish to resist the Government, but an honest determination to return to their peaceful occupations, and to restore the prosperity that once blessed our State. The action of the Convention now in session leaves no doubt of the truth of this assertion. We believe that what is said of our own State is true of all the States lately in rebellion. 
Few of us coincided with Messrs. Davis and Clark in their political opinions. Most of us voted against secession, and for years opposed the State-rights party, yet none of us doubted that Mr. Davis acted upon an honest and sincere conviction that the theory of our government which he adopted was right—a theory once advocated by some of the best men our country produced. He was 10th to resort to a disruption of the Union as a mode of remedying what he thought to be wrong in the past, and guarding against other and more grievous wrongs which he believed to be impending. After the Convention assembled in this State had passed an ordinance of secession, he left the Senate of the United States reluctantly and with sorrow, believing, we are assured, that he was required to do so by his duty to the State, a due regard for consistency, and the political principles he had so long adhered to—the solemn, earnest, and patriotic appeals contained in his latest addresses to the Senate justify us in these opinions. It was well known to our people that he was not among the most ardent of his political associates.
In other times, leading Mississippians to victory, he gallantly fought and bled for the Union, and reflected honor and renown upon our State, as well as the whole country. We cannot be indifferent to his fate now, however much we differ from him in his political opinions, and we can but sympathize with him in his misfortunes.
When a war of sections began, inaugurated not so much by the action or appeals of individuals, as by the general uprising and enthusiasm of the masses, he was chosen with extraordinary unanimity, because be was known to be honest, sincere, and prudent, to preside over the States in revolt. He was the representative of the sentiment of the people of the States. His acts were those of the great body of the people. We respectfully and earnestly ask that our sins, the sins of the millions for whom and with whom he acted, may not be visited upon his head.
Now that our people are returning, heartily and cheerfully, to their allegiance, we are confident the pardon of the gentlemen we have mentioned will go very far to produce a more kindly feeling between the people of the North and the South, and rid us of much of that asperity which has arisen from the re-
<c05>
cent conflict. We believe, too, that the pardon of Mr. Davis would be an act of grateful magnanimity, becoming a powerful Government, whose military strength and resources have astonished the world, and whose claims to respect would rest not more upon its power than upon its acts of mercy in the hour of triumph. We submit that this act would elicit the applause and excite the admiration of all good men at home, and all good men and governments abroad.
We think the disasters the war has brought upon us will prevent the recurrence of rebellion. These disasters may well stand in the place of further punishment. They have reached us all. We recognize them in the desolation of our fields—in the ruin of our homesteads—the destruction of untold wealth—the terrible loss of life, and the sweeping away of almost all that makes a people great, prosperous, or happy. We therefore appeal, earnestly and respectfully, to the President, to extend to these gentlemen, in whose fate Mississippians especially feel so deep an interest, the same clemency which he has generously extended to so many of our people. 
[The above, it is stated, was signed by every member of the Convention.]

THE PRESIDENT'S ANTE-ROOM.
A New York city friend, of the philosophic contemplative order, once demonstrated to me that in all this world there were no richer fields for the study of human physiognomy and nature than the business rendezvous in Wall street, and the other teeming channels of trade in money, and trade generally, in the Empire city. But there “the mirrors of the soul”-the faces of the trading, speculating, peculating, lying and cheating multitude—reflect only one of the many human passions. There is a much more varied opportunity for observation and studies of this kind in this city. It is open to all that care to improve it. It is offered in the Presidential ante-rooms at the White House.
I remember well the feasts of humor I had regularly enjoyed in the executive lobby in the spring of 1861, when the rush of office-seekers was at its height, in the contemplation of the protracted trials of patience, hopes and fears, joy or wrath of the claimants of Presidential favors. Hence I could not resist the temptation, on passing the White House yesterday forenoon, of looking once more upon the scene where I then saw human assurance and ambition; selfishness and corruption; persistence and impudence flourish to such a wonderful degree. And what did I see? The picture of old, reproduced in its general features, but varying strikingly enough in its details. There were present about one hundred individuals of both sexes, of all ages, of every rank and station, in public and private life. They filled uncomfortably not only the waiting room proper, but all the balls, and even the rooms of the private secretaries. They stood or sat in groups and singly. There were Generals, Senators, Governors, and other distinguished personages, around whom the lesser lights gathered in devoted, listening clusters. Some, with great simplicity of manner, had squatted on the floor, hugging their knees and glancing wistfully about. Others were leaning in more or less graceful attitudes against walls, desks and tables, gaping, staring, stretching, evidently at a loss what to do with their bodies. Having but recently witnessed the stiff decorousness of royal ante-rooms in the old world, I could not help enjoying the extreme democratic abandon before me. One of the motley assemblage even felt so much at home as to indulge in a cheerful whistle.
Scanning face after face, it seemed as though I could without difficulty read the motives that attracted this mosaic of humanity thither from all parts of the country. I mean not that I could divine the particular wish or object, supposed or real, right or wrong, that made each watch the attendant in charge, of the door to the reception room with constant eagerness, but that the several countenances told in general terms, so to speaks, plainly enough, whether their respective possessors sought Presidential favor or clemency, or merely to gratify their curiosity, or to discharge official business. One element of the attendance defined itself with unmistakable clearness. I thought I could put my finger on each one in the crowd belonging to the class of reconstructed, recanting, professedly repentant rebels, that for months have been daily absorbing so much of the President's time by their supplications for pardon. I saw in ante-rebellion days leading Southerners in these same rooms and halls. I remember their loud, swaggering speeches, their slave-proud mien, their presumptuous, domineering manners. Where are those marked characteristics of the negro-driving chivalry? In their stead I perceived cast-down eyes; conversation in suppressed tones, shunning notice; humble yielding of precedence. Here was indeed the appearance of complete submissiveness. But of some this impression continued only while observation remained passive and superficial. Fixing your attention upon them, you could, once in a while, catch a darting glance from underneath the contracted brows, that told more of truth in an instant than the whole of their assumed bearing. They were mere flashes—but flashes that revealed glaringly inward hatred, thirsting vengeance, a rebellion of spirit as active as ever.
These individuals seemed to me truly representative illustrations of the present tendencies and practices of the leading classes in the subjugated States; recognizing the dire, inevitable necessity of temporary humiliation and submission to the dictates of the power that holds them down with an iron hand, but hoping to succeed through other means than armed resistance, and ready to shrink from nothing —reckless perjury, outright self-stultification nor flagrant hypocrisy—to achieve their purpose ultimately.

THE PRESIDENT'S POLICY.
And here I am brought to a painful subject that forces itself upon one’s mind even after but a brief sojourn in the capital. It is the universal apprehension—I may as well call it conviction—among the truest and best meaning public men connected with the Administration, of an early, general and disastrous failure of the President's plan of reconstruction now on trial in all the rebel States east of the Mississippi. It is a plain fact, standing out in bold relief, attracting one’s notice at once. It is coupled with the belief that the President will have speedy occasion for a more stringent assertion of purely military authority over all the rebel territory, and that unless he changes his policy before the meeting of Congress, there will be at once a wide breach between the Executive and the representatives in the national legislature of the party that placed him in power. There is, however, as yet, no positive ground for any fear that the President will adhere to his re-organization scheme if, instead of working a process of sound loyalization, it should prove only a shield, under which disloyalty in its various forms may gather new strength. It would be false to say that faith in him is not shaken, but it would be equally untrue to assert that it is lost. Public opinion here still gives him credit for meaning to do right. The loyal public can feel perfectly assured of his unrelenting, deadly hostility to slavery, although differing from him as to the means of making its destruction most final and lasting. It is true, as repeatedly stated in public prints, that he has expressed a willingness to change his policy, whenever its failure shall be fully proved, and hence there is as yet no reason for despondency.- Washington corr. Chicago Tribune.

TESTIMONY FROM ALABAMA.
It is a remarkable proof to me that the negro is sufficiently intelligent to take care of himself, that he actually does so under the press of present circumstances in Montgomery. Whites are idling about, thumb in the mouth, it may be doing a vast amount of ”head work,” but not a single stroke of the more practical sort, needed here in these times—labor with the hands. But the negroes are all at work, except now and then a few stragglers who are looking for work. You will be told by these sangaree suckers, loafing about bar-rooms, ”chopping straws and calling it politics,” that “the niggers won't work.” It’s a lie! I'm tired enough of hearing slander. The negroes are at work, all of them but those who are seeking work, and not only that, but they are the only natives here that have begun already to show a spirit of enterprise. You see them busy, active, hopeful, when their former owners are listless and despondent. To tell you the truth, my respectful regard for the negro increases with my acquaintance. The self-helpfulness, and the shifts of economy they show are their own inspiration—the natural instinct of the buoyant, though chastened spirit. I find them improving fast in freedom-Cor. of Cincinnati Commercial.
<c06>
The Most Wonderful Invention of the Age!
MORRILL'S
PETROLEUM STOVE.
One of the Most Brilliant Triumphs of American Genius.
IT COOKS, WASHES AND IRONS WITHOUT COAL, WOOD, OR GAS!
DOES the work easier, quicker, better, and with as little expense as any known method; and in its use, without a radiator, does not perceptibly affect the temperature of the room, while it may be used with a radiator to heat a room in a very short time. It is also perfectly free from soot, ashes and smoke, and makes no unpleasant smell.
Wardrooms No. 36 Bromfield St., Boston, Mass.
Baking in these stoves, instead of the old imperfect process, is rendered a certainty; the bread comes out of the oven in thirty minutes, with a fair brown crust, neither burnt nor dough, for the heat can be instantaneously regulated. Potatoes and large joints of meat are ”done to a turn.”
Broiling;-Mr. Morrill, the inventor, to use his <illegible> language,
“CHALLENGES THE WORLD
to produce a method by which a steak can be broiled that will compare with the Patent Broiler,” which always leaves the steak juicy, making even a though one tender. Not a drop of the fat or juice can possibly be wasted, although it is broiled by the pure sweet blaze coming in actual contact with the meat. Ironing is accomplished quite as satisfactorily; the heat being communicated to the interior of the iron, there is no roughness or dirt to trouble, as in irons heated on the face; and in the summer the heat is confined to the iron alone, instead of sweltering the ironer. Washing-day is bereft of half its troubles,-the stove, light and portable, can be carried out-doors even, in good weather, and the steam and disagreeable of washing in the house avoided. In fact, every kind of household labor can be accomplished with more certainly and economy, and with far less labor, than with coal or wood. To those confined to reoms requiring cooking done at home, these stoves must prove an invaluable blessing, the Petroleum costing less by one fourth than gas at two dollars per thousand feet, while the work is performed infinitely better. Young men out all day, wanting a quick heat on returning to their rooms,-families with children needing instant fire at night,-mechanics wanting early breakfasts, and HOT BISCUITS in thirty minutes’ time after lighting the fire,-housekeepers wanting heat in rooms without flues,-country houses,-in fact, all who value their time or money, or the health, comfort and convenience of themselves, wives and families, must eventually buy these stoves.
If you wish to save time, trouble and expense, buy the 

MORRILL PETROLEUM STOVE.
From Messrs E. D. and G. Draper, Manufactures, Hopedale, Mass.]
The undersigned have used Morrill's Patent “Erovapor Stove” in our families, and have thoroughly tested its merits in cooking, and many other families of our acquaintance have it in use, and are well satisfied with it. We consider it a very valuable improvement, and cheerfully recommend it for general use, especially for a summer cook-stove. We think it has never been surpassed for broiling and baking meats and baking bread, and is the best stove for heating flats for ironing we ever saw.
E.D.& G. DRAPER.
Hopedale. Mass., May 6, 1865.
[From Dr. J. Cheever, of Charlestown, Mass]
CHARLESTOWN, May 24, 1865.
MR.MOORE—Having fully tested the Erovapor Cooking Stove purchased of you two months since, and promised at that time to give you my opinion of it, after becoming fully satisfied with its merits or demerits, as the case may prove, I now, without hesitation, pronounce it far superior to any cooking apparatus I have ever seen. It not only proves to be all you recommended, but infinitely more, for not half of its advantages were named. In fact, it does not fail in any particular in being all that can be reasonably desired by any one after acquiring a little experience in its use.
JOSEPH CHEEVER, M.D.
[From Mr. Edward Perkins, Proprietor of the large <illegible> Establishment, Nos. 37 and 39, Congress Street, Boston.]
BOSTON, May 27, 1865.
TO THE AGENT OF THE MORUILL PETROLEUM STOVE Co.:
DEAR SIR-Having fully tested the new Petroleum Stove made by your Company, I am happy to bear testimony to its merits. I have them in use in my eating 
house, and find them superior to anything I know of for cooking purposes. It bakes biscuits and broils steaks splendidly, and indeed performs most admirably all that is claimed for it.
Wishing you every success, I remain yours, truly,
EDWARD PERKINS.
[From Rev. T. C. Potter, Pastor of the Methodist E. Church, South Reading, Mass. 
SOUTH READING, Mass.,, May 29, 1865.
TO THE PETROLEUM STOVE Co.:
Allow me a place upon your circular to make the following statement:-
For several weeks my family have been testing the uses and economy of your “single burners,” and find that for the common purposes of a family it excels everything else of the kind we have ever seen. In point of economy, it has cost us less than one and one-fourth cents per hour. My wife can do her ironing in less time than with a common stove, and avoid the necessity of being tortured with excessive heat. We have absented ourselves from the house for hours, and returned to find our beef or beans nicely baked, and ready for the table: and for baking all kinds of pastry, steaming, broiling, and toasting, I do not hesitate to say that I never have seen its equal. I intend to use it as a heater for my study, sparing it to the kitchen a short time when called for to prepare our meals. I have had no experience in the use of the ”double burner,” but should judge its utility must be in a corresponding ratio.
T. C. POTTER,
Pastor of M. E. Church.
[From Rev. J. P. Cushman. Pastor of Orthodox Congregational Church, Brighton, Mass]
BRIGHTON, June 2, 1865.
O. F. MORRLL:
DEAR SIR—After a brief experience with your stove, it gives me pleasure to say that it gives great satisfaction.
For baking, it answers better than any stove or range with which we are acquainted: for broiling, it is perhaps unsurpassed, and the arrangements for ironing prove very convenient, while the escape from the heat given out by an ordinary fire must, in the summer, make your stove a great comfort in the kitchen.
Very truly yours, J. P. CUSHMAN.
BOSTON, August 10, l865.
MESSERS. MORRILL & Co 
GENTLEMEN-I am often asked how I like my ”Petroleum Stove.” I would here state that it works admirably, and like it much. I have been a housekeeper more than forty years, and have, during that time, used nearly half the same number of cooking apparatus, such as ranges, cook-stoves, &c., but have never found any thing equal to this for summer use, and see no reason why they may not be used equally as well in winter. We can get break-fast with it—viz: boil tea-kettle, make tea, and cook steak, while a person would be building a are in a range. We have used ours since early in. June and have never found the least difficulty whatever. Certainly there is nothing that equals it in baking biscuit, bread, or pies.
Yours, truly, V. H. HEWES,
No. 3 Tremont Place.
MOUNT WASHINGTON, August 23, 1865.
SIR: I do certify that, with the thermometer at freezing point,(32 degrees,) I heated my office ten feet by seven) with one of Morrill's Petroleum Stoves, in five minutes, to such a degree that I was obliged to open the office door. And I would recommend them as the best and cheapest, most portable and safest stove for warming offices or small rooms that ever came under my observation.
Yours, &c., S. A. BATTISON,
Telegraph Operator, Summit of Mt. Washington, N.H.
IMPROVEMENT IN Champooing and Hair Dyeing
“WITHOUT SMUTTING.”
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER
WOULD inform the public that she has removed from 223 Washington Street, to
No. 31 WINTER STREET,
where she will attend to all diseases of the Hair.
She is sure to cure in nine cases out of ten, as she has for many years made the hair her study, and is sure there are none to excel her in producing a new growth of hair.
Her Restorative differs from that of any one else, being made from the roots and herbs of the forest.
She Champoos with a bark which does not grow in this country, and which is highly beneficial to the hair before using the Restorative, and will prevent the hair from turning grey.
She also has another for restoring grey hair to its natural color in nearly all cases. She is not afraid to speak of her Restoratives in any part of the world, as they are used in every city in the country. They are also packed for her customers to take to Europe with them, enough to last two or three years, as they often say they can get nothing abroad like them
MADAME CARTEAUX BANNISTER,
No. 31 Winter Street, Boston.
DR. DIO LEWIS'S FAMILY SCHOOL 
FOR YOUNG LADIES,
LEXINGTON, Mass
TWENTY superior Teachers, among whom are THEODORE D. WELD, formerly Principal of the Eagles-wood School, New Jersey, and I.N. CARLETON, formerly of Phillips's Academy, Andover.
Send for Catalogue and Circulars to Dr. LEWIS.
August 11.
