THE LIBERATOR
—IS PUBLISHED—
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
—AT—
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in advance.
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent.
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDMUND JACKSONS, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J. B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. No. 40. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1862. WHOLE No. 1652
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE RADICALS AND THE PRESIDENT.
The radicals have already fallen from enthusiasm to distrust in regard to the President's emancipation proclamation. The Times,-which went off at half cock about the document on Tuesday, seems to have determined to take a little time for reflection, and so said not a word upon the subject yesterday. The Tribune-which has been cursing and abusing the President for some time past, indicting him for malfeasance in office, accusing him of not executing the laws, charging him with the murder of the riotous negroes at New Orleans, and hinting to him that he had disgusted everybody by his inefficiency, and that it was the prayer of twenty millions that he should resign, came out strong with a “God bless Abraham Lincoln” on Tuesday; but yesterday, having reconsidered the matter, it indulges in wiggle-waggle, and exclaims, “God bless Abraham Lincoln! if everything turns out as we desire, and if he changes his Cabinet and his generals, and if this proclamation is really so great a thing as we think, and if the President is really what we want him to be.” “What a fall is here, my countrymen!” These news-papers show the workings of the radical mind. The fact is that the Tribune, will come out dead against this proclamation before many weeks, and will accuse the President of trickery and double-dealing, unless all the demands of the radicals are granted, and the Cabinet is reconstructed from such rotten timber as Sumner, Wade, Wilson and Greeley, with the foolish Fremont as Commander-in-Chief of the Army, and Phelps, Wadsworth and Hunter in high commands. What the radicals desire is not merely an emancipation proclamation. Wendell Phillips expressed their wishes through the Independent some time ago, in the simple phrase, “Give us place”. To satisfy them, by giving them what they demand, is as impossible as to stop the ravings of a madman by complying with his insane desires. The day after the President sent to Congress his message recommending an offer of compensation for the slaves of Border States, the radical press praised God and blessed Abraham Lincoln in the same profane, crazy style as on Tuesday last. But what followed? Why, the radicals in Congress at first treated the President's message with profound contempt, the Senate even refusing to hear it read, and finally passed his resolution without making it practical by the necessary appropriation, and in a few days the radical papers were more insolent, clamorous and abusive than ever. Are the lessons of experience nothing? Is the country to be utterly destroyed before the real character of the radicals is fully understood? Are all the outrageous demands of this revolutionary faction to be granted, and its leaders to sit grinning, like modern Neros, upon the ruins of this great nation? Time alone can decide, and it is not for us to turn prophet or sit upon the tripod.-New York Herald.

THE PROCLAMATION.
Nothing serves in the long run like truth, fairness, sincerity and honesty—the calling a spade a spade: and we apprehend a course in this spirit is the only way in which to deal with President Lincoln's Proclamation. So far as we can judge, since the day of Fort Sumter, no event has fallen with such stunning effect on the Conservative mind; and it is asking where to go and what to do. Let us deal with things as they are, as faithfully as we may.
After pondering on this singularly worded Proclamation, we can come to no other conclusion, than that which has been plainly expressed by the Newburyport Herald, a Conservative Republican print: “We say then,” its words are, “the Proclamation is one of universal emancipation—nothing more and nothing less, and the war must be just what the <illegible> charged it to be originally—a war for the abolition of slavery. With deference we add a qualification, which we regard as an important and vital one, to wit: officials, like individuals, are subject to the supreme law of the Constitution, which the sovereignty, the People, ordained; and President Lincoln can make this a war for the abolition of slavery as far as the LAW can make it such, and no further. In this great instrument his power begins and ends. But so far as the individual is concerned, we must agree with the Herald, that his words make the war one for the abolition of slavery.
Again: it is no use to attempt to cover anything up, to attempt to make black white, but the only way is to look at matters as they really stand. Heretofore, with the solemn oaths of President Lincoln; with the words of his inaugural, of his messages, letters, private assurance with the language of Congress: with the words of the Secretary of State and other members of the Cabinet; with the assurances of Prominent Republican leaders, to justify us, we have held that it was perversion, downright falsehood, doing detriment to the cause of the country, when the revolutionary radicals, like Phillips, Sumner, Garrison, Lovejoy and others, held the President really on their side, and were for making this a war for the negro in defiance of the Constitution; and we have held up their course as detrimental to that union of good and true men that was a necessity to the salvation of the republic; holding the paramount work to be, not to square the social status of the negro race according to the ideas of theorists, but to put down a gigantic rebellion against the best of governments, by using the powers vested in the Constitution in cases of treason and that the demand of this awful hour was, as from the Almighty, to drop side issues as to policy until the self-preservation question was decided, whether there would be a government under which there could be a policy. The language of President Lincoln meant fidelity to the Constitution, or it meant nothing but deception to honest men. All this is now over and gone. The Proclamation, if it is impotent in its effect on the slaves, is valid and potent as to his own political status: it drops him down to a hard pan radical bottom. It settles the matter against the conservative view, and wholly on the side of the emancipational view. On this ponton he has crossed the Rubicon. It makes good, undeniably, all that this set have said as to his intentions. Whatever there was of absurdity, of folly, of impotency, of unconstitutionality, in the proclamations of Fremont, of Phelps, and of Hunter, may be found in this Proclamation. We never impugned the logic of the Garrison set, as to the Constitution for it rose from their premise sound, perfect and impregnable. It handled the Constitution as a compact with hell, and an enemy of the lion sort in their path. They first mercilessly ground it to powder, and going out from it and shaking its dishonored dust from their feet, they said, “No Union with Slaveholders!” They said it was a violation of the Higher Law in the Fathers to unite in the bonds of unity with Washington and Sumter, and they said it is now a violation of the Higher Law to be in a country with a Holt and a Crittenden. Let not President Lincoln's friends, as the noble nation-
<c02>
al men continue to rally round the flag, insult their intelligence by claiming the Proclamation to be constitutional. There is as much of the Constitution in it as there is in Sumner's “wipe out the State” policy, or in Phillips's scheme to fill the seats of members of fifteen slaveholding States with Senators and Representatives of the negro race, and no more. This is where the President is drifting. This is the present import of the Proclamation—that Abraham Lincoln has cast himself from the high place of President of the country, into the hands of the radical revolutionary party.—Boston Post.
In the first place, it strikes us, the President has no more Constitutional Power to issue such a Proclamation than any other man. If he has any Constitutional authority to free negroes, he has a corresponding Constitutional authority to enslave them. The power exercised is an assumption, therefore, throughout, and hence is mere brutum fubmen, the more, therefore, to be deplored, as mere paper thunder, because it but re-excites, re-arouses and demonizes the South—in banishing all hope, and in compelling despair. The power, if it exists, is a mere military power, independent of and over the Constitution— inasmuch as it changes the character of our civil, Constitutional Government, into a mere Abolition Military Despotism.
In the next place, what strikes us is the inopportune moment of the utterance. The rebels have, within twenty days, been almost in Washington, where the President sits in the White House; and even now, we are told from Washington, Washington is so unsafe, that Sigel and Heintzelman's corps are indispensable in or about the forts, for its preservation,—while in the West, Cincinnati has to be fortified to be safe, and Louisville is so unsafe that the women and children have been warned to flee from it. In such a crisis, to proclaim freedom for slaves in Texas, Mississippi, Georgia, Alabama, or Arkansas, is about as absurd as when General Hunter, shivering on the coast of South Carolina, proclaimed slaves free in Georgia, Alabama and Florida. The whole world will laugh at the impotence of this mere Paper Thunder,-the European world,-as well as the rebels, in their yet untouched States and strongholds.
The utterance of such a Proclamation, under existing circumstances, so it seems to us, will add 300,000 rebel soldiers to the rebellion, and be on the instant worth 30,000 men to the rebel Bragg in Kentucky.
The President,—so it seems to us once more,—is, in the utterance of this Proclamation, doing his best to divide the Northern States, and to split them up into parties, as well as in prolonging the war indefinitely.—New York Express.
President Lincoln is a very Blondin in the art of political balancing. When in his elevated position a portion of the balancing pole is thrown out on the left side, he deftly projects an equal weight of it on the right. Thus he maintains his equilibrium. While he was humoring the radicals in the process of degrading Gen. McClellan, he withheld the Proclamation for which they so loudly clamored. When the unrelenting necessities of war compelled him to restore that General to command, he found it necessary to pacify this exacting and meddlesome faction, and he throws a sop to the barking three-mouthed Cerberus in the shape of a new proclamation.
This new proclamation really amounts to little. The President proclaims, in substance, that on the first of next January he will issue still another Proclamation, putting in force the main provisions of the confiscation act. It is unbecoming the dignity of a great government to make such menaces as to what it will hereafter do in territory of which a powerful armed foe disputes the jurisdiction. If, on the first of next January, the war is substantially ended, there would be some reason in giving the insurgents their election between submission and civil penalties. But they will laugh such offers to scorn so long as they can confront us with great armies. That part of the proclamation which relates to slaves coming within our lines is particularly weak. The law is the same that it was several months ago. If a Proclamation on this point is necessary, why was it so long delayed? Its issue at this late day looks like a concession to the radical clamor.—N. Y. World.
President Lincoln has swung loose from the constitutional moorings of his inaugural address and his messages at the opening of the two successive sessions of Congress under his administration. He is fully adrift on the current of radical fanaticism. We demand to be informed whence the President derives his power to issue any such Proclamation as he has now published? Not from the Constitution surely, for it is in plain violation of some of its leading provisions. Not from the laws of war, for the laws of war tolerate no such proceeding. Not even from the so-called confiscation act,-Ibid.
The first question, we presume, which will occur to candid men and sound patriots, upon reading the latest proclamation of Mr. Lincoln—for really they are innumerous—will be-What he expects to do with it? Mr. Lincoln must know, as well as other people, we should think, that no practical effects, to use one of his own phrases, can follow, even if he had done anything in this document, which really he has not. The proclamation is minatory, and nothing more. Under that strong radical “pressure,” of which he complained so keenly on a recent occasion, he seems to have been brought up at last to the point of declaring that he will do something hereafter, if the rebels do not behave themselves according to his wishes. But as he defers the execution of this design for the long period of three months,—and months are now almost centuries in effects if not in duration,—we may patiently wait, it seems to us, for whatever may happen in the mean-time.
In this view of the case, the radical pressure appears to have squeezed out nothing of consequence, however threatening the future may prove. We do not feel in any humor to take up seriously, for the moment, a document so thoroughly prospective and so little practical in its aspect, which intervening circumstances may make so completely null and void to his conviction, as it is now, and must be, by and by, in fact. Mr. Lincoln may think it worth while to keep up this show of compliance to the radicals; but be cannot help being aware, that such documents can penetrate but a little way over the Southern border, and can excite only derision where they penetrate. As to freeing slaves by such a paper pronunciamento-t will have no more effect upon the slaves in the Southern States, than if Mr. Lincoln should order the north wind to blow continuously over the Southern fields, in order to produce a change in the atmosphere, or in the usual crops of that region of the country. At all events, whatever fruits may follow from a document so uncertain in scope and point of time, the country may safely wait for the lapse of the months yet in store,-confident that they will pass, at least, whatever circumstances may tend to vary the course of coming events.
<c03>
In reality, we do not now recall any fact tending to show that Mr. Lincoln's proclamations have had the slightest influence in the South, whatever consequences may have resulted from their promulgation at the North. Of this fact he seemed well aware himself, when he informed the “Progressive Friends” that a document of this species must fall still-born at the very outskirts of a hostile territory, of which we had no practical hold; and to our judgment the moment for such a manifesto would seem even less propitious now, than at that period. He seems also to have forgotten another statement made by him we believe on the same occasion, that such a proclamation would lose the Government 50,000 soldiers from the Border States. If, however, the radicals are satisfied with this prolongation of their agonies through a period so liable to mutations as the coming quarter, we do not know why our composure should be at present disturbed. In fine, notwithstanding any number of species of proclamations, we rest our true Union faith upon these following plain propositions: If the rebellion is speedily brought to a close, slavery in the States will remain undisturbed. If the war proceed through Mr. Lincoln's administration, slavery will remain equally undisturbed. If separation of the States should be the result, then certainly it will continue undisturbed.—Boston Courier.
Mr. Lincoln has yielded to the radical pressure, and issued a Proclamation. It is, on the whole, a curious document. We have no inclination to-day to discuss its wisdom, or the probabilities of the effect it will produce in rebeldom. We have only anticipations of evil from it, and regard it, as will an immense majority (!!) of the people of the North, with profound regret.
It will be observed that the President postpones the day for his Proclamation of freedom to take effect, until the first day of January next. He appears to regard it in the light of a threat rather than a weapon of war, and it would seem that he anticipates some effect on the minds of the rebellious men of the South, from connecting with the threat a proposal to free slaves on the compensation principle which he suggested to the last Congress. That it will have any such effect, no one who appreciates the state of the rebels can have much hope. The only result which an adherence to the principles of this Proclamation can lead to is a continuation of the war, in a dark future, in which the end is beyond our vision.
One effect of this Proclamation will be to make it necessary for the lines to be drawn distinctly between the supporters and the opponents of the administration. We take it for granted that the Republican Convention at Syracuse to-morrow will endorse the President's policy, and nominate candidates on that platform.—N. Y. Journal of Commerce.
The President has at last weakly yielded to the “pressure” upon him, about which he has so bitterly complained, and issued his Proclamation of negro emancipation.
It is not yet a month since he announced his purpose to “save the Union in the shortest way under the Constitution” He now announces his purpose to save it by overriding the Constitution.
For he has no constitutional power to issue this Proclamation of emancipation—none whatever. The Constitution forbids it by its spirit from beginning to end. And the President has no authority not derived from the Constitution—none whatever. He is himself the creature of the Constitution.
We trust it will serve to shorten the war. It is the instrumentality by which Abolitionism has undertaken that the war should be closed in thirty days at the farthest. Indeed, we have been told that under it the President would be able to stamp armies out of the earth. Let him stamp at once, for we are anxious to see the flaming giants of Abolitionism throwing themselves into the fight, and driving rebellion in dismay before them, as promised. We are anxious to behold the stupendous and magnificent results which were to flow, like a mighty stream, from the Proclamation. Surely, we shall not be utterly and totally deceived as to these results.—Chicago Times.
Greeley, Sumner & Co. have triumphed. Abolitionism is rampant in the Administration, in Congress, wherever their influence could prevail. The Proclamation of the President is an outrage upon the humanity and good sense of the country, to say nothing of its gross unconstitutionality. Now, then, the negroes have a chance—or will have, after the first of January. They may rise, if they will, and massacre white men, women and children, till their hands are smeared and their appetites glutted with blood. They may do it with impunity—for they have the assurance of the President of the United States that the government “will do no act or acts to repress them in any efforts they may make for their actual freedom.”
The Proclamation is one of general emancipation. In the States in rebellion, the negroes are proclaimed free without compensation; in the loyal slave States, if there shall be any at that time, the slaves are to be paid for at a fixed compensation, the President says, although there is not a dollar in the treasury to do it with. He is remarkably liberal with what is not his—the people's money-and reminds one of the Devil offering all the kingdoms of the earth when he didn't own a foot of it.
In the name of the Constitution, of Humanity and of Wisdom, we solemnly protest against this Proclamation! And we prophesy nothing but evil as its legitimate result.—Harrisburg (Pa.) Union.
In a column of balderdash on the Proclamation, Greeley says he trembles at the awful responsibility. And well he may. He is one of the “pressure” party who have yet got to render an account to the people.
It is estimated that the President's Proclamation will be worth at least 30,000 men to Bragg in Kentucky.
In all our exchanges we have not yet seen one hearty rejoicing at the recent Proclamation. It is either severely denounced or ingeniously palliated.
People will look anxiously now at the highways and byeways to see the swarms GOV. Andrew talked about as the result of an emancipation Proclamation. The Governor, meanwhile, is “swarming” by himself at Altoona.
We hope Horace Greeley will do his utmost to trot out the 900,000 Wide-Awakes he has been prating about so long. They have got their Proclamation. Now let them find their muskets.—Boston Post
The Proclamation was probably issued to operate upon the fall elections, and to save the Abolitionists from defeat. They see the uprising of the people, and they fear it,—as well they may. Salt will not save their despotic (!) cause. The people are determined to put down the rebels at the South, and the agitators at the North. Look out for the engine while the bell rings! Clear the track, for the people are coming down the home stretch at a fearful pace!—Boston Herald.
<c04>
Selections.
THE THINGS THAT MAKE FOR PEACE.
BY GAILE HAMILTON.
What we have most to fear in this war is not iron rams nor infernal machines, but the stupidity and wickedness of our own selves. It is this which prolongs, and must prolong, the war more than anything which the rebels can bring into the field, or sail or sink in the water. Such a paragraph as the following, from the New York Times is full of shot and shell:—
“A prominent gentleman, and a Republican officeholder, who has just returned from Cincinnati and other Western points, reports a general development of an intense anti-abolition sentiment in all quarters of the West, since Wendell Phillips riot in Cincinnati. This feeling, he reports, is based on the popular repugnance to ‘negro equality,’ toward which the abolitionists are supposed to be tending—no white man being so poor in his own esteem as not to feel himself ‘better than a nigger.”
We have no right to expect peace, we should have no desire for peace, so long as such a frame of mind remains. If a year of war has done no more for us than this,—if a year of war leaves us still in such bonds of iniquity,—a thirty years' war will hardly more than free us, and I pray that the war may never cease till we are free. I should esteem as the greatest curse with which this nation could be accursed, the coming of a peace when there is no peace. We welcomed this war with a solemn joy, because we believed its crimson hand would scatter broadcast over our country the seeds of a new life. We believed that the day of the Lord was nigh, when he would either wrench up the evil or wrench up the nation. We cannot think the last. We cannot yet read a handwriting on the wall, “God hath numbered thy kingdom, and finished it”; nor can we believe that he has shaken this nation from centre to circumference only to let us settle on our lees once more, with our taste remaining in us, and our scent not changed. Surely, there is a future for us only waiting our eye and touch. And if in the nation, the paltry and pitiful idea, couched in the closing paragraph which I have quoted, still obtains, we shall have no peace yet, though Donelson has slain his thousands, and Pittsburg his ten thousands. That miserable paganism must be scourged out of us. We must be driven by ten, and ten times ten plagues, if need be, to recognize that God hath made of one blood all the nations of the earth. The hire of our laborers which has been kept back by fraud crieth, and that cry has entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth. In his hand there is a cup, and the wine is red; and we, in such case, the most wicked upon the face of the earth, shall wring out and drink the dregs thereof, if we shut our ears to that exceeding bitter cry. In the thunders of the cannonade that roll from shore to shore, I hear the voice of the Lord: “Understand, ye brutish among the people, and ye fools, when will ye be wise?” Every stalwart form that sinks down upon the battle-field, or wastes away in the hospital, is a messenger from God, saying unto us, “Turn ye, turn ye, for why will ye die?” Let the land be sown thicker yet with graves. Let the bolts of Divine wrath descend swift and ceaseless, till through all the land there shall not be a house in which there is not one dead, rather than the hurt of the daughter of my people should be slightly healed! If the sword should be sheathed before slavery receives its death-blow, before its vile image falls face downward on the threshold, before our respect and deference and tenderness for it are obliterated, and its name and memory uprooted, cast out, and trodden under foot of men, I should believe that God had reserved us to a day of fiercer wrath and more signal destruction. I should believe that he had given us this last golden opportunity to rid ourselves of an incubus, a shame, a crime, and that we, failing to embrace it, had incurred the terrible doom: He is joined to his idols, let him alone.
So it seems to me that we are not yet ready for peace, even if peace were ready for us. We shall not be ready for it so long as we go a-whoring after caste, and color, and other false gods. The war has not yet done for us what we hoped, and prayed, and worked for such a war to do. It has broken up our idols, but it has not extirpated idolatry from our hearts. If it should cease to-day, I greatly fear that we should go wallowing in the mire again to-morrow. We are not yet as a people brought straight up to an out-and-out abhorrence of slavery for its own sake. We have not yet been set long enough face to face with its barbarism. We have not yet been lashed close enough, cheek to cheek, with its body of death. Its slime and stench have not gone deep enough into the secret place where our souls abide, and turned them sick with loathing. We execrate the derangement and devastation which it has wrought in our homes, but we are not half awake to the horrible crimes which it has committed against the wretched race that it has so long ground in its prison-house of despair. It lifts its head from bending over their prostrate forms, lifts its hand dripping with our brother's blood, and turns its glowering gaze on us, and leaves its baleful finger-prints on our door-posts, and we spring up shuddering, to thrust it back; but a simple folk, whose only power to resist was patience to endure; a mirthful people, made pathetic and apathetic through woe; an affectionate people, borne down and held down, even, by their affections, hold out chained hands, dumb hands, beseechingly to us. Not only because we will not be slaves, but because they shall be free, should our swords leap from the scabbard, and our cannon belch forth death. Down into the valley of the Shadow where they have walked so long, that sword-shine has gleamed, that cannon-roar has echoed, and carried light and hope for their darkness and dole. It belongs to us to keep keen blades and strong arms, till hope has become fruition. It is not enough that we fight to preserve our government. We must fight to purify it. We should fight not only for our but for the lives of these little ones. We must not only break the heathen, but uphold the Christ. God will certainty not forget these poor who have cried day and night unto him. I tell you that he will avenge them speedily; and if he does not avenge them by us, he will avenge them on us. If we do not fight for God, we shall fight against him; and if haply we be found to fight against God, we shall surely be on the losing side.
We do ill when we merge the moral aspects of this war in its political aspects. We must act politically, but we should think morally. And only when our politics are moral can they be truly politic. Good morals may not always be good politics, but bad morals can never be. We cannot free slaves and because we think they ought to be free, but we can think they ought to be free. We can bring our opinions up abreast of our powers, and shoot our desires and designs world-wide beyond them. We can press, with our public spirit, and our public opinion,
<c05>
and our private deeds, close up behind the slowly-advancing ranks of our soldiers and our law-makers, and receive with open hands the panting fugitives who came to them slaves, and whom they pass over to us men. These outraged people have demands upon us, though they do not know it. They are grateful to us, though we only discharge a late duty. We can and should recognize their claims. We should pay, not give. Liberty is their due. Education is their birthright. Withheld, it has not been forfeited. More than this, we should urge on our soldiers and law-makers to greater deeds. Our thoughts should be continually in advance of them, though our acts can only follow in their wake. Let this idle, brutal and madly stupid talk of fanaticism, and abolition, and emancipation cease. Emancipation is the touchstone of this nation. By this sign shall it be known whether we work the works of God or of the devil. The government that we are fighting to uphold is not the old hulk dismantled, water-logged, rolling helpless, becalmed on slavery's dead sea of Sargossa, but a new, strong, oaken-ribbed, iron-clad man of war, with her steam up, her port-holes open, her banner streaming-bearing down with her whole fire, and force, and speed, and strength, upon that mystery of iniquity; and her sealed orders are to loose the bonds of the oppressor, and let the oppressed go free.
What matters it though we do not yet know what shall be done with these freedmen of the Republic? The best way to find out what future duty will be is to do present duty. Present duty is to free the slaves as fast as possible, and educate them as fast as they are free, and keep our eyes open all the while. If we do not do this, we are more guilty than the slaveholders. They did but accept slavery thrust upon them. We shall reject liberty thrust upon us. God provided himself a lamb when he would receive sacrifice. ”Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulcher?” asked the mournful women, for the stone was very great. But when they came to the sepulchre, lo! the angel of the Lord had already descended from heaven, and rolled away the stone. So let us go with sweet spices, not to embalm a dead, but to anoint a risen Lord in the person of these little ones. Never fear but that we shall not only find the stone rolled back, but where we looked to see a stark corse, and garments of the grave, we shall stand face to face with an angel, whose countenance shall be like lightning, and his raiment white as snow; and so this sepulchre of death shall be the temple of the Lord of life!—Congregationalist.

THE CRY OF ABOLITION.
The following significant article is from the Nashville (Tenn.) Union. Had it appeared in any Northern paper, it would doubtless have been denounced at once as incendiary, and misrepresenting the sound, patriotic policy to be followed in conducting the war:—
NEGRO AGITATORS —AN ARTICLE FOR THE PARTICULAR ATTENTION OF THE PRESS. The conservatives are the most pertinacious persons in the world in forcing people to discuss the everlasting negro question. They refuse the nation any rest whatever of the eternal monotony of the song of slavery. They raise the cry of negro! negro! negro! continually. If a tax be proposed, they fear that it will be unjustly burdening to slave property. If an expenditure is to be made, they fear that somebody's slave will be run off. If a rebel is arrested, they fear that his negroes will become demoralized and dangerous without their master. If a black pilot should run off a rebel vessel, they dread receiving him, lest it should encourage runaway negroes. If a free school be opened, the negroes should learn mischief. If a rebel's negroes be found raising corn for the rebel army, they are opposed to taking them for fear of disturbing the “guarantees of the Constitution.”
If a loyal man says that he would see slavery perish to save the Union, they tell you that such sentiments will incite the negroes to insurrection. If a solitary measure of peace or war can be proposed which your conservatism will not connect in some way or other with the negro question, we do not know what it can be. The most absurd thing in the whole matter is, that these same radical conservatives, whose very “breath is agitation” and who would become extinct if slavery were destroyed, are forever complaining that other people will talk of slavery. These men, who agitate from morning till night, reproach others for agitating. We tell these gentlemen very positively that we cannot and will not allow them to enjoy a monopoly of this agitation.
If you are for the Union and against the discussion of slavery, then help us save the Union, and let slavery take care of itself amid the fortunes of war. If its violence and vicissitudes destroy it, let it be destroyed; if otherwise, then very well; but we cannot stop the work of crushing out the rebellion to read Dred Scott decisions, or Missouri Compromises, or Crittenden resolutions. We mean to kill out the rebellion. We mean to destroy all the agencies used to promote and sustain the rebellion, and we don't intend to stop one moment to consider whether anybody's negro runs off on account of what we do. It is useless for conservatives to keep up this cry of slavery. Everybody understands it as a stale trick, which means anything or nothing. Our firm belief is, that loyal men have something more important to attend to at present, than to bother themselves about the security of rebels’ negroes.

IGNORING THE EVILS OF SLAVERY.
The following is from the Fast Day sermon of Rev. Randolph Campbell, pastor of the Prospect Street (Presbyterian) Church, Newburyport. After alluding to the fact that previous to the outbreaking of this rebellion, large numbers of the Church and ministry held the opinion that the wisest course to be pursued was to trust the whole affair of emancipation to the silent operation of Gospel principles, he thus proceeds:—
“Let me here frankly confess this was my own judgment, and remained such till this rebellion began its fearful tragedy. Yea, I rejoiced in the Southern Aid Society because it sent earnest, godly ministers over the South to preach the Gospel, observing a judicious silence respecting the evils of American slavery. And for that admirable institution, the American Tract Society, I gave hearty thanks to God, because through its colporteurs and publications it pursued a similar course. As an honest Old School Presbyterian, I gloried in the wisdom of the Old School General Assembly, because it threw all its mighty influence in the same direction until the very last year, when at its annual sessions it dared, in the person of the venerable Dr. Spring, to give its voice for the Government against the rebellion. And then it appeared that that venerable Assembly must also put its neck under the yoke to slavedom, and repress the righteous utterance, or be denounced as abolitionized, and so abandoned.
And now, in the experience of the past year, this
<c06>
is the question which Providence has put to me What doth it profit? this preaching Gospel principles, and still utterly ignoring the evils of American slavery? What doth it profit? Did all the forth-putting of all this mighty energy to infuse Gospel principles, ignoring the evils of slavery, improve the spirit of our Southern brethren, alleviate the evils in question, and increase the love of liberty? Just the reverse. Therefore again I ask, What doth it profit, this ignoring the evils of American slavery? Let the great conspiracy, of thirty years' growth, and the outcropping rebellion, answer the question. Let the terrific scenes of numerous battle-fields, especially of Pea Ridge and Shiloh, answer the question. Let the groans of the dying and the heaps of the dead strown over acres on acres of bloody fields, the offering which the free North has already laid upon the altar of this great Moloch of American slavery, answer the question. No very comforting experience, this, of trusting Emancipation to the silent operation of Gospel principles. The Fathers and Founders of this Republic, and the venerable Fathers of the Presbyterian Church, as far down as 1818, spoke out their solemn judgment on American slavery; spoke North and South the same; but King Cotton prospered, and grew restive and intolerant, and so the children and children's children concluded to try the silent operation of Gospel principles.”

SLAVERY AND THE WAR.
At a war meeting for enlisting recruits, held at South Seituate, on Tuesday evening, Sept. 9th, Hon. B. W. Harris, of East Bridgewater, was present, and addressed the meeting. Upon the subject of slavery he spoke substantially as follows:—
“No honest thinking Northern man will, at this late day, have the hardihood to deny that the accursed institution of slavery is the cause of all our national woes. It assails the genius and spirit of institutions founded in the interests of universal freedom. It has reached that period in its existence, when it must be sole, undisputed despot, or its supremacy will be lost, and overthrow will be its doom. It can no longer hold divided power in a government which recognizes the God-given right of human liberty. To the ballot it dares no longer trust itself-and it has freely invoked the aid of cruel, relentless, civil war. Its choice must be our choice. We have no alternative—and since it has chosen to trust its fate to the stern decrees of war, it must abide the issues of war.
The rights and weapons of war are ours also, and we should not content ourselves with simply overpowering our enemy—with conquering a delusive peace, leaving the fatal cause in active operation for future disaster. We should strike blows for the future of our country as well as for its present, and our blows should find the heart of the rebellion, and pour out the last drop of blood.
As slavery is the cause of the rebellion, so is it also its great magazine of resources. With slavery our enemy is strong to contend, and may long defy us—without slavery he would be powerless before the armies of freedom. Shall we not then, like true men and soldiers, recognize slavery as our real foe, and strike deadly blows upon its impious, rebellious head?
If, in the defence of these institutions of government, the freest and best that God in His providence has vouchsafed to men, slavery, the one great inconsistent, overshadowing evil which has disgraced us in the eyes of the world as a nation, shall be forever overthrown and perish, we shall find abundant cause for consolation for all our sufferings and sacrifices in the single reflection, that we have forever silenced, upon one vast continent at least, the wail of the bondman, and thereby secured the respect of the world, the homage of future generations, and the approving smiles of Heaven.”

LETTER FROM AN ARMY CHAPLAIN.
The following is an extract from the letter of an army chaplain, dated camp near Russelville, Alabama, August 22, 1862:—
“Here, as much as any place in the South, the rich planters abound, and slavery has struck its fangs into the vitals of the black man. You see among the enslaved every hue of color, from the fairest skin, blue eyes, light hair, to the jet black, under the crushing heel of that despotism that would make slaves of us all. Up to the time of the Confiscation act of Congress, we were wont to see our commanders driving from our camps any blacks that came to or within our lines. Oh, how I have felt when I have seen these poor creatures thus driven back into slavery! But, thank God, it is different now, and the men, women and children are flocking to our camps.
The men are employed as cooks, teamsters, &c. We are not guarding rebel property as formerly, and paying four or five prices for some of the necessaries, such as milk, butter, eggs, vegetables, &c., &c., but get them at reasonable prices. Had the Confiscation bill been passed last January, and carried into effect, I believe the South would by this time have been subjugated, as they could not have raised produce to subsist themselves or their armies. Their producers would, thousands of them, have been free. There is nothing that the government has done that has so weakened the rebellion as the act of confiscation. It is attacking its very vitals. The slave owners are running their slaves south of our lines. But they have a liking for freedom, and therefore the stampede to our lines. Almost every day since we have been in the mountains, men are fleeing to our lines to avoid the rebel conscription. Some fifty have come in within the last week. A party of four came in last night, and say there are a hundred and twenty-five on their way to our lines, who wish to enter our army. The poor are loyal to our government without an exception, save the miserable scum of towns and cities, who are the employed tools of the rich to do every evil work. The tales of suffering related by the refugees are affecting. Some of them have come over one hundred miles, and avoided roads, keeping in the woods and by-places, subsisting on fruit and green corn, and travelling only at night. The South is under a reign of terror. May God give us victories until there shall not be left a rebel to lift his hydra head, or wag his tongue against our government!”
The Abolitionists from the first have seen the condition of the country in its true light, and believing the war was made to sustain slavery, they think the rational way to conduct it on our part, and sustain the Constitution and Government thus attacked by slavery, is to destroy slavery itself.
On the other side, the Democratic party, seeing their destruction as a party in the overthrow of slavery, have joined the slaveholders in its support, and have scared our timid government into a course that threatens our very existence as a nation.
The difference between the Abolitionists and their democratic revilers is, they do not believe that slavery is a divine institution, the preservation of which is paramount to that of the country.
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof."
"I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies hare power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory."-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
MERITED TRIBUTE TO CHARLES SUMNER. 
On the evening before the session of the recent Republican State Convention at Worcester, the Hon. T. D. ELIOT, of New Bedford, made an eloquent and effective speech on the state of the nation, in the course of which he paid the following merited tribute to the PRACTICAL LEGISLATIVE TALENT Of Mr. Sumner:-
I have spoken of Mr. Sumner, and there are some things that should be said concerning him. During all his Senatorial life, he has been unable to make available his thorough business abilities, until this present session of Congress. We have all of us been ignorant of the fact, that there are few men who have not been more closely connected with the business affairs of life, who so thoroughly transact the work before them. The characteristic of the man is thoroughness. He exhausts his subject in debate, whether it be finance or freedom; and the same thoroughness of work is displayed in Committees and in the Senate, no matter what may be the character of the work to be done. I can speak with some authority in this matter, because the present Congress, and since the party with which he has been associated, has had more control of the legislation of the Senate, I have observed his public course with care, and with much satisfaction. And it is right that the people of Massachusetts be disabused at once of the opinion, so far as it yet prevails, that our Senator is not a practical and business man; for he is eminently, as he stands there in the Senate of the United States, one of the most practical and best business men in the Senate Chamber. I know that I may appeal, without fear of contradiction, to that other practical man-who believes in work, and that what the hands find to do, should be done with all the might-I mean Henry Wilson, as you all know. I may with all safety appeal to him for confirmation of all I have said, or may say, concerning his colleague. I have, with some care, although not with thoroughness, considered some of the labors of Mr. Sumner, during this last Congress. Let me tell you something of them. I speak of the present Congress. The records of Congress show that he has served on three Committees. He has been Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations, and has served on the Committee of Patents, and of Private Land Claims.
Upon the various questions presented in the Senate concerning slavery, he has taken active part by speech, in debate, by resolutions and reports on freedom in the District of Columbia, and the great duty of emancipation: there his speech was full and his argument conclusive.
On the question of abolishing the exclusion of colored testimony in the District he spoke, and the Senate acted in accordance with his argument.
The same principle was sought to be extended to trials in all the Courts of the United States, and there his argument was heard.
Upon the rights and the liabilities to surrender of fugitives within the District;
On the tax proposed on slave-masters;
On the question of emancipation, when a bill drafted by him was offered in the Senate;
On the bill abolishing slavery on the high seas, and the national protection given to it there, and on the bill passed in the Senate, permitting colored persons to be employed in carrying the mails-
I find on all these questions he took part, by bill, report or speech.
Upon bills concerning the war, he was constantly engaged. His speech on the conduct of our Generals will not be forgotten by those who have read it.
All of us remember what he said for confiscation and emancipation as war measures.
He introduced a resolution concerning the barbarities of the rebellion, on which Senator Wade made a report familiar to us all.
As Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations, the great business of the Committee devolved upon him.
We all remember his statesmanlike speech upon the affair of the Trent.
He drew the bill, and pressed it by able argument to successful vote in the Senate, for the recognition of Hayti and Liberia.
He drew the bill to carry into effect the late treaty with Great Britain, for the suppression of the slave trade. And the important treaties which have been made by our Government during the past year were, by virtue of his office, under his charge, during the debates in secret session of the Senate.
Besides all these, the Globe will show that nearly all the private bills which came from that Committee were reported by him:; and that a large part of the work in the Committee of Patents, of which Mr. Simmons was Chairman, was done by Mr. Sumner, who was next to him in the Committee.
On the various Army bills, as reported by Mr. Wilson, and on the Navy bills reported from Mr. Hale’s Committee, Mr. Sumner's voice and influence were heard and felt.
He reported a bill to revise and arrange the statutes of the United States, which I believe is now pending in the Senate.
He spoke with great practical ability on various questions concerning the Rules of the Senate.
We all remember his eulogies on loyal and true Senators who had deceased, and his masterly philippics against disloyal men who were holding their seats upon the floor of the Senate.
Upon the Tax bill, and the Tariff bills, and the various financial bills which were passed in the Senate, the record of their discussions shows that he took constant and active part. I remember especially the interest he took in the tax on manufactures, on insurance companies, on salt, and on auction sales. Upon these interests Committees from different States were in Washington, and some of them I know are much indebted to Mr. Sumner, for his efforts in their behalf.
Upon the Tariff, affecting the North and West, his labor was earnest, and on the Finance bills especially. On that Treasury note scheme of Mr. Chase, making paper a legal tender, his argument was as full and conclusive as any one could be upon the side of the question he espoused.
His great speeches on Confiscation and Emancipation, as war measures, were wholly unrivalled, and, as I believe, his arguments cannot be refuted.
Now this is a record, the like of which few men could show. I have not pretended to exhaust it. The Globe will verify all I have said, and will show that many other things were done I have no time to state.
Yet this is the record of but one year. When we shall come to look at the record of our other Senator, it will be found equally full. No State can ask for truer representatives or abler men upon the floor of the Senate.
I have now finished what I designed to say, and the great fact of the war comes back to me. It is the war of a century. Our Revolutionary contest was the prelude of this great conflict. Its wonderful character becomes more and more plain to us. Our continent is in travail-for Liberty is being born.
Let us shrink from no duty which shall be before us, but earnestly invoking the Government to do its work, let us stand in our lot.
“Awake, awake, put on thy strength,
Thy beautiful array!
The day of Freedom dawns at length,
The Lord's appointed day.
Rebuild thy walls-thy bounds enlarge,
And send thy armies forth!
Say to the South, give up thy charge,
Keep thou not back, O North!”

THE PRESS ON THE PRESIDENT’S EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
We send forth to-day the most important paper ever published in the Independent-the most extraordinary document ever proceeding from this government. It is a decree of substantial emancipation, issued by the Commander-in-Chief of the army and navy of the United States of America. Perhaps it is too much to say that it is a decree of emancipation. It is rather a solemn notice served upon rebellious States that such a decree will be made upon the 1st of January, 1863. It is like a bond for a deed, and will in due time compel the execution and delivery of the deed.
There can be no state paper imagined more noble than one which carries substantial liberty to millions of slaves. It is that very moral grandeur and sublime importance which make us jealous of anything which threatens its certainty or diminishes its moral power.
This decree of emancipation is the dividing line between a dark past and a hopeful future. The sun crosses the equator, travelling northward. The days hereafter will grow longer, and the nights shorter.
We now see that secession being the premise, emancipation most be the logical conclusion.
That Proclamation is the drawing of a sword that
<c02>
can never be sheathed again. The very existence of the loyal States will now depend upon the enforcement of this decree. Slavery is the heart of the South. The South will forgive everything else; but a serious and avowed determination to subvert that will never be forgiven. We can imagine how a party might have sprung up in the North, by and by; that would say to the South, only a fraction of radicals ever meant to subvert slavery; the loyal masses respected your rights. Pilate and Herod might have become friends again, if only Christ or his poor were on the cross!
But that delusive gloze and hollow truce are no longer possible. The nation is committed. Either there must be revolution in the North, or else all dissentients must submit, and the North stand as a mighty unit with the President!
Let sorrows fall fast; there is joy before us! We behold upon the troubled sea a Christ coming to us, walking on the waves! In his hand are winds and storms. Every hour now moves toward the great day of emancipation. At length the dawn shall bring that day most eminent in our national calendar. Amid all the festivities that usher in the year, there shall be a great joy, deeper, purer, holier, than ever came to us with the New Year, the joy of a nation that, after long sorrow and shame, shall cast off from itself the guilt of slavery, and stand erect before the world, a consistent witness for liberty!-New York Independent.
We have long ago expressed the conviction that slavery in this country is doomed; and the advent of this Proclamation we can scarce consider, under the circumstances, as hastening its fate. Perfectly mad as the cotton States were in challenging a conflict for its extension, the ferocious spirit they have shown in the fight has, little by little, lost them the sympathies of the world at large; until left alone as its especial champions, and inadequate to sustain a much longer struggle, it would have perished, ultimately, whether the Executive had moved in the matter in the way he has seen fit to do or not.
And as to its effects upon the institution in the Border States, it is not at all problematical. If Virginia or North Carolina become free States by the terms of the Proclamation, the exemption resulting to Maryland is of no practical value whatever. With free States on both sides of her, who would care to own negroes here? and what possible advantage would we have over those obnoxious to the terms of the President's manifesto in other States? As the matter stands even at present, negro property here has become so uncertain in its tenure that in many portions of our commonwealth they are as good as free already.-Baltimore American.
THE YEAR OF JUBILEE HAS COME. We rejoice most heartily that the axe is laid to the root of the tree. The Proclamation meets our views both in what it does, and in what it omits to do. Its limitations show that President Lincoln means to preserve good faith toward the loyal border slave. States. So long as they are loyal, their slaves are safe; let them become rebellious, and the terms of the Proclamation will reach them like their sisters in revolt.-Hartford (Ct.) Courant.
So splendid a vision has hardly shone upon the world since the day of the Messiah. From the date of this Proclamation begins the history of the republic as our fathers designed to have it-the home of freedom, the asylum of the oppressed, the seat of justice, the land of equal rights under the law, where each man, however humble, shall be entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Let no one think to stay the glorious reformation. Every day's events are hastening its triumph, and whosoever shall place himself in its way, it will grind him to powder.-Chicago Tribune.
We all know, of course, that this Proclamation is a brutum fulmen, unless the rebellion is overcome by force of arms. The same objection, however-if it is one-applies to a large portion of our efforts during this war. But the use which all loyal persons will make of this consideration will be, not to decry the proclamation and discourage military effort, but to push on the war all the more unitedly and vigorously, in order that this new auxiliary may come in at the right time. This is the very purpose for which the measure has been chosen by the constituted authorities. Shall we sustain them therein, then, as we have in their other war measures? Or shall we desert them and weaken their hands in this critical hour, by sowing the seeds of dissension, detraction, discouragement and failure? It seems to us that no good citizen can fail to see his duty, or decline to do it manfully.-Boston Journal.
This Proclamation will be received by the loyal States with a perfect furore of acclamation. It will lose the. President a few latter day friends, who did not profess to become such until after his election, and who have been so now only for their own sinister purposes. But it will restore to the President all his old friends, and unite the sound portion of the people in one solid and impregnable mass in support of the Union and the Constitution.-Washington Republican.
This Proclamation of the President is the decree of fate rather than the utterance of any man, and no one who has thoughtfully observed the course of recent events could fail to foresee that the cloud settling darkly around us would very soon be lighted up with a flash that would mark the turning point of the accumulation. The storm is not over, but it is no longer gathering. We can see now that there is to be an end, and we know the end is to be favorable to the future unity and prosperity of this great nation.-Philadelphia North American.
We have no doubt the President's policy, as laid down in his Proclamation, will be approved by an immense majority of the people of the United States who are loyal to our republican form of government. They have been called upon and are now called upon to make vast sacrifices for the general welfare. Their blood is being poured out like water, and their treasure is being lavished by hundreds of millions of dollars, to maintain in the field an army greater than that of any of the military empires of Europe. This state of affairs cannot of course continue indefinitely. If any action can be taken respecting the slaves that will tend to bring the war to a conclusion, that action will be endorsed by the people with an approach to unanimity. The most conservative cannot complain that the President has not shown, and is not showing, an eminent degree of moderation. The rebels are now only informed that at the end of three months the government will cease to recognise their slaves as property. It cannot be alleged that this is not giving fair warning.
We have conclusive evidence that the President is not deluded with any notion that a Proclamation is likely in itself to end the war. A committee which recently left Chicago to urge upon him the issue of a Proclamation of immediate, universal and unconditional emancipation, and to arm the negroes to fight for the Union, made a report at a public meeting held at Chicago, on Saturday night, of their interview with him. Their report shows that he fully understands the practical aspects of the case.-Cincinnati Commercial.
Now the issue is presented. Slavery is to be interfered with-unless the rebels ground arms; and we invite the “butternuts” to toe the mark, make the issue, and the civilized world may look on while the greatest contest the world ever saw is to be decided-a contest in which the loyal men of the Union must battle with the slavery propagandists of the South and the powers of darkness, under the guise of democracy, in the North-Cleveland (Ohio) Herald.
AN OLD DEMOCRAT ON THE PROCLAMATION.-The following note from General Busteed appears in the New York Tribune:-
“God bless Abraham Lincoln!”-[Tribune Editorial, September 26, 1862.
“men, with all my heart. ‘And let all the people say amen,’ while humanity and religion take up the invocation, and join the supplicated good. God bless the Tribune, too, for its persistent and fearless denunciation of the monstrous wrong which has sapped the vitality and virtue of the nation. Slavery is dead, and the Republic lives! Lives a new life, graduated by the principles of God's eternal justice. The footfalls of advancing Freedom throw their forward echoes upon the gladdened ear of liberty-loving men, and soon the imprints of her mighty tread will be discernable over and upon the prostrate and mortal remains of the haughty but doomed Slave Power. The American Republic henceforward is free in fact and in name. ‘God bless Abraham Lincoln!’ Yours for liberty,
RICHARD BUSTEED.
New York, September 23, 1862.”
<c03>
The Liberator
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1862.
PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
Probably the President has little time, and perhaps less inclination, to read the newspapers of the day; so that he may not have been aware of the fact,-by no means a creditable one,-that, until his recent proclamation concerning the abolition of slavery in the Rebel States, every semi-seditious, rancorously proslavery, and thoroughly “satanic” journal in the Free States was hugely delighted with his policy, and praised him as a model of disinterested patriotism and statesman-like sagacity. It was a bad sign, and furnished conclusive evidence that he was lacking in clear discernment and true wisdom, in the management of the war. We congratulate him that he no longer lies under this injurious imputation. His emancipation proclamation has been an Ithuriel spear, transforming every pseudo-loyal toad it has touched into a semi-rebellious devil without disguise. The papers that were loudest in his praise, and that counselled the most absolute reliance upon his prudence and fidelity to his high trust, (such, for example, as the New York Herald, Express, Journal of Commerce, and World, and Boston Post and Courier,) and that hotly resented any criticism upon his official acts as indicative of a purely factious spirit, are now denouncing him in language and spirit essentially treasonable, and representing him as equally weak and fanatical. Read the articles we have grouped together in the “Refuge of Oppression.” this week, as samples! It is nothing with these desperate journals, that the war has already lasted eighteen months, and little been done in crippling the rebellion; nothing, that a hundred thousand lives have already been sacrificed, and the nation is bleeding at every pore; nothing, that the debt already incurred by the war is of frightful magnitude; nothing, that the rebellion is avowedly for slaveholding purposes, and uses the entire slave population within its grasp to achieve success; nothing, that the President has tried in every way, by long forbearance and generous overtures, but in vain, to terminate the struggle without decreeing emancipation as a military necessity and a governmental right; they are for preserving slavery at whatever expense of blood and treasure to the North, and though thereby the Union should remain dismembered forever! And now see how menacing is their tone, and how bullying their attitude, at this perilous crisis, toward the President and the Government! If this is not giving “aid and comfort to the enemy” then words have lost their significance. Fort Warren and Fort Lafayette have had no inmates more deserving of incarceration than the editors and proprietors of the journals we have referred to. 

HAYTIAN EMIGRATTON.
Mr. JAMES REDPATH, who has been so actively engaged as General Agent, for the past year, in the Haytian Emigration movement, announces in the Pine and Palm that his official connection with it has ceased, in consequence of a difference of views with the Haytian authorities as to the mode of management in the Island. He also announces the suspension of that journal, by order of the government of Hayti. Mr. George Lawrence, Jr., will continue for a time to act as the Chief of the New York Bureau, and all letters of inquiry respecting the movement should be addressed to him.
Mr. Redpath says that he counted confidently on 5,000 emigrants last Spring, and would have had them, too, had the pioneer colonists sent home as favorable reports as he had a right to expect. He still believes “that the negro race, like the old Israelites, will be 'taken out' of this country, and led into fairer lands”; that “it will inherit the Tropics-the Canaan region of the New World”; that “all the West Indies will be exclusively possessed by it,” which, in due time, “will inaugurate the Millenium.”
While any scheme of colonization, based upon the idea that the colored race cannot rise in the scale of civilization or hope for ultimate justice here, is at war with our convictions of right, and cannot, therefore, receive our support, we have never opposed the voluntary emigration of any of their number to any part of the world, as a matter of individual enterprise, in order to better their condition. We believe Mr. Redpath has acted in good faith to all the parties concerned, with an intense abhorrence of slavery, a friendly interest in the growth and stability of the Haytian republic, and a sincere desire to promote the welfare of all the emigrants. But the colored race are to find their quickest development and their highest civilization in this country, in spite of the cruel and all abounding ostracism to which they have so long been subjected. Complexional prejudice is not founded in nature, but is solely the product of slavery, and therefore vincible. Slavery banished from the country, there will be no disposition to prosecute any scheme of colonization on account of the color of the skin; but with the jubilee will come “the era of good feelings”-old things will pass away-the spirit of caste will gradually give way to the spirit of justice-education will become universal-all interests will be harmonious, because based alike upon freedom-and where sin abounded, grace shall much more abound. To the colored population generally we would say, in the language of one of their earliest and most devoted advocates-“Be of good courage! Christianity is shaking off its dust; the rottenness of the whited sepulchres is coming out; the Gospel is resuming its healing power. There is balm in Gilead; there is a physician there. The moral sense of the world is awakening-Despotism is quailing- Falsehood is uncovering-Truth is about to triumph- LIBERTY TO BE RESTORED; and PREJUDICE-that fined of darkness, that bane of the earth, that brand of the white man, searing him with infamy; that bane of the black man, tightening his chains or condemning him to exile-Prejudice shall be abolished, and over it, as over Babylon, shall be written-'Prejudice, the tyrant of the tyrant-the waster of the poor-the liar, the coward, the mother of abominations-is fallen, is fallen!’”

GODLINESS DIVORCED FROM HUMANITY.
If the reader will turn to our first page, he will find a confession as frank as it is humiliating and instructive, contained in an extract from a sermon of Rev. Mr. Campbell, pastor of a Presbyterian church in Newburyport It is to the effect, that he had rejoiced in the Southern Aid Society, the American Tract Society, and the Old School General Assembly, because they observed “a judicious silence respecting the evils of American slavery,” deeming that the wisest course to be pursued; but the experience of the past year compels him to ask, “What does it profit-this preaching Gospel principles, and still utterly ignoring the evils of American slavery?” It neither “improved the spirit of our Southern brethren, nor alleviated the evils in question, nor increased the love of liberty. Just the reverse.” Of course; nothing better could possibly follow. So the Abolitionists pleaded and prophesied; and for their fidelity were denounced as irreligious! Now their terrible charge, that the American Church was “the bulwark of slavery,” is admitted by one of its most conservative ministers. But he does not tell the whole truth respecting those pretentious religious organizations. They did not content themselves with keeping silence on the subject of slavery; but they exerted their combined influence to crush the Anti-Slavery movement, and to cover its advocates with opprobrium-defended slaveholding as compatible with a Christian profession, and gave the right hand of religious fellowship “with alacrity” to the very traffickers in human flesh who are now in hot rebellion for the overthrow of the Government. Had the American Church been true to the cause of the oppressed, there would be neither slavery nor civil war to deplore at the present time. We did our best to save it from this open shame.
<c04>
BOOK NOTICES.
The CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, for October, exhibits the following varied and entertaining contents:-The Constitution as it Is-the Union as it Was; by C. S. Henry, LL. D.; Maccaroni and Canvas, by Henry P. Leland; Sir John Suckling; London Fogs and London Poor; A Military Nation, by C. G. Leland; Tom Winter's Story, by Geo. W. Chapman; The White Hills in October, by Miss C. M. Sedgwick; Eighteen Hundred and Sixty-Two, by U. S. Johnson: Flower Arranging; Southern Hate of the North, by Horace Greeley; A Merchant's Story, by Edmund Kirke; The Union, by Hon. Robert J. Walker; Our Wounded, by C. K. Tuckerman; A Southern Review, by C. G. Leland; Was He Successful? by Richard B. Kimball; Literary Notices; Editor's Table.
The opening article is excellent, thoroughly exposing the seditious spirit that lurks in the phrase which forms its text. The article on the “Union” is chiefly devoted to the castigation of England, and, amid much that is true, has more than one weak point. It is of no use to employ Jefferson's first draft of the Declaration, to prove that slavery was at that time forced down our fathers' throats by our Royal Physician, George the Third. The fact that the very clause relating to the slave-trade was stricken out of the Declaration; but still more undeniably the whole record of the formation of the Constitution, and the slave trade clause adopted for twenty years, prove the contrary; and that secession was threatened, before the Union was half-concluded, by the representatives of South Carolina and other slaveholding States. Equally absurd is it to charge England with exciting the anti-slavery agitation in this country, (which the writer condemns in the same breath with slavery itself,) and with “arresting the progress of manumission in the Border States.” The latter theory has been exploded too many times to be supported now, especially when these States are rejecting an overture to rid them of their curse, and pay them for an act of self-interest. Quite extraordinary, too, is the statement, that the British Parliament “most graciously favored us with one of its own members, to denounce in the North the slavery of the South, inflaming sectional passions and hatred, with the fixed purpose of dissolving the Union”; and the deduction, that “the object was, not to abolish slavery, or the mission would have been to the South, where the institution and the power over it existed.” For the visit of George Thompson, Esq., M.P., to this country, the British Parliament was as much responsible as the Senate of the United States for Senator Seward's tour in Egypt. Nay, for this step he received the denunciation of that tory press abroad which is our bitterest enemy now. And as for Mr. Thompson going South to preach abolition when he was the object of a score of mobs East and West, the idea is simply ridiculous! Mr. Walker seems ignorant of two things, to wit: that George Thompson was the earliest champion in England of this Government and the North, after the outbreak of the rebellion; and that between disunion for liberty's sake and disunion for slavery's, there is the difference between the pinnacle and the pit.
The Proprietors of the CONTINENTAL, announce for the future the following distribution of the departments of the magazine: Politics to Hon. Robert J. Walker and Frederick P. Stanton, of Washington, D. C.; Literature to Charles Godfrey Leland, of Boston, and Edmund Kirke, of New York, author of “Among the Pines.” [For sale by A. Williams & Co., 109 Washington street, Boston.]-W. P. G.
A CASE DESERVING OF SYMPATHY AND AID-Among those who participated in the memorable naval engagement with the rebel forts below New Orleans was a young colored man, of pleasing countenance and address, named Thomas Augustus Ford, a native of Charleston, S. C. He was on board of the gunboat Pinola, and had his left arm taken off above the elbow by a shell, while actively serving a gun, and so is maimed for life. He has a wife and child in slavery at Baltimore, though he was free-born. Discharged from the naval hospital at Brooklyn, N. Y., he is now in this city, (deeming it prudent, for satisfactory reasons, not to return to Baltimore at present,) needing temporary assistance, and particularly desirous of finding something to do to earn an honest livelihood. He is smart and active, and can manage to be very useful in many ways, in spite of his crippled condition. Having suffered in the cause of the whole country, and to uphold its liberties, (notwithstanding its injustice to all of his race,) he certainly deserves special sympathy and consideration. Any thing the benevolent may wish to contribute to his necessities, on being given or sent in trust to Robert F. Wallcut, 221 Washington street, will be faithfully and discreetly applied; and if any can furnish him with employment, it will be doing a gracious act.
POSTED-AT LAST. The Boston Post makes the following remarkable announcement and truthful admission:-“We never impugned the logic of the Garrison set as to the Constitution; for it rose from their premise sound, perfect and impregnable.” The Abolitionists will, in due time, be fully vindicated in all their principles and measures. From “premise” to conclusion, it will be seen that they were morally as well as logically right, whether relating to the “covenant with death,” or to any other issue made by them.
A PROBLEM. If it takes thirteen months for General McClellan, at the head of the Federal army, to render Washington safe, at what period may the entire suppression of the rebellion be confidently looked for, under such leadership?
The Editor of the Liberator expects to be absent from his post, for the next fortnight, on an excursion to the Green Mountain State. He will lecture in the Congregational Church in Peacham, on Sunday next, on the state of the country; but as he goes for relaxation from labor, he cannot devote his time to lecturing, much as he would like to address the good people of Vermont, under other circumstances.
CAN'T TAKE CARE OF THEMSELVES-WOULD STARVE IF THEY WERE SET FREE." Here is one of the keenest retorts to this ridiculous outcry, in the shape of a letter written to Anthony Pryor one of the colored people at Fortress Monroe, by his late mistress. Rev. Mr. Lockwood certifies to its authenticity.
ANTHONY-I have heard that you were making a great deal of money, and as we are in Williamsburg and have no support, and William is away and I cannot hear from him, I send you this to let you know that we are in need of everything. I have no meat, no money of any kind that will pass. I want you to send me some bacon, and sugar, and coffee, and any other things you can get that I need. I have no money to buy a thing with. You have had twelve months' freedom to make money in. It is time to do something for me and my children. They are in want of clothes, and the winter is coming on. If you do not send me some money, they will perish with cold, for wood is very high, and I am not able to buy any now to cook with. We have done all in our power for you until you left us, and can you hear of your master's children starving, and you able to work and help them? No, I cannot think it. I should like to see you. If you can give me a little help every month, it would keep us from want. Send what you can get for me by John King. He will bring it safe. He is doing all he can for his mistress. He does not let them want for anything. I never should have sent this if I had not been in want, as you have not done any thing for me all this time. If you consider yourself free, it is your duty to do what you can for me and my two children. I shall expect you to do all you can. If John King does not come up soon, you can send them by Sam Simpkins. He belongs to Miss Eliza Jones. Tell him to bring them to Mrs. Tilford. We are there now. Send them as soon as you can.
From your mistress,
HANNAH D. WESTWOOD.
What has become of Lucy? See her, and tell her to send the children something. I wrote this large, so you could read it.
With what cool effrontery “the late mistress” demands all needed supplies, and how readily she concludes that a year of freedom must have enabled her “chattel,” whilom, to have accumulated the means!
<c05>
HISTORICAL PARALLEL
DANIEL PRATT, JR.-GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN.
The stupendous events of the last eighteen months had hadden from the eyes and ears, and perhaps the thoughts of men, the “Great American Traveller”; and if an occasional inquiry arose, “Where's Pratt?” it was answered by the prompt supposition that he was in the “receptacle of things lost upon earth.” But, all of a sudden,
The thousands hail the rising sun,
That mourned for him whose race was run.
The transmigration of souls is an exploded doctrine; else we might deem, but for the brevity of the time elapsed, that the spirit of Daniel had “travelled” through a John Donkey and a peacock to startle and dazzle the world again in George Francis. Nature has her freaks, but she seldom, as now, repeats herself in one and the same century. The “lost Pleiad” reappears as a comet, with small, opaque head, indeed, and little light, but spreading an enormous Train of tail. The age is not degenerate; Mellen and Pratt live again with changed name, but in spirit the same. "Time's noblest offspring is the last.” Barnum, make haste, or your “occupation's gone”! Banish Tom Thumb and the Commodore, and secure this new wonder, else your coffers will be empty. No  “Mermaid,” or “What is It?” or “Fat Boy,” or “Bearded Woman” will “draw” like this horse rail-road man, this “sensation novelty, who vomits words as Vesuvius does smoke.
But we forget our subject. It has never been our fortune (or misfortune) to hear or see either of these illustrious worthies, though we have heard much of them. In form, feature, manner, voice, gesture, elocution, attitude, they may, for aught we know, be like or unlike each other. The late Mr. Pratt drew large houses; the present Mr. Train does the same. Pratt was a “sensation” speaker; Train is ditto; Pratt was laughed at; Train is nothing but laughed at. Pratt has been in the lock-up; so has Train. Both discoursed, among other things, on politics; Pratt, however, rather the more sensibly of the two. Daniel was the “Great American Traveller,” George Francis has been a “great traveller on a small scale” in England. Pratt aspired to the Presidency; Train probably considers his chance good for the next term. Both are (we speak now of Pratt as still living, for his fame is as deathless as Train's) illogical, tautological, hysterical, nonsensical. In profoundness of speculation, in felicity of illustration, in affluence of language, in the elevation of their themes, there is a striking similarity between these two “roaring codgers.” In self-estimation they are equal, and in the estimation of the public also. In these days, when theatricals languish, Train is buffoon, clown, pantomimist, mountebank, thingamabob generally, just as Pratt was years ago. Daniel used to be intellectual gladiator in combat with Mellen; George Francis challenges all creation, but, less fortunate than his prototype, can find nobody who will deign to be his antagonist. Both are foolish, frothy, and sometimes furious; both grotesque, grandiloquent, gabbling, gassy, gad-abouts.
In one thing, and one only, is there a difference between these “lights of the world and demi-gods of fame Pratt sometimes perceived that he was a butt and a laughing-stock; Train never sees that he is always one.
P. S. We have just heard that Pratt still lives. The “No-party” party, utterly confused and overwhelmed by the President's proclamation of Emancipation, and in perplexity as to the programme of the fall political campaign in Massachusetts, having read George Francis Train's speech delivered at Music Hall, Thursday evening, September 25th, addressed a letter, signed Joel P, Benjamin F. T, and Emery W, to Daniel Pratt, Jr. (they had previously secured Job Sass to write in the Herald for them,) asking him to stump the State for their party in connection with Mr. Train. Mr. Pratt, in his reply, spurns the proposal with indignant contempt, and refuses to be associated (we quote his own words) “with so incoherent, rambling, frothy, scatter-brained, and every way ridiculous a declaimer. Shall I,” he asks, “who once fought face to face with Mellen, condescend to stand side by side and shoulder to shoulder with Train?”
The Traveller contains the following suitable recommendation among its Special Notices:-
THE PEOPLE MOVING.
We, the undersigned citizens of Massachusetts, and of the United States of North America, without regard to Party, Sect or Color, believing as we do that Centralization of Power constitutes one of the greatest dangers to a Republic: believing also that our fellow-citizen Mr. GEORGE FRANCIS TRAIN, in his own person exemplifies this, holding as he does the “destinies of this vast Republic in his hands.” We think that the safety of the Republic demands that, in his discussions before the people, he shall be met by a statesman and scholar as near his own calibre as it is possible under the circumstances to obtain. We, therefore, without regard to complexion or opinion, unite in requesting our esteemed fellow-citizen GEORGE WASHINGTON FROST MELLEN, Esq., to consent to meet Mr. TRAIN in all his future discussions, and we do not doubt that future generations will be grateful. We hope Mr. MELLEN will call upon Mr. TRAIN at the earliest moment.
Job Sass, Farmer.
A. Ward, Jr., Philanthropist.
Ethan Spike, Military Man.
Columbus Doesticks, Professor of Lager.
Orpheus C. Kerr, Fisherman.
Horatio J. Gardenhigher, Irishman, 14 years old.
Josephus E. Farewell, American Divine.
James Gordon Bunhit, Prof, of the Moral Sciences.
Dr. Rock Bottom, Dealer in Granite.
H. Asnough, Captain of Volunteers.
7000 others to be preserved for future publication in a Directory.
This non-descript Train has exhibited himself at Andover. A correspondent in that place writes to the Traveller as follows:-
“On Friday evening of the last week, the inhabitants of Andover gave George F. Train a full house in the Town Hall, at 25 cents each, to hear a lecture from him on England. He was introduced to the audience by Dr. Taylor, Principal of Phillips Academy. Most of his hearers were disappointed in the character and ability of his address, and especially as he took occasion in it to denounce Gen. Fremont, Gov. Andrew, and Charles Sumner and the Classics, and this last in the presence of one of the finest classical scholars in the country, the gentleman who introduced him to the audience. At the close of the address he proposed three cheers for McClellan, which were given, when some one of the audience proposed three cheers for Gen. Fremont, which were given ‘with a will,’ where upon the lecturer cried treason, and the assembly broke up, not in so desirable a state of feeling as could have been wished, nor in so quiet a manner. Query- Is Mr. G. F. Train the best man to stump the State in favor of the People's Ticket? if the success of that ticket is the end to be gained.”
Here is what the Worcester Spy says:-
“George Francis Train performed here in Mechanics Hall, Saturday evening, to an audience of about one hundred and eighty people-much the smallest audience we ever saw in that hall. The style and manner of his performance might have been laughable at a circus. He is a self-conceited haranguer, who comes upon the platform with the air of a dancing girl. While speaking, he wears gloves, flourishes a pocket handkerchief, minces and mouths, stamps violently, and now and then shakes his head as if he desired to shake it off. Daniel Pratt, the ‘Great American Traveller,’ has challenged Train to discuss with him before some audience, ‘the combined originality of ideas.’ Pratt himself proposes this profound and mysterious topic. It seems admirably adapted to the powers of these two noted lecturers, and will furnish wonderful scope for their different styles of oratory. If Train accepts the challenge, we shall bet on Pratt, for he is tough and has most bottom.”
The Boston correspondent of the New York Tribune makes the following felicitous grouping:-
“On the whole, we think we shall be able to overcome the anti-Sumner Triumvirate, which consists of the Count Johannes, Joel Parker, and George Francis Train. I have looked in the Courier every day, for the purpose of making an estimate of the comparative value which the Hunkers place on the labors of these individuals. One day the Count is uppermost; another day, Mr. Parker is top o’ the heap; and another day, the eminent Train. The Count promulges from Faneuil Hall; Parker from his rooms at Cambridge, and at No. 14 State street, where he and Wm. D. Swan
<c06>
engineer the new party; and Train from Music Hall. Train has the biggest crowd of loafers at his heels; Parker gets the longest string of names to follow his own into the newspapers; but the Count's annihilations of the Abolitionists is supposed to be a trifle the most complete and withering. The Count and Mr. Train have this advantage over the Judge, viz.: that they did not sign any pledge to sustain the President, and were not, therefore, caught on Thursday morning when Lincoln’s trap was sprung. The Count, I believe, does not pretend to make any terms with the Abolitionists or the President, and Train affects to believe that the Proclamation is a good thing because it has 'drawn the fire of the Abolitionists, and they have nothing now to talk about.’ (Brilliant idea-isn't it!) But the Judge is irretrievably caught.”
The Boston Journal gives this harlequin braggart and demagogue a piece of its mind, with unusual directness, as follows:-
“George Francis Train must have a care lest his trans-Atlantic reputation speedily vanishes into this air, and becomes but ‘the baseless fabric of a dream.’ It is perfectly proper for him, in this free country-if he feels that his mission lies in that direction-to criticize the acts of State Senators, Governors, or even the President himself, and no one will complain of fair and legitimate criticism. But when a public speaker appeals to a class as he did to Irishmen; when he broaches the senseless theory that the emancipation of the blacks will throw them into competition with the free laborers of the North; and when he charges that abolitionism has made the grass grow on the <Illegible> of Boston-then he becomes a demagogue, and a mischievous one at that. Imposing upon ignorance or credulity, for political purposes, statements which no sensible man believes, is certainly demagoguism of the first water, and is one of the worst crimes against society.”
Among the satirical illustrations of the day is one describing the “Terrible Effect of my first Bomb shells in Boston”-in which Bombastes G. F Train is seen under the influence of  “superior rage,” victor over Gov. Andrew, who lies hors du combat in one corner victor over Charles Sumner, whom he holds in his terrible grasp, dangling in the air-victor over Wendell Phillips, who is a used up man-&c., &e Let all “Abolition fanatics” take warning by their fate; for
“Whoever doth these boots displace,
Must meet Bombastes face to face.”
LETTER FROM HENRY C WRIGHT.
HUME, Alleghany Co., N. Y., Sept. 26, 1862
DEAR GARRISON,-I left Boston three weeks ago to-day, and came to Western New York to lecture and attend Conventions during the Fall. During these twenty-one days, I have lectured twenty times, and attended one two days' Convention, in Alleghany Cayuga, Orleans and Niagara counties. My themes have been-The National Crisis-The Mission and Destiny of the American Republic-The Cause and Cure of the War. During all this time, I have lived in private families, and have not yet stopped a night in a family which has not a son or brother, or some loved one, in the war; and in nearly every instance, they went forth solely to resist the demands and aggressions of the enslavers of mankind. In one district of twenty-five families, twelve of the noblest and best of the sons are in the army. In this town, six of my nephews are in the army-three from one family, two from another, and one from another. Anguish and desolation are in the hearts and homes of the mothers, wives, daughters and sisters of this region. Probably four-fifths of all who have volunteered in Western and Middle New York are from the <Illegible> of laborers on the land. Could I multiply myself ten-fold, I could not meet the demand for lectures and speeches on the cause and cure of the war. The people are all convinced that slavery is the disease that infects them, and that abolition is the only <Illegible> to heal the festering sore.
Have you read the speech of Horatio Seymour, <illegible> the occasion of his nomination for Governor by the pro-slavery Convention at Albany? One year ago, he made a speech in Utica, his home, in which he declared, “If the Union cannot be saved without abolishing slavery, then the slaveholders ought to be allowed to leave such a Union.” The same sentiment is urged in his recent speech at Albany. Slavery before the Union! is the watchword and rallying cry of the Democratic party of this State. Perish the Republic rather than slavery! Down with the Government, rather than abolish slavery to sustain it! The political contest in New York will be fierce and <Illegible>. The Democratic party are determined to make a last effort for power and spoils. To aid the rebels of the South, they will do what they can <Illegible> excite a civil war against the negroes and Abolitionists of the State. They will fail.
The nomination of Wadsworth for Governor, and Tremain for Lieut. Governor, by the Syracuse Convention, is welcomed by the people of Western and Central New York. The Union and War party will be enthusiastically supported. But the Democratic leaders trust for victory to the absence in the army of some seventy thousand Republican voters. In North Elba alone, where rest the bones of John Brown, a town of eighty voters, seventy enlisted for the war. Truly, John “Brown's "soul is marching on.”
By the way, one year ago, Jeff. Davis said there were but two men in the State of New York whom he could fully trust-Fernando Wood and <illegible> Seymour!
I cannot tell you the feeling with which the Proclamation of Emancipation is hailed in this region. The people talk and act as if a load was lifted from their hearts. They sing, they shout over it. They think the day of redemption has dawned. Has it! I can see the end, provided the rebels hold out till January 1st, 1863. Will they? Yes, they will. But should they yield, will the Proclamation be null and void? No, indeed. Within one month, it will be known to every slave in the South that they are to be free Jan. 1st, 1863, if the rebels persist in their rebellion. The slaves will besiege God to harden their hearts and make them more rebellious than ever; and I rather guess all the friends of freedom the world over will do the same. What a position is Lincoln’s. He will give four million of slaves their freedom, provided their owners continue in rebellion! They are to be kept in slavery if their masters submit, <Illegible> are subdued by arms! Who can wish for success in putting down the rebellion, if the perpetual enslavement of four millions is to be the result? Has not Lincoln palsied every earnest heart and hand in regard to efforts to put down the rebellion for three months to come? Put down the rebellion, and four millions must remain in chains. Let the rebellion continue, and they are free. On which side will the slaves be? Does Lincoln mean this? Every slave of every rebel was, by law, made free yesterday. Make this known to the slaves. Then, what need of the proclamation? The law of Congress made them free yesterday. Let us recognize their freedom, and make the law effectual. But I thank God for the proclamation! HENRY C WRIGHT.
LECTURES OF HENRY C. WRIGHT.
HOLLEY, N. Y., Sep. 22, 1862.
This profound moral philosopher and stanch reformer opened his batteries of rifled guns on the slavocrats of this neighborhood on the evening of the 19th Sept., in the Baptist church in this village, and continued the assault for three successive evenings, to not very full but appreciative audiences. The leading secesh sympathizers, of which we have not a few, with scarce an exception, kept snug in their trenches, inducing as many others as they could to stay away from the meetings.
The advent here of this fearless and powerful advocate of human rights was most opportune. Rev. R. C. Palmer, pastor of the First Baptist Church in this place, among all the public speakers, priest or layman, is the only one that stands up fearlessly for the right, and has done this from the outbreak of the war. Solitary and alone he has battled,-not exactly alone, for God is with him; nor did he go into the conflict on one leg; he stepped upon the immutable, “self-evident principle” on the one side, that “all men are created equal” and on the other, that “of one blood God created all races of men-had no respect to persons, and
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
hated oppression." As a matter of course, in a pro-slavery society like this, the Elder experienced all manner of opposition, confined neither to the outsiders; some of his own communicants being among his bitterest opposers.
At one time, at a crowded war meeting at his own house of worship, wherein Gov. Church and Rev. De La Matyre were chief speakers, he was denounced and abused for offering a few very modest resolutions which touched a little down toward the root of the rebellion, which were unceremoniously if not contemptuously “laid on the table.” And he was afterwards scurrilously assailed in the newspapers about it. When one of the rich Democrats of our place was asked for a donation to volunteers, on refusing, he is reported to have said that he would rather furnish money to buy tar and feathers for a coat to apply to Elder Palmer. Yet the man of God stands firm in his moral integrity.
Numerous have been his public discourses on the great subject of freedom to all, and to vindicate, not only the government, but God’s oppressed children here among us, in this professed Christian land. In every instance, he has spoken with an inspiration far transcending his ordinary efforts.
Wearied by the unequal conflict, just at this moment steps in the gifted Henry C. Wright to encourage the Elder, and strengthen his cause, and himself, with it; and nobly and satisfactorily did he do it. The following headings will show the drift of his discourses:-
First evening. National crisis-cause and cure of the rebellion. Slavery the cause, abolition the only care. Who began the rebellion? Slaveholders. Proved. When was the rebellion begun? Thirty years ago. Why did they rebel? Solely to over throw our republican government, and establish one based on slavery.
Second evening. Mission and destiny of the American Republic. Its mission is to sweep slavery from the nation and the continent, and to establish justice and secure the blessings of liberty to all human kind.
Third evening. Proclamation of Fremont, now enacted by Congress, by law, which takes full effect next Saturday, 26th inst. It confiscates all the property of rebels to the United States; and as they inaugurated the war, they should pay the cost of it. It also frees all their slaves. The President ought to execute the law-he helped make it. If it be so executed, and our great military and naval preparations pressed on all hands, as they might and should be, the war will end in three months.
Now, Mr. Editor, when you can find room for this in your crowded columns, please send me a few copies; and since those Democrats alluded to would not hear our stranger speaker, see whether they will read and ponder this expose, and answer it if they like. 
C. ROBINSON.

THE GREEN MOUNTAIN STATE.
MR. EDITOR,-As a Vermont Abolitionist, I will say that I have read with unmingled pleasure and satisfaction the articles of Father Steadman, that have appeared in the columns of the Liberator. I am glad that Vermont can supply you with such an able and truth-telling contributor. Long may this noble veteran be prospered to labor for the cause of Universal Freedom, and at last may he receive the reward of the righteous!
The people of Vermont have ever been true to the cause of liberty, and loyal to the Federal Government; although our Green Mountain State-to her shame be it said-furnishes some lamentable creatures called men (?) who are upholders of rum, slavery and secessionism. But we thank God that they are but few, and, as a general thing, beneath the notice of respectable men. Added to this class, we have also in the State a few miserable Hunker Pro-Slavery Conservatives, who regard an Abolitionist about the same as a murderer, and his doctrines or principles treason to the U. S. Constitution. This class, I am happy to say, is growing daily “beautifully less.” A majority of the people of Vermont are fast becoming convinced, from the sad events now transpiring in the nation, that slavery is an unmitigated evil-is the cause of the war with the South, and must be totally abolished, ere the present unfortunate struggle is brought to a close. We can now find in Vermont ten Abolitionists where we could not have found one ere the commencement of the war. Things are surely working well for the cause of Universal Freedom-not only in Vermont, but in every other loyal State in the Union. I believe we have only to wait with patience; for God, in his own good time, will “break the bonds of the oppressor, and let the oppressed go free.” Let us labor and hope for this noble humane result.
The newspaper press of Vermont, with a few exceptions, are “right on the goose.” We have, to be sure, a few miserable, low-lived (so-called) Democratic (?) papers, that are as much secesh as they dare to be. These papers are for the Union, only when it means the salvation of slavery. This is natural enough, for they know that slavery has been the only life and strength of the Democratic party for a few years past, and that when it is destroyed, the party goes to pieces. Our three religious papers, the Vermont Chronicle, (Congregational,) published at Windsor, the Christian Repository, (Universalist,) published at Montpelier, and the Christian Messenger, (Methodist,) also published at Montpelier, are all true to Freedom. The Republican papers of the State, with an occasional exception, on the account of conservatism, are right on the great question of Human Liberty. I would name the following papers in the State as devotedly true to Freedom-as expounded by the Abolitionists, viz.: the Green Mountain Freeman, published at Montpelier; the Burlington Times, the Woodstock Standard, the Irasburgh Standard, and the Vermont Journal, published at Windsor. The last named paper is published by L. J. Mclnjoe, Esq., who is entitled to much credit for the able and fearless manner with which he battles slavery and rum in this aristocratic hunker town of Windsor. So much for the press of Vermont. The Green Mountain State will do her full duty to “crush out” the rebellion and slavery.
I trust that the Rev. A. T. Foss, now in the State, will have good luck in preaching the true Abolition doctrine to our people. May he always have good congregations, and make many converts to the truth!
Windsor, Vt., Sept. 24, 1862.

LETTER FROM REV. DANIEL FOSTER.
ALEXANDRIA, (Va.,) Sept. 21, 1862.
DEAR GARRISON: I believe I never prized the Liberator, the Tribune, the Independent, and New York Evening Post as highly as I do since I came to Virginia. The spirit of all these papers is now most inspiring, as that of the Liberator has always been. Greeley's letter to the President, Beecher's rousing lectures, since the disasters before Richmond, the clear vision of Bryant, and the thorough and thoroughly patriotic criticism of the Government in your paper, lead me still to hope for the true policy, by which, as with a trumpet-call, the friends of a united and free fatherland shall be massed together, and hurled upon the foe. If such a policy drives men influenced by such infamous sheets as the Boston Courier and the New York Herald actually and openly into the ranks of the enemy, we shall be all the stronger for that. The Border State policy of waging this war under a Republican Administration in the interests of the Breckinridge Democracy has worked only defeat and disaster. It is only when war is lifted up by a high and noble enthusiasm that it is the cause and occasion of good to the nation engaged in it. The war of the Revolution under Hampden and Cromwell redeemed England, because it was waged for the overthrow of an intolerable tyranny, and the establishment of constitutional liberty. So the struggle of the Italians for freedom has awakened the people to a higher and better life than was attainable in passive submission to oppression. A war for conquest brutalizes the nation engaged in it. So this war must have a distinct aim, a settled purpose.
<c02>
That aim and purpose must be a noble one, or the result ruin. If it were possible to suppress-the rebellion and restore the old pro-slavery Union, we should thenceforward enter upon the inevitable era of military despotism. The “Ostend Manifesto,” the cry of “Manifest Destiny," to justify conquest of other nations, would be the gospel of our Government, and “Order would reign in Warsaw” at the command of a military President, supported by an overpowering army. You see, even in this early struggle in the war, from the New York Herald and other kindred journals, how ready these blatant Democrats, who “damn the nigger,” would be to have a despot, take the country, and turn out Congress, depose the President, and exercise despotic power. But let this war be waged for justice and liberty, for the ideas of the immortal Declaration-let it be understood that our armies carry freedom and protection to all men wherever they go, and that the new Union is to be indeed “to secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity”-let this be the prominent policy of our Government, and let the men lead our armies who believe in such a policy-such men as Fremont, Sigel, Hunter, Phelps, Wallace, Lane-and then the nation would be redeemed and ennobled by this struggle. How long, oh Lord! how long must we wait and suffer before we hear this trumpet-call?
I need not tell you the news; for you already know that Harper’s Ferry was lost, as was. the grand army on the Peninsula, through incompetency and cowardice. A door was thus opened for the escape of the rebel army from Maryland. We may next hear of them at Wheeling and Pittstburg, united with the rebel forces of the South West to sweep down the Ohio, prolonging and spreading the desolation and ruin. Or the Government at Washington may possibly wake up to the necessities of the hour sufficiently to induce it to give to Sigel 100,000 men, with which to cut off and destroy the confederate forces before they can reach needed supplies, and a position for necessary rest and reconstruction.
Col. Maggi and the whole regiment pray for the privilege of joining Sigel; but the Colonel has so admirably disciplined his regiment that the Military Governor of Alexandria, now using the 33d for the protection of this city, protests against our transfer to Sigel. So far he has kept us; but we all hope to change our field of operations soon. When we came here, four weeks ago, Alexandria was a perfect sink of drunkenness and gambling, with their attendant evils. Our regiment has cleaned out this sink of iniquity, so that now the city is remarkably quiet and orderly. We have enforced the Maine Liquor Law in Alexandria.
The discipline of our camp is very strict. The Colonel is very careful of his men, and they love him and confide in him as a genuine soldier. Lieut. Col. Underwood did brave and true service as Captain under Banks; and his influence in this regiment is in all respects good. Under such commanders, I find my position as Chaplain very pleasant indeed. All my efforts to inspire the men with self-respect, hatred of slavery, and a conscientious regard for duty, meet the heartiest cooperation on the part of Col. Maggi and Lieut. Col. Underwood. I thank God for this precious opportunity of doing something in the field of active service for the dear fatherland, for the cause of justice and freedom.
Truly yours, DANIEL FOSTER.

TRIBUTE TO HENRY GREW.
At a meeting of the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society, held 9th month 11th, 1862, the following resolution was adopted:
Resolved, That in the death of our venerable and venerated friend, HENRY GREW, this Society feels the loss of a most faithful and earnest coadjutor.
Espousing the Anti-Slavery cause when it was first agitated in this country, he continued to give it his faithful, consistent support to the day of his death, never faltering for a moment, even in the darkest hours.
The measure of a long and excellent life being filled, he now rests from his labors. We would so cherish his memory as to strengthen our own faithfulness to the cause we love.
G. M S. P. JONES, Secretary.

INTERVIEW WITH THE PRESIDENT.
RECEPTION OF THE CHICAGO DELEGATION.
In the Chicago Tribune, we find the subjoined report of the recent interview of the Chicago delegation with President Lincoln. The delegation waited upon the President for the purpose of presenting the memorial in favor of national emancipation, adopted by the public meeting of Christians of all denominations held in Bryan Hall, Chicago, on the 7th ult, and formally met Mr. Lincoln, by appointment, on the 13th. The interchange of views seems to have been frank and cordial on either side, and in the course of his remarks, Mr. Lincoln freely stated the objections which had prevented him from issuing at an early date the proclamation of emancipation which has since appeared.
The following is the report:-
REMARKS OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE DELEGATION.
The President received us courteously, and gave the fullest opportunity to discharge the duty assigned. He listened with fixed attention while the memorial was read by the chairman of the delegation, who added a few words to express the deep interest felt in the President by the religious community, as manifested in many prayers offered in his behalf, from the day of his election to the present hour, and to explain the pressure of feeling that caused those prayers to be followed by a memorial expressive of their solemn convictions of national duty and necessity. He observed that, in doing this, the memorialists believe that they discharge their solemn obligations as Christian citizens, which is all they seek, having no desire to dictate to their Chief Magistrate, who has his own responsibility to God, the nation, and the world. The time of presenting the memorial might, seem inauspicious in view of recent disasters, which make the authority of the government in the Slave States less extensive and influential than before. But the memorialists believe these disasters to be tokens of Divine displeasure, calling for new and advanced action by the President in behalf of the country-such as would indicate national repentance for the sin of oppression; and he must see, that if success in our military affairs was supposed to render such action unnecessary, and defeat to make it unavailing, then duty becomes an idle word, and God’s voice of remonstrance and warning an unmeaning utterance. 
The delegation presented, at the same time, a memorial of similar import, drawn in German and in English, and signed by a number of our German citizens, which was placed in their hands on leaving home.
THE PRESIDENT’S REPLY.
After a moment’s silence, the President answered; and, as we waited upon him in a public capacity, as a delegation from a large body of the people, to learn his views on a grave political and moral subject which is profoundly agitating the nation, we suppose the reply belongs as properly to those whom we represented as to ourselves. We give it, therefore, with some degree of fullness, accurately in substance, and often in the very words which fell from his lips. The President made his observations deliberately and with well chosen language, speaking in an earnest and often solemn manner, as one impressed with the weight of the theme, yet at times making a characteristically shrewd remark with a pleasant air. He commenced by saying:-
“The subject presented in the memorial is one upon which I have thought much for weeks past, and I may even say for months. I am approached with the most opposite opinions and advice, and that by religious men, who are equally certain that they represent the Divine will. I am sure that either the one or the other class is mistaken in that belief, and that,
<c03>
perhaps, in some respects, both. I hope it will not be irreverent for me to say, that if it is probable that God would reveal his will to others on a point so connected with my duty, it might be supposed he would reveal it directly to me. For, unless I am more deceived in myself than I often am, it is my earnest desire to know the will of Providence in this matter. And if I can learn what it is, I will do it! These are not, however, the days of miracles, and I suppose it will be granted that I am not to expect a direct revelation. I must study the plain, physical facts of the case, ascertain what is possible, and learn what appears to be wise and right.
“The subject is difficult, and good men do not agree. For instance: the other day four gentlemen of standing and intelligence (naming one or two of the number) from New York called, as a delegation, on business connected with the war; but, before leaving, two of them earnestly beset me to proclaim general emancipation, upon which the other two at once attacked them! You know, also, that the last session of Congress had a decided majority of anti-slavery men, yet they could not unite on this policy. And the same is true of the religious people. Why, the rebel soldiers are praying with a great deal more earnestness, I fear, than our own troops, and expecting God to favor their side; for one of our soldiers, who had been taken prisoner, told Senator Wilson, a few days since, that he met with nothing so discouraging as the evident sincerity of those he was among in their prayers. But we will talk over the merits of the case.
“What good would a proclamation of emancipation from me do, especially as we are now situated? I do not want to issue a document that the whole world will see must necessarily be inoperative, like the Pope’s bull against the comet. Would my word free the slaves, when I cannot even enforce the Constitution in the rebel States? Is there a single court, or magistrate, or individual that would be influenced by it there? And what reason is there to think it would have any greater effect upon the slaves than the late law of Congress, which I approved, and which offers protection and freedom to slaves of rebel masters who come within our lines. Yet I cannot learn that that law has caused a single slave to come over to us. [The President could not have meant to deny the well-known fact, that the slaves have come to us in vast numbers whenever the way was open, but only to say that he could not trace the influence of that law.] And suppose they could be induced by a proclamation of freedom from me to throw themselves upon us, what should we do with them? How can we feed and care for such a multitude? General Butler wrote me a few days since that he was issuing more rations to the slaves who have rushed to him, than to all the white troops under his command. They eat, and that is all; though it is true General Butler is feeding the whites also, by the thousand; for it nearly amounts to a famine there.
“If, now, the pressure of the war should call off our forces from New Orleans to defend some other point, what is to prevent the masters from reducing the blacks to slavery again? for I am told that whenever the rebels take any black prisoners, free or slave, they immediately auction them off. They did so with those they took from a boat that was aground on the Tennessee river, a few days ago. And then I am very ungenerously attacked for it! For instance: when, after the late battles at and near Bull Run, an expedition went out from Washington, under a flag of truce, to bury the dead and bring in the wounded, and the rebels seized the blacks who went along to help, and sent them into slavery, Horace Greeley said in his paper that the government would probably do nothing about it. What could I do? [Here your delegation suggested that this was a gross outrage on a flag of truce, which covers and protects all over whom it waves, and that whatever he could do, if white men had been similarly detained, he could do in this case.]
Now, then, tell me, if you please, what possible result of good would follow the issuing of such a proclamation as you desire? Understand, I raise no objections against it, on legal or constitutional grounds; for, as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy, in time of war, I suppose I have a right to take any measure which may best subdue the enemy. Nor do I urge objections of a moral nature, in view of possible consequences of insurrection and massacre at the South. I view the matter as a practical war measure, to be decided upon according to the advantages or disadvantages it may offer to the suppression of the rebellion."
REJOINDER OF THE DELEGATION.
Thus invited, your delegation very willingly made reply to the following effect; it being understood that a portion of the remarks were intermingled by the way of conversation with those of the President just given.
We observed (taking up the President’s ideas in order) that good men indeed differed in their opinions on this subject; nevertheless, the truth was somewhere, and it was a matter of solemn moment for him to ascertain it; that we had not been so wanting in respect alike to ourselves and to him as to come a thousand miles to bring merely our opinion to be set over against the opinion of other parties; that the memorial contained facts, principles and arguments, which appealed to the intelligence of the President, and to his faith in Divine Providence. That he could not deny that the Bible denounced oppression as one of the highest of crimes, and threatened Divine judgments against nations that practise it; that our country had been exceedingly guilty in this respect, both at the North and South; that our just punishment has come by a slaveholders' rebellion; that the virus of secession is found wherever the virus of slavery extends, and no farther; so that there is the amplest reason for expecting to avert Divine judgments by putting away the sin, and for hoping to remedy the national troubles by striking at their cause.
We observed, further, that we freely admitted the probability, and even the certainty, that God would reveal the path of duty to the President as well as to others, provided he sought to learn it in the appointed way; but as, according to his own remark, Providence wrought by means and not miraculously, it might be God would use the suggestions and arguments of other minds to secure that result. We felt the deepest personal interest in the matter, as of national concern, and would fain aid the thoughts of our President by communicating the convictions of the Christian community from which we came, with the ground upon which they were based.
That it was true, he could not now enforce the Constitution at the South; but we could see in that fact no reason whatever for not proclaiming emancipation, but rather the contrary. The two appealed to different classes; the latter would aid, and in fact was necessary, to reestablish the former; and the two could be made operative together, as fast as our armies fought their way southward; while we had yet to hear that he proposed to abandon the Constitution because of the present difficulty of enforcing it.
As to the inability of Congress to agree on this policy at the late session, it was quite possible, in view of subsequent events, there might be more unanimity at another meeting. The members have met their constituents, and learned of marvellous conversions to the wisdom of emancipation, especially since late reverses have awakened thought as to the extreme peril of the nation, and made bad men as well as good men realize that we have to deal with God in this matter. Men of the most opposite previous views were now uniting in calling for this measure.
That to proclaim emancipation would secure the sympathy of Europe and the whole civilized world, which now saw no other reason for the strife than national pride and ambition, an unwillingness to abridge our domain and power. No other step would be so potent to prevent foreign intervention.
Furthermore, it would send a thrill through the entire North, firing every patriotic heart, giving the people a glorious principle for which to suffer and to fight, and assuring them that the work was to be so
<c04>
thoroughly done as to leave our country free forever from danger and disgrace in this quarter.
We added, that when the proclamation should become widely known, (as the law of Congress has not been,) it would withdraw the slaves from the rebels, leaving them without laborers, and giving us both laborers and soldiers. That the difficulty experienced by General Butler and other Generals arose from the fact that half-way measures could never avail. It is the inherent vice of half-way measures that they create as many difficulties as they remove. It is folly merely to receive and feed the slaves. They should be welcomed and fed, and then, according to Paul’s doctrine, that they who eat must work, be made to labor and to fight for their liberty and ours. With such a policy, the blacks would be no incumbrance, and their rations no waste. In this respect, we should follow the ancient maxim, and learn of the enemy. What the rebels most fear is what we should be most prompt to do; and what they most fear is evident from the hot haste with which, on the first day of the present session of the rebel Congress, bills were introduced threatening terrible vengeance if we used the blacks in the war.
THE PRESIDENT’S ANSWER.
The President rejoined from time to time in about these terms: “I admit that slavery is the root of the rebellion, or at least its sine qua non. The ambition of politicians may have instigated them to act, but they would have been impotent without slavery as their instrument. I will also concede that emancipation would help us in Europe, and convince them that we are incited by something more than ambition. I grant, further, that it would help somewhat at the North, though not so much, I fear, as you and those you represent imagine. Still, some additional strength would be added in that way to the war. And then unquestionably it would weaken the rebels by drawing off their laborers, which is of great importance; but I am not so sure we could do much with the blacks. If we were to arm them, I fear that in a few weeks the arms would be in the hands of the rebels; and indeed, thus far, we have not had arms enough to equip our white troops. I will mention another thing, though it meet only your scorn and contempt. There are 50,000 bayonets in the Union army from the Border Slave States. It would be a serious matter if, in consequence of a proclamation such as you desire, they should go over to the rebels. I do not think they all would-not so many indeed as a year ago, or as six months ago-not so many to-day as yesterday. Every day increases their Union feeling. They are also getting their pride enlisted, and want to beat the rebels. Let me say one thing more: I think you should admit that we already have an important principle to rally and unite the people in the fact that constitutional government is at stake. This is a fundamental idea, going down about as deep as any thing.”
THE DELEGATION PRESENTS NEW ARGUMENTS.
We answered, that being fresh from the people, we were naturally more hopeful than himself as to the necessity and probable effect of such a proclamation. The value of constitutional government is indeed a grand idea for which to contend; but the people know that nothing else has put constitutional government in danger but slavery; that the toleration of that aristocratic and despotic element among our free institutions was the inconsistency that had nearly wrought our ruin, and caused free government to appear a failure before the world, and therefore the people demand emancipation to preserve and perpetuate constitutional government. Our idea would thus be found to go deeper than his, and to be armed with corresponding power. [“Yes," interrupted Mr. Lincoln, “that is the true ground of our difficulties.”] That a proclamation of general emancipation, giving “Liberty and Union” as the national watchword, would rouse the people and rally them to his support beyond any thing yet witnessed-appealing alike to conscience, sentiment, and hope. He must remember, too, that present manifestations are no index of what would then take place. If the leader will but utter a trumpet call, the nation will respond with patriotic ardor. No one can tell the power of the right word from the right man, to develop the latent fire and enthusiasm of the masses. [“I know it," exclaimed Mr. Lincoln.]
That good sense must of course be exercised in drilling, arming and using black, as well as white troops, to make them efficient; and that in a scarcity of arms, it was at least worthy of inquiry whether it were not wise to place a portion of them in the hands of those nearest to the seat of the rebellion, and able to strike the deadliest blow.
That in case of a proclamation of emancipation, we had no fear of serious injury from the desertion of Border State troops. The danger was greatly diminished, as the President admitted. But let the desertions be what they might, the increased spirit of the North would replace them two to one. One State alone, if necessary, would compensate the loss, were the whole fifty thousand to join the enemy. The struggle has gone too far, and cost too much treasure and blood, to allow of a partial settlement. Let the line be drawn at the same time between freedom and slavery, and between loyalty and treason. The sooner we know who are our enemies, the better.
THE PRESIDENT'S FINAL REMARKS.
In bringing our interview to a close, after an hour of earnest and frank discussion, of which the foregoing is a specimen, Mr. Lincoln remarked: “Do not misunderstand me, because I have mentioned these objections. They indicate the difficulties that have thus far prevented my action in some such way as you desire. I have not decided against a proclamation of liberty to the slaves, but hold the matter under advisement. And I can assure you that the subject is on my mind, by day and night, more than any other. Whatever shall appear to be God’s will, I will do. I trust, that in the freedom with which I have canvassed your views, I have not in any respect injured your feelings.”
We assured him that he had not, and expressed our hope that in honest endeavors to express and defend our convictions, we had not been wanting in due respect for our Chief Magistrate. Bidding him farewell, we commended him to the gracious guidance of God, having faith that, if the memorial and our added interview had thrown into the trembling scales but a single grain of truth that might aid in the preponderance of justice and humanity, our mission would not prove to be in vain.
WM. W. PATTON, 
JOHN DEMPSTER.
Chicago, Ill., Sept 21, 1862.
Referring to this interesting and impressive interview with the President, in behalf of the various religious bodies in Chicago, the Boston Courier says, with its characteristic blackguardism:-
“The President ought to have self-respect enough to exclude these addle-headed deputations altogether from the White House. They have no respect themselves for any of the courtesies or decencies of life, no manners, no regard for other men’s rights or feelings. The only way is, for the President to protect himself by a deputation of stout negroes at the door of the Executive mansion, whose duty shall be to keep these insufferable intruders away. Do what you will, they will whine and howl, and they had better go through this operation by themselves than be permitted to take up the valuable time of others, which could be so much more profitably employed."
The Courier prints only the President's rejoinders to the Chicago delegates, meanly suppressing every word that was uttered by them in reply.
A few days since, the General Association of Baptists, and also the New School Presbyterian Synod, in Wisconsin, adopted UNANIMOUSLY the truly admirable Anti-Slavery Memorial of the Chicago religious meeting, and voted to send their testimony to President Lincoln.’ Such expressions are very significant signs of the times.
We omitted to mention, that the able pamphlet entitled “McClellan and Fremont,” from which we quoted week before last, may be obtained in this city of Lee & Shepard, 149 Washington street.
<c05>
From the Cincinnati Gazette, Sept. 22d, 
RETURN OF THE BLACK BRIGADE.
The term for which the colored people were to work on the fortifications expired, according to previous understanding, on Saturday. Most faithfully and cheerfully did they perform the services assigned to them. At first, there was difficulty growing out of the abuses connected with their impressment; but these were promptly and entirely remedied by orders issued by Major Generals Wright and Wallace, by which the Mayor was prohibited from arresting any colored person, except for crime, or upon orders from the military authorities, or Judge Dickson, who was appointed by Gen. Wallace to command the brigade. The result shows how much better it is to treat the colored people according to the principles of humanity, and how unnecessary it was to subject them to the insult and oppression practised by the police. The thanks of the community are due to Judge Dickson, Messrs. Day, Wood, Lupton, Hill, Resor, Hartwell, Canfield, Dickson and Chatfield, for their services in superintending the brigade, and seeing that the men were properly cared for.
On Saturday afternoon, when the brigade was drawn up, preparatory to marching home, M. P. H. Jones, in behalf of the men, presented a sword to Col. Dickson, accompanied by the following address:-
“COL. DICKSON,-The 3d day of September, 1862, will ever be memorable in the history of the colored citizens of Cincinnati.
Previous to that date, the proffered aid of that class of citizens for war purposes was coldly, we may add forcibly, rejected.
Many calls for aid and assistance to suppress this gigantic rebellion, as full in their demands as the one on that day, so far as this class of persons are concerned, had been made, yet there was no demand for our services.
Deep in the memory of every colored citizen of Cincinnati is written indelibly that eventful day, the 3d of September, 1862.
They were torn from their homes, from the street, from their shops, from everywhere, and driven to the mule pen on Plum street, at the point of the bayonet, without any definite knowledge of what they were wanted for. The dismay and terror spread among the colored women and children was only equalled by the brutal manner in which the order was executed.
The colored people are generally loyal. This undue manner of enlisting them into the service of Uncle Sam had the appearance (though false) that the colored people had to be driven at the point of the bayonet to protect their homes, their wives and their children. Contrast this with the alacrity with which they responded under your gentlemanly request, even before they knew they would be remunerated for their services.
I have been selected by the members of the Black Brigade to thank you for the very great interest you have taken in our welfare; for your exertions and final success in collecting all of the different working parties into one brigade; for the kindness you have manifested to us in these trying times. We deeply thank you; our mothers thank you; our sweethearts thank you; our children will rise up and thank you, and call you blessed.
It would be an unpardonable injustice not to make favorable mention of those kind and gentlemanly officers you have associated with you in conducting the management of the Black Brigade.
Our thanks are due to T. C. Day, William Woods, J. Stacy Hill, Jacob Resor, J. W. Hartwell, J. W. Canfield, W. Dickson, Wm. H. Chatfield, and last, though not least, Captain James Lupton, whose urbane and gentlemanly presence has been as constant as our shadows, and whose efforts for our comfort have been as universal as his wide-spread benevolence.
We, the members of the Black Brigade, perceive all the necessary qualifications in all the above-named gentleman to constitute the true men of honor, of right and justice, but it is left for you, our gallant Colonel, to combine all their virtues in one.
Therefore, as a small expression of the high esteem the members of the Black Brigade entertain for you, they all, each and every one, present to you this sword, the emblem of protection, knowing that whenever it is drawn, it will be drawn in favor of freedom. And should you be called upon, under other circumstances, to demand the services of the Black Brigade, you will find they will rally around your standard in the defence of our country."
Colonel Dickson replied in a suitable manner, and, upon dismissing the brigade on this side of the river, he addressed them as follows:-
Soldiers of the Black Brigade:
You have finished the work assigned to you upon the fortifications for the defence of the city. You are now to be discharged. You have labored faithfully. You have made miles of military roads, miles of rifle pits, fallen hundreds of acres of the largest and loftiest forest trees, built magazines and forts. The hills across yonder river will be a perpetual monument of your labors. You have in no spirit of bravado, in no defiance of established prejudice, but in submission to it, intimated to me your willingness to defend with your lives the fortifications that your hands have built. Organized companies of men of your race, armed and equipped at their own expense, have tendered their services to act in the defence of our city. In obedience to the policy of the Government, the authorities have denied you this privilege. In the department of labor permitted, you have, however, rendered a willing and cheerful service. Nor has your zeal been dampened by the cruel treatment you have received. The citizens of both sexes have encouraged you with their smiles and words of approbation; the soldiers have welcomed you as co-laborers in the same great cause. But a portion of the police, ruffians in character, early learning that your offered services were accepted, and seeking to deprive you of the honor of a voluntary labor, before opportunity was given you to proceed to the field, rudely seized you in the streets, in your places of business, in your homes, everywhere, hurried you into pens, and thence across the river to the fortifications, not permitting you to make any preparations for camp life. You have borne this with the accustomed patience of your race, and when, under more favorable auspices, you have received only the protection due to a common humanity, you have labored cheerfully and effectively. Go to your homes with the consciousness of having performed your duty, of deserving, if you do not receive, the protection of the law, and bearing with you the gratitude and respect of all honorable men. You have learned to suffer and to wait, but in your hours of adversity, remember that the same God who has numbered the hairs of our heads, and who watches over even the fate of a sparrow, is the God of your race as well as mines The sweat blood which this nation is now shedding at every pore, is an awful warning of how fearful a thing it is to oppress the humblest being. Until our country shall again need your services, I bid you farewell. 
DEATH OF REV. ABRAHAM PRYNE. Rev. Abraham Pryne, a well known anti-slavery man, committed suicide on the 20th inst., at Williamsport, N. Y., under the influence of temporary insanity, induced by prolonged illness. Mr. Pryne was a clergyman of liberal views, being for some years an advocate of an anti-sectarian church, and was located for a time at several places in this and adjacent counties. He was an ardent admirer of Gerrit Smith, and one of the leaders of the “Liberty party" movement in this State. He edited the Progressive Christian, and was editorially connected with the "“Liberty Party" paper, and Fred. Douglass’s paper, and wrote many antislavery essays. Several years ago, he held a debate with Parson Brownlow on the slavery question, which attracted much attention. He was elected to the Assembly by the Republicans of the western district of Wayne county, and having made a creditable representative, it is probable he would have been reelected this fall. He was about forty years old.-Syracuse Journal, 24th ult.

FRATERNITY LECTURES

FIFTH COURSE.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully informed that the FIFTH COURSE OF LECTURES under the auspices of the Fraternity of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society will commence on
TUESDAY EVENING, October 7, 1862, 
at TREMONT TEMPLE, when an address on the State of the Nation will be made by
HON. HENRY WILSON.
To be followed on successive Tuesday evenings by lectures from the following persons:-
October 14.-HENRY M. DEXTER.
October 21.-ROBERT COLLTER
October 28.-THEODORE TILTON. 
November 4.-MONCURE D. CONWAY.
November 11.-ANNA E. DICKINSON. 
November 18.-HENRY WARD BEECHER.
November 25.-OWEN LOVEJOY.
December 2.-B. GRATZ BROWN.
December 9.-WENDELL. PHILLIPS.
December 16.-RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
December 23.-JACOB- M. MANNING.
December 30.-GEORCE WM. CURTIS.
Lectures to commence at half-past 7 o'clock. Course Tickets, admitting the Bearer and Lady, at $2 each, may be obtained at Williams & Everett, 234 Washington St.; Oliver Ditson & Co’s. 277 Washington St.; of Solomon Parsons, Esq., Superintendent of Temple; and of either member of the Lecture Committee, who in former years have had the disposal of tickets. Sept.26tf
<c06>
CIRCULAR.
A Hospital, for women and children, was established three years ago, in connection with the New England Female Medical College. This connection being dissolved, the friends of this Hospital appeal to the public to aid them in carrying forward its important objects, on an independent basis.
Our Hospital affords to those women especially needing the care and advice of their own sex, during sickness or in child-birth, the comforts of a home, and faithful attendance, at a moderate price.
To the friendless and needy we hope to offer the greatest of all charity; not only care for their physical wants, but sympathy and Christian love. It is our cheering conviction, that many a woman looks back to her brief stay in the Hospital as the best influence of her life. 
We offer peculiar advantages for training nurses for their important duties, under the superintendence of a physician.
We shall continue our Dispensary, which is visited chiefly by respectable families of soldiers, and that class of poor women, whose delicacy prompts them to seek consultation among their own sex, while too poor to pay physicians’ fees.
Since July 1st, we have had two hundred and twenty-nine patients, and have given away medicines, prescribed three hundred and ninety-five times, besides (what is often more needed) advice and instruction how to preserve health. In twenty-one cases, the patients, too sick to appear at the Dispensary, have been treated at their own homes.
Dr. MARY E. BREED, Resident Physician. 
Dr. MARIE E. ZAKREEWSKA, Attending Physician  
Dr. JOHN WARE, Dr. SAMUEL CABOT, Consulting Physicians.
A sunny, and well ventilated house, with a large yard, at the corner of Pleasant and Porter streets, has been hired and made ready for patients. To furnish it, and meet the expenses of the coming year, will require, at least, two thousand dollars, which, it is hoped, will be promptly supplied, by donations and subscriptions.
As many free patients will be received as our funds will allow.
True, it is in the midst of terrible civil war, which drains our resources, that we make this appeal; but never has it been more necessary. While the soldier has been fighting our battles on distant fields, how often has his wife come pleading at our doors for that help, in her hour of need, which, thank God, through the kindness of friends, we have not yet been forced to refuse her!
Donations and subscriptions may be forwarded to any of the undersigned. All articles of use in a Hospital will be gladly received.
Subscribers of five dollars will be entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, which takes place on the first Tuesday in November.
Samuel E. Sewall, Mary C. E. Barnard,
James Freeman Clarke, Mary J. Ellis,
F. W. G. May, Anna H. Clarke,
Geo. Wm. Bond, Sarah D. C. Lane,
Abner Kingman, Louisa C. Bond,
Jonathan A. Lane, Mary A. S. Palmer,
Edward E. Hale, Sarah Jane Kingman,
Otis Everett, Marie E. Zakrsewska,
Lucy Goddard, Caroline M. Severance,
Ednah D. Cheney, Elizabeth L. Everett.
Boston, Oct. 1, 1862.

AN APPEAL TO THE BENEVOLENT.
WASHINGTON, (D. C.) Sept. 25, 1862. 
The subscribers urgently invite the friends of the Slave, the Prisoner or the Soldier, to send articles of clothing, books, food or money to their care, when they will be distributed as they may direct. They need make no long appeal, at such a period of trial. They are in the midst of scenes of suffering that no pen can describe; and, aside from all the Government may furnish, a vast field of labor is opened, and many a wearied soldier, and especially the contraband, must suffer, unless relieved by the kind hand of philanthropy.
CHAS. SPEAR, Chaplain U. S. Hospital.
MRS. CHAS. SPEAR, 383, E. Street.
ANDREW T. FOSS, on behalf of the American and Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Societies, is now in the State of Vermont, and will speak as follows; his subject, Slavery and the Rebellion:
West Brookfield, Sunday, Oct. 5.
Northfield, Tuesday evening, Oct. 8.
Waitofield, Thursday, Oct. 9.
W. Roxbury, Friday, Oct. 10.
Braintree, Sunday, Oct. 12.
West Randolph, Sunday, evening, Oct, 12.
East Bethel, Tuesday evening, Oct. 14.
E. H. HEYWOOD will speak in Quincy, Sunday Oct. 5, at half-past 10, A. M., and at half-past 2, P. M.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed on 695 Washington street, 2d door North of Warren. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
Reference.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P. M.
WANTED-An ex-slave woman, acquainted with general housework. Apply at 104 Mt. Vernon Street.
DIED-In this city, Sept. 30, Hon. BENJAMIN F. HALLETT, aged 64-a noted Democratic politician.

600,000 Male or Female Agents,
TO SELL
Lloyd’s New Steel Plate County Colored Map of the United States, Canadas, and New Brunswick,
From recent surveys; completed August 10, 1862; cost $20,000 to engrave it, and one year’s time.
Superior to any $10 map ever made by Colto nor Mitchell, and sells at the low price of fifty cents; 370,000 names are engraved on this map.
It is not only a county map, but it is also a
COUNTY AND RAILROAD MAP
of the United States and Canadas combined in one, giving
EVERY RAILROAD STATION,
and distances between.
Guarantee any woman or man $3 to $5 per day, and will take back all maps that cannot be sold, and refund the money.
Send for $1 to try.
Printed instructions how to canvas well furnished all our agents.
Wanted-Wholesale Agents for our Maps in every State, California, Canada, England, France, and Cuba. A fortune may be made with a few hundred dollars capital. No competition. J.T. LLOYD,
No. 164 Broadway, New York.
The War Department uses our Map of Virginia, Maryland and Pennsylvania, cost $100,000, on which are marked Antietam Creek, Sharpsburg, Maryland Hights, Williams-port Ferry, Rhorersville, Noland’s Ford, and all others on the Potomac, and every other place in Maryland, Virginia and Pennsylvania, or money refunded.
LLOYD’S
TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP OF KENTUCKY, OHIO, INDIANA and ILLINOIS,
is the only authority for Gen. Buell and the War Department. Money refunded to any one finding an error in it. Price 50 cents.
From the Tribune, Aug. 2.
“LLOYD’S MAP or VIRGINIA, MARYLAND and PENNSYIVANIA. This Map is very large; its cost is but 25 cents, and it is the best which can be purchased."
LLOYD’S
GREAT MAP OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER, 
From actual surveys by Capts. Bart and Wm. Bowen, Mississippi River Pilots, of St. Louis, Mo., shows every man’s plantation and owner’s name, from St. Louis to the Gulf of Mexico-1350 miles-every sand-bar, island, town, landing, and all places twenty miles back from the river-colored in counties and States. Price, $1 in sheets, $2, pocket form, and $2, 50 on linen, with rollers. Now ready.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, Washington, Sept. 17, 1862.
J. T. LLOYD: SIR-Send me your Map of the Mississippi River, with price per hundred copies. Rear Admiral Charles H. Davis, commanding the Mississippi squadron, is authorized to purchase as many as are required for use of that squadron. 
GIDEON WELLS,
Secretary of the Navy.
Oct. 3 3w
DENTISTRY
D.D. DANIEL MANN has removed his office to 146 Harrison Avenue. He has, for the past five, years inserted artificial teeth on the <illegible> base, in the use of which he has made some improvements. It is better than gold, when well made, being lighter, stronger, and more durable, and is also much cheaper.
Dr. M. also uses a somewhat similar preparation for filling teeth too tender or too far decayed for filling with gold. His prices are as moderate, at least, as those of any responsible dentist. 
Boston, September 20, 1862.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
From the Atlantic Monthly for October.
THE BATTLE AUTUMN OF 1862.
BY .JOHN G.WHITTIER.
The flags of war like storm-birds fly,
The charging trumpets blow;
Yet rolls no thunder in the sky,
No earthquake strives below,
And, calm and patient, Nature keeps
Her ancient promise well,
Though o'er her bloom and greenness sweeps
The battle's her breath of hell,
And still she walks in golden hours
Through harvest-happy farms,
And still she wears her fruits and flowers
Like jewels on her arms”
What mean the gladness of the plain,
This joy of eve and morn,
The mirth that shakes the beard of grain
And yellow locks of corn?
Ah! eyes may well be full of tears,
And hearts with hate are hot;
But even-paced come round the years,
And Nature changes not.
She meets with smiles our bitter grief,
With songs our groans of pain;
She mocks with tint of flower and leaf
The war-field's crimson stain.
Still, in the cannon's pause, we hear
Her sweet thanksgiving-psalm;
Too near to God for doubt or fear,
She shares th' eternal calm.
She knows the seed lies safe below
The fires that blast and burn;
For all the tears of blood we sow
She waits the rich return.
She sees with clearer eye than ours
The good of suffering born,
The hearts that blossom like her flowers,
And ripen like her corn.
Oh, give to us, in times like these,
The vision of her eyes
And make her fields and fruited trees
Our golden prophecies!
Oh, give to us her finer ear!
Above this stormy din,
We, too, would hear the bells of cheer
Ring peace and freedom in!
From the Continental Monthly.
EN AVANT!
Oh God! let us not live these years in vain,
This variegated life of doubt and hope;
And though, as day leads night, so joy leads pain,
 Let it be symbol of a broader scope,
God! make us serve the monitor within;
Cast off the trammels that bow manhood down,
Of form or custom, appetite or sin,
The care for Folly's smile or Envy's frown.
Oh! that true nobleness that rises up,
And teaches man his kindred ship to Thee
Which wakes the slavering from the poison cup
Of passion, bidding him be grandly free!
May it be ours, in these the evil days,
That fall upon our nation like a pall;
May we have power each one himself to raise,
And place God's signet on the brow of all!
Not race or color is the badge of slaves;
“Tis manhood,” after all, that makes men free;
Weakness is slavery; is but mind that saves
God's glorious image as he willed it be.
Out of the shadows thick will coming day
Send Peace and Plenty smiling o'er our land;
And the evens that fill us with dismay
Are but the implements in God's right hand.
Where patriot blood is poured as cheap as rain,
A newer freedom, phoenix-like, will spring;
Our Father never asks for us in vain;
From noble seed comes noble harvesting.
Then let, to-day, true nobleness be ours;
That we be worthy of the day of bliss,
When Truth's and Love's and Freedom's allied powers
Shall bind all nations with fraternal kiss.
Would we might see, as did the saints of old,
The heavens opening, and the starry throng
Listening to have our tale of peace be told,
That they may hymn man's resurrection song!

From the Norfolk County Journal.
EMANCIPATION.
The blast of War's trumpet has silenced the lyre-
Its chords are un swept, there's no Muse to inspire:
Too silent, too earnest, for fanciful flights,
They have sought in sad council their pure mountain heights.
But we hear their low chant while to battle we urge,
The notes on the breeze of a wail or a dirge,
As a child or a hero goes down mid the slain,
Far too dear a prize for that red battle plain,
Where no victory crowns. No triumph is there,
To make it a glory to do and to dare,
And the wreaths to our heroes are dark with the hue
Of the somber leaved cypress-the laurels too few.
But the requiem halts-and, as coming from far,
We catch a new key-note-the trumpets of war
Are thundering the chorus. With banners unfurled, 
And "Freedom to all men," we'll silence the world.

SONG OF THE AGITATORS.
“Cease to agitate!" we will,
When the slave-whip's sound is still;
When no more on guiltless limb
Fetters print their circlet grim;
When no bound, athirst for blood,
Scours the thorny Georgians' wood;
When no mother's pleading prayer, 
On the sultry Southern air,
Quivered out in accents wild
“Master, give me back my child!"
In the day when men shall be
Brethren, equal born and free;
Day for which we work and wait,
We will “cease to agitate!"
When our statute-books proclaim 
To the world no more our shame,
And a freeman's right shall hold
Dearer than the Judas gold;
When the polar star shall give
Light to the last fugitive;
When our border lakes shall rise
On the last lone bondman's eyes,
And their waves for him no more
Haste to clasp the Northern shore;
In the day when men shall be
Brethren, equal born and free;
Day for which we work and wait,
We will “cease to agitate!"

THE LIVING DEAD.
BY SHELLEY.
We are surrounded by the living dead,
Men whose, whole lives seem purposeless and vain;
They ‘re bubbles in the air, husks mid the grain,
Mere walking flesh-piles, without heart or head.
They ’re dead as those on whose old graves we tread,
Long years companioned with the fresh-fat worm;
To show they've men, they've nothing but the form
They are not worth their daily meat and bread.
The marvels of creation move them not:
As well preach God unto a fleshless skull.
Surrounded by the grand and beautiful,
They ’re cold as levity stone of mossy grot:
Their life's a dream, a festering in the sun;
Snatched from this working earth, who'd miss them?
None!
<c02>
The Liberator.
SLAVERY, AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS.
No. IV.
BY JOSEPH F. BRENNAN, OF LOUISVILLE, KY.
And now, having shown how fearful are the effects of slavery upon the minds and morals, the industry and the political economy of the whole nation, I will state what I believe to be the reason why our attempts to crush this rebellion, inaugurated to perpetuate slavery, have been unsuccessful.
When President Lincoln declared war upon the Southern traitors, by calling for 75,000 armed men in April, 1861, he did so to restore the Union as it was, under the terms of the Constitution as it is. Now, the restoration of the Union as it was, under the Constitution as it is, has been proven to be an impossibility, by the fact that in no case Where we have conquered a peace is there any cordiality or Union sentiment exhibited, save in the most exceptional manner. A standing army has to be kept in every locality that we have thus far captured; and who will say that the Union as it was recognizes such a condition as that? Yet this is the war-cry of the majority of the people, as well as the object of the Government. With any other cry for the people, or any other object for the war, it is said we could not obtain a corporal's guard to swell the ranks of our army; and that any other object for the war would, in the very nature of this Government, be improper, because unconstitutional. But while the life that the Union can be restored as it was is daily becoming weaker, the expectation of preserving the Constitution as it is must necessarily grow weaker also. This war has to be prosecuted under the rules of war, if we wish to conquer a peace, and not under the letter of the Constitution. This fact is becoming more apparent every day; ;and it has led to the passage of a Confiscation Act, under the terms of which the property of every character, of those in arms against the Government, is to be confiscated to the full extent of things, and liberated to the extent of persons. Who will say that the Constitution recognizes this act? If the war were to be prosecuted under the Constitution, and with no object but the restoration of the Union as it was, such an act would be decidedly illegal. The President has seen, by the failure of our arms, the true cause of that failure; that to prosecute the war with the object enunciated, would leave the strength of the rebels nearly as great as our own; and it is plain to the common sense of the Government that, unless a sweeping change be made in the policy under which the war is conducted, it may either remain unsettled until the rebels are annihilated, or foreign powers interfere and recognize the enemy, and a general war be the result.
The Government declares its determination of putting down the rebellion. It perceives that slavery is the cause of the war and the strong arm of the rebels ; yet, such is the unbounded faith in the magnitude of its strength, that our Government acts as if it believed it could conquer a peace-as no other nation ever did-by leaving the enemy in the possession of their arm of strength; and indeed takes shame to itself that it has not done so already. With the desire to weaken the Slave Power, the Federal Government proposes to buy the slaves of the Border Slave States; but it has in no manner made their adoption of this proposition a reason for its protection of them in the Union, or, vice versa, their rejection of it a reason for its removal of that protection. If the Government were to say to the Border Slave States to-day,” Accept our offer of compensation, and abolish slavery within your limits, or we shall withdraw our protection from you," every slaveholder in those States would believe he had sufficient cause to join the ranks of the Confederates, and would probably do so. Yet, as a war measure, the Government has clearly the right to so determine; while, as a peace measure, the offer of compensation was, it is evident to the most shallow expounder of law, unconstitutional. So far, the proposition of the President and Congress is a menace without a penalty. The Border Slave States evidently feel that they possess the balance of power. If the Federal Government will make no Proclamation of Emancipation, they will maintain a nominal support of that Government, a support that extends simply to the protection of their own interests in the Union, and no further. But if Proclamation of Emancipation were made, they at once would unite with the other Slave States, and, throwing the whole weight of their influence and strength with them, so balance theam as to make it extremely problematical to the mind of the Government, as it would seem at present, whether the Free States would be able to conquer such a peace as would be desirable. It is this feeling, I believe, on the part of the Federal Government, rather than a desire to protect slavery, that causes President Lincoln to falter in giving utterance to that proclamation which the whole civilized world would applaud, and oppressed humanity in every land rejoice to hear. And it is just at this point that the failure of the Union arms may be said to hinge. The enemy are fighting for an idea-their independence, and the perpetuation of slavery and its kindred institutions. We are fighting to force down their throats the medicine of the Union as it was, which they have shown us conclusively their stomachs reject, and will not receive.
What, then, is the duty of the people of the Free States, in view of this fact? Is it not to unite in the support of the Government, to the full extent of any measure that Government may propose? Yet you will not do it. Here even, in Massachusetts, the old Bay State, the haven of the Pilgrims, you are divided in sentiment upon the subject of slavery, a large number believing that it is not a wrong nor an evil, and the remainder believing it is both. If the Free States were united, the Government, at the late session of Congress, could have acted most effectively; but, as it was, a majority of the representatives of three Border Slave States, together with those representatives of the Free States who sympathized, and, for the sake of party, believed with them and voted with them, checked the action of the Government, and nullified the ability of the President to do that which he evidently desires to do. “A house divided against itself cannot stand"; and “he that is not for me, is against me." These proverbs are evidently engraved on the hearts of the leading rebels; but they are ignored by the leading men of the Free States. The habit of acknowledging and believing in party ties is suffered to interfere with the sense of morality and respect for the rights of man, and the consequence we perceive in a divided North. Men of great intelligence and high character, as jurists and editors of the press, and whose opinions are, as it were, the religion of their followers, may be found today, who see in the accidental possession of power by the Republican party much to deprecate; and they will be found uttering the life that that party, as a political party, is anxious to have the war continue for the glory, honor and profit of its supporters and representatives, and that as the proper complimentary opposite, their party, the Democratic party, alone wish the war to end. In this manner the Free States are divided upon the basis of former political partisan ship, at a time when all party feeling and party spirit should be absorbed in love of country and desire to sustain the Government in using every means known to the usages of warfare, to put down rebellion, and preserve its territorial domain unbroken.
I have said that compensation, as a peace measure, is unconstitutional. I will explain why it is so. Under the Constitution slavery, as it exists, has never been legalized. I have shown that slaves are, by Slave State laws, not considered persons, but things. The representatives of the original thirteen States, when they framed and adopted the present Constitution, abolished such slavery by recognizing and de-scribing those who had been slaves, as “persons held to service," and thus raised them, though bondmen, from chattels to men. Indeed, it would be a nice
<c03>
legal question whether the Constitution did not, by that recognition and description, also abolish hereditary bondage. Hereditary bondage is founded only on the legal fiction that the mother is a chattel, a thing, and that the increase of that thing inures to the profit of its possessor as its decrease inures to his loss. If hereditary bondage has any legal existence in any of the States of this Republic, that existence is based upon local law, and such law has but a local strength. Under the war power, Congress- has the right to nullify not only such laws, but any other law that interferes with the peace and prosperity of the nation. But only as a war measure can Congress make such a proposition. For as the Constitution has never legalized the slavery of the Slave States, the Federal Government has no power to impose a tax upon any man to compensate the owners of slaves for their loss, except as a war measure. Having nothing to do with slavery in the States where it exists, in time of peace, the Federal Government could not impose a tax of one cent upon any man to remove it in time of peace. It is, in these States, a local institution, and as such, beyond the purview of the Federal Government in time of peace; and hence we have seen all attempts made in Congress to protect it in the common territories of the nation end in utter failure, and such failure become the ostensible, if not the real cause for this rebellion.
The President has evinced, most plainly, a hearty desire to settle the question of slavery forever, but he has not been supported by the people. Could he depend on a loyal North to-day to stand behind him with heart and hand as one man, I firmly believe that he would uproot slavery as the prime cause and support of the rebellion within one calendar month. He has intimated to the representatives of those States, that his last conference has been held with them upon the subject of compensation: it remained with them to accept or reject it. So far as we know, they have rejected it; yet no consequence follows or penalty results. Kentucky has lately, and since Congress adjourned, sent a deputation to him for forces and means to defend herself from the inroads of guerillas, who fight and rob and murder under the authority of Jeff. Davis & Co., and he has told them-Certainly, gentlemen; you shall have all the troops and arms and gunboats you want; but had you not better raise an additional regiment or two yourselves? Though he is perfectly well aware that if slavery were extinct in Kentucky to-day, she would be as safe from invasion as is Ohio or Indiana, yet he does not say one word of this to the deputation, nor point out to them the fact that, as they value peace and prosperity, it is their duty to accept the proposition of compensation. No, it is the duty of the Free State men to go to Kentucky, albeit, and protect that commonwealth against intestine and external violence!

BOSTON CONSERVATISM.
MR. EDITOR,—It is not my business to ply the pen for public print; but I am a free-born American, and as such, intensely interested in the national issues now at stake. It is a wonder the intelligence of Boston can tolerate so much “old fogy" croaking as is daily circulated through certain newspaper columns in the name of conservative loyalty, this continual harping upon a restoration of “the Union as it was," and insipid attacks upon those who have, or are supposed to have, a sensible idea of the cause of all this battle and bloodshed, and desire its removal. We must not sacrifice reason to sentiment in matters concerning the peace and prosperity of men. We must value things according as they are worthy, not at kind memory's price. Because our fathers were worthy people, is it conclusive that we must always walk with their staff? The robin and the martin sing the same song the robin and martin may have sung to Adam and Eve. The savage- whittles his arrows and takes the trail as countless generations have done before him. The ox bows his head to the yoke, the camel his back to the burden, and the mighty waters continue to flow but to ebb. Most loyal conservatives all these, and most loyally stupid. Precedent is their leader, and ignorance their consolation. Experience is only invaluable, not as we repeat, but as we glean wisdom from it. We learn from the past that certain effects follow certain causes. We are producing lessons to-day, throughout the land, for ages yet unborn. If every generation be not wiser than its preceding, it has by some unpardonable neglect negative the unquestioned design of God. It does not follow that the sons and daughters of one family, or a dozen families, are wiser than their parents; but the sum total of experience of the fathers of the million and millions must testify the advance, in embodiments, which really emanates from solitary minds, such as our telegraphs, camera obscure and monitors. Does not the North American citizen of the nineteenth century rank higher in the scale of civilization than the invading Saxon of fifteen centuries ago? Can we recognize in these shores and hills, and their wealth and culture of to-day, the homeless home of prowling savage and beasts-
"When a band of exiles moored their bark
By the wild New England shore"?
To what may we attribute this interesting change,— conservative stupidity, or progressive enterprise? What so perfect it may not be perfected? What so absurd it may not be a revelation? Three years ago, how few really credited the possibility of rebellion against the United States Government! To-day, how assiduous the attempt to disguise the fact that it is no longer rebellion, but REVOLUTION, that threatens our very existence as an independent government! Why this obstinacy? Why refuse to grow? Will the sun shine the less brightly if we turn our backs upon it? Can we arrest the flowing tide by writing our wishes in the sand? The time has come when, to be con derivative, is to be either stupid or wicked. It indicates a mind too weak to grapple with a new idea, or too mean to acknowledge its real sympathies with the rebellious enemies of liberty and civilization.
Sixty thousand of our brave countrymen lie suffering in the hospitals around Washington. For what did they leave their “friends and firesides”? To restore the Union as it was? We know better! What safety, what equality, in such Union? The unnumbered, unnamed mounds on the plains of Manassas, Harrison's Landing, and the heights of Maryland, and the groaning hospitals all over the land, bear witness! Such security has proved unconducive to health and happiness, and we should wash our hands of it forever.
The modern name for sensible men is “fanatics." The word's original signification is lost by perverted use, like many another in our vocabulary. At present, it is used chiefly by, and is a favorite term with, insensible men-men whose souls have grown rusty from disease; and traitors-traitors to God and humanity. Souls of men grow by what they feed on, and feed on what they are; so that “he who runs may read" in the eye the soul looks through, whether it has withered and gone to seed, or if the sap be yet fresh for a larger life.
For an enlightened country, it is astonishing how much seedy vegetation of this sort we meet every day; but not so surprising that most of the harvest is found at the disposal of the same party leaders. It would be a shame were they not in the minority; and, thank Heaven, they are! And as the real necessities of the issue are recognized by the people-and it seems to me they must be when this army is also disbanded to eternity, and another demanded-this degenerating influence will still grow beautifully less. The stereotyped appeals from the “Old Cradle" and “shades of Banker Hill and holiday parades with “music, banner and badge”- "will scarce convince men their highest destiny is to enrich the worn-out soil of Virginia. They will demand earnest intent, and to be led by men whose aims are higher than political scheming for the Presidency! When it comes to that, we shall have no more proclamations, swearing to “crush with iron hand" insurrections against rebels-no more armies buried on the peninsula-no more fumbling in the dark! LIBERTY Shall be the purpose, and UNION the consequences!
<c04>
Large bodies move slowly; and, with, so much dry stubble in the pathway, perhaps it is impossible to reach the inevitable goal, except by these circuitous routes of barbarous sacrifices in blood. But; civil liberty attains its highest perfection in society of the highest intelligence; and our own philosopher tells us, “Just as much intellect as you add, so much organic power." Then, as liberty, intelligence and power are fruits of the same stem, co-workers together in the struggle of humanity, is it too much to ask and expect of the "fanaticism" or intelligence of the great North and West, that they shake off this incubus of no purpose-this puerile devotion to what has been, but which is practically impossible, and as morally undesirable that it should be again? When that glorious army-alas! now no more—was amazing the world with its grand reviews and parades around Washington, much was said and written of the policy adopted by our President and Generals. The Fabian, Heraclian, Napoleonic and others were suggested as the one; but the fact is, there has been no policy at all. Though the change in favor of progress has been immense in public sentiment, yet the blood of our citizen soldiers flows generously and incessantly for what? Nobody knows! If we wish to preserve our independent nationality, an adoption of some policy cannot be made too soon. There must be an aim, or an ignominious end. Is there no spur that can urge the importance of some decisive, onward measure? Voters of Massachusetts! Exempts from draft! Arouse your patriotism for the great struggle of the 4th of- November! Let your brethren in the field, let the whole world, feel that Massachusetts will never submit to rebel dictation; that her votes in the halls of Congress shall be cast for PROGRESS, and for LIBERTY. Degrade not yourselves, your State, and your country, by permitting the talents that have so honestly and honorably served you, to be superseded in this hour of our great need! Begin now! Arouse ye-and strike for SUMNER and FREEDOM! ALLEN.

“DRAFTING". 
BRISTOL, (Pa.) Sept. 23,1862. 
MR. GARRISON: In last week's issue of the Liberator appears an editorial on “Drafting," wherein you aim to show that persons who exercise the elective franchise cannot consistently interpose scruples of conscience against bearing arms. However clear your argument may seem, and however valid your conclusion, there are some points in the case which you ignore, that may, perhaps, modify the force of your reasoning, if not reconcile the apparent inconsistency.
In placing the act of voting, with its possible results, and the act of performing military duty on the self-same level, you sweep aside whatever distinction may exist between them. Is there no distinction? Are we to consider that the responsibility attaching to one and the other is identical, even by the rigorous test which the conscience imposes? You ascribe to the vote but a solitary consequence. Yet it may be given in good faith, with diverse intentions, and may be instrumental in producing directly opposite effects. The actual taking up of arms involves the overthrow of peace principles, absolutely, and is a voluntary assent to all the conditions that war embraces. It is subject to no exception. The same cannot be said of a vote that may be given to insure peace, as well as to declare war.
Whatever relation the President may sustain towards the army, by virtue of his office, the practical operations thereof are due to the action of Congress. There centres the power to create, impede, or discontinue. But you make the exercise of that power imperative. You divest Congress of all freedom, all choice. You make each voter accountable for the declaration of war, regardless of the opposition which his vote may represent, and even if war be never declared. You say that” he who votes to empower Congress to declare war has no right to plead conscientious scruples as a peace man," when war actually comes. But may he not vote to authorize Congress to make and maintain peace? Must his vote be necessarily identified with war and its issues? The fact that with Congress is vested the power to declare war, implies its power to withhold the declaration. It seems to me that the responsibility is inseparable from this privilege of free action.
From your article I quote the following:—
“But, it may be; said, though I should refuse to hire a substitute, yet, if I pay the price demanded, will not the government take the money, and apply it for that purpose? And is there any essential moral difference here?' We think there is. In hiring a substitute yourself, you actively sustain the war, and become an armed participant in it, and so violate the principles which you profess to revere. In paying the tax, you passively submit to the exaction, which, in itself, commits no violence upon others, but is only a transfer of so much property to other hands. If, then, the government shall proceed to apply it to war purposes, the responsibility will rest with the government, not with you." 
Although you assert, in another paragraph, that "to hire a substitute is, as a matter of principle, precisely the same as to go; to the battle-field in person," you here seem to justify the payment of a tax, to be applied “for that purpose." If you can thus relax the stringency of your argument in favor of a tax to be applied to war purposes, with the full knowledge of its application on the part of him who pays it, may you not concede something to a ballot offered in the spirit of peace? Perhaps we may say, with equal propriety, that a vote commits no violence upon others, but is only a transfer of so much “authority to another person. If, then, that person “shall proceed to apply it to war purposes, the responsibility will rest with him, not with you." The person paying, the specified tax cannot possibly dismiss from his mind its sole and manifest object; whereas a ballot may be given with a definite end, to promote some immediate purpose of political reform, having not even a remote connection with bloody warfare. It can, therefore, induce none of that feeling which inevitably springs in the soul at the thought of human carnage, with all its terrible array.
Your estimate of the elective franchise is exclusively literal. The motive that may prompt the vote, the spirit in which it may be given, the object sought thereby, you utterly banish. Is not the animating spirit of an action the highest matter? Notwithstanding the literal significance of a ballot, may we not attribute the same virtue to it, when given with laudable aim and just intention, that is due to any other sincere act, for the accomplishment of a beneficent end? It need not annul the principle of love, nor cancel the serene frame of mind that peace imparts. The strict rules of casuistry may, however, exclude altogether this view of the subject, yet it may have sufficient merit to entitle it to consideration, and some degree of respect. W.
REMARKS. We thank our correspondent for this courteous presentation of his views of what is involved in the use of the elective franchise. He thinks our estimate of it is “exclusively literal"; we think his reasoning makes the Constitution “a nose of wax," or “a rope of sand," because he leaves that instrument as uncertain as the whims or wishes of each particular voter may be, instead of being definite and absolute in its requirements. We can only repeat, as it seems to us he who votes to make the President of the United States Commander-in-chief of the army and navy, (as every one does who votes for a Presidential candidate,) or to empower Congress to declare war at its discretion, grant letters of marque and reprisal, provide and maintain a- navy, and call forth the militia to suppress insurrections and repel invasions, &c. &c. (as every one does who votes for and under the Constitution, no matter what may be his private opinions,) cannot consistently plead conscientious scruples against bearing arms, and so may not properly claim of the government exemption from the liability of drafting at such time as his services may be constitutionally required. The grant of power is explicit and absoluter ”The President SHALL be commander-in- chief of the army and navy” "Congress SHALL have power to declare war," &c. [Ed. Lib.
<c05>
TERRIBLE ACCIDENT AT PITTSBURG.
One of the most horrible and appalling calamities with which any community has ever been visited occurred this afternoon at the United States Arsenal grounds, in the immediate vicinity of this city. Our leaders are aware that, ever since the commencement of the present war, a large number of hands have been employed at the” Arsenal in putting up fixed ammunition for the army. At first the work was done by boys, but fearing from their careless habits, that some such accident which has occurred would follow their employment, they were, some months ago, discharged, and young women and girls, as being more tractable and careful, employed in their stead. About one hundred and fifty of these, together with a few men, were engaged to-day in the Laboratory buildings lying on the side of the hill between Butler street and the Greensburg Pike, when, from some cause or other as yet unexplained an explosion took place which was distinctly heard in the city. The buildings were blown to atoms, and the bodies of the inmates carried high into the air. The greater number, however;, perished by fire, while lying under the ruins of the shattered buildings. Altogether about eighty lives were lost, but it is impossible, at: the time we write, four o'clock, to arrive at any adequate estimate of the extent of the catastrophe. How many were injured could not be ascertained, as they were carried away as soon as found, to be cared for by their friends.

THE SCENE OF CALAMITY.
Shortly after three o'clock, we visited the scene of the explosion, and a more painful or revolting sight than that which presented itself to our view can scarcely be imagined. The streets leading to the ground were filled with an excited crowd, including hundreds of frantic women, who rushed wildly through the multitude, shrieking and sobbing as though their hearts would break. We entered the upper gate, and at the very threshold were met by evidence of the terrible force of the explosion. The grounds were covered with fragments of charred wood, canister, shot, sheet iron, exploded cartridges, Minie balls,  etc., some of which had fallen fully four hundred yards from the scene of the explosion. We found the windows, too, of the large building just inside the gate, shattered and broken by the concussion.

A HORRIBLE SCENE.
Ascending the side of the hill towards the laboratory buildings, the first object that attracted our attention was the body of one of the victims, partly covered with a sheet. It was lying where it fell, nearly three hundred yards from the scene of the accident. The flesh had been blown, as it were, from the bones, and, with the intestines, lay a tangled mass, while the face was horribly mutilated, and the corpse little better than a hideous, shapeless pulp. From the hair, it was evident that the body was that of a female, but her identification was out of the question. Higher up lay another; disfigured in the same frightful manner and badly burned besides, and around, as far as the eye could reach, lay fragments of human remains-here an arm, there a leg, here the intestines of some unfortunate creature, and there the pelvis, and so on. Oh God! what a sight! yet the greatest horror was to come.

ONE OF THE VICTIMS IDENTIFIED.
Continuing on our way still towards the smoking ruins, we came upon the body of a female badly burned, and presenting a most shocking appearance. The limbs were swollen to three times their natural size, while the feet had been partially burned off and the breast and face were frightfully disfigured. While we stood looking at the remains, a young woman approached, and with an agonizing scream pronounced the victim to be a Mrs. Sheppard residing in Lawrenceville, and one of her best friends. She informed us that Mrs. Sheppard held some position in one of the rooms, but what it was she was too agitated to explain. Her daughter she said was also killed, but she could not say whether or not her body had been found. Mrs. Sheppard appears to have been a very respectable lady, and had hosts of friends, to whom her horrible death seemed to be a source of the deepest suffering.

IN THE DEATH AGONY.
Near Mrs. Sheppard lay two women who, though burned in a horrible manner, were yet alive, and painfully sensible of their sufferings. One poor creature, who gave her name as Mary Connolly, writhed and twisted in the death-agony until the spectacle became too much even for the crowds of gazers who thronged around, and many of them, turned away filled with horror from the frightful and appalling scene. There were several physicians in attendance, but the condition of the sufferers was beyond the reach of medical skill, and both died before we left.

THE HORROR INCREASES
We were now on a line with the burned buildings, and could see crowds of men at work taking out the remains of such as perished in the ruins. Near here, under a tree, lay the remains of seven of the sufferers, and a little higher up, inside the garden fence, we counted the remains of twenty-six others. Of these little else remained than the trunks. In some cases the heads and arms had been burned off and in others the legs were gone, while of the arms nothing but the larger bones remained. They were crisped and burned into all conceivable shapes, and presented altogether the most sickening spectacle we have ever looked upon. We have seen death in almost every form, but never in such a shape as this. The battle-field presents not a tithe of the horrors of such a scene. God grant that we may never look on such a spectacle again!

TAKING OUT THE BODIES.
The fire had not yet been thoroughly quenched, and a strong stream was being thrown upon the ruins by one of our steam fire engines, while men carried water to the scene of the disaster, and labored nobly in putting out the flames. As the fire was got under those engaged in taking out the bodies extended the sphere of their operations until the heart of the largest of the buildings was reached.
At the time we left, several bodies had been taken out, swelling the number which came under our notice altogether to forty-six. This, however, was not considered anything like the number lost, as at the time of our leaving we counted at least five additional bodies lying in the ruins, to which the workmen were unable to get access because of the heat. How many were under them no one can say.

THE EXTENT OF CALAMITY
This, as we have said, it would be difficult to determine just now. We believe that at least seventy lives were lost, and the mortality may even exceed this, as many who were taken out were so badly injured that their recovery is out of the question. Altogether, the occurrence is the most painful by all odds that has ever happened here, and it has carried death and desolation into many a happy household.

INCIDENTS. 
At the lower end of the ground is situated a very lengthy building, in which some three hundred girls were employed. On hearing the first explosion, the girls rushed frantically for the doors, and it was with difficulty the foreman could keep them in the building. When the second explosion occurred, the girls became so terrified that they could not be restrained, and they rushed to the windows, broke them open, and precipitated themselves to the ground, a distance of some thirty feet. They ran around the grounds shrieking, some of them bleeding from wounds obtained in jumping through the windows, and the sight they exhibited was enough to strike terror in any one. Some of them ran in the direction of their homes, and did not stop until sheer exhaustion compelled them to. 
The horrors of the scene presented at this great destruction of life were heightened by the agonizing screams of relatives and friends upon discovering the remains of some loved one whose humble earnings contributed to their comfort. Again, others were frantically rushing from one charred body to another, looking in vain for a daughter or a sister who was employed in the ill-fated building. There was not a particle of clothing left on a majority of them, and mangled and disjoined as they were, it was utterly impossible to identify them. The very stockings were torn from their feet, rings from their fingers, and in some instances nothing but a headless trunk remained. Nevertheless, many were identified by their hair by a scrap of the dress they wore, etc., but the greatest number of them never can be fully recognized. In the pit of the stomach of one head-less trunk we saw there was imbedded about a dozen of Minie balls.
That some of the some of the unfortunate girls were thrown high in the air by the explosion, is evinced by the fact that on the branches of some of the trees around the building, pieces of dresses were to be seen, which must have been torn from their bodies in their descent. —Pittsburg paper, 17th ult.
<c06>
SUSPENSION OF THE HABEAS CORPUS IN CERTAIN CASES.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
A PROCLAMATION.
Whereas, it has been necessary to call into service not only volunteers, but also portions of the militia of the States by draft, in order to suppress the insurrection existing in the United States, and disloyal persons are not adequately restrained by the ordinary processes of law from hindering this measure, and from giving aid and comfort in Various ways to the insurrection; now, therefore, be it ordered-
1st. That during the existing rebellion, and as a necessary measure, for suppressing the same, all rebels and insurgents, their eiders and abettors, within the United States, and all persons discouraging volunteer enlistments, recruiting militia drafts, or guilty of any disloyal practice affording aid and comfort to the rebels against the authority of the United States, should be subject to martial law, and liable to trial and punishment by courts martial or military commission.
2. That the writ of habeas corpus is suspended in respect to all persons arrested, or who are now or may hereafter during the rebellion be imprisoned in any fort, camp, arsenal, military prison, or other place of confinement, by any military authority, or by the sentence of any court martial or military" commissions.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affirmed.
Done at the City of Washington, this 24th day of September, in the year of our Lord 1862 and of the independence of the United States the 87th. 
ABRAHAM LINCOLN
By the President,
WM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.
SELF-DEFENCE. Our long-tried friend and faithful coadjutor in the Anti-Slavery cause, EDWARD M. DAVIS of Philadelphia, while serving the country as a member of General Fremont's staff; was charged by a Congressional Committee with defrauding the Government in the purchase of blankets for the use of the army. This charge astonished those who, like ourselves had known Mr. Davis for years as a man of the strictest integrity and the highest sense of honor in all the relations of life. For a long time he <illegible> bore to make any public vindication of himself in the hope that the authors of the charge, after being convinced of its injustice, would make an honorable retraction. His appeals to them, however, owing to official pride or a scandalous indifference on their part to the outraged sensibilities of an injured but honest man, were utterly vain. A sense of duty to himself and his friends at length constrained Mr. Davis to come before the public in self-defence. A letter from him to the Philadelphia Press makes the whole case clear as daylight. The evidence of the utter injustice of the charges of the Congressional Committee is so complete and authentic as to leave no room for doubt. Every one who reads the letter will at once acquit him, and condemn the Committee for their readiness to accuse and their reluctance to do justice to him.-A. S. Standard.
A NEGRO ARMY The Hilton Head correspondence of the New York Herald, writing under date of the September 8th, states that on the 25th of August, Secretary Stanton authorized Gen. Saxton to organic to organize in squads, companies, battalions, regiments and brigades 50,000 able-bodied negroes, to be employed as laborers, and to be turned over to the Quartermaster's Department. They are to be paid from $7 to $9 per month, according to their abilities. Secretary Stan ton gives Gen. Saxton the further authority to recruit arm and equip 5,000 negroes, who are to be uniformed rationed and paid as are the white soldiers of this <illegible> command These African troops are to re-occupy the posts and plantations we have evacuated, and to se cure the crops that have been from time to time abandoned. 

$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines, 
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
This is a new style, first class, double thread, Famous Family Machine, made and licensed under the patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and a Grover & and Baker, and in construction is the combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable <illegible> and are the finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market. 
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short notice Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.

IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the Massachusetts
Charitable Mechanic Association.
FOUR PARKER’S SEWING MACHINES This Machine is so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe, Jr., Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties pay tribute. These together with the Parker’s improvements make it a beautiful Machine. They are sold from $40 to$ 120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, <illegible> and complete. The apparatus for ganging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another feature which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is an wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account.
PARKER’S SWEING MACHINES have many qualities that recommend them to use in families. The several parts are pinned together, so that it is always adjusted and ready for work, and not liable to get out of repair. It is that best finished, and most firmly and substantially made machine in the Fair, its motions are all positive, its <illegible> easily adjusted, and it leaves no ridge on the back of the work. It will hem, fell, stitch, run, bind and gather, and the work cannot be ripped, except designedly. It sews from common spools, with silk, linen or cotton, with equal is city. The facility the stitch made upon this machine was recently awarded the first prize at the Tennessee State Fair, for its superiority.—Boston Traveller.
We would call the attention of our readers to the advertisement, in another column, of the Parker Sewing Machine. This is a licensed machine, being a combination of the various patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson and Grover & Baker, with those of the Parker Sewing Machine Company: consequently, it has the advantage of such machines -first, in being a licensed machine; second, <illegible>, from the fact that it embraces all of the most important improvements which have heretofore been made in Sewing Machines; third, it requires no readjustment, all the various parts being made right and pinned together, instead of being adjusted by screws, thus avoiding all liability of getting out of order without actually breaking them; and also the necessity of the purchaser learning, as with others, how to regulate all the various motions to the machine. The favor with which the Parker Sewing Machine has already been received by the public warrants us in the life that it is by far best machine now in the market. South Reading Gazette, Nov. 24, 1860.
THE PARKER SEWING MACHINE is taking the lead in the market. For beauty and finish of its workmanship, it can not be excelled. It is well and strongly made- strength and utility combined-and is emphatically the cheapest and best machine now made. The ladies are delighted with it, and when consulted, invariably give Parker’s machine the preference over all others. We are pleased to learn that the gentlemanly Agent, GEORGE E. LEONARD, 188 Washington Street, Boston, has a large number of orders for these machines, and sells them as fast as they can be man- factored, notwithstanding the dullness of the times, and while other manufacturers have almost wholly suspended operations. This fact, of itself , speaks more strongly in its favor than anything we can mention; for were it <illegible> not for its superior merits, it would, have suffered from the general depressions, instead of flourishing among the wrecks of its rivals. What we tell you is no fiction; but go and buy one of them, and you will says that ”half of its good qualities had never been told you.” Every man who regards the health and happiness of his wife should buy one of these machines to assist her in lessening life's to some task. Marlboro’ Gazette, July 13, 1861.
