<c01>
THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNINING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM NO.6. 
ROBERT F.WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS-Three dollars per annum, in advance. 
Four copies will be sent to one address for TEN
DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance. 
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID,) to the General Agent.
Advertisements of a square and over Inserts three times at five cents per line; less than a square, 75 cents for three insertions. Nearly and half yearly advisement inserted on reasonable terms.
The Agent of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorized to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR. 
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are responisble for any debts of the paper, viz:-WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUIXCY, EDMUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
W M. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, Our Countrymen are all Mankind 
J. B. YERRINGTON & SON, Printers
VOL. XXXIII No. 17. BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1863. WHOLE NO. 1681
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE BLOODY ABOLITIONIST AND HIS FAMILY DOG.
Your true Abolitionist is a patriotic man. At least, he says so himself. Even it he did not vaunt his ardent affection for his torn and bleeding country, we should know to place him amongst her most adorable lovers. We should know it from remarks of his previous to the breaking out of the war, as well as from his conduct since. Every day of his life, up to the Rebellion, we are accustomed to hear from his lips these delectable phrases of the loyal citizen: "No Union with Slaveholders!" "Let the Union slide!" "Down with the Constitution that sanctions or allows slavery!" At the tap of the drum, he falls in with the Home Guards, and gets others to volunteer. His boasted recklessness of life and limp is equaled only by his discreet caution not to <Illegible> them. All the property he has, he will sacrifice to preserve the Constitution and the Union without reference to results. He tells you also that the man who even mentions the word tax is a traitor. His purse is yearning to contribute to the expense of this executive war. This is the way he talks. But actions speak louder than words. The following, told us by a reliable man, is a fair illustration: One of the kind of Abolitionists we have spoken of living in the southern part of the county, had a dog which he thought a great deal of, and which was a great favorite in the family. He takes the New York Tribune, and has been so in the habit of trusting that paper, that he generally gets every thing wrong. Reading over the tax bill, he conceived the idea that the new law had passed taxing dogs a dollar a head. He concluded to get rid of that dollar, and accordingly shot his dog. This lousy, ranting Abolitionist, who boasted that he would give all his property to sustain the war, murdered his poor dumb dog, and set his wife and children crying, to cheat the Government out of a dollar. He is the patriot. He kills his dog to cut down the expense of the war. The Democrat who pays his taxes, and wants an adjustment of the difficulties to save human life and money, is a traitor.-Logon (Ind.) Gazette.
YE BRECKINRIDGERS.
We wish to warn the country, and especially the young girls and good old grandmothers of the nation, against what the servile, truckling tools of Abolitionism call Breckinridgers. The "Breckinridgers," when analyzed, are curious animals. First, they consist of such men as Vallandigham, Richardson, and all the personal and political friends of Judge Douglass; second of the former friends but present repudiators of Breckinridge and Bell; third, of those in this State who voted the Reading ticket fourth, of all who seek to restore the Union as it was, and the Constitution as it is; fifth, of all who demand free speech, free press, obedience to the civil authorities, and the right of trial by a jury of their countrymen; sixth, of all who denounce the stupendous stealings of this administration and its army of plunder-seeking contractors, horse-jorkeys, and licensed robbers; seventh, of those who believe that the laboring white man is better than a nigger, and go in for protecting his labor from than unjust and humiliating negro competition; eighth, of thousands and tens of thousands who are swelling the ranks of our battle-feilds; ninth, of all the conservative men of the country who voted for Lincoln, but now declare themselves in favor of a constitutional governments and go in with the Democratic party to maintain the inalienable rights of the people to restore the Union, and proted the treasury, and maintain the credit of the nation. It will thus he seen that what the abolitionists call Breckinridgers are bad fellows. They tell the people that the Chicago platform is not the Constitution: that the negro is not as good as the white laboring man; that the Abolitionists formed a sectional party, and made the North hate the South, until disunion followed; and a host of other things which the mobites call treasonable. It is possible that some of these chaps have horns upon the top of their heads, and it is believed that many of them haunt the bed chambers of thieving officials, patriotic quartermasters and contractors, and it may be possible that they have in some cases even made babies cry at midnight. We would warn our friends against what the Abolitionists call "Breclinridges." 
-Sunbury( Ind.) Democrat.
RADICAL PLOT.
The silence which has come over radicalism is occasionally broken by an outburst of the old spirit of evil. The Cincinnati Union, a Genman Abolition sheet,says:
From a reliable source we receive the news, that certain high and influential German officers of the arny of the Potomac are ready, in case they should be needed, to assist with their troops in an anti-slavery <illegible> indeed, one of them has declared that union and liberty can be preserved only by such a <illegible> and by the temporary dictatorship of a radical anti-slavery man."
The tone of this suggestion is more important than the statement given, on which we place no reliance. It is the same tone in which the New York Times proposed to supersede Mr.Lincoln, awhile ago, and in which it now, from day to day, publishes silly articles demanding vengeance on political opponents, and recommendinig all sorts of violent proecedings. It is the same, tone which other-papers of this class assume, encouraginig the spirit, of radicalism, inciting mobs by their violent abuse of loyal men,inventing phrases of obloquy,exhausting the resources of bad minds for expressions to suit the tone of their excited feeliings. The Liberator leads the brotherhood, admiringly in the track. 
This is one of the most dangerous symptoms of the day. It requires the exertion of every conservative man to preserve the public peace, and quiet the passions which these foolish and reckless politicians are endeavoring to excite. The disloyalty which from time to time exhibits itself in these proposals to supersede Mr. Lincoln, indicates the irrepressible nature of the bad radical spirit. It is not the country they desire to save, but it is vengeance against political opponents that they seek, and, to accomplish this, they are not content with the exercise of military or other arbitaryi power, but they desire to inaugurate a one-man power, to be controlled by themselves, and wielded for their purposed of violence
and revenge. Let all parties set their faces sternly against these enemies of the public peace! 
N.Y. Journal of Commerce.
The following copperhead toast was recently drank at Hartford:-"Here's to the Southern Confederacy! May Jeff. Davis be our next President! May the Potomac be dried up, and its channel filled to the brim with the blood of abolitionists!"
<c02>
"OUT IN THE COLD."
BY GAIL HAMILTON.
Ever since I can remember, and long before that, the great bugbear of the country has been Disunion. Lovejoy was shot in Alton, Dr. Bailey was mobbed in Washington, Judge. Hoar was driven out of Charleston, and Garrison was dragged through the streets of Boston with a rope around his neck, to placate this implacable monster. Books were tampered with, traffic was tainted, printing presses thrown into the river, and pulpits so polluted that they ought to have been; nothing was held too precious, too sacred to be offered on his shrine. Free speech, free press, free action were all tossed into his ravenous maw, and he swallowed and roared for more. Statesmen, tradesmen, merchants, ministers, saints, and sinners, all went down on their knees, and agreed that black was white, if so he might be fended off. Nay, they not only agreed to it; they argued it; they swore to maintain it in perpetuo and to tolerate henceforth no doubt, and suffer no agitation on the subject, lest the dragon should rear his horrid front again. A wet blanket was attempted to be thrown over the convictions of the whole nation, and whenever an undulation of the blanket gave token of the stirring of a restless conviction beneath,
a sport, or a paw-stroke from the monstrum. horrendum 
malformum set all knees a-smiting one against another, and thrust forth a mob of hands to press down the blanket close, and smother the rebellious conviction. But it so happened that when the human race was constructed, the stuff which went to the formation of convictions was far sterner than the stuff which went to make blankets. Consequently, for all the hands that held it down, and for all the snorts that set the hands in motion, the stir waxed more and more violent, the covering rolled and heaved till it was finally thrown off altogether, and the convictions marshalled an army six hundred thousand strong, and went out to do battle with the beast. 
So there is an end of that. We shall probably never, certainly not for the lifetime of this generation, have any more menaces of Southern disunion. No right will have to be postponed, no wrong allowed because the South threatens to withdraw. If she accomplishes her purposes, there will be no occasion for a renewal of her threat, and if she does not, no possibility. But the resources of Satan are infinite, and having ridden one horse to death, he has now slipped upon the back of another to take an airing through the North. Finding that his bugbear is going to be transfixed and analyzed, and all that is bug hooted, and all that is bear throttled out of existence, he sets up a new and fresh one. Slavery not being able to drag the South out of the Union, is now making a frantic effort to push New England out. Having tried in vain to find a great gulf along Mason and Dixon's line, she next undertakes to chip off Plymouth rock. But slavery will find no more profit to herself in stone-cutting than in digging. Plymouth rock was cut out of the mountain without hands, and hands cannot prevent it from becoming a great mountain, and filling the whole earth. Suppose New England were thrust out of the Union, had Zimri peace who slew his master? Would the principles that have made New England what she is be any less forceful, because she was no longer called America? A rose by any other name is just as sweet. If New England were baptized New Zealand, righteousness would still go up a sweet savor unto the Lord. 
Is it said that such expulsion would be her ruin? that henceforth her name would be but a memory? What then? Is civilization shut up in Boston State House? Whom the gods will destroy, they first make mad. Are men mad enough to suppose that, at this late day, truth crushed to earth will not rise again? that because John Brown's body lies amouldering 
in the grave, his soul is mouldering with it? Plymouth rock is no bit of quartz or feldspar, but a principle and principles will live and reign, though New England be not only left out in the cold, but thrust down into the ocean's depths forever. Every church, every school-house, every townhouse from the Atlantic to the Pacific, has Plymouth rock for its foundation-stone. Every man in every land who opens his mouth for truth, stands on Plymouth rock. Wherever Freedom aims a musket, or plants a standard, or nerves an arm, or sings a song, or files a protest, or murmurs a prayer, there is Plymouth rock. 
Cows may meander, as of old, along Washington street, but the hands shall not go back on the dial-plate of God. Boston may be grassgrown, and New England forgotten, but love of life and love of liberty shall never die out of the hearts of men. Let Southern traitors and their Northern abettors arrange things as they will. Let them eject New England, and sheathe the sword, and stifle discussion, and inaugurate Jefferson Davis, and ignore the negro, and perpetuate the slave is that the end? Will they so find rest? Will cotton once more resume sway, and right be forever held in abeyance? Never, so long as there is a conscience in man, or a God in heaven! They may make themselves a new Pandora's box, filled with commerce, and peace, and wealth, and every blessing, but this evil at the bottom shall poison every good. They cannot bind it to quietude. They may resolve, and legislate, and menace; Jefferson Davis and all his kind may bear down upon the lid with their whole force; but the divinely appointed unrest of iniquity will heave and surge, and throb with unceasing tumult, till the vexed lid fly up with a rebound that shall hurl them to irrevocable doom. Men forget that ethics is not mechanics. They forget the divine power of truth, the divine nature of humanity. God made man in his own image; in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them. And can it be supposed that male and female, created in God's own image, are going to remain eternally passive under the weight of hell's oppression, or worse than this, be the ever patient agents of hell's iniquity? If the programme of these lewd fellows of the basest sort, these Northern men, who, of their own free will and taste, souse their hands into the fifth amid which their Southern comrades were most innocently born; if their programme could be carried out; if New England could be quietly disposed of; if the cry of three millions of slaves could be hushed, and the voice of nineteen millions of freemen stilled, and a dead silence reign throughout the land, the woe to the African would be a thousand and a thousand fold less than the woe to its Caucasian oppressor. But this cannot be, because the good in man can no more be ignored than the evil; because there is implanted in him a divine spark, which is ever springing up into flame. Whoever makes laws or frames plans, without taking into account the action of this irrepressible agent, will find his laws and his plans blown finally into a thousand fragments, by its checked and accumulated forces.
 Meanwhile, let us possess our souls in patience. The cry of separation between North and South is,
<c03>
it seems, to be superseded by the cry of separation between East and West. But I, for one, am thoroughly tired of being scared; and if we are to be cut off, so be it; but don't let us die a thousand deaths through fear of one. Dread of Southern separation has sat at our council-boards for a life-time; if this fresh one is to supplant it, the little finger of the newtyrant will be thicker than the loins of the old. So I think the best way is to do justly, love mercy, and walk humbly before God, precisely as if nothing had been said. If it happens, we shall be no worse off for having slept o' nights; and if it does not happen, we shall be a great deal better. should be glad if no New England voice should be
 lifted against the measure; for apart from law and loyalty, dignity seems to require that New England's defence shall come from other lips than her own, as it certainly does come through all the North and West, with unequivocal and generous reverberations. But above all things, as we value our birthright, and the charge entrusted to us by our fathers, let no New England voice be lowered to meet this new found threat. Though as an American one should bewail such a catastrophe in dust and ashes, as a New Englander he should exult. America would wear her decree of divorce forever branded on her
brow; but New England would inscribe it highest on her banner of light; for the separation would not be because of her usurpation of power, but her inflexibility of principle-not for what is bad in her, but for what is good. So may she live only so long
as life and honor are one; and if die she must, let her go down grandly, like the Cumberland, firing her last broadside at the foe, flinging her last flag to the breeze, knowing of a surety that the dead which she shall slay at her death will be more than they which she slew in her life.-Congregationalist.
McOLELLAN AGAIN.
If every man in the North could read the report of the Committee of the House and Senate on the conduct of the war, every allegation made against McClellan by those, who, up to the time of that General's removal, clamored for a better officer in his place, would be so proved that dispute over his merit or demerit would be hereafter impossible. The nation, without dissent, would agree that he is a traitor or a plunderer, from whom the command ought to have been wrested sixteen months ago. We have a copy of the document before us; and after reading it attentively, and with a predetermination to find in it, if possible, some justification or excuse for the wanton and unnecessary delay; the errors in planning, and the want of promptness and zeal in executing, for which he has been arraigned before his countrymen, we confess that we can find only the most positive, and at the same time the most mournful, proofs that he either did not intend to fight and disperse his enemies, or that he was, with immense resources in his hands, paralyzed by his incapacity. And as we cannot believe that the President, the Cabinet, many of the officers of the army, and all his personal friends, were so grossly mistaken in his capability, we are compelled to adopt the opinion, that while at the head of the army, he sought and expected some other solution of the question at issue, between the North and the South, than that which he ought to have found in the men at his back. We believe, in short, that he had hardly arrived in Washington before he became a politician, and that what he gained in that character, he lost as a General. He was undoubtedly at once the victim and the dupe of the peace party; and with commendable, and, as events have proved, well-warranted 
distrust of his talent for victory, he sought the opportunity to commend himself to his countrymen as a pacificator rather than a conqueror-to coax the enemy back to loyalty and submission, rather than to exterminate them by his arms. The cordiality with which he was, and is yet, supported by all men who are justly suspected of sharing the views that we attribute to him; the clamor made by them when he was removed, and their extraordinary efforts to reinstate him; his own personal associations in the army and outside of it, confined almost wholly to those who have no stomach for the fight, are collateral but almost conclusive proofs of what we say. We have no need to tell how miserably he failed, nor how ingloriously he fell. The treasury to the amount of hundreds of millions, the lives of tens of thousands of our brave men, and the indefinite postponement of the triumph of the righteous cause are the fruits of his campaigns.-Chicago Tribune.
The report of the committee on the conduct of the war is before the country, and it is the opinion of all men, a few malignant Copperheads excepted, that it disposes of all that was left, of the mortal remains of that preposterous humbug, Gen. McClellan. The few of the ragged and draggled borrowed plumes that he continued to wear after Antietam have been plucked from him, and he stands before the world, and before the country he did all he could to ruin, the completest specimen of a jackdaw that was ever known in fact or fable. It is mortifying to think that such a man should have been idolized by almost the whole country, and that he should have been entrusted with the lives of 160,000 soldiers, and with the fortresses of the Republic. We shared the common delusion, but we were cured of it rather sooner than most persons. We gave him up, and ceased to be a hero-worshipper in Little Mac's temple, not long after the disgraceful affair at Ball's Bluff, for which Gen. McClellan, and Gen. McClellan alone, was responsible. But we found that it was not prudent-that it was scarcely safe-to speak, even in the most moderate terms, of the possibility of the "Young Napoleon" being not exactly the equal of the Bonaparte of Arcole and Rivoli. This being a free country, in which no man has the right to say anything that other men don't like, it was highly improper to hint that the popular hero was not all that the common fancy painted him. " He must have a fair trial!" said persons who cared nothing for their country, apparently, and everything for the brazen image which they had set up. This had a very fine sound, but it was the rankest nonsense that ever was uttered. To insist upon allowing a military leader to have a "fair trial" at the expense of his country was a piece of folly that was quite without precedent. He who had proved that he was either a traitor or unfit to handle a few thousand men at Ball's Bluff, was to be entrusted with a far larger force than fought on both sides at the Alma, just to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the persons who laid claim to fair-mindedness that he could fail grandly! That was a way of making war that must be pronounced original. Well, he had his " fair trial," and a very trying time the country had of it while he was proving his unfitness for command. It is not unjust to say that he never did anything while he led the principal armies of his country but embarrass them, and promote the cause of the enemy. Not one act of his can be mentioned which was likely to do service to the cause to which he was nominally attached. His career is a dreary waste of unrelieved imbecility or of unrelieved dishonesty. We believe that he was unable to do any-
<c04>
thing, not from want of means, but from want of talent. He lacks the first characteristic of a commander, moral courage. We do not agree with those who call him a coward in the ordinary sense of the word, nor do we think he was wrong in not exposing himself to the enemy's fire. It is not a General's business to expose himself unnecessarily. But Gen. McClellan seems never to have believed success possible, and therefore he could but fail. The committee's report demolishes him as completely as he might have demolished the enemy, had he been fit for the post he held. It also bears hard upon government,
by the simple statement of facts. That there were not men enough at hand, is proved beyond doubt; and for the want of men, government is alone to blame. It might have had 60,000 short term volunteers to garrison Washington, Baltimore, and Fortress Monroe, and so have been able to send all the old troops in those places into the field; but
it would not call them out, and thus starved the war. The President, too, was lackinig in energy. He should have removed Gen. McClellan in the winter of 1862, and placed the army under command of some other officer. He could have made no mistake, for it would have been impossible to select a man of less ability, and probably the gain would have been great in point of honesty. The President, we presume, was prevented from making a change that he must have seen was necessary, by the apparent strength of the popular support that was accorded to the weak-minded General. He feared to offend 
the people, forgetting that popular opinion was but an expression of popular ignorance. He was in possession of facts of which the people knew nothing, and on those facts he should have acted. He did not act, and the consequence was failure,-complete, thorough, ignominious failure,-when the chances were ten to one in our favor. If the Union shall never be restored,-and it never can be restored without a change of action,-history will place the responsibility of our defeat where it properly belongs. 
While condemning feeble Generals, it will not accept those Generals as scape-goats, but will give judgment against men who retained them in office long after they had established by their acts that they knew neither how to command nor how to obey. The President's treatment of Gen. Burnside, too, was very bad, and accounts for the failure of that officer's plans. The President, falling into the common error of mistaking the reverse of wrong for right, would not act against Gen. McClellan when he was doing evil, and he did act against Gen. Burnside when he was doing good. Looking back over
what was done and what was not done, in 1862, one stands astonished that the enemy did not seize. Washington, and in that way bring the war to a proslavery conclusion. Gen. McClellan, indeed, says in one of his letters quite enough to show that he
wished to get all the soldiers out of Washington, apparently in order that the rebels might seize the capital without firing a shot; which done, he might have treated with the victors on the basis of an entire surrender of the national cause, as some believe that he was desirous of surrendering his army to the Confederates after he had retreated to the banks of the James. History may be defied to furnish any parallel to the combination of follies and crimes that characterized our service in the first eight months of the year of disgrace, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two.-Boston Traveller. 
SPEECH OF HON. DANIEL S. DICKINSON.
The following is the speech made by Hon. Daniel S. Dickinson, at the immense mass meeting of loyal citizens, held in Union Square, New York, on Saturday, 11th inst., to commemorate " The Sumter Anniversary ":-
MR. PRESIDENT AND LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: It is almost two years since I attended a meeting in this very square to discuss public affairs and the condition 
of the country. It is two years this day since our national flag, our great emblem of hope and promise-the Stars and Stripes-was insulted by an infamous conspiracy and an infernal Rebellion. (Loud applause.) I well remember when the news reached the city. It was a dark and fearful night- the storm was descending in its awful density, well worthy of such an occasion as that. The fiend spirit of the storm clapped his hands, and it seemed as 
though the evil genius of destruction was brooding over us. Two years have now elapsed, and the sun is shining genially upon us, the air is warm, the germs are shooting, the buds are swelling, the lawns are green, the birds are singing, and the popular heart is redolent with hope and buoyant with promise. (Loud cheers.) Rebellion still exists, but how
does it exist? Charleston-the hot-bed of secession, the foul point and nucleus of Rebellion, the cesspool of conspiracy-(loud cheers and laughter)-the heart of all that is infamous and wicked in this matter- if she has not already fallen, it is but a question of time. (Great applause and cheers.) And the owls and ravens who have croaked for blood will soon know that ashes and desolation cover the spot that has so long menaced the integrity of this Union (Loud applause.) It is said to be the heart of this great movement, and so it is; and the foul and slimy blood it has sent forth through the political veins, had it not been resisted by loyal health, would have corrupted the whole mass. But, thank God, from the time our Stars and Stripes were insulted from the time our soldiers were butchered in Baltimore, while marching to the defence of the National Capital-from that time to the present, the loyal feeling has been abroad, and it will vindicate itself, and prove the integrity of the loyal people. (Applause.)
But he would not discuss the causes-he would take the question as he found it. When this rebellion was organized, the spirit of party was hushed away, honorable men and all came forward to vindicate the integrity of the nation, and prove themselves worthy descendants of Revolutionary sires. (Loud cheers.) He stood upon that ground, and he defied all the artillery, save the artillery of heaven, to dislodge him. (Great applause; "That's it.") But there were a few miserable politicians who took unto themselves seven spirits more wicked than themselves, and entered in and dwelt there, and the last state of politics was worse than the first. (Laughter.) There are three classes of those who menace the Government. One class have arms in their hands; another class have politics in their heads; and another class with treason in their hearts (loud cheers and laughter), and they are all acting together (Cheers and applause.) He cursed them all as one, and on them all invoked maledictions. He denounced them in the name of the Union and Constitution, and of free government. He was a Democrat of the straightest seet, but he did not inquire 
who administered this Government. (Cheers.) It will be time to inquire that when this rebellion is over. Listen not to him who cries, " Lo, here!" and " Lo, there!" and attempts to excite party prejudices, and to climb up the filthy and slippery step stones of party discipline. Inquire only who is for his country-who is on the Lord's side. We want 
<c05>
men to-day that will put down this rebellion; we want men whose material and moral muscle shall stand out like whip-cord, and who will give their lives for their country. (Cheers.)
He had recently heard of a great political conference between Lord Lyons and some individuals who had crawled into the Democratic lion-skin. As far as Lord Lyons was concerned, representing a government who considers government and conspiracy as the same, who calls those who stole and those who were stolen from "belligerents" alike, who fit out pirates to cruise not merely on the commerce of the United States, but of the world, he did very well. (Laughter.) But as for these 290s of the Democratic party, who are conspiring against the peace of the Union, he had no respect. They are Democrats. Andrew Jackson was a Democrat. He wished they would put themselves into communica tion with his spirit for a little while, and if the old gentleman carries his cane yet, there would be some rapping. (Laughter. A voice-" He would hit Fernando Wood on the head.") He would say once for all now, and meaning what he Said, and speaking 
in italics and capitals, that for pure and unalloyed rascality, double-distilled villainy, there has not been anything recorded since the days of Pontius Pilate as infamous as that. (Cheers.) Who are the individuals? (A voice-"Wood.") Before he went home, he was going to look in the Rogues' Gallery for their portraits. (Cheers.) He was told they were Democrats. They are demon-crats. (Great applause and laughter.) They connived with the representative of a foreign government for the destruction of their country, and their names shall stand high on the role of infamy! When the rebellion broke out, traitors had stolen our arms and ships, but now we have raised an army that makes the earth throb with its tread. The hope of the rebellion for foreign recognition is gone. Great Britain thinks she can see quite as well what is going on at a respectable distance-(laughter)-and France has enough else to attend to. Great Britain did hope that our Government might be destroyed. Her rotten aristocracy, that leans up against her public debt, and her public debt against them, like two drunken men supporting each other-(laughter and cheers)- both of them will fall when one gives way a little; they hate us, but John Bright and Cobden and the masses are in our favor. (Loud cheers.)
The only hope of rebellion now rests in the division and disloyalty at the North, on secret societies and parties inaugurated to aid rebellion under the sacred name of Democracy. They tell us we must fold our hands, and hang out the olive-branch of peace. He was for the olive-branch himself, but he wanted it should be a stout tree, and about eight feet from the ground, (great laughter and cheers,) and have a stout rope banging from the end of it. (Renewed applause.) That is the way to treat the leaders of this rebellion.(Cries of " That's it,” and cheers.) There can be no compromise now. He is a traitor to his country, if he is a man of ordinary intelligence, who attempts anything of the kind. This glorious meeting convinced him that the rebellion was doomed. (Cheers.) But these men are afraid that slavery may suffer in this war for the Constitution. He would not go out of the way to get rid of slavery, but you might as well expect to retain the wild game in a country after you have cleared it all off, as to retain slavery after the war of Revolution has passed over it. (Great applause.) The secessionists have done more in one year than the abolitionists have done in thirty. (Laughter and cheers) The old Greek xenophanes who believed in transmigration, requested his friend to cease beating a dog, for he thought he recognized the voice of a deceased friend in its howl; and so there are men don't want slavery disturbed, because they think they recognize the howl of a deceased 
friend in it. (Great applause and laughter.) He would object to slavery the same as he would object to having a powder-house in New York city, because it is liable at any time to blow us all to pieces. (Loud cheering.) The ocean may cast off her mire and dirt in the mighty heavings and agitations of her bosom; the lightnings may flash athwart the sky; the thunders may roar in the distance, and the winds may howl; but the sun of this morn will rise again with the promise of a fair day, and God's children will stand upon the great principle of in equalitv in this Western Hemisphere. (Tremendous applause, and three hearty cheers for the speaker.) 
SPEEOH OF GENERAL BUTLER.
Extracts from a speech delivered by General Butler before a magnificent assembly at the Academy of Music, in New York, on the 2d inst.:-
Wrong in judgment I may have been; but, I insist, wrong in intention or inconsistent, never. Upon the same theory upon which I felt myself bound to put down insurrection in Maryland, while it remained loyal whether that insurrection consisted of blacks or whites, by the same loyalty to the Constitution and laws I felt bound to confiscate slave property in the rebellious State of Virginia. (Applause.) Pardon me, sir, if right here I say, that I am a little sensitive upon this subject. I am an old-fashioned Andrew Jackson Democrat of twenty years standing. (Applause. A voice-"The second hero of New Orleans." Renewed applause, culminating in three cheers.) And so far as I know, I have never swerved, so help me God, from one of his teachings. (Great applause.) Up to the time that disunion took place, I went as far as the furthest in sustaining the constitutional rights of the States, however bitter or however distasteful to me were the obligations my father had made for me in the compromises of the Constitution, and among them it was not for me to pick out the sweet from the bitter; and, fellow-democrats, I took them all (loud cheers) because they were constitutional obligations (applause); and, taking them all, I stood by the South and Southern rights under the Constitution, until I advanced and looked into the very pit of disunion, and not liking the prospect, I quietly withdrew. (Immense applause and laughter.) And we were from that hour apart, and how far apart you can judge when I tell you that on the 28th of December, 1860, I shook hands on terms of personal friendship with Jefferson Davis, and on the 28th of December, 1862. I had the pleasure of reading his proclamation that I was to be hanged at sight. (Great applause and laughter.) And now, my friends, if you will allow me to pass on for a moment in this line of thought, as we come up to the point of time when their men laid down their constitutional obligations. What were my rights and what were theirs? At that hour they repudiated the Constitution of the United States, by solemn vote in solemu convention; and not only that, but they took arms in their hands, and undertook by force to rend from the government what seemed to them the fairest portion of the heritage which my fathers had given to me as a rich legacy to my children. When they did that, they abrogated, abnegated, and forfeited every constitutional right, and released me from every constitutional obligation. (Loud cheers.) And when I was thus called upon to say what should be my action
<c06>
with regard to slavery, I was left to the natural instincts of my heart, as prompted by a Christian education in New England, and I dealt with it accordingly, as I was no longer bound. (Immense applause.) Then I undertook earnestly and respectfully to maintain, with the same sense of duty to my constitutional obligations and to State rights, so long as they remained under the Constitution, that required me to support the system of slavery-and the same sense of duty and right, after they had gone out from under that Constitution, caused me to follow the dictates of my own conscience, untrammeled. (Cheers.) So, my friends, you see, however misjudging I may have been, and I speak to my old Democratic friends, I claim we went along, step by step, up to that point, and we should still go along, step by step; for, except the right to hold slaves was made a part of the compromises made by our fathers in the Constitution, and if their State rights were to be respected because of our allegiance to the Constitution, and our respect to State rights, yet, when that sacred obligation was taken away, and we as well as the negroes were disenthralled, why should not we follow the dictates of God's law and humanity? (Tremendous applause, and cries of "Bravo, bravo!")
I come to the proposition, what is the contest with all the States that are banded together in the so-called Confederate States? Into what form has it come? It started in insurrection; it grew up a rebellion; it has become a revolution, and carrying with it all the rights of a revolution.
And our government has dealt with it upon that ground. When they blockaded their ports, they dealt with it as a revolution; when they sent out cartels of exchange of prisoners, they dealt with these people no longer as simple insurrectionists and traitors, but as organized revolutionists, who had set up a government for themselves upon the territory of the United States. Let no man say to me, sir, let no man say to me, " Why, then you acknowledge the rights of revolution in these men! I beg your pardon, sir, I only acknowledge the fact of revolution. What had happened? I look these things in the face, and I do not dodge them because they are unpleasant; I find this a revolution, and these men are no longer, I repeat, our erring brethren, but they are our alien enemies, foreigners (cheers) carrying on war against us, attempting to make alliance against us, attempting to get into the family of nations. I agree, not a successful revolution, and a revolution never to be successful (loud cheers); pardon me, I was speaking of a matter of law,-never to be successful until acknowledged by the parent State. And now, then, I am willing to unite with you in your cheers when you say a revolution which we never will acknowledge. (Cheers.) Why, sir, have I been so careful in bringing down with great distinctness these occurrences? Because, in my judgment, there are certain logical consequences following from them, as necessarily as various corollaries from a problem in Euclid. If we are at war, as I think, with a foreign country to all intents and purposes, how can a man here stand up and say he is on the side of that foreign country, and not be an enemy? (Cheers.) A man must be either for his country or against his country. (Cheers.) He cannot be throwing impediments all the time in the way of the progress of his country, under pretence that he is helping some other portion of his country. If a man thinks he must do something to bring back his "erring brethren," if he likes that form of phrase for the South, let him take his musket, and go down and try it in that way. Cheers.) If he is still of a different opinion, and thinks that is not the best ay to bring them back, but he can do it by persuasion and talk, let him go down with me to Louisiana, and I will set him over to Mississippi, and if the rebels do not feel for his heart-strings, but not in love, I will bring him back. (Cheers, loud and prolonged. " Send Wood down first!”) Let us say to him: " Choose ye this day whom ye will serve. If the Lord be God, serve him; but if Baal, serve him." (Cheers.) But no man can serve two masters, God  and Mammon. (" That's so.") 
Who is interfering with the Constitution? Who makes any attacks upon the Constitution? We are fighting with those who have gone out and repudiated the Constitution. (Cheers.) And now, my friends, I do not know but I shall utter some heresy; but as a Democrat, as an Andrew Jackson Democrat, I am not for the Union as it was. (Great cheering. "Good! good!") I say, as a Democrat, and an Andrew Jackson Democrat, I am not for the Union to be again as it was. Understand me; I was for the Union to be again as it was, because I saw, or thought I saw, the troubles in the future which have burst upon us but having undergone these troubles, having spent all this blood and this treasure, I do not mean to go back again, and be cheek by jowl with South Carolina as I was before, if I can help it. (Cheers." You're right.") Mark me now, let no man misunderstand me, and I repeat it lest I may be misunderstood-there are none so slow to understand as they who do not want to mark me, I say, I do not mean to give up a single inch of the soil of South Carolina. If I had been alive at that time, and had had the position, the will, and the ability, I would have dealt with South Carolina as Jackson did, and kept her in the Union at all hazards; but now she has gone out, I will take care that when she comes in again, she comes in better behaved (cheers): that she shall no longer be the firebrand of the Union; aye, that she shall enjoy what her people never yet have enjoyed, the blessings of a Republican form of government. (Applause.) And therefore, in that view, I am not for the reconstruction of the Union as it was. Yet I have spent treasure and blood enough upon it, in conjunction with my fellow-citizens, to make it a little better. (Cheers.) It was good enough if it had been left alone. The old house was good enough for me, but as they have pulled down all the L part, I purpose, when we build it up, to build it up with all the modern improvements. (Prolonged laughter and applause.) 
What shall be done with the slaves? Here, again, the laws of war have long settled, with clearness and, exactness, that it is for the conqueror, for the government which has maintained or extended its direction over the territory, to deal with the slaves as it pleases, to free them or not as it chooses. It is not for the conquered to make terms, or to send their friends into the conquering country to make terms upon that subject. (Applause.) Another corollary follows from the proposition that we are fighting with alien enemies, which relieves as from an­| other difficulty which seems to trouble some of my old Democratic friends; and that is in relation to the question of arming the negro slaves. If the States are alien enemies, is there any objection that you know of and if so, state it, to our arming one portion of the foreign country against the other while they are fighting us? (Applause, and cries of "No, no.") Suppose that we were at war with England. Who would get up here in New York, and say that we must not arm the Irish, lest they should hurt some of the English? (Applause.) At one time, not very far gone, all those Englishmen were our grandfathers' brothers. But we are now
"Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof." "I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that <Illegible> authority takes, for the time, the place of all <illegible> institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES . . . the instant From the <Illegible> that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE <Illegible> WITH from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and board, and MARITAL POER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies have power to emancipate all the slaves in the Invaded territory." J.Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
separate nations. There can be no objection, for another reason, because there is no international law or any other law of governmental action that I know of, which prevents the country from arming any portion of its citizens; and if the slaves do not take part in the rebellion, they become simply our citizens residing in our territory which is at present usurped by our enemies.  (Applause.)
There is one question I am frequently asked:- “Well, General Butler, what is your experience? Will the negroes fight?" To that I answer, I have no personal experience, because I left the Department of the Gulf before they were fairly brought in-to action. But they did fight under Jackson, at Chalmette. More than that Let Napoleon III. answer, who has hired them to do what the veterans of the Crimea cannot do to whip the Mexicans. Let the veterans of Napoleon I. under Le Cleve, who were whipped out from San Domingo, say whether they will fight or not. What has been the demoralizing effect upon them as a race by their contact with white men, I know not; but I cannot forget that their fathers would not have been slaves, but that they were captives in war. And if you want to know any more than that, I can only advise you to try them.  (Great applause.

SERMON OF JAMES FREEEMAN CLARKE.
Walker, Wise & Co., 245 Washington street, Boston, have published in a handsome pamphlet the excellent and eloquent "DISCOURSE ON THE ASPECTS OF THE WAR," delivered in the Indiana-Place Chapel on Fast Day, April 2, 1863, by Rev. JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE. It was requested for the press by his parishioners, and deserves to be widely circulated; though Mr. Clarke requires no Fast-Day observance to bear such testimonies as the times demand, but in his usual services makes his preaching eminently suitable to the hour. The texts quoted are Jeremiah vi. 14 and Ezekiel xiii. 10-15. We make the following extract from this timely Discourse:-
I think that God, in his providence, is now teaching us a great many things; but among the rest, especially this,-to repent of our treatment of the African. We have hated him because we have injured him. He belongs to an affectionate and inoffensive race; and I know of no other way to account for the hatred borne to him by so many, except that reason which the sagacious Roman historian assigned as a trait of human nature.
And this hatred of the negro leads me to say something of another aspect of the war; namely, the development of evil. It has brought out latent good, but latent evil also. Now I will say something of the last.
Great historic hours, like the present, are also, in this way, a day of judgment to communities and nations. As the poet truly says:-
"Some great cause, God's new Messiah, offering each
the bloom or blight,
Parts the goats upon the left hand, and the sheep 
upon the right,
And the choice goes by forever 'twixt that darkness 
and the light."
This war, which has developed the noblest qualities in some, has also developed the basest in others. I do not know anything more mean and diabolical than this-when there is a prejudice against any poor and weak class, to make it one's business to exasperate and increase it-when a race is trampled upon, to set one's heel upon it more heavily-when a people are poor and weak, and find it hard to get a living by honest industry, in the face of a bitter prejudice, to make it harder by circulating, greedily, all rumors against them, true or false. Now this unmitigated meanness, this consummate baseness is the systematic and persistent course of some of our newspapers. They think thus to please the poor Irish, I suppose, but I think that the Irish have a vein of generosity in them which will, sooner or later, make them despise such baseness. I do not know anything but a bad Yankee that is at once mean enough and cunning enough to do such things. The best thing, when corrupt, becomes the worst. "The sweetest wine," says the Italian proverb, "makes the sourest vinegar." So the Yankee, also, when good and true, is the noblest of characters; when he is bad, the meanest. And among mean Yankees the meanest of all is a pro-slavery Yankee, whether he be editor of a newspaper, a south-side doctor of divinity, an episcopal bishop, or a president of a New Hampshire college.
There always will be croakers, and they are very useful people. God not only has made the birds who welcome the coming day, in the soft auroral twilight, with a multitudinous chant of joy,-but he has also made the frogs who croak their sad complaints over the damp departing night. It always has been so. People have croaked over every great advance of the human race. They croaked at the invention of printing-it took the bread out of the mouths of the copyists; at the Reformation of Luther-it opened the way to a deluge of changes; at the downfall of Paganism, so many respectable augurs and haruspices were relieved of duty; at the progress of Christianity-so few respectable people approved of it,-"not many wise or noble" being called. There are croakers now, also, who lament over the downfall of slavery, as though it were the very keystone of the State. One of these croaking gentlemen made a speech, the other day, in the Massachusetts Senate, in which, searching for the cause of the war, he found that in 1831, John Quincy Adams introduced several petitions for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, and our Massachusetts wise man says, " this act exasperated the South." And he finds that in 1851, a coalition of Democrats and Free Soilers chose Charles Sumner to the Senate, and George S. Boutwell as Governor; "and to this act, directly and indirectly," he adds, "and to these two gentlemen, more than to any other Northern men, is to be traced the present awful and deplorable condition of the country. It was they," he adds, " who succeeded in goading the South to open rebellion." The South was exasperated, and it seems justly, because we civilly asked that human slavery might not exist in our own National Capital. We ought not to have made them angry. It was very wicked of the lamb to make the wolf angry, by drinking in the stream so near to him. It was very wicked in Elijah the prophet to trouble Israel, and exasperate King Ahab by rebuking his sin. It was very wrong in Jeremiah to exasperate King Zedekiah and the princes by not prophesying smooth things, and to make them wroth with him, so that they smote him and put him in prison. It was wrong in Naboth to exasperate Jezebel by refusing to give up his vineyard, and he was responsible for Jezebel's conduct in killing him. So, in the same way, it was wrong for Massachusetts to exasperate South Carolina by sending Mr. Hoar to give legal protection to Massachusetts citizens, and to exasperate the chivalric sons of Mississippi by not asking their leave before we elected Charles Sumner and Governor Boutwell. Thus croak a few frogs still in the damp places of the land. But that sort of croaking is a safety-valve to let out the pressure of their dissatisfaction. I look upon the Boston Courier as a kind of marsh which has been providentially provided for these people, where they can sit and croak to each other in a sort of frog concert of mutual condolence and if it makes them happy, why not?
There is, however, a different class of men, and a much more dangerous class, who mean to carry practical opposition to the Government as far as they dare. They mean to give aid and comfort to the rebels, so far as they can do it, salva cercice, without too great elongation of their own necks.  To this class belongs Mr. Saulsbury, in the Senate of the United States, who calls Lincoln an imbecile, and draws a pistol on the Sergeant-at-Arms. To this class belong Seymeur and Fernando Wood and James Brooks, in New York, and Vallandigham and others in other States. But all history shows that when, in time of war, men attack the Government in this way, they will lose their influence. The best men of their own party will refuse to follow them. Those men in England who opposed the war against Napoleon, though they were patriots, yet because they opposed the Government in time of war, fell into hopeless minority. Those men in Massachusetts, who opposed the war of 1812, were politically killed from that hour. The instincts of the two nations,said, "Whether the Government be right or wrong, it is at war, and we must support it. Else anarchy-else national ruin." It will always be so. All factious opposition to our Government in time of war will destroy itself. No harm will come to the nation from the efforts of unprincipled editors and politicians. I am glad they come out as they do. All loyal, honest Democrats will spurn them with contempt-as Dickinson spurns them, as Wright spurns them, as Henderson and Noel of Missouri spurn them, as Robert Dale Owen and Orestes Brownson spurn them, and as Benjamin F. Butler spurns them.
<c02>
ADDRESS OF MR.GEORGE THOMPSON.
We report at length, in to-day's Express, the address of Mr. GEORGE THOMPSON, delivered in the Mechanics' Hall, on Monday evening, to a very large and influential meeting. The speech was unquestionably a lucid and able exposition of the causes of the American war, and during the two hours which the honorable gentleman occupied in laying evidence before the assemblage, it may be fairly assumed that Mr. THOMPSON established his position by the most incontrovertible facts. As we do not in the least differ from the lecturer's conclusions with regard to the hateful and atrocious character of slavery, and as, like him, we hold the system in utter abhorrence, and ardently desire to see it extirpated, root and branch, from the face of the earth, it is only right, if we reach this destination with respect to slavery in America by another process of reasoning, that we should carefully and candidly weigh the arguments which he advanced in favor of his solution. This we most willingly do.
After adverting to a paragraph which appeared in a local contemporary,in which he was recommended to employ more arguments and exhibit more impartiality in his advocacy of the Federal cause-a recommendation which Mr. THOMPSON shewed was altogether unnecessary-he proceeded to the subject of his lecture. Beginning with the recognition of the American republic in 1783, he traced the gradual development of the Slave Power, by territorial aggrandisement, until its supporters became all-powerful in the Government, and controlled, with the iron will of despotism, the entire resources of the country. Most convincingly did Mr.THOMPSON, by repeated references to historical documents, establish this position. Having thus traced the progress of the dominant Slave Power, Mr. THOMPSON directed his observations to the establishment of another position-and no unimportant one, too, in this controversy-that of the consistent advocacy of abolition by the Republican party. He shewed that the present governing body originated in the agitation which arose out of the dissemination of anti-slavery principles, that it had grown by slow but certain stages, that it had first polled only 7,000 votes at the Presidential election, and that its triumph had been marked in the return of Abraham Lincoln. Throughout this period of growth, from comparative insignificance to all the glory and prestige of marvellous success, the Abolitionists had never swerved from the principle of abolition; and in its advocacy they had passed through an ordeal of self-denial and persecution sufficient to test the patience and endurance of any body of men. In comparison with the Abolitionists of Great Britain, the lecturer expressed his conviction that they stood upon a higher moral basis, inasmuch as they had to wrestle with the evil in their very midst, whilst Englishmen struggled against it in distant possessions. This opinion seemed to be disapproved by some few persons in the room, but the speaker, waiting until the ebullition subsided, repeated his assertion, with still greater emphasis, apparently fearing no disapprobation in his enunciation of what he deemed to be the truth.
Now, these were the two main features of Mr. THOMPSON'S address-slavery as the cause of the war, and the consistency of the Abolition or Republican party. There were, of course, many points of interest in his speech, and many observations directed to the elucidation of matters upon which diversity of view existed, because, mainly, of the want of proper information. Among these might be instanced his explanation of the limited character of the emancipation proclamation, from the fact that the President, according to the Constitution, had no power to interfere with the States in the Union; the extent of territory already wrested from the Confederates by Federal armies; and the measures recently taken by the President, in conjunction with Great Britain, for the more effectual suppression of the slave trade. In Mr. THOMPSON'S masterly address, all these points were brought out in due order and prominence, swelling the train of arguments by which he so ably built up the whole of his positions. Mr. THOMPSON is not a bad hand at repartee, as one or two of his ready castigations furnished ample evidence. "How about the Alabama?" was the exclamation of one of the audience, as the lecturer was illustrating a different subject. The reply, " If thou art a shareholder, friend, sell out immediately," was received with loud laughter. When speaking of the struggles of nations for their independence, he denied that any such declaration could be truthfully affirmed of the South. "It has been said that the Southern people are fighting for their independence," observed Mr. THOMPSON. “And so they are," was the response of some one of his auditors. Down came the withering rebuke, delivered in calm and measured tones, "I was speaking, friend, of that independence which the good seek for noble ends and to further the happiness of humanity; and not of that ambitious thirst for independence which prompted Satan to raise the standard of rebellion in heaven, and was the cause of his being hurled down to hell." The general applause which followed told plainly enough that the repartee was fully appreciated.-Nottingham (Eng.) Daily Express, April 1.

THE GREEK CHURCH.
CONTRAST WITH THE EVANGELICAL ALLIANCE. The Presbyterian and Theological Review,published by Rev. J. M. Sherwood of New York, contains an account of the pains taken by the British branch of the Alliance, and its organ, entitled " Evangelical Christendom," to suppress any manifestation of disapproval of the American rebellion, or of interest in the struggles of the United States for the preservation of their liberties and resources as a nation, with the continual captiousness of remark on the Union cause, crowned by the direct refusal to respond to the appeal of the Paris branch, with the remarkable outbreak of the President, Sir Culling Eardley, calling on the South to "take the wind out of Mr. Lincoln's sails" by emancipating their slaves. In contrast with this studied aloofness, the Review quotes from the Anatolikos Aster [Oriental Star.] the official organ of the Patriarchate of the Greek Church in Constantinople, the following extract from its "Annual Retrospect of 1862":-
" The United States of America, after many years of union and peace, after gigantic material and moral development, are separated into two hostile camps. The Northern States, guided by true reason and evangelical principles, persistently seek the abolition of the slavery of the blacks. The Southern States, blinded by a badly understood material interest, obstinately and anti-Christianly seek the perpetuation of slavery. This war of ideas and physical interests is prosecuted to desperation. Bloody battles are delivered, but victory until the present is doubtful, and the return of peace does not seem near. But if we cast a careful eye upon the wonderful events of this age, we shall be inclined to believe that those who contend so nobly for the most unquestionable and humane rights, will, God helping them, reach the object of their desires."

FIRST COLORED [PRESBYTERIAN] CHURCH, WASHINGTON. We are pleased to learn that this church is in a prosperous condition. It is under the care of a loyal and zealous brother, Rev. W. B. Evans, late pastor of Granite and Harmony churches. In a recent note to us, Mr. Evans says:-
"When I took charge as stated supply, I found the church in debt to the amount of nearly $000. I am glad to say that it is not only out of debt, but we were able, during the Christmas holidays, to raise, from concerts, etc., the noble sum of $400 for the poor contrabands of this city. Was not that a noble work for a colored congregation to accomplish in three nights?
I have just received a present of a suit of clothes, complete, from my congregation; you may judge of its value when I tell you that it cost $87.
I would say that one member of the church paid for his freedom the large sum of $3000; his wife also paid for hers the additional sum of $600. They live in their own house, have educated seven daughters in the city of Boston, and more accomplished ladies I have not found in all my travels. I dined with them a few Sabbaths ago, and I must say I was delighted and surprised to find such refinement mixed with true piety; for the parents and children are members of the church."
Who will say that such a people is unfit for freedom? We venture to say that more of such instances of liberality and capacity for refinement and culture and real piety can be found among the colored people of our land, than among twice the number of those who deride them at the North. We are ashamed to hear in the Congress of a free country, from the lips of a man like Mr. Crittenden, the expression, as reported in the debate on enlisting colored soldiers, that the " blacks are not worthy to aspire to the position of freemen”! Such language is an insult to the God that made them; and no contest waged on such a principle can ultimately succeed. We welcome such evidences of the advancement of the race as are presented by the First Colored Church in Washington with thankfulness and hope.-American Presbyterian.
<c03>
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1863.
TWENTY-NINTH  ANNIVERSARY 
OF THE
AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY.
The Twenty-Ninth Annual Meeting of the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY will be held in the Church of the Puritans, (Rev.Dr.Cheever's,) in the city of New York, on TUESDAY, May 12th, commencing at 10 o'clock, A.M.
The Society will hold another public meeting in the evening, in the Cooper Institute, commencing at half past 7 o'clock. The names of the speakers will be announced hereafter.
The business meetings of the Society will be held in the Lecture Room of the Church of the Puritans, on Tuesday, at 31/2, P.M., and on Wednesday, at 10, A.M.
The loyalty of this Society to freedom, and to free institutions, and to the Government so far as it aims to uphold these, is unquestionable and uncompromising. It has emphatically pronounced against the Southern rebellion as in the highest degree perfidious and wicked; and, as it is now apparent to the civilized world that this rebellion is the legitimate product of slavery, and waged for no other reason, either avowed or hidden, than to give greater security and extension to that horrible system, which, by one blow, strikes down all human rights, and perpetrates every conceivable outrage upon human nature, the AMERICAN ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY not only applauds the Proclamation of President Lincoln, whereby more than three millions of slaves were declared forever free on the first of January last, but maintains that a decree of immediate and universal emancipation is demanded by the imperilled state of the country; by fidelity of the Government to its constitutional obligations in such a fearful emergency; by the hopelessness of attempting to perpetuate the Union upon any other basis than that of homogeneous institutions and interests, and impartial liberty and exact justice for all the people; by the inevitable dissolution of the old Union because of its antagonistical elements; and, "especially and above all, by the Divine command to " undo the heavy burdens, break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free." Then shall our light, as a nation, rise in obscurity, and our darkness be as the noon-day; then they that shall be of us shall build the old waste places; we shall raise up the foundations of many generations; and we shall be called, THE REPAIRERS OF THE BREACH, THE RESTORERS OF PATHS TO DWELL IN.
In behalf of the Executive Committee,
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, President.
WENDELL PHILLIPS,   / Secretariet.
CHARLES C. BURLEIGH, 
THE "AGREEMENT WITH HELL."
On our first page may be found a very suggestive extract from a very characteristic speech delivered by Gen. Butler, at the Academy of Music in New York, on the 2d inst. He frankly admits that, up to the time that secession took place, he "went as far as the furthest in sustaining the constitutional rights of the South," in reference to the security of her slave system. He pleads that, however bitter or distasteful to him were the obligations the fathers made for him "in the compromises of the Constitution,”it was not for him to pick out the sweet from the bitter,” and, fellow-democrats, I took them all, (loud cheers,) because they were constitutional obligations, (applause,) and I stood by the South and Southern rights until I advanced, and looked into the very pit of disunion." The manner in which this confession was received by the audience-with cheers and applause-as though it were a meritorious act on the part of the General, is a sad illustration of the moral degeneracy which has every where prevailed, on the subject of slavery, since the adoption of the-Constitution. Gen. Butler says it was not for him to separate the good from the conceded bad in that instrument; but this is to say that, because "the fathers" entered into an "agreement with hell," binding themselves to uphold "the sum of all villanies," in various compromises, therefore he was under no moral obligation to dissent from any stipulation contained therein, however iniquitous! Whereas, the truth is, that they were fearfully guilty for giving their consent to any such covenant, and he not less guilty (with the whole nation) for endorsing their act; and the fitting reward is, in the order of divine retribution, civil war and the overthrow of that very Union, to secure which the compromises were made! "Though hand join in hand, yet shall not the wicked go unpunished."
No act of ours do we regard with more conscientious approval or higher satisfaction, none do we submit more confidently to the tribunal of Heaven and the moral verdict of mankind, than when, several years ago, on the 4th of July, in the presence of a great assembly, we committed to the flames the Constitution of the United States, because (in the language of John Quincy Adams) "the bargain between Freedom and Slavery contained in it was morally and politically vicious, inconsistent with the principles on which alone our revolution can be justified, and cruel and oppressive by rivetting the chains of the oppressed, and pledging the faith of freedom to maintain and perpetuate the tyranny of the master." And should the present bloody struggle end in any compromise with the South, or in recognizing any constitutional obligations to slaveholders or slave-hunters in the Border States, we shall again give that instrument to the consuming fire, and renew our protest against it as "a covenant with death and an agreement with hell."
Now that the South is in furious and implacable rebellion against the Government, Gen. Butler justly takes the ground that she has abrogated, abuegated and forfeited every constitutional right, and released him from every constitutional obligation. He says that, being now left to the natural instincts of his own heart, "as prompted by a Christian education in New England," he is prepared to deal with slavery as an out-law and a felon. Now that the old constitutional obligation ceases, (he incoherently calls it a " sacred " instead of a satanic obligation,) Gen. Butler asks, "Why should not we follow the dictates of God's laws?" Whereat, we are told, there was tremendous applause, and cries of " Bravo! bravo! " A strange state of mind, indeed, both on the part of the orator and the assembly, to laud a pro-slavery and an anti-slavery Constitution by turns, as interpreted in reference to the rebellion!
In the court of conscience and before God, it matters nothing what slaveholding agreements or compromises may be found in the Constitution or out of it, they are all inhuman, unjust and immoral, and therefore null and void; and if a man can retain office, or be a voter under the Government, only on condition of sustaining such compromises, then it is certain, if he would not do evil that good may come, he must relinquish office-holding, and refuse to cast a vote stained with human blood. His motto is, and must be, as one loyal to right and duty,  "NO UNION WITH SLAVE HOLDERS!"
"Man is more than Constitutions-better rot beneath the god
Than be true to Church and State whilst we are doubly false to God!"

THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY for May has been published, with the following table of contents:- Charles Lamb's Uncollected Writings; Dark Ways; After "Taps"; The Human Wheel, its Spokes and Felloes; Paul Blecker; Up the Thames; The Fern Forests of the Carbonaceous Period; To E. W.; The Countess; Gala-Days; Give; Only an Irish Girl; Shall we Compromise! Recent American Publications.
This is an extremely interesting number. The writers are Agassiz, Holmes, Whittier, Wasson, Gail Hamilton, &c. Ticknor & Field, publishers.
<c04>
HOW SHALL WE RETALIATE?
In these days, there is no cheaper way for an American orator to gain applause than by berating England. An audience which will listen with apathetic silence to a recital of the latest rebel atrocities, and show but little emotion when the slaveholding conspirators are indignantly denounced, will yet break into thunders of applause at the first word of invective hurled at the mother country. The national animosity seems to have lost little of its virus through our long years of peace. At times, it has been so obscured by a return of better feelings that we have almost believed it to be dying out; and as we welcomed to our hearts, successively, Lord Elgin and the British heir apparent, and knit the continents together with the ocean cable, it did seem as if the time were very near when we could blend "God save the Queen," with "Yankee Doodle Dandy."
But a mistaken patriotism has instilled this English hatred so systematically. into American veins, that it only wants occasion to crop out. What boy ever passed through our public schools, without declaiming some defiant speech aimed at Great Britain? Every text-book prepared for reading or speaking teems with these belligerent appeals. Every year, Fourth of July orators have been paid to blacken England, and whitewash the United States. It has been the favorite device adopted by slavery to draw attention from itself. What wonder that the prejudice is planted deep!
Now we affirm such education to be reprehensible and unchristian, and the sooner it is changed, the better. We think with Sir Charles Lyell, who was impressed by its wrongfulness when in this country- “All this recital may have been expedient when the great struggle for liberty and national existence was pending; but what effect can it have now, but to keep alive bad feelings, and perpetuate the memory of what should be nearly forgotten? "
That the attitude of England towards us, since our entrance into civil war, has not been as friendly as we had reason to expect, cannot be denied. Often where we have deserved praise, we have received censure; when we have looked for sympathy, we have been repulsed with coldness; when we have listened for encouragement, too often has the response been disheartening. Granted, that English aristocracy and American slaveholders have an identical interest in making our republican experiment a failure; that the British government itself is inimical to our success; for all that, he who urges us at this hour to seize a pretext, however plausible, for a war with England, postpones the termination of our own struggle, and encourages a waning rebellion.
The consequences of our conflict must inevitably be world-wide. If we succeed in exterminating the last vestige of slavery, and in vindicating self-government, not a peasant in France, or an operative in England, but will leave a more glorious future and greater possibilities to his children. To estimate its result only in a national point of view is narrow and microscopic. It is just as certain that the benefits which Liberty gains here are to be shared by all the peoples of the earth, as that we possess and enjoy to-day certain rights, which would not have been ours but for thirty years of Netherland warfare; and still others which come as a direct legacy from the Hampdens and the Sidneys of the English revolution.
"In the gain or loss of one race, all the rest have equal claim."
A war with England, what is it? It brings in contact two peoples whose true interest lies in union. It engenders needless hatred, it wastes most precious lives. While it disheartens Freedom, it rejoices Despotism. The only people who speak our language, and whose history we share, we need as allies, not as foes.
There is a better way to conquer England than by fighting her. Enlighten her! Be long suffering and patient, not through cowardice, but through confidence that, when the scales of ignorance and fancied interest shall fall from her eyes, she will make full atonement for her errors. Dynasties and nobilities are transient, but the people are permanent, and their sympathies flow out to us to-day. Anti-slavery apostles, like CONWAY, to spread correct views, and point out to the people of England the true meaning and tendency of our struggle, will be more potent in preserving peace than the terror of all Ericsson's monitors. Mechanical ingenuity can be met by counter ingenuity; but a corrected public sentiment, founded on the conscience and religious conviction of Great Britain, will be an overmatch for all the devils of secession.
GEORGE THOMPSON, JOHN BRIGHT and STUART MILL are striking stalwart blows in our behalf. Let us not dishearten and disgust them with blustering threats of a day of reckoning temporarily postponed, but sure to come. Assure them, rather, of our heartfelt gratitude and appreciation. Reinforce them with the best representatives of anti-slavery sentiment we can spare. Let it be possible for the historian to write that, in America's day of direst tribulation, she could still afford to forgive foreign insult, return good for evil, feed starving Lancashire and Ireland, spite of Confederate loans and pirate Alabamas, and conquer by her glorious magnanimity the opposition and jealousy of transatlantic rivals.-W. L. G., JR.

THE PIRATE ALABAMA. The (London) Daily News of March 28 contains a full report of the speech in Parliament of Hon. W. E. Forster, member for Bradford, in regard to the atrocious case of the pirate Alabama, fitted out in England, paid for by English money, and manned by an English crew, for the purpose of depredating upon American ships and commerce. Mr. Forster lays bare the facts of the case. He was replied to by the Solicitor General in a labored defence of the English Government. Hon. Thomas Baring censured the Government for its dilatory course in the matter, and the Custom-house officers at Liverpool also for their inaction. Mr. Bright spoke on the same side. It is evident that the English Government hereafter cannot discharge its duty by professions and protestations, but must take some definite action as to the fitting out of Confederate pirates in English ports. The Daily News has a strong leader, calling upon the Government to put a stop in future to " this illegal traffic." It states that " a list of Confederate war-vessels now in course of construction in this country [England] was read openly in the House of Commons last night." It declares that " there is not a maritime power in the world that would submit to have Alabamas fitted out in neutral ports while it was at war"; and hopes there will be no future ground of complaint on this score.

FRATERNITY FESTIVAL.  " The Fraternity " of the 28th Congregational Society of Boston celebrated their fifth anniversary on Tuesday evening, April 21st, at Minot Hall. The members and their friends formed a large assembly, and passed a delightful evening. Addresses were made by Mr. Hathaway, Mr. Slack, Dr. Dio Lewis, and others, varied with music by Baldwin and Richardson's Band, and poetical recitations by Mr. T. C. Mullin. To these succeeded a collation, and the evening was concluded by dancing.
The festive character of this gathering did not prevent the presentation of various grave topics of reform by the speakers. While the Fraternity triumphed and rejoiced, as it may well do, in the progress achieved in various directions through its efforts and those of its parent, the 28th Congregational Society, it was faithfully reminded of the work yet remaining to be done, and of the calls made by the present crisis of our country upon all earnest men and women.-C. K. W.

Part XXIX. of the REBELLION RECORD, just received from the publisher, G. P. Putnam, 532 Broadway, New York, continues the documentary history of the war to the battle of Corinth, Oct. 4, 1862. The close of Pope's campaign in Virginia and the rebel invasion of Maryland are also included in this volume, which is embellished as usual with two fine steel portraits, one of Gen. Robt. H. Milroy, the other of Gen. W. S. Hancock. Price, 50 cents. We again commend this work to public patronage.
<c05>
STILL IMDEPATIGABLY LABOBING.
LONDON April 2,1863.
Mr. DEAR GARRISON Though I am within an hour of leaving home to attend a meeting at Coventry this evening, and have then to proceed to attend a great meeting in Manchester, on the 6th, held to protest against the building and fitting out by Englishmen of piratical ships in support of the Slaveholders' Confederacy; and have then to attend other meetings in Lancashire-some half dozen in Cumberland, and at least ten in Scotland- I cannot quit town without sending you a few lines by way of reporting progress, and enabling you to know what lies,before me, in the way of agitation in behalf of the cause of the Northern States, against the gigantic rebellion that still exists in your land.
The night before last, I attended an immense meeting in the town of Nottingham, at which I had to take to task the two local daily papers, on account of their obliquitous views on the subject of your great struggle. The one which was most defective in its information, or feeling, on the question, came out yesterday with an article, from which I learn that my address produced a very salutary effect upon the editor; his present article differing greatly, and for the better, from his article of the day before-on which I took the liberty of commenting.
The work on this side goes bravely on; and if the friends on your side will abstain from taking those steps which might precipitate a war between the two countries, we shall be able to hold our own government in check-to exhibit to public execration the scoundrels who are carrying on a nefarious intercourse with the rebels in the South : and shall unite the working and middle classes in one strong bond of sympathy with the friends of freedom in the North.
My prayer is, that the Government of the United States will not be provoked into adopting measures of reprisal, or otherwise doing any thing that would afford a colorable pretext to the war party here to plunge us into a conflict with you.
When you see your worthy Senator, Hon. HENRY WILSON, offer him my best thanks for the noble speech delivered by him in the Senate, on the 21st of February, in which he denounced with such indignant eloquence the Copperhead Democrats who infest your Northern States, and whose traitorous conduct excites far more disgust and abhorrence than the armed opposition of the open rebels of the South.
Ever yours, GEO. THOMPSON.

At a public indignation meeting, held at the Free-trade Hall in Manchester on the 6th instant, " to protest against the building and fitting-out of piratical ships in support of the Southern Slaveholders' Confederacy," Mr. Thompson made a forcible speech in support of the object of the meeting.
He said they were going to decide that night an important question-whether England would tolerate the infamy brought upon her character by those who, whether legally or not, had engaged for some time in transactions of the  most immoral and inhuman kind. (Cheers.) He blushed for his country-at least, for those men in it who had brought this shame and reproach upon it. It had come to this, that the capitalists, ship builders and money-brokers of England were the last refuge of that felonious and traitorous conspiracy that for the present ruled despotically the so called Confederate States. (Cheers.) In every one of their expectations of help and sympathy, the South had been disappointed, but it had found aid and comfort from a source to which, in its original programme, it never looked. He did not expect that when it should sound the tocsin of war, the loyal people in the Northern States would be prevented from taking any steps towards the suppression of the rebellion by the sympathy and aid the rebels would receive from the great and well-organized and hitherto omnipotent Democratic party. But they were disappointed. The fall of Fort Sumter, the surrender of the garrison into the hands of those who had mounted the rebel snake flag, united the North as one man: Democrat shook hands with Republican, both shook hands with the Abolitionist; there were no Copperheads in that day. (Cheers.) They looked to the speedy annexation with their number-for they were then but seven States-of the Border States; but in that they were also disappointed. They looked for the speedy annexation of the great Western States, but they had hitherto looked in vain. They believed most implicitly in the omnipotence of cotton; but in that belief they had been miserably disappointed. They believed almost as confidently, and propagated a thousand times, that the withholding of cotton would cause first anxiety, then disaffection, then anarchy, and then revolution in this country; but even in that, thanks to the virtue of Lancashire, they had been mistaken. (Loud cheers.) They looked for the combined navies of France and England to sweep clear all the vessels that the Northern States might send to blockade their ports; and that hope had miserably failed. (Cheers.) In every hope that they had cultivated, they had been disappointed : and he was sorry that there were any men in this country sordid enough to become enemies of human liberty. (Loud cheers.)

NO SIGNS OF NATIONAL PENITENCE.
From a private letter from our early and beloved  coadjutor, Rev. SAMUEL J. MAY, of Syracuse, we venture to make the following'impressive extracts:
I long-I hunger and thirst to visit my Boston friends. Never have I been so long absent from them as since I left them last, in August, 1861. And what trying months of anxiety and hope deferred have we passed through since then! But all things seem to me to be working together to a better result than would have been attained if this Rebellion had been quashed at once. In that case, slavery would have been left "in state quo." But slavery is now to be abolished. Providence will vindicate herself from the suspicion, the appearance even, of tolerating the abominable thing. The evil spirit-the demon-is to be cast out. My only fear is, that it will not come out until it has rent and torn our body politic almost if not quite to pieces. If that be necessary, then let it.be done. Anything rather than continue as wicked as we have been.
I lament that I can see no signs and hear no tones of national penitence. I believe we shall have to suffer as we ought to suffer until we do unfeignedly repent-the people of the North not much if any less than those of the South-repent of our oppression of the children of our Heavenly Father, to whom he was pleased to give a colored skin. I believe we are to be humbled until we shall become heartily ashamed of our pride-our haughty assumption of natural and immeasurable superiority. I believe we shall be brought down to seek and to accept gratefully our deliverance at the hands of this very people, whom we have dared to despise and to trample under our feet.
You have done all in your power to avert this horrible civil war by laboring for more than thirty years to persuade the rulers of the people to abolish slavery " by the generous energy of their own minds." But they would not-and now it is to be done by the awful process of civil and servile war. Further concessions to the South would do no good. Compromise has lost its power. Separation would not cure the evil. No! Slavery must be abolished-the root of the evil must be extirpated; and it will be done.
Slavery cannot be tolerated in any part of North America-no, not on this Western Continent. Every where the colored varieties of men are to be disencumbered-permitted to stand upon the common platform of Humanity-encouraged, assisted to improve, to rise as rapidly and as highly as they may be able, and be acknowledged to be positively and comparatively just what they may become.
The confiscated lands of the Southern rebels ought to be given in suitable portions to the colored people, who so long have tilled them without wages, and watered them with their sweat, tears and blood. They have the strongest claim to those lands; and if our Government does  not accord them to them, new
<c06>
troubles will arise-the nation will again be punished. But I hope the question of slavery and antislavery  will soon be so far settled that all the energy of the Abolitionists may be turned to the relief, the assistance, the education of the freedmen, women and children. We have an Association in Syracuse devoted to that work; but our activity is somewhat checked by the vacillating policy of our Government, the hesitation of the Republican leaders, the unrestraint that hangs over the result. Our own church a few Sundays ago, contributed sixty-nine dollars and a large quantity of good second hand clothing for the immediate relief of the suffers around St. Louis at Memphis and Helena. Three other churches are united with us in supporting two or three missionary teachers in Florida-and it would be easy to induce the people here to do much more in this direction, if it could only be made to appear that our government would every where protect the freed people".

AMERICAN SLAVERY.
The following Address to the Ministers of Gospel in England has been sent from Paris through the Rev. Dr. MASSIE. The distinguished protested Pastors whose names are at the foot, attest that it has been signed by 689 Protestant Ministers of France. Since the 13th of March, further signatures have  been sent in, raising the total to the large number of 708:-
PARIS, February 12th, 1863. 
To the Ministers and Pasters of all Evangelical Denomi nations in Great Britain. 
Honored and beloved brethren in the Lord  It is the glory of England to have given to the world the example of abolishing first the slave trade, and  then slavery. It is her glory to have continued for the last sixty years the work of suppressing universally the slave trade and slavery, at a cost, it is asserted of fifty millions of pounds sterling. And it is, under God, chiefly to her religious men, to her Clarksons, Wilberforces. her Buxtons, to her missionary societies that England owes this glory. Will not the sons and successors of these great Christians  complete their work, by urging their country to declare itself openly for the holy cause of the liberation of the slave in the terrible struggle which is at present convulsingg the United States of America?
No more revolting spectacle has ever been set there-fore the civilized world than a Confederacy,consisting mainly of Protestants, forming itself,and demanding independence in the nineteenth century of the Christian era, with a professed design of maintaining and propagating slavery; a Confederacy which lays down, as the corner-stone of its constitution, the system of slavery as it exists at present in the Southern States-a system which may be defined briefly as the right to treat men like cattle, and to commit adultery and murder with impunity. Setting aside all political considerations, can any Christian heart fail to be stirred to indignation at hearing the chief of that confederacy answering a decree of emancipation by an implied threat of extermination?
The triumph of such a cause would put back the progress of Christian civilization and of humanity a whole century. It would make angels weep in brave, and demons rejoice in hell. It would enable the friends of the slave trade, and of slavery in all hands, to hold up their heads, ever ready as they are to appear at the first signal, in Asia, in Africa, and even  in the great cities of Europe. It would give a fatal blow to the work of evangelical missions. And what a frightful responsibility would rest on the church which should remain a silent spectator of such a triumph
If there is a peaceable means of hastening the end of the war, and of rendering its issue such as is desired by all the friends of humanity, is it not that the sincere Christians of Europe should give to the cause of emancipation a powerful testimony, which would leave to those who fight for the rightt of oppressing the slaves no hope of ever seeing those Christians give them the hand of fellowship?
Ministers and pastors of all the Evangelical  denomincations of England, Scotland, and Ireland,-it is here we need your assistance. Take the lead, and let us call forth a, great and peaceful manifestation of sympathy for the colored race, so long oppressed and debased by Christian nations. Let us thus discourage it the partisans of slavery. Let us strengthen and encourage those who wish to abolish it, at the same time disposing them to listen to our suggestions. It is in free England that such manifestations can be powerful What may we not hope for it", throughout Great Britain, the voice of all the ministers of the crucified Saviour-and in France, our voice echoing theirs-pray and plead that soon there may no longer be longer be in the United States a colored man that is not free and 
equal with the whites!
May God grant it, and may his blessing rest alike on Great Britain and the United States, in Christ, the true Liberator!
Signed up to this day by six hundred and eightynine pastors in France, as attested by
GRANDPIERRE PASTEUR, 
G. MONOD, Pasteur Suffragette, Paris
LOUIS ROGNON Paster
LOUIS PULSFOUD,
FRED. MONOD, Pasteur
EUG. BERSIER.
Paris, March 13, 1863.

THE COLORED REGIMENT.
A meeting in favor of the 54th Massachusetts Regiment (colored volunteers) was held at the Oak street Baptist church, West Philadelphia, on Monday evening, 13th inst. Able and efficient address were delivered by Mr. George E. Stephens, Lieutenant Daniel Colley, Prof. A. M. Green, and others; after which seven of the most promising young men in the pieceplaxw stepped forward, and signed their name as volunteersnames for the war. Prof. Green offered the following pre-amble and resolutions, which were passed unanimously:-
Whereas, it can no longer be doubted of or denied, but on the contrary, is admitted by all rational and un-prejudiced minds, that the principles involved in the present war, for and against the Union, are freedom us. Slavery, Right vs. Wrong, Light us Darkness Truth us. Error, and the immutability of God against the subtlety and unholy ambition of the Devil; and whereas, men are but instruments in the hands of God, used for the purpose of displaying his omni potency and the immutability of those principles of which can be no is the author; and whereas, we believe  there can be no neutrals in such a contest, but that all must be participants on one side or the other in the common conflict; therefore, 
Resolved, That it is the duty of colored men every where to respond to the efforts of the present administration, in endeavoring by every possible means to wrest from the hands of rebellious slaveholders a full complete, and gloriously triumphant victor for freedom and equal rights guarantied under the glorious. Declaration of Independence, and the recent interpretations of the Constitution by the party now in power, and executing the laws of our own national government.
Resolved, That it is the duty of all those, who (from circumstances or condition, physically of otherwise) are incompetent to enter the ranks, or report for duty on the field, to throw their arms and who have influence around those noble young men, who have cheerfully given up everything for the cause of their country and the elevation of their race, to the standard and at least of a military equality with the whites; and that, in keeping with that duty, we recommend to others, and use every exertion ourselves, to render the moral, mental, and sanitary condition of our colored soldiers as good as our means and circumstances will allow.
Resolved, That circulars properly setting forth this object, or the publication of these resolutions through the public prints, be authorized by this meeting. (Signed,) C. M.RODGERS, President,
M.GRAY, Secretary.
Secratory.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
APRIL 24.
PROFESSOR MORSE'S LETTER.
CONCORD, (Mass.) April 19, 1863.
MR. EDITOR-Your extract from Prof. Morse's letter, in regard to slavery, is must instructive. It shows us now the minds of the shallow and selfish are stimulated. How can we wonder at the apathy that exists in many places and minds upon the subject, when such sophistry as this can be countenanced, and is not hooted down in our community! Prof. Morse takes for granted the physical inferiority of the colored race to the white, and thus apologizes for slavery! As if that had anything to do with the moral question of ownership in man! Let us grant that there is a physical difference, that they are a distinct branch of the human family, (for he does not intimate that they are of the monkey race, or that they form a separate grade of animals between monkeys and men-how does that that affect the question? If, in consequence of this ”physical difference," they are less aggressive, less warlike, less revengeful, less handsome even, than the white races, have they not intellect and affections, and an endowment of the moral sense quite equal, in many cases, to that of their white cousins? If God has ordained that they are inferior in any respect to white men, their mutual relations will adjust themselves without the aid of the oppressions, exactions, and atrocities of slavery.
It is very certain that white men cannot be entrusted with irresponsible power, even over their white brethren, much less over a race not as plucky and aggressive as themselves. I do not, however, concede the attribute of pluck to the whites exclusively. Any one familiar with the details of the history of slavery knows that the colored men are brave and enduring, when on any footing of equality and opportunities with the whites; and colored soldiers exhibit <illegible> that attribute of nobleness which is said to be characteristic of the ”preux chevalier." They are generous to a fallen foe, and can pity and pray for the overthrown and conquered master who has oppressed them as long as he could.
People refer one to the horrors of St. Domingo, when a word is said about giving the slaves their liberty; when they might know perfectly well, if they cared to inform themselves, that it was the slaves from whom liberty was about to be taken, after it had <illegible> been given to them, who took their own rights into their own hands, and defended them bravely; and not unmolested freedmen, who have always shown themselves peaceable and unrevengeful.
It is especially sad, when our literary men use their splendid and immortal weapon, the pen, to weaken the cause of the oppressed, either by such arguments as those of Professor Morse, or by the soulless want of sympathy, such as occasionally creeps into our best periodicals. To one of our favorite writers, the squalid and half-naked slave is a more picturesque, and, therefore, a more agreeable spectacle, than the respectable freeman of dark hue, whom he meets in the coldhearted Northern communities, where no genial treatment wins forth the sunny warmth of their poetical natures. He might well say he was a less poetical object; for the tragic element of his hopeless existence touches the deepest chords of sympathy that can vibrate in a truly humane heart. Our literature will teem with the story of his wrongs in all future times, and only those pens that can record them with the burning words of justice will satisfy the moral sentiment.
My date will remind you that this nation once struck a blow for the liberty of all mankind. May it repeat the act many times!

TRIBUTE TO THE DEAD AND THE LIVING.
In the place where I now reside, not a few of my fellow-townsmen belong to the denomination of Friends. With many of them I have formed a very pleasant and profitable acquaintance. Some of them knew, personally, Arnold Buffum, whom you and I well remember as the first President of the New England Anti-Slavery Society. Arnold has passed away; and so, very soon, must the whole number, twelve, who formed the nucleus of that important organization. Strange, indeed! is it not, that such an insignificant band, gathered at the ”African school-house," in an obscure street of Boston, on that dark evening, thirty-two years ago, has brought upon a nation of thirty millions this terrible war and bloodshed? But, so affirm our Democratic growlers, negro-haters and slavery-lovers; and we must have of it either the praise or the blame, and it matters but little which. What we then both feared and predicted has come upon the land; and God will not cease the work of terrible judgment, until the whole multitude of his people are liberated ”from the land of Egypt, the house of bondage." The night is undoubtedly hastening, for those who have been so long held in bondage, to ”keep the Passover”; and then shall they pass through the Red Sea-the sea of blood-to the inheritance of freedom and human rights.
The Friends here, of the old stock, are thoroughly anti-slavery. There is, however, here and there, an apostate or bastard Quaker, among the most bitter of the bitterest against any effort at Emancipation; and some of them are well adapted for the Cabinet of Jeff. Davis. For such, the genuine Friends have no sympathy, but are outspoken, active Unionists.
Some of this latter class I am thankful to rank among my personal friends. Of these I am free to mention STEPHEN K. SMITH, who has just been bereaved of his WIFE; and her sickness and death, in the circle of her relatives and society, have occasioned an irreparable vacancy. Well did she answer Solomon's description of the woman, whose ”price is above rubies."
STEPHEN K. SMITH, with his brother, and other Friends, was accustomed to attend Anti-Slavery meetings in those pioneer days when Abolitionists were saluted with rotten eggs. I think that he and some others from this place were at the burial of John Brown at North Elba, about forty miles distant. But he has never faltered, and is now as ”orthodox" on the slavery question as he was years ago.
The maiden name of Mrs. Smith was CLARISSA ORVIS. She became the wife of Stephen K. by a second marriage. Her first husband, Mr. Tobias, left her with a family of children. For them she provided with economy and industry, managing a dairy farm, left in her possession, with great wisdom and energy. ”She looked well to the ways of her household,” and ”her children rose up to call her blessed." The same virtuous characteristics she brought into the family of Mr. Smith. He doubtless found, in her, the desirable ”help” he had anticipated. But, about three years since her health failed; and she became a great sufferer physically and mentally, until, one week since, she fell asleep and was released. On Friday last, I was at her funeral, in the Friends' meeting house, attended by a large congregation and a numerous circle of mourning relatives, among whom was her aged mother. CLARISSA was not there; only the “tabernacle" which she had left, and which we saw decently deposited in a grave and graveyard near at hand.
Mrs. Smith was among the early friends of the ”down-trodden” and ”oppressed"; acting, always from, with the pioneers in this part of the country. She was neither ashamed nor afraid to ”open her month for the dumb," or to vindicate, with unanswerable arguments, the enterprise of Anti Slavery, Temperance, or any other work of true reform.
Now, I love to revive old associations;  and I love to review the example of veterans, of either sex, who suffered obloquy, reproach, and, in not a few instances, personal violence, in the Anti-Slavery conflict, long before the enterprise became, as it is now, astonishingly popular. For these, among other reasons, I send you this communication.
Yours, fraternally, M.THACHER.
Peru, N. Y., March 16, 1863.
Gerrit Smith, with his characteristic charity, has just given $1,000 to the New York Irish Relief Fund. This is not the first time he has generously contributed in aid of starving Ireland-getting, in return, nothing but abuse from Irishmen here!
<c02>
REV. MR. HALL'S SERMON.
From my heart I thank you, friend Garrison, for publishing that most valuable extract from our faithful and beloved brother Hall's sermon. No better or more enduring words have ever been uttered from the American pulpit. They touch the right chord, and vibrate in every soul that is not lost in selfishness and hate to a deeply injured race. The author of this discourse, some weeks since, kindly forwarded to me a copy of the same. I have read it with intense admiration and respect, and shall prize it as a valuable memento of a noble man, whose acquaintance ripened into friendship at our stormy gathering, when we were driven from the Tremont Temple, by an incensed mob, led on by a recreant city official and his pliant allies.
At that time, our friend Hall took his seat upon the platform with the maligned Abolitionists, and by his presence gave what aid he could to roll back the disgrace of a dark day for Boston, not soon to be forgotten. His sense of justice and love for the right led him the more to love freedom and hate slavery. Thus is it ever true, we can” do nothing against the truth, but for the truth."
The words which our brother has thus eloquently spoken for the slave are all the more potent from the position which he occupies. Standing in the relation of minister, before a wealthy congregation, containing too few to sympathize with him in his love of a despised cause ”everywhere spoken against"- blessings upon him for his manliness and Christian courage! For such ministers-and may their tribe increase!-we cherish profound respect. One such true clergyman, ”faithful found among the faithless," does much to redeem the respect which deservedly has been lost for a profession quite too indifferent to the claims of humanity. We love the true herald of Christ; but for the canting priest, who makes a creed or profession outweigh all that belongs to human happiness, we have only the words of Jesus-" Woe unto you, Scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites," &c. &c.
Milford, Mass. G.W.S.

MEETING AT FANEUIL HALL
Faneuil Hall was densely crowded on Saturday evening, by a meeting of loyal citizens. E. S. Tobey, Esq., called the meeting to order. Professor Parsons, of Cambridge, presided. General A. J. Hamilton, of Texas, made a very effective speech, arguing that the purposes of the leaders of the rebellion were to bring all labor, black and white, upon the same footing of control and ownership. He showed that the South, before the rebellion, had always carried its point, and therefore had no excuse for revolt. He justified the emancipation proclamation of the President, the suspension of the habeas corpus, and other necessary measures of the Administration.
The General said that this government should have the same power to protect itself as any other government in the world had. ”He is the Commander-in-Chief of the army and navy, and has the right to dispose of a public enemy, with whatever resources he may have-or is power wanting on account of a peculiar species of property? It may be said he may use the slaves of rebels, but not of loyal slaveholders. Let such croakers wait till loyal slaveholders complain, and not make themselves too officious. I say they will never complain, but they have resolved with one unanimous voice that if the Southern States are restored to the Union, slavery shall not exist; if it does, it will be against their solemn protest. (Prolonged cheering.)
"I shall no doubt leave Boston under the charge of being an Abolitionist. I desire to say to this audience, and through them to the people of Massachusetts, that I have met very many respectable gentlemen in this State, and in other States of New England, who would agree with me about the cause of the rebellion, who would agree with me as to its injustice and want of excuse, who would agree with me as to the mode of punishing the traitors, (if they can be caught, let them be tried, convicted and executed,) who would agree with me that the Government of the United States is altogether correct in dealing as it has with the source of the rebellion, Slavery, and declare that the issuing of the President's Proclamation was all right,-many of them, indeed, would say that it ought to have been issued sooner,-but who would close the conversation by saying, ”I want you to understand that I am not an Abolitionist." Now, I simply differ from all such men by saying, once for all, “I AM AN ABOLITIONIST!” (Tremendous cheering)
The conclusion of the General's speech was in reference to the difficulties under which the President had labored, the constant opposition made to his policy, and favored the giving of Fremont and Butler some high command. The country was yet strong, and regarding a foreign war, he did not favor it, and yet believed it would bring out the resources of our people to a degree that would astonish the world.
Gen. Nye, Governor of Nevada Territory, spoke for half an hour, in a spirited manner, in which he argued his belief that the back-bone of the rebellion was broken. He defended the acts of President Lincoln, and believed the conscription should have been tried at the outset. This Government was powerful, it was right, and therefore victory was certain, and with it he trusted to see the removal of the cause that had so long affected us.
The meeting closed at quarter to 11 o'clock.
A DEPARTED PHILANTHROPIST. The body of the late Rev. CHARLES SPEAR, who died at Washington on the 18th inst., in the 60th year of his age, having been brought to Boston for interment, impressive funeral services were held at the Warren Street Universalist Church, on Tuesday afternoon. The discourse by Rev. Sylvanus Cobb was a brief biographical sketch of the deceased, accompanied with a feeling and well-merited tribute to the long-protracted, untiring and disinterested labors of Mr. Spear in the broad field of philanthropy and reform.
Mr. Spear was a native of Boston, and, after serving a regular apprenticeship at the printing business in the celebrated house of Wells & Lilly, devoted his attention to theological studies, and in process of time became a minister of the Universalist persuasion. He was connected with several religious newspapers, and was a frequent and welcome contributor to the periodical press. Resuming his residence in Boston about twenty-five years since, he became deeply interested in the subject of criminal reform, to which cause he devoted himself with such energy and assiduity that he was familiarly known by the name of ”The Prisoner's Friend," the title of a periodical which he edited for many years. He was the author of several works in his favorite department of philanthropy, including” Essays on the Punishment of Death," “Essays on Imprisonment for Debt," and “Voices from Prison." Since the commencement of the war, he cherished a deep anxiety for the welfare of the sick and suffering soldiers in our armies, and in July last received the appointment of Hospital Chaplain in the city of Washington, discharging the duties of that post until a short time previous to his death. Mr. Spear was a man of singularly modest and unpretending manners, with a quiet energy of purpose which no difficulties could daunt, and of a disinterestedness of spirit which led him to find his chief happiness in laboring for others, especially for the neglected and most wretched classes of society. He did the best he could, with very limited means.
VERY CREDITABLE. The communication on our first page, with the caption ”AN UNSAFE PILOT,” rebuking that vile and rabidly pro-slavery sheet, the Boston Pilot, for its dastardly assaults upon the colored race, is copied from the New Bedford Mercury, and was written by one of the colored soldiers attached to the 54th Regiment Mass. Volunteers at Readville. It is not in the power of the editor of the Pilot to write either so correct or so sensible an article, as he is an habitual blackguard with his pen, if not with his tongue.
<c03>
A PROCLAMATION
BY THE RESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
Whereas, the Senate of the United States, devoutly recognizing, the supreme authority and just government of Almighty God, in all the affairs of men and nations, has, by a resolution, requested the President to designate and set apart a day for National prayer and humiliation;
And whereas, it is the duty of nations, as well as of men, to own their dependence upon the overruling power of God, to confess their sins and transgressions, in humble sorrow, yet with assured hope that genuine repentance will lead to mercy and pardon, and to recognize the sublime truths announced in the Holy Scriptures, and proven by all history, that those nations only are blessed whose God is the Lord;
And, insomuch as we know that, by his divine law, nations, like individuals, are subjected to punishments and chastisements in this world, may we not justly fear that the awful calamity of civil war, which now desolates the land, may be but a punishment inflicted upon us for our presumptuous sins, to the needful end of our national reformation as a whole people? We have been the recipients of the choicest bounties of Heaven. We have been preserved, these many years, in peace and prosperity. We have grown in numbers, wealth and power, as no other nation has ever grown. But we have forgotten God, we have forgotten the gracious hand which preserved us in peace, and multiplied and enriched and strengthened us; and we have vainly imagined, in the deceitfulness of our hearts, that all these blessings were produced by some superior wisdom and virtue of our own. Intoxicated with unbroken success, we have become too self sufficient to feel the necessity of redeeming and preserving grace, too proud to pray to the God that made us!
It behooves us, then, to humble ourselves before the offended Power, to confess our national sins, and to pray for clemency and forgiveness.
Now, therefore, in compliance with the request, and fully concurring in the views of the Senate, I do by this my proclamation, designate and set apart Thursday, the 30th day of April, 1863, as a day of national humiliation, fasting and prayer. And I do hereby request all the people to abstain from their ordinary secular pursuits, and to unite, at their several places of public worship and their respective homes, in keeping the day holy to the Lord, and devoted to the humble discharge of the religious duties proper to that solemn occasion.
All this being done in sincerity and truth, let us then rest humbly in the hope, authorized by the Divine teachings, that the united cry of the Nation will be heard on high and answered with blessings, no less than the pardon of our national sins, and restoration of our now divided and suffering country to its former happy condition of unity and peace.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. Done at the City of Washington, this thirtieth day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the [L.S] Independence of the United States the eighty-seventh. 
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
By the President,
WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Sec'y of State.
A LIBERAL AND TIMELY PROPOSAL
FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE SOLDIERS.
Dea. Gurdon Judson, of Raymond, Racine Co., Wisconsin, writes to the Treasurer of the American Reform Tract and Book Society, Cincinnati, as follows:-
DEAR BROTHER:-Feeling deeply interested in the important work of supplying our soldiers with suitable religious reading matter, and knowing that your Society is engaged in this work, I propose to be one of twenty-five to raise five thousand dollars (85,000) for this purpose; hoping that there may be a ready response to this proposition, and enough found to fill up this amount, and much more, even.
I hereby enclose my proportion of the $5,000, which will be $200, to be used as above specified.
(Signed) GURDON JUDSON.
There is no department of our work more important, at this time, than the one contemplated in this offer. The new field which we were so suddenly and unexpectedly called upon to occupy, at the commencement of this war, is of just such a character as was contemplated in the origin of the Society. Our system of operating in this field is one that meets many difficulties which have hitherto embarrassed effort in this direction. We are rejoiced to know that the labor is being appreciated. Shall the five thousand dollars be raised? Who will be the remaining twenty-four to contribute the amount? The call is a loud one. Is there any better way of serving, at this time, the common cause of our country and our Lord?
Communications relating to the proposed fund should be addressed to Ceylon Hudson, Treasurer A. R. T. and B. Society, Cincinnati, O.
LETTER FROM JOHN BRIGHT.
JOHN BRIGHT has written the following letter in reply to a private letter from Boston:
ROCHDALE, March 9, 1863.
DEAR SIR: Although I have been most prominent among Englishmen in speaking for your country, and its government, and its cause, yet there are many, very many, earnest men here, who read the now enacting chapter of your history as I read it, and who hope it may end, as I still believe it will end, in the establishment of freedom over all your continent.
The haters of your republic are few in comparison of the whole people, and every day adds to the number of those who hope to see slavery destroyed and the Union restored.
I regret much that I have not visited your country. Now, a visit to it would only add to my grief at what is passing among you. Should peace be restored, and should circumstances here permit it, I should rejoice to be able to spend six months to visit a land in which from my boyhood I have taken so great an interest. I wish you every success in your great conflict, and that God may give you strength and virtue to save your continent for freedom.
Believe me very truly yours,
JOHN BRIGHT.
BEATING A SLAVE. Mrs. O'Brien's slave girl was yesterday before the Provost Court, on a charge of beating her mistress, and the daughter of her mistress. Mrs. O'Brien said the girl had been very disobedient, and she undertook to correct her with the broomstick, when the girl took it from her and struck her the head. The daughter came to the rescue, and struck the slave girl on the head with a stick. The case was dismissed. The Court admonished Mrs. O'Brien that she had no right to take the law into her own hands; and that she must learn to curb and restrain her passions. Masters and owners of slaves had no right to inflict corporeal punishment. “This decision will not, I know," said the Judge, ”be received with favor in this community, but I cannot help it.”
-New Orleans Era.
KIDNAPPING. As officer Eugene Paysant was passing a yard in which a slave woman and her two daughters reside, he was startled by hearing cries for help. Rushing into the yard, he found the woman and her daughters struggling with another policeman and a soldier. On seeing him, the policeman fled. He then arrested the soldier, and also the woman and her daughters. The woman says the policeman came in for the purpose of carrying off her two daughters, at the instance of Mr. Frederick, her master, for the purpose of putting them on the plantation. He had brought a cab in which to carry them off, and intended to tie them. The mother resisted, and the officer beat her till her head was quite bloody. Seeing a soldier named Lawson, of the first Louisiana cavalry, passing, the officer called him to assist, under the representation that he was making a legal arrest. The soldier innocently supposing the woman had committed some crime, and that he was only performing his duty, obeyed the summons. Officer Paysant, who arrived so opportunely, arrested the soldier and the woman and her daughters, and took them to the lockup to have the matter investigated. The police officer, who took to his heels when Paysant interfered, had been employed by the girl's master to carry her off.-Ibid.
MORE REBEL BARBARITY. The Columbus, (Ky.) War Eagle of a recent date gives the following horrible relation:-
"The victim was a Union man, named Jordan Hills, and lived on the Mobile and Ohio railroad, eighteen miles from Troy. On the 27th of March, Mr. Hills was taken by a party of men claiming to belong to Dawson's band of rebel guerrillas. He was tied up and whipped, and afterwards gagged, his ears and nose cut off; and three of his fingers amputated and carried away as trophies and souvenirs! Afterward, his skull was laid open with a sabre, and his brains scattered and trampled upon by the murderers-all because he was a Union man, and not a traitor."
PROTECTION OF BLACK SOLDIERS. General Hunter, a few weeks ago, made a communication to General Beauregard, giving him formal notice that he should retaliate promptly every outrage or wrong done to any of our black South Carolina or Florida troops who might fall into rebel hands; and he added, what was perhaps the most effective part of his threat, that in choosing rebel prisoners upon whom to retaliate, he proposed carefully to select those who owned the greatest number of slaves. Thus, for every black soldier Beauregard hangs-according to his threat- General Hunter will hang two slaveholders. There will not be many black soldiers hanged by Beauregard.
<c04>
The Washington Republican states that the fifth edition of the ”War Powers of the President,” by HON. WILLIAM WHITING, Solicitor of the War Department, consisting of 30,000 copies, printed in newspaper form, for circulation by mail, is about to be issued in Philadelphia, under the auspices of members of the Union League in that patriotic city. It must be gratifying, says the Republican, to the distinguished author of this work to observe the profound impression it has made and is still making upon the public mind in all parts of the country; and the true supporters of the government will rejoice to find so many of his boldest opinions sustained by the Supreme Court of the United States, in the prize cases recently decided at Washington.
THE BOSTON POST. This paper, under a specious mask of loyalty, is daily doing the work of the Copperheads. It advocated the election of Seymour as Governor of Connecticut, and cavils at and complains of the great Union meetings in New York, where Messrs. Van Buren and Brady are taking their patriotic stand for the country. We have for some time looked upon the Post as a paper even more pernicious in its influence than the Courier. The latter is out spoken in its treason, and easily understood; but the Post, while writing long leaders full of patriotic platitudes, is continually stabbing the Government with scores of venomous squibs, whose influence is of the worst possible character.-Roxbury Journal.
EDIFYING. The effrontery of Billy Wilson's regiment in refusing to march from New Orleans until the negro regiments are disbanded. These men, who are composed of the offscourings of New York city, and whose admission into our service was a disgrace to it, are about as low in the scale of morality as a Digger Indian. The only obvious reason for their being sent into the world seems to be to demonstrate how much more depraved than anybody else a white man may become.-Ibid.
BALL'S BLUFF. The mystery of this affair is partially clearing up. As we have believed from the first. Gen. Stone is an injured man-grievously injured. He was the victim, in the action upon the field, of McClellan's error, which sent him over the river without proper co-operation, or even knowledge of the nature of his supporting, or the character of the work he was set to do. He was arrested at McClellan's instance, and debarred from using facts for his own justification, that McClellan's blunders might not be exposed. We don't see how a court martial can be denied Gen. Stone much longer.-Ibid.
GREAT UNION MEETING IN NEW YORK. There was an immense mass meeting held in New York, on Monday afternoon, under the auspices of the Loyal League of Union citizens. General Scott presided, occupying a chair in the balcony of the Fifth Avenue Hotel. Four stands were erected around Madison Square, fronting the hotel. The attendance at all the stands numbered not less than 20,000. Among the speakers were John Van Buren, Daniel S. Dickinson, George Bancroft, Rev. Dr. Hitchcock, Henry J. Raymond, George William Curtis, Lyman Tremaine, E.Delafield Smith, H. B. Stanton and others. A notable feature of the meeting was the procession of expressmen, comprising all the expresses of the city, which passed around the square, with the horses and wagons neatly decorated with flags, and the employes of the various companies loudly cheering as they rode along. The reception of General Scott, when he appeared on the balcony, was exceedingly cordial. He was too feeble, however, to address the meeting, and was only able to occupy the chair for an hour.
A SAD OCCURRENCE. Lieut. Col. Kimball, in command of the Hawkins Zouaves, was shot dead, a few days since, by General Corcoran. The latter has published a letter vindicating himself. He was attempting to bring out his troops on Sunday morning, a little before three o'clock, when an officer rushed out from the hospital of his brigade, and ordered him to halt. He asked him if it was Dr. Heath, one of the surgeons, when the officer replied with an oath, that it was none of his business, and demanded the countersign. General Corcoran told him who he was, but declined to give the countersign, as the officer was not on duty, and had no right to stop him. The officer becoming more obstinate and excited, placed himself before General Corcoran, brandishing his sword and apparently drawing a pistol, when the latter, in self-defenee, as he alleges, drew his weapon, and shot him on the spot. He afterwards ascertained that the man whom he had killed was Lieut. Col. Kimball.
NEW YORK. April 22. The Herald's New Orleans letter of the 14th inst. Says, the news to-day from Brashear city is of the utmost importance. The enemy evacuated his works at Centreville last night, but will probably be captured entire, as he is enclosed between Gen. Grover’s forces on one side, and those of Generals Emory and Wietzel on the other. He is leaving his guns and ammunition behind him.
The ram Queen of the West was recaptured from the enemy on Grand Lake at 10 o'clock this morning. Capt. Fuller, her commander, and all her crew and officers, numbering ninety persons, are now prisoners at Berwick Bay.
THE SIEGE AT WASHINGTON. Gen. Foster has been closely invested at Washington, N. C., by a large force of the enemy, but his troops have been relieved by the arrival of a vessel with supplies. Gen. Foster himself has returned to Newbern, having run the rebel batteries below Washington, in broad daylight. His pilot was killed at the wheel. Over two hundred shot and shells were fired at his vessel. He will now, it is expected, be able to organize a force ample for the relief of the garrison.
Later reports represent that the rebels have abandoned all hopes of a successful assault, and have accordingly withdrawn their forces.
NEGRO ENGINEERS. The negro soldiers in General Banks’s Department having proved good soldiers, it has been determined to turn their mechanical skill to account. Recent letters from Baton Rouge report that a regiment of negro engineers is now organizing at that point. When filled, this regiment will consist of over twelve hundred able-bodied men, who will be attached to the engineer corps of the department, and be employed in bridge and road building under the instruction of competent officers.
THE REBELSS AND NEGROES. It is reported that the rebels are putting a stop to the desertion of negroes, by the assurance that they will be forced into the Yankee negro regiments upon their arrival, and compelled to take the front of all the battles, while, if they remain at home, they will be free from conscription.
A great riot has occurred at Richmond. A mob of 3000 women, armed with clubs, guns and stones, broke open the government and private stores, and helped themselves to bread and clothing. The militia failed to check the riot, which was not suppressed until speeches had been made by Jeff. Davis and others, promising that whatever they wanted, they should have.
More than 200 colored emigrants have given notice of their intention to embark in the next Liberia packet, sailing from Baltimore May 1st.
COLORED TEACHERS. Judge Rice, of Illinois, has decided that colored persons are not privileged to teach school in that State, and that the public moneys cannot be appropriated to pay their salaries. Shame!
The constitutionality of the Black Laws of Illinois, under which colored people are excluded from the Commonwealth, is to be tested in the Supreme Court of that State.
The number of our vessels captured by the Sumter, the Alabama and the Florida, is forty-seven. Twenty-one have been taken by other Southern cruisers.
With the exception of 100 in hospitals, the, last of the rebel prisoners at Camp Douglas, Chicago, have left for the South. The number received in January was about 3800. Of these upwards of 700 have died, and 290 have been released upon taking the oath of allegiance.
One of the bloodiest battles of modern times was the fight at Bear river, Washington Territory, by Col. Conner, with 200 hard-marched and exhausted men against 300 Indian warriors. Of the Indians, 224 were killed.
At Arlington, Pa., on the 14th inst., Mrs. Harper and Miss Ellis Morgan were killed in the mill of Mr. Smith Harper. It is supposed that one of them was caught by her dress, and whirled around the shafting, and the other, in attempting to rescue her, was also caught, and shared the fate of her friend.
NEW YORK, April 17. The barque Helen Augusta arrived to-night from St. Domingo. She brings a number of negro emigrants who have returned.
THE 54th REGIMENT. We are informed that a circle of young ladies are exerting themselves to procure a suitable flag for the Massachusetts 64th (colored) regiment. Communications for the Committee may be addressed to Miss Addie Howard, 40 Poplar street, or to Miss Mary Louise Lockley, 31 Garden street.-Boston Transcript.
The Secretary of the Interior has entered into a contract with Forbes and Tuckerman, to transport to the Haytien Island of Abache, five hundred negroes, who are free under the Confiscation act, or the law emancipating slaves in the District. Fifty dollars each is to be paid for the transportation.
The work of organizing negro regiments progresses briskly on the Mississippi.
<c05>
APPEAL
OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE RELIEF OF COLORED WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
Believing that the time has come when some permanent means should be adopted for aiding that unfortunate class of our fellow-beings called Contrabands or Refugees, we have associated ourselves together for the purpose of organizing a Home for aged colored Women and Children.
In the Freedmen's camp of this city, also in Alexandria, are numbers, constantly increasing, of orphaned and destitute children, and of infirm and aged persons. Slavery, by its life and in its end, has made both the nation's charge. Will the benevolent continue to clothe and the Government to feed these now helpless ones, in the present inefficient and expensive manner, rearing the children amidst the idleness and depravities of camp life, or will they use the means that humanity impels them to give, systematically for the support and elevation of the children, and the decent maintenance of those whose unpaid toil leaves their last days no resource but charity?
We propose to found an Asylum in or near this city to shelter both extremes of life. The fact that here all charitable institutions are closed against this portion of our fellow-beings makes our effort doubly imperative.
In the hope that national justice and charity would respond to the call and afford requisite funds to carry out our proposed object, when apparent that the funds would be judiciously applied, we appealed to Congress for a charter, and for such aid as it could consistently give. The charter has been promptly given us, but the present state of the national finances renders it doubtful whether aid, at present available, will be granted. We must, therefore, rely upon individual charity for the means necessary to inaugurate and carry out this important undertaking.
Hundreds in each of these classes, needing relief, are already congregated in our midst. The little children suffer especially from the crowded prison life of the camps. The mortality among them is very great.
Our work should begin at once. We ask all to give it their earnest thought, and such response as their hearts dietate. GULIELMA BREED, Secretary.
Washington, D. C., Feb. 27, 1863.
OFFICERS OF THE ASSOCIATION.
Mrs. S. C. POMEROY, (Kansas,) President.
Mrs. E. S. GRIMES, (Iowa) Vice President.
Mrs. M. E. WEBSTER, (Washington, D. C.,) Treasurer.
Mrs. G. BREED, (Washington, D. C.,) Secretary.
Managers-Mrs. H. M. Wilson, Massachusetts; Mrs. F. C. L. Potter, Wisconsin; Miss M. A. Donaldson, Washington, D.C; Mrs. L. Howells, Washington, D. C.; Mrs. H. Underhill, Washington, D.C.; Mrs. W. B. Johnson, Washington, D. C; Miss A. M. Hooper, Boston, Mass.; Emily Howland, Washington, D. C.; Mrs. Leighton, Washington.
Money and packages may be sent directly to the Treasurer, Mrs. M. E. WEBSTER, Washington, D.C.
The following also are authorized to receive donations for the Association:-
Mrs. J. M. S. Williams, Cambridge, Mass.; Miss A. M. Hooper, Boston, Mass.; Mrs. Wm. Endicott, Jr., 10 Mount Vernon Street, Boston, Mass.; Mrs. Wm. Claflin, Newton, Mass.; Mrs. T. D. Eliot, New Bedford, Mass.; Miss Lydia B. Mann, Providence, Rhode Island; Rebecca C. Tatham, Anna H. Shotwell, Lucy Gibbons, New York, N. Y.; Mrs. Wm. Barnes, Albany, N. Y.; Mrs. Charles B. Sedgwiek, Syracuse, N. Y.; Mrs. Anna Barnes, Rochester, N.Y.; Mary Murray Ferris, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; Margaret Robinson, Anna Wharton, Philadelphia, Penn.; Mrs. Prof. J. D. Dana, New Haven, Conn.; Miss Mary Wells, Hartford, Conn.; Jacob R. Shotwell, Rahway, New Jersey; Levi Coffin, Cincinnati, Ohio; Prof. Jehu Brainerd, Cleveland, Ohio; Laura B. Haviland, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Mrs. John Hastings, San Francisco, California.
CALL FOR A MEETING OF THE LOYAL WOMEN OF THE NATION.
In this crisis of our Country's destiny, it is the duty of every citizen to consider the peculiar blessings of a republican form of government, and decide what sacrifices of wealth and life are demanded for its defence and preservation.
The policy of the war, our whole future life, depends on a universal, clearly defined idea of the end proposed, and the immense advantages to be secured to ourselves and all mankind, by its accomplishment.
No mere party or sectional cry, no technicalities of Constitution or military law, no mottoes of craft or policy are big enough to touch the great heart, of a nation in the midst of revolution. A grand idea, such as freedom or justice, is needful to kindle and sustain the fires of a high enthusiasm.
At this hour, the best word and work of every man and woman are imperatively demanded. To man, by common consent, is assigned the forum, camp and field. What is woman's legitimate work, and how she may best accomplish it, is worthy our earnest counsel one with another.
We have heard many complaints of the lack of enthusiasm among Northern Women; but, when a mother lays her son on the altar of her country, she asks an object equal to the sacrifice. In nursing the sick and wounded, knitting socks, scraping lint, and making jellies, the bravest and best may weary if the thoughts mount not in faith to something beyond and above it all. Work is worship only when a noble purpose fills the soul.
Woman is equally interested and responsible with man in the final settlement of this problem of self-government; therefore let none stand idle spectators now. When every hour is big with destiny, and each delay but complicates our difficulties, it is high time for the daughters of the revolution, in solemn council, to unseal the last will and testament of the Fathers, lay hold of their birthright of freedom, and keep it a sacred trust for all coming generations.
To this end, we ask the loyal Women of the Nation to meet in New York, on THURSDAY, the 14th of May next.
Let the Women of every State be largely represented, both by person and by letter.
There will be two sessions-The first at 10 o'clock, A.M., at the Church of the Puritans, (Dr. Cheever's,) admittance free-The second at the Cooper Institute-at half past 7 o'clock, P. M., admittance 25 cents.
On behalf of the Woman's Central Committee,
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
CATHOLIC CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH, Mercantile Building, 16 Summer Street, Hall No. 4. Rev. L.A.SAWYER, Translator of the Scriptures, will preach next Sabbath, at  half past 10 o'clock, A. M., on the Protestant Reformation, its success and failures, and the inauguration of a more complete and final reformation.
MERCY B. JACKSON, M. D., has removed to 62 Dover street. Particular attention paid to Diseases of Women and Children.
References.-Luther Clark, M. D.; David Thayer, M. D.
Office hours from 2 to 4, P.M.
DIED,
In Fredericton,(N. B.,) on the 5th ultimo, Mr. CHARLE WILSON, (colored,) aged 24, son of Dr. David Wilson. Six white citizens officiated as pall-bearers, and many others joined in the procession, as a token of respect for the character of the deceased.
Lincoln and other Peach Trees.
OF very superior and new kinds, for sale, at the nursery of WILLIAM KENRICK, in NEWTON, a variety of Peach Trees, chiefly of the new and most superior hardy kinds. Price, 25 cents each, and $22.50 where 100 are ordered. Also, the following new, very extraordinary, and extra kinds, at 35 cents each:-
1st, LINCOLN; which eclipsed all others at the annual exhibition of the Massachusetts Horticultural Society, as ”Hill’s Lemon”: very large, beautiful, deep crimson and yellow, and excellent. The tree is strong, productive and hardy. September.
2d, SARGENT'S NONPAREIL; a splendid red rareripe: very large; covered almost all over with deep crimson; beautiful-of superior excellence-the tree handsome-wood deep red-hardy. September.
N. B.-Where 100 trees are ordered, a liberal proportion of these two extra kinds will be put in, at the lowest rates named.
Nectarines, 35 cents. Lewis' or Boston, Stanwick of Persia, Cambridge. Surpassing kind.
Grapes. Allen's White Hybrid, Diana, Concord, Union Village, &c.
Strawberries, Blackberries, Currents, Raspberries, &c.
All orders promptly executed, and trees delivered in Boston free of cost for transportation. Descriptive catalogues furnished to all who apply. Apply to
WILLIAM KENRICK, Newton, Mass.,
Or orders left with JOSEPH BRECK & SON, store No. 50 and 51 North Market Street, Boston, will receive the same attention.  April 24-31
<c06>
OBITUARY. 
On Monday morning, 6th inst., the Rev. CHARLSS W. GARDNER died at his late residence in Harrisburg, PA., and his remains were brought to Philadelphia the same night by a committee of gentlemen. The corpse was laid out in the first African Presbyterian Church, South 7th Street, below Shippen, where it remained until Thursday afternoon, when it was borne to the vault of the church, after the services were performed. The Rev. William T. Catto happening to be in the city, was requested to preach the sermon over the remains. He chose for his text Rev. xiv, 13, as follows: ”And I heard a voice from heaven, saying unto me, Write, blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth. Yea, saith the spirit, that they may rest from their labors, and their works do follow them. "After discoursing for a considerable length of time in his usual eloquent and impressive style, Mr. Catto ran briefly through the life and character of the deceased. He said the Rev. Charles W. Gardner was born in the State of New Jersey, at a place called Shoemakertown, in the year 1782. It is known that in early life he was of feeble frame and of delicate health. He commenced his religions life when quite young. This may be determined upon, when we are assured of the fact, that he commenced to preach in the M. E. Church when he was about 27 years old, preaching through the District of Columbia, Delaware, Baltimore, Md., and Philadelphia. It was during this interesting period of his ministry which showed his great strength of character, and how God was leading his servant out on the wider and more extended field of labor. It appears, that while preaching; in Delaware, his soul became stirred within him, first on account of slavery, against which atrocious wickedness he was ever an uncompromising opponent to the bitter end, I will add just here to the day of his death. And in the second place, an unflinching advocate for our proscribed race, against the African Colonization Society or scheme. The two twin relics of oppression had nothing to expect from Charles W. Gardner. Long before Wm. Lloyd Garrison spoke out, as the bold and open champion of freedom, when as yet he had suffered naught for his God-like effort in behalf of the slave, this man, who now lies silent before us, threw the whole force of his ardent nature, the whole power of his strong character, and lifted up his burning, scorching and withering rebuke against slavery on the one hand, and African colonization on the other. For this bold attempt to destroy the one, and baffle the other, he was very unceremoniously informed by his Elder that the Bishop said, if he did not stop his anti-slavery preaching, he should not have his license renewed. What answer did this young minister of Jesus make to that Elder? It was this: If all the devils combined should forbid me, and rise up to prevent me, I would still be mouth for those that are dumb. There is another interesting fact in his career connected with him, which should not be left out of the reckoning up of his life. I shall give it to you, for it is important. It was during Gen. Jackson's presidency that Mr. Gardner, in order to checkmate or stave off the pernicious teachings of the African Colonization Society, made a visit to Washington, and used every effort in his power to have a portion of territory set apart to settle free persons, instead of sending them to Africa. His object in this was to turn aside the idea that was fast occupying the public mind, that free colored people had no right in the <illegible>. To effect this change of sentiment, and to secure his people a home forever in this land of their nativity, he not only saw General Jackson in person, but corresponded with the Hon. William H. Arnold, of Virginia. It was for his open and bold stand against slavery and colonization that the mob madness in Delaware was stirred against him. To save his life, he fled to New York.
Mr. Gardner was installed as the settled pastor of this church on the 5th day of July, 1836, by the Philadelphia Presbytery. Dr. Asbel Green was appointed to preside, and Dr. McCalla to preach the discourse. The church during his ministry, which continued twelve years, increased greatly from every point considered.
Of Mr. Gardner's ability as a preacher, he had but few superiors, taking him as a Bible student; and for generalizing upon the numerous themes of which he was master, he had no superior and but few equals. In his subjects or discourses, he was ever new; no one ever tired of hearing him. He possessed versatility and genius. He might be termed eloquent, but he had a peculiar way of address, at once agreeable and winning; nothing was forced, all was natural, easy and earnest. It was only to hear him to be convinced of his sterling ability. 
On the subject of universal emancipation he was determined, firm, without wavering or faltering; for it he worked and prayed. He was to the cause of the slave what Paul was to the cause of Christ.
This country has produced three honest men at least: John C. Calhoun, the advocate of chattel slavery, William Lloyd Garrison, for universal emancipation, and Charles W. Gardner, for the freedom of the slave.
He was no sectarian. Mr. Gardner loved all good people, by whatever name called or distinguished: he was at home among all. What he wanted was goodness of heart and a Christ-like walk. He was a remarkable man, kind, affable, and it may appear strange, jovial in his manners. To children, he was a companion, always pleasant. In his death the young have lost a friend, for his life seemed to be bound up in theirs. In the latter years of his life he preached through Vermont, Hartford, Conn., Princeton, N. J., Newport, R. I., and lastly in Harrisburg, Pa., where it pleased his heavenly Master to call him away from his earthly labors. This event took place on the morning of April 6th, and he died in peace. The colored people of Harrisburg mourn his loss; to them he was a father, a guide, a true friend. Mr. Gardner was 81 years old when he died, and had been in the ministry 54 years.-N. Y. Anglo-African.

Regular College for Young Women.
Chartered by the State of Pennsylvania, with full University powers, including authority to grant Diplomas and confer Degrees.
J. Warrenne Sunderland, A.M., LL. D., President.
THE College is LIBERAL in its character, and conducted upon principles in harmony with the spirit of this practical and progressive age.
The daughters of New England, who thirst for higher mental development, and a more liberal and thorough education, than are attainable at most of our ”Fashionable Female Seminaries," are invited to avail themselves of the advantages of the
PENN FEMALE COLLEGE,
at FREELAND, Montgomery Co., Pa., near Philadelphia.
The Institution is amply provided with able Teachers, and all needful facilities for imparting a thorough and complete education in all the useful and ornamental branches of learning. The location is easy of access, healthy, and delightful. The expenses are very moderate.
Send for a circular, containing full particulars. Address as above.
April 10-2m
SCHOOL IN NEWBURGH, N.Y.
MISS H. M. PARKHURST
Will commence the Summer Term of her Boarding and Day School for Young Ladies,
On Monday, April 20th, 1863.
MISS H. M. PARKHURST, Teacher of Mental and Moral 
Science, Rhetoric, &c.
MISS H. L. BOWEN, Teacher of Mathematics and Natural Sciences.
MISS E. F. SHEPARD, Teacher of Languages.
MISS F. E. NEWLAND, Teacher of Drawing, Painting and Penmanship.
MISS A. J. STERLING, Teacher of Vocal and Instrumental Music.
REFERENCES.-Rev. T.J. Sawyer, D. D., Clinton, N.Y.; Rev. S. W. Fisher, D.D., President of Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y.; De Witt C. Grove, Mayor of Utica, N. Y.; Rev. A. D. Mayo, Albany, N. Y.; Henry Bigelow, M. D., Newton, Mass.; Dio Lewis, M.D., Boston, Mass.; Prof. H. B. Pierce, Principal of Model School, Trenton, N. J.; Rev. E. H. Chapin, D. D., New York; Rev. Austin Craig, D. D., Blooming-Grove, N. Y.
MISS PARKHURST has had seven years of successful experience in the care of a Boarding School in this State, besides several years of teaching in the best schools in Massachusetts.
She designs and promises, that all branches of study undertaken in her School shall be thoroughly and efficiently pursued.
Especial attention will be given to the health of the pupils.
Daily religious exercises will be held in the family and in the School.
The School Year is divided into three terms: two of thirteen weeks each, and one of twelve weeks.
Board and Tuition in English Branches, per term, $60; per year, $175.
For particulars, please address;
MISS H. M. PARKHUBST, april3-2m Newburgh, N.Y.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry. 
From the New York Independent
PEACE TO THE WEST.
LAND OF COLUMBUS! fair land of the West!
Where our Pilgrim Fathers found freedom and rest;
Where thy eagle-crowned banner all proudly unfurled
Its stars and its stripes to a wondering world.
Land of great enterprise, knowledge and power!
Land of the forest, wild-prairie and flower!
Land of broad rivers-Niagara's Fall!
Land of fair Mission-fields-greater than all!
O war!-civil warfare!-wo, wo to the day
When brother meets brother in battle array-
When a mother's fond love and the dawn of young life
Are forgotten in scenes of unnatural strife!
What meaneth the conflict? God giveth reply-
"The groans of the slave have ascended on high:
I will strike off his fetters, and cut them away;
For vengeance is mine-I will surely repay!"
By the cry of oppression, of murder and strife,
By the parting of husband from children and wife,
By the iron that entirety the soul of the slave,
By the Loner of the tortured that cry from the grave,
By the auction-the traffic-the barter for gold,
By the infant unborn that is doomed to be sold-
God calleth in anger, Columbia, to thee-
O wash off the plague spot-repent and be free!
O WASHINGTON, WITHERSPOON, FRANKLIN and PENN!
Will the fire of your love never kindle again?
And STOWE, then fair gifted one, priestess of Heaven!
Shall the lessons be vain which thy records have given?
Columbia? thy prophetess calleth to thee-
Break the bonds of the slave, and forever be free!
The CRUCIFIED calleth, who seventh from sin,
Independent of nation or color of skin.
We hail thee, Columbia, bright gem of the West!
Where our Pilgrim Fathers found freedom and rest;
May thy "Star-Spangled" banner in peace be unfurled,
And the light of thy faith be the light of the world!
Avaunt, dire contention!-fierce war, wing thy flight!
Shall the lamp of the Gospel be shrouded in night?
Shall brethren be foes, whose belief is the same,
While one Lord and Master they equally claim?
O, come and be one with the old fatherland,
United, a bulwark of strength we will stand;
Then kingdoms, and peoples, and nations shall own
The Congress, and Senate, and Albion's throne.
Great Protestant empire, we hail thee in love;
United, a stronghold of freedom well prove:
Like the ocean between us, unfettered we'll be-
"Distinct as the billows, yet one as the sea."
Belfast, Ireland. WM. M'COMB.

From the Boston Pilot.
APRIL.
Who comes from the South, with the blue of its skies
Shining out from the heaven that sleeps in her eyes?
Who comes from the South, with a spirit as free
As the petrel that sweeps to its nest by the sea?
Who comes in a rainbow of smiles and of tears,
Like the rose light of hope through the shadows of fears?
'Tis April, sweet April-in Summer's bloom drest,
With the buds of the Spring-time asleep on her breast!
Tis April, sweet April! No Summer's proud grace
In the blushes that flit o'er the bloom of her face,
But the fresh spring of youth in the fall of her feet.
And a passionate thrill where her quick pulses beat;
No dream of delight full of calmness and rest,
But tempest and sunshine both wake in her breast,-
And the smile of her gladness scarce flashes a ray,
Ere the tears of some sorrow have chased it away.
'Tis April, sweet April! Coy maiden, who seems
Like the spell of some fancy that flouts thro' our dreams-
Whose witcheries sunshine and shadow-like sweep,
As the wings of some phantom that haunts us in sleep-
She'll blend her sweet voice with the shout of the breeze,
Wooing bloom to the blossom and green to the trees,
Thro' the hush of the night-thro' the blaze of the day,
Till it laughs in new life at the coming of May!
South Quincy, Mass. MARIE.

ROBINS COME.
From the elm-tree's topmost bough,
Hark! the Robin's early song!
Telling one and all that now
Merry Spring-time hastes along;
Welcome tidings thou dost bring,
Little harbinger of Spring!
Robin's come!
Of the Winter we are weary,
Weary of its frost and snow,
Longing for the sunshine cheery,
And the brooklet's gurgling Cow;
Gladly then we hear thee sing
The reveille of the Spring.
Robin's come!
Ring it out o'er bill and plain,
Through the garden's lonely bowers,
Till the green leaves dance again,
Till the air is sweet with flowers!
Wake the cowslips by the rill,
Wake the yellow daffodil!
Robin's come!
Then, as thou wart wont of yore,
Build thy nest and rear thy young
Close beside our cottage door,
In the woodbine leaves among:
Hurt or harm than need's not fear,
Nothing rude shall venture near.
Robin's come!
Swinging still o'er yonder lane,
Robin answers merrily!
Ravished by the sweet refrain,
Alice clasps her hands with glee,
Calling from the open door
With her soft voice, o'er and o'er,
"Robin's come!"

WINTER AND SUMMER.
Go! Winter, go!
Thy frozen locks and tresses white,
And looks that kindle not delight,
And breath that chills the young heart's glow.
And frowns that make the tear-drop start,
No bliss, no pleasure, can impart;
Go! Winter, go!
Come! Summer, come!
With genial skies and budding flowers,
And balmy gales and fragrant showers,
And smiles that clothe the earth in flowers,
Come! with thy bright and fairy band,
And scatter gladness o'er the land:
Come! Summer, come!
MRS. BARRY CORNWALL WILSON.

From the London Punch.
A GREETING TO THE "GEORGE GRIS-WOLD."
(The ship which bore to the Mersey the Contributions the United States to the relief of Lancashire.)
Before thy stem smooth seas were curled,
Soft winds thy sails did move,
Good chip, that from the Western world
Bore freight of brothers' love.
Twixt starving here and striving there,
When wrath flies to and fro,
Till all seems hatred everywhere,
How fair thy white wings show!
O'er the great seas thy keel ploughed through,
Good ships have borne the chain
That should have knit old world and new
Across the weltering main.
The chain was borne-one kindly wave
Of speech pulsed through its coil;
Then dumb and dead in ocean's grave
Lay hope tad cost and toil.
But thou, good ship, again hast brought
O'er these wide waves of blue,
The chain of kindly word and thought
To link those worlds anew.
<c02>
The Liberator.
THE CONNECTICUT AND SHENANDOAH.
A TALE OF TO-DAY. 
CHAPTER X.
AT THE REVERE.
"Mr. Berkeley, if I mistake not," said a dark, heavily-bearded gentleman, raising his hat, as he encountered on the steps of the Revere our acquaintance of Whitsunday in the valley of the Connecticut.
"You are not mistaken, sir, in my name," was the reserved and somewhat haughty reply.
Presenting his card-"Will you favor me with a half hour's conversation at your leisure, Mr. Berkeley?" Glancing at the wizard with an unchanged aspect and bearing-"Certainly, sir; this moment, if you desire it;" and he led the way to the gentlemen's saloon, as he spoke.
"Shall we not be liable to interruption, here?" asked the- stranger, looking cautiously around him. 
"Probably, sir. If your business is of a private character, do me the favor to come to my apartment."
When the two gentlemen were seated, the stranger turned to Mr. Berkley-" You may have knowledge of the fact that I am the successor of your uncle, on the Herman plantation."
"I have heard your name in that connection, sir." 
"May I ask if you have knowledge, also, of the tragic events which marked the period of your uncle's death?"
Mr. Belmaine scrutinized carefully the face of his companion as he put this question.
"If you refer to the death of his unfortunate wife and beautiful daughter, I am aware of these events."
"Pardon me, sir, I think Mr. Herman was never married"; and the sable moustache curled as we
have seen it before.
"Not Inform, I agree with you, sir; but if purity, integrity, and high-principled devotion make wifehood, the mother of his rarely-gifted daughter was in truth his wife."
The Virginian of the darker hue winced, then flushed, angrily. Partially controlling himself, how ever, he rejoined, with emphasis-" The younger of the two bond women was a great loss from the estate; the elder would have been of little service, any way, so broken was she with poor health and nervousness."
"I cannot see, sir, how your opinion in this matter is of importance to me, or how it will enable me to be of service to you. If this is all your business with me, our interview may properly terminate here, sir." 
Mr. Berkeley certainly looked formidable in the "severe simplicity" of his majestic, statuesque coldness. But the electric cloud still confronted the ice berg, and flashed forth the following:
"I have good reason for knowing that the girl is still alive; and that she has followed you, sir, to Massachusetts. Perhaps you can inform me where I can find my property."
Unfeigned surprise, mingled with other and deeper emotions, stirred the polar surface of Mr. Berkeley's aspect at this announcement. Even that last abhorred word fell unheeded on his startled ear. "Alive! Adela Herman alive, and in Massachusetts! (Great Heaven, it must be so!" And all that, at the time inexplicable experience, of Whitsunday came thrilling back on his soul. Caution, however, kept pace with conviction, rapid as it was. Mastering his emotion, and resuming his impassibility, although his tone was less austere, certainly, he said-
"Mr. Belmaine, your errand to me this morning seems to be to convince me of your insanity-this last statement is conclusive, to my mind."
The sincerity of Mr. Berkeley's surprise was not lost on the other; and his own confidence seemed shaken for a moment. It was but for a moment, however.
"I should have deserved the charge, truly, had I been convinced of the girl's death by the evidence there was of it. Nothing but madness prevented Her man detecting the cheat, and making a timely investigation. The plan was well laid and well executed but I was never deceived by it after I became familiar with the evidences for supposing she drowned herself. Now, I am as sure to her existence as of my own, although, it seems, I was mistaken in supposing you aware of it, sir."
"And, pray, sir, may I ask, what gives you this, to me, incredible assurance?"
"It was reasonable, to say the least, to suppose, that in escaping, by whatever means, she would seek a known friend at the North; add to which, she has been seen."
"Identity, in her case, would be a difficult thing to establish, Mr. Belmaine, among her peers, the fair daughters of New England. As I remember the-beautiful girl, nothing but superior loveliness would distinguish her. Be careful, sir, that you do not make some fatal mistake."
"I fear no mistake, sir, but her eluding me through abolition influence, with these to guide me," replied the slaveholder, fiercely, every feature of his face becoming brutal in expression under the sway of his roused passions as he produced and presented, yet held firmly by, an affidavit of the unfortunate Clara's personal appearance, and a warrant for her arrest-both filled, the morning before, in the very office where Edgar Horton was pursuing his studies.
It was terrific, the struggle with which Mr. Berkeley mastered, outwardly, his emotion, that he might gain an important item of information.
"She has been seen, you say, sir? Allow me to ask where and by whom, before I can yield my conviction of her death."
"Convinced that you have not seen her, Mr. Berkeley," replied the other with triumphant malice, "I am satisfied to say no more-enough that it was not recently, nor in this State."
Had the human-hunter known the ray of consolation this last statement had power to give his listener, most certainly it would have been withheld. Mr. Berkeley breathed more freely. Rising to his full height, steadied into imposing majesty by the balance power of two mighty emotions, he confronted his quailing guest-
"I am to understand, sir, then, that your visit to New England, to Boston, to me, is to gain possession of the person of a young, beautiful, accomplished white girl, and take her into slavery in Virginia?"
"My object is to recover my property; if your glowing language describes that property, it is no fault of mine; all the more anxious am I to possess it."
For an instant, Mr. Berkeley's face was awful, under the influence of his wordless loathing and indignation. Its menace drew the slaveholder to his feet, but by no means in a threatening attitude. He rallied, however, and stood comparatively firm, even before that matchless impersonation of moral force, as he said-Look at that paper, sir! A Massachusetts lawyer filled it under the sanction of Massachusetts law, and has pledged me the full force of Massachusetts to accomplish my object. It strikes me that your quarrel should be with the law-makers, not with those who use such laws, when made, to obtain their civil rights." 
Mr. Berkeley turned, and traversed the room. Mr. Belmaine leaned over the back of a chair, and watched him, half cautiously, half maliciously. At length the minister again confronted the hunter, but his face was no longer calm-the cruel inward strife was obvious. 
"Mr. Belmaine, name any sum of money which I can command, even though it impoverish me utterly or involve me, inextricably, for life; it shall cheerfully and promptly be yours, if you will relinquish your asserted claim on Adela Herman."
The fiend-man laughed in cruel scorn of that agony. "Why, sir, every word yon utter only makes me more impatient to find my treasure. Scholar as you are, you cannot put into figures the sum that would tempt me to part with her." Again, that fiendish, mocking laugh.
"With one stride, Mr. Berkeley reached the bell-handle; with one flash to the face of all his, burning could, he turned to the servant at the instantaneous opening of the door-
<c03>
"Michael, my business with this stranger is at an end-show him down the stairs."
Virginia as she is, quailed before Virginia as she was and silently followed the foreign menial from the apartment. A harbinger, let us hope, of what shall transpire, on a more extended scale, in the future not far distant. 
Language is inadequate to express the state of Mr. Berkeley's mind during the hour that followed this brief interview. "Alive and in Massachusetts! Yes, and I have been in her presence for hours; within the felt influence of her presence for more than a day; have listened to that voice, so full of the life's tragedy, and, as I used to think, of the future's prophecy. Stupid that I am! Why did I not know what a happiness was close at hand-what a precious privilege of shielding and saving was within my reach?" Silently striding up and down the apartment, whose walls seemed to be closing about him like those of an Italian prison, he thought, in his suffocating emotion, "How reached she that place? Who are her friends and guardians there? Ah, ha! I have it"-and his cheek flushed, like a girl's, as he thought of the brave, brilliant young Horton-" her friend! Yes, I have it all, now." For a moment, the first alarm gave way to another-one he was hardly prepared to admit to himself. It was but for a moment; her safety, at all costs, was the one only matter of concern now. But what care and caution must he exercise! Belmaine would dog his steps and watch all his movements-that he well knew. Saved she should be, however, if he perished in the attempt. Carefully he considered and matured his plan of operations. A hurried letter, addressed to Edgar Horton, and dropped from his own hand into the post office, was all he could do that day. The letter was written in cipher. A return mail brought an answer in the same character, postmarked Springfield instead-of the writer's own town-an item in the many precautionary measures used. One paragraph of the letter ran as follows:-"Her physician considers the case one of great danger, but still does not yet give up all hope."
A day or two later, another came from the same land, evidently in reply to one expressing great solicitude, containing the subjoined:-
"Dr. Welford knows all, and is in our interest, every way. The only other persons admitted to her room are the Misses Williams and the Misses Kent. The latter know, now, how the interesting sufferer is inwrought with their family history, and nothing can exceed their tender assiduity. They are noble specimens of womanhood, and well worthy your acquaintance; nor will it be lung, I hope, before that acquaintance begins. In her wanderings, the ladies bid me say, your name is often on her lips, in a tender sorrow that the slave-girl should have been forgotten, yet without a tone of reproach. Ah, happy man! that pure, true, noble heart is all yours."
And the minister prayed for the life thus threatened by disease, and the peace thus threatened by dishonor, as those pray who must have the craved boon or die-as those pray who believe in answers to prayer; then addressed himself with more sleepless, vigilance and keener scrutiny and more subtle policy, to circumvent the machinations of evil. And thus the chess game went on, the performers never losing sight of each other for a day, with the distance from School Street to Bowdon Square between them at night. So long as Belmaine remained in Boston, Mr. Berkeley would remain, also unless perfected plans or a fatal termination of the disease summoned him, suddenly, elsewhere. He wished the hunter to know he watched his movements, and to think his own depended on them. The ruse operated as he desired; Belmaine believed his antagonist to be blindfold, and felt that all was secure while he thus held him in his toils-each next move would certainly be a checkmate.
This mode of operation was, however, a wholly new one for the minister. Frank and direct as daylight, by nature, as fearless too, this first exercise in the tactics of circumvention would have been absolutely impossible but for its sacred, absorbing object. As he traversed the Common, Tremont Street, and the Squares, alternately, in a state of agonizing unrest one evening, before returning to his lodgings from his postman visit to State street, this miserable necessity, imposed on Christian manhood by unchristian laws, came over his consciousness with increased power. "What am I striving to accomplish?" were his reflections. "Look at it in the light of common humanity, independent, entirely, of Christian obligations am my deep, personal relations in the matter. Consider to what this fair young creature is to he surrendered. Is there a parent in New England who would not thrill with horror at the thought? Yet, should I make this very case known, and demand popular feeling to bear me out in open, manly action in regard to it, my most sincere sympathizers in the abstract idea would answer me-' It is the law, and we must abide by it as long as it exists.' What an argument is this case for blotting that infamous enactment for ever from these otherwise almost faultless statutes! And yet I dare not risk that priceless safety by attempting the appeal. No, no! Massachusetts has made it possible for oppression and infamy to walk firm and speak bold, in the broad light of day, on her soil; the holiest instincts and impulses and principles must creep and crawl through night and narrow by-ways to do the work of angels. No wonder evil takes heart, and menaces the land. It must come-as sure as there is a God in heaven, a righteous God, omnipresent in the affairs of his universe-that judgment day must come! O, my beloved country, I tremble for thee at the thought!" Mr. Berkeley was walking westward through one of the malls, as he reached this point of prophecy in his train of thought and feeling; raising his eyes to the cloudless sky. he started to see there, distinctly, the outline of one of those fiery pens with which, to the eyes of the ages, the mighty Ruler and Judge writes the Mene, mene, tekel, upharsin of his displeasure on the gemmed palace-walls of creation. Mr. Berkeley was remarkably free from superstition as a thinker; but few fine natures are devoid of this element in feeling. He stood still, and watched the beautiful, mysterious celestial wanderer, with the interest of science and the awe of emotion.
The person of our friend, as he stood there, was in the direct range of the trunk of a large tree; which entirely concealed him from the view of passers-by in a foot-path that led directly the other side of the tree. The sound of approaching steps would have had no effect in calling his thoughts from their contemplation of the phenomenon before him, but a voice not unfamiliar, and words that converted every other sense into hearing, accompanied the slow foot-falls. Those words were the name of a town in the Connecticut Valley-"Sleeper's Mill" and "Mr., Horton." Their connectives did not reach his ear, distinctly, but their import burned like fire into his brain. "Early next week," were the last sounds the night-air floated back to him from the lips of the Virginia slaveholder, as, with a suspicious looking companion, he crossed diagonally from the Providence Station to West Street gate-way.
Precisely at four o'clock and fifteen minutes, the following morning, the train for Albany via Springfield sped across Knee land Street, from under the shelter of the Worcester Station. One who had watched comet and stars, and night itself, sink below the horizon, from his windows in the Revere, was seated among the passengers; the shrill whistle disturbed not the morning slumbers of a usually late sleeper at Parker's. For a little time, the distance was widening between the chess-players.

AN UNSAFE PILOT.
MR. EDITOR: 
The Boston Pilot, which pretends to be an exponent of the principles of the Sons of Erin in this country", has, we think, overstepped the bounds of propriety, in its late tirade against the President's proclamation, and the enlistment of black men for the Union service. The Pilot bases its opposition on humane principles; alleging that the proclamation, in effect, will, if carried out, cause the negroes to massacre the white
<c04>
people of the South indiscriminately-supposing themselves justified, in so doing, from the liberty accorded them by the proclamation. It fears the scenes of St. Domingo will be re-enacted in the rebellious States. These assumptions are entirely groundless, inasmuch as the blacks even of St. Domingo were not the barbarians the Pilot would; make them. History tells us, (and history compiled by those who were not sympathizers with the blacks,) that never in the record of war were, any more humane or magnanimous instances exhibited, than were shown by the blacks of St. Domingo. Bat the secret of the Pilot's hostility is easily accounted for. Taking for its guide the opinion of some more influential Copperheads, it supposes that if "Niggers" are allowed to fight for the Union, the Government cannot, consistently, refuse them the privilege of voting, or other rights which they will have earned; that the negro will then be on a par with the Irishman, thereby creating a formidable impediment to the advancement of the Irish people in this country.
It is a notorious fact, that the down-trodden serfs of British rule are the first to cry down any measure that tends to elevate a class in our-common country to a status of manhood. After suffering all that it is possible for people to suffer, in a political sense, in the land of their birth, they feel it very convenient to have a class that they can consider beneath them. Another argument, which is rather premature, is, that the influx of blacks into the Northern Stales will make an increase of laborers, who, by working for a lower rate of wages than the ordinary laborers are now receiving, will take bread out of the months of the thousands of Irishmen, who compose the laboring material of the North. But the Pilot may rest assured, that if the free and enlightened government which gives it protection maintains its integrity, there will be room enough for us all, and work enough for all to do. A journal which advocates the liberty and equality of one class should do so on principle-encourage the obtaining of freedom to all. When it gives "aid and comfort to the rebels" by its denunciation of the President ands the measures of the government, let it bear in mind that the aristocratic "chivalry" detest an Irishman equally as much as they do a "nigger,"-that in the event of the Southern people having to hire free labor, they will hire the blacks in preference to Irish "mudsills "; so the exodus of blacks will be Southward instead of North.
Again, if the blacks are hired- and paid for their work oh Southern plantations, will they not gradually become more enlightened, their wants more numerous? What will then be necessities are now considered as luxuries. The black man will very naturally want better clothes, better houses, to supplant the low cabins of days gone by, and a multitude of other little comforts which the labor of the North will in a great measure supply. But, of course, the Pilot knows all these things; it is likely it would scorn an insinuation that its opposition was prompted by mercenary motives; but its article betrays an antipathy to a race, which, in all charity, we will ascribe to an ignorance of the principles of human advancement-when we consider the uniform policy pursued by the Church which it professes to represent. But we hope it may be so far Americanized as to treat a matter courteously, if it is against its principles. Let the Pilot appreciate the feeling exhibited in this State recently, whereby the people, of which its conductors form a part, were raised to a higher state of political standing, with less restriction than they have anywhere on the face of the earth. If Massachusetts is thus liberal to those who are but "strangers in the land," it is no more than reasonable to suppose the "strangers" will allow her to arm and equip her own people, to perpetuate her free institutions.
J. H. G.

LETTER FEOM HENRY C. WRIGHT.
The foul plans and efforts of Copperhead Democrats-The United States Republic an Abolition Society.
RASPBERRY MOUNTAIN, PENN., March 12,1863.
DEAR GARRISON:
The Copperheads, the Democratic allies of kidnappers and traitors, in this region, are showing their true character. A spirit is rising against them like that felt by our fathers of the Revolution against the Tories and the Cowboys, and it will be manifested in deals at no distant day, if the present plans and efforts of these Northern traitors to freedom and free institutions are persisted in. The Democratic Committee of this State, headed by Hughes, and the Copperheads of New York, headed by Seymour, Renders, Wood & Co., have distinctly made their issue, viz; Let freedom, free labor and free institutions perish, rather than the Democratic party be destroyed. This is their issue. They are putting forth the idea, on which the Confederacy of American Corsairs have based their piratical movement-that free labor, free society, free institutions, have proved a failure, and nothing now remains but to adopt slavery as the "corner-stone of Republican institutions." This idea has been, during the past month, often urged in speeches and papers of the Copperheads. They say-"Capital must own labor. Capitalists must own the laborers. Laborers should never be allowed a chance to become capitalists, or to vote or hold office, or have an equal chance with the capitalist for mental and social culture." Such sentiments are becoming the watchwords of the Northern allies of slave-breeders and kidnappers, as they have always been of their less guilty Southern brethren in piracy.
It has come to light that an extensive system of letter writing is carried on by the Copperheads of New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio, of the Vallandigham school, with officers and soldiers in the army, urging them to desert, or to refuse to obey any orders that require them to march to battle against the kidnapping rebels. Letters have also come to light from Northern traitors to soldiers and officers, urging them if they are brought into battle to-direct their fire and efforts against those who seek to crush the rebellion by destroying slavery. They say that such men as Banks, Butler, Hunter, Rose tans, Higgins on, and all who favor the Proclamation, ought to be assassinated. These Copperhead Democrats are doing what they can to get McClellan placed where Halleck is, that they may have the army of the Potomac under their control, in order, next winter, on the assembling of Congress, to have some one at its head who will, if need be to secure dominion to their party, march that army upon Washington instead of Richmond.
These Copperhead Democrats of the Wood and Seymour stamp are not merely traitors against the Government, but against free labor, free society, and free institutions, which entire Rebellions has pronounced a failure, and Copperhead Dom has confirmed. All this to save their party, whose only hope of a prolonged existence is in the triumph of the piratical enslavers of mankind. Tyrants are the same the world over, and the sworn, eternal enemies of freedom; but no where on earth are tyranny, treachery, lying, meanness and inhumanity so inhuman, so mean, so lying and treacherous, as among the Copperhead Democrats of the North.
It is amazing what imbecility and madness have ruled in the hearts and councils of the leaders in the camp and in the Cabinet, in allowing such multitudes of officers and soldiers to go off on parole, to traverse the North as agents of the Copperheads to spread disaffection through the North against the Cabinet, the army, and the war. These paroled soldiers and officers are mostly Copperhead Democrats, and they spare no pains, in all public conveyances, hotels and stations to stir up the people to resist the payment of taxes and; the drafting of men.
The Federal Government an Abolition Society! And this is one of the most efficient arguments of the Northern traitors to freedom. In proof that it is an Abolition Society, they quote the Proclamation, and the summoning of the negro to the battle, to win and save freedom to himself and his fellow-citizens. 
Liberty before Government is a maxim of my life-conflict against slavery. Fidelity to freedom free labor,
<c05>
free institutions, and free society, may call us to be traitors against government; but in the present war, fidelity to freedom is true allegiance to the Government, for the Republic is fighting for liberty-not for the negro, merely, but for the Human Race. God will bless the object, though, ignorantly, bloody means are used to attain it.
HENRY C. WRIGHT.

THE CHRISTIAN REVIEW ON SAWYER'S BIBLICAL THEORIES.
MR. EDITOR:
DEAR SIR-The Christian Review is a religious quarterly, edited by Rev. E. G. Robinson, D. D., of the Rochester Baptist Theological Seminary. I beg eave to submit to your readers, and to the public generally, a few remarks on its notice of my Biblical Theories, in the number for January, 1863. It is a matter of some interest to observe with what spirit the great questions of the age are met, at the watch-towers of Christian observation, and what attention is given to attempted improvements of Biblical sciences and religious knowledge.
1."The author vindicates Moses from being the author of books, of which he thinks so poorly sis the Pentateuch." (Review, p. 145.) The author does no such thing, and entertains no such judgment of the Pentateuch as is here intimated. He considers the Pentateuch a part of one of the grandest productions in the world, the entire work extending to the end of 2 Kings, and having been written after 550 B. C. The Review quotes nothing from the author's work to justify this assertion, and there is nothing to justify it. The Reconstructionist concedes to no one in respect for the Pentateuch, or just laudation of it. As the earliest history we have, and the earliest collection of the reminiscences, faiths and experiments of the most ancient nations known to history, the Reconstructionist regards it as invaluable, and is thankful to learn from it all that it teaches. He does not take the authorship of it from Moses as unworthy of so great and good a man, but as proved by irresistible evidence to be impossible to belong to him.
Moses is supposed to have delivered the Hebrews from Egypt in 1491 B C., nine years short of 1500 B. C. In the year 1500, Moses was seventy one years old. This Moses is made, by Jewish tradition and Christian credulity, the author of the Pentateuch, which, among other things, records his death and burial, and the accession of Joshua to his office, as military governor of the nation; and the same style is continued in the succeeding books to the end of 2 Kings, where, for the first time, another style and other modes of thinking and speech begin. It is impossible that 2 Kings was completed till 550 B. C., because it records this release of Jehoiachin by Evil-morodach, king of Babylon, after an imprisonment of thirty-seven years in the first year of his reign. The first year of Evil-merodach is 561 B. C. It also tells us of the support of Jehoiachin from this time till his death, an indefinite period afterwards. If we suppose he lived nine years, it brings us to 550 B. C. This, therefore, may be taken as the earliest possible date of this book; it is the earliest possible date of all the books that proceeded from the same hand, and bear the impress of the same language and style. The preceding books are parts of the same continuous work with 2 Kings, written continuously, with but one break, and one possible book division, at the end of Numbers. Deuteronomy begins a new book, and is a recapitulatory introduction to the books which follow. But the style and language of both books indicate a common age and hand. From 1500 to 550 is 950years, a period during which all the languages of the earth must have undergone as great changes as in the last 950 years. They all pass away in that period. It is, therefore, impossible that a history begun in 1500 B. C., can have been completed 550 B. C. in the language of that late period, and no perceptible difference of language appear. The book is completed in the language of the period to which its completion belongs. It is the language of the later prophets, some of which cannot have been written previously. Such is substantially the argument of the Reconstructionist in the work under review. Why does not the reviewer show its fallacy, if he finds it invalid? The Reconstructionist defies assault, and stands behind his argument as an invincible fortress.
2."The author does not think highly of this record of the creation; it is full of conjectural theories which science has demolished." p. 146. The author thinks very highly of it, but does not regard it as a narrative of facts. As a monument of the past, and the most plausible scheme of world building reached at the time of its adoption into the sacred narrative, the author thinks very highly of it; but as a narrative of facts, it cannot stand the test of scientific examination, nor be accepted.
Light is not an object of independent creation, but belongs to the great family of material substances, and was created with the rest. The firmament, or heavenly pavement separating the waters above from the waters below, the abode of gods from that of men, is a fiction invented in the infancy of science to account for the visible appearance of the sky, and was not a separate day's work. The sun was not first created after the whole vegetable kingdom, nor was the vegetable kingdom completed before the first animal was formed.
These arguments, with others, belong to the author's work on the subject of creation. Why has not the reviewer shown them to be inconsistent or inconclusive? Biblical science scorns to be trifled with as much as the other sciences. It pays respect to intuitive perceptions and eternal laws. Let the reviewer address himself to the task of putting the author right, if he finds him wrong; and let him show the wrong for the benefit of others.
3."The Old Testament is a cob-house in his hands, which he can demolish and reconstruct at pleasure." (p. 147.) Is this true? Does the Reconstructionist pretend to demolish the Old Testament? Does he pretend that it is capable of being demolished? Did Copernicus d mulish the heavens, when he demonstrated the true character of the solar and stellar systems? Did he demolish the earth, when he demonstrated its diurnal and annual revolutions? Did he make the universe a cob-house, when he demonstrated its magnitude and arrangements? Just as little is the Old Testament a cob house, in the hands of the Reconstructionist, and just as little does he demolish and reconstruct it at pleasure. Whither has Christianity drifted, and what has it come to, if grave and reverend Reviewers, and venerable theologians, feel themselves at liberty to treat an argument of undeniable and invincible facts in this manner? The schools of physical science would scorn such trifling in their departments of inquiry.
4."It is not easy to say where his improvements will end, but it is perfectly apparent where they will not end. They will not terminate with the venerable records of the Old Testament; the biblical science of; the New will have to 
undergo the same searching and improving process as the old; the story of Jesus Christ will go into the same limbo of fable and allegory, of corrupt tradition and ignorant invention, with the history of Adam and the Patriarchs; the Bible will be improved into a work of the same value with the poems of Hesiod and Ovid, and Mr. Sawyer will take his place, where in fact he has already taken his place in the extreme van of the Theodore Parke rites and Westminster Reviewers." (p. 147.) The Reconstructionist proposes to do one thing at a time, and to do it for aye. The work in hand is the reconstruction of Biblical theories for the Old Testament, till the times of Samuel and the rise of Arabian letters. If the Reviewer can show any material errors in this work, the author will be glad to profit by his showing before he proceeds further. With reasonable respect, however, for Hesiod and Ovid, he does not proposed improve the Bible into a work of the same value, but so enhance its value far beyond what is possible with the false and absurd interpretations now put upon it. The New Testament will go into the same crucible with the old, and the gold, of which there is much.
<c06>
will come out brightened and improved rather than injured; but wo to the lead and baser metals that have been burnished by superstition, and accepted for gold! Their false glories will be likely to fade, and their wares become cheap.
Yours, very truly, L. A. SAWYER. 

METROPOLITAN POLICE.
We have been somewhat amused at the nature of some of the arguments used by the press of Boston in opposition to the Metropolitan Police Bill our before the Legislature. One of the principal of them is, that Boston is a sort of sovereignty by herself. She has "an inherent right of self-control the proposed law "takes from Boston the right of self-government, and vettaxes her to support the new system," and the like. This argument, as between Boston or the local municipalities of the Commonwealth, and the State herself, is of precisely the same kind as that set up by the rebels as between the States and the Federal Government. But it has not nearly so much foundation. The State, before they were united by the adoption of the Constitution, were separate and independent; when they united, they conceded some to the rights of sovereignty to the national authority, and expressly reserved all they had not conceded. But in the State of Massachusetts nothing similar has existed. There is no local sovereignty beneath that of the united people of the Commonwealth. The towns and cities have no independent existence, they have no interest rights. They are dependent for the powers they exercise upon the will to the entire body of the people as expressed by the Legislature. Towns are created by the State, cities are chartered, counties enlarged or contracted in their boundaries and towns may be merged in others, or the charters of cities abrogated or altered, without any "inherent rights" being violated, or the "right of self-government in fringed in the slightest degree. Whatever De Tocqueville may have said in regard to the denial of a right on the part of a State to interfere in town as fairs, the State does this every year more or less, and its right to do so whenever it shall deem the public interests require it is undeniable.
We refer simply to the question of right in this matter, and to the assumption of a sort of sovereignty independent of that of the State, which the argument we have controverter assumes. As to the question of expediency, that is another thing, and we are hardly prepared to say whether it is best to adopt the Metropolitan Police Bill at present or not. It is a strong argument in its favor that the city authorities willfully and persistently refuse to allow the cooperation of their police in carrying into effect an important State law enacted for the public good, and whose constitutionality has been affirmed by the Supreme Court, and that they allow and encourage mob law, and the suppression of the exercise of free speech by men who are obnoxious to the dominant class there; while at the same time they have officiously and illegally exerted all the power in the hands of this class by the control of the police, to enforce obnoxious and inhuman laws of the United States. It is these charges that the Boston press would do well to refute, instead of uttering its absurd generalities about inherent rights which have not the shadow of existence. Of one thing they may rest assured, that whether this measure is adopted now or not, the people of Massachusetts will not allow of an independent, insubordinate authority being set up within its limits, to set its enactments at defiance or to violate one of the clearest provisions of its Constitution, that of the right 
of tree speech and free discussion, with protection against mob violence, for any length of time. Public opinion may not yet be fully awakened on this subject, though the senses which have repeatedly occurred in Boston should have aroused it long ago. But it will not require many repetitions of these seems, nor a long continued persistence in defying the execution of the laws of the State, to effect a change of public sentiment, which will fully justify the taking of the management of the police out of the hands of those who manage it only to sub serve selfish interests, and the placing it under the control of an independent board as has been done to good advantage in other cities -New Bedford Republican Standard.

SLAVE COMMISSIONS CURTIS.
George Ticknor Curtis is the same irrepressible genius in New York as in provincial Boston. Every man has his "forte," says A. Ward; and George Ticknor Curtis has his. Since Daniel Webster there has been no expounding of the Constitution like Curtis's. He eats and sleeps upon it. To a stranger who only knows him in his paroxysms on the Constitution. it would appear as if he were its specially appointed champion, while all the rest of mankind were smiting it with their impious hands. He addressed a Democratic association in New York a few evenings since, when, alter telling them they had a right to demand that "other measures and other counsels (than war) should be tried," he returned to his "forte," and said they should demand that "the Constitution with all its guaranties be tenders the revolted States." Of course, Mr. Exponder Curtis! who objects? There isn't a State however deeply damned by the rebellion, that cannot return under the Constitution, without a line erased a letter obscured. It is the fixed basis of settlement-the standing offer of the government far peace But that is not by a thousand reasons the meaning of Mr. Curtis and his set. They hold to the Constitution, indeed, but so construed and fenced about with new guarantees that the blackest rebel in the land could find protection under it without first s<illegible> for his crime against it. They mean protection and encouragement to slavery, and mean nothing else when they talk about the guarantee so of the Constitution. If they dream of success, they are deemed to sore disappointment They may live will their hair is white as the fleece of the flocks of Abraham. It will be only to see that the paths of slavery and of constitutional government have began t diverge, like the are of a parabola, never to ran parallel again.-Worcester Spy.

NEW ENGLAND.
Henry Ward Beecher delivered an admirable address at the Academy of Music in Broklyn, the evening of the 31st ult., in defence of New England against the assaults of Traitors and Copperheads condoning his remarks as follows:-
The attempt to hold bark the inspiration of God's spirit in the human soul has been tried for 2,000 years; and with what success? There never was such agitation in this country as there will be if you undertake to shut up free discussion in the pulpit or out of the pulpit. Massachusetts contributed were to defend the liberties of the country than the whole South. Even if New England territory were to be turned out, the New England people would remain in the other States in large numbers, and their books, their machines, their influence. But even if these could all be driven back into New England what would be the result? A gun need not be in a fort, to bombard a fort. New England does not need to be in the country with slavery in order to bombard it. On the contrary, she would open every porthole, and through every newspaper, and from every pulpit, she would popper the nation ten times as much as she ever did before. (Tremendous applause.) In this last mortal struggle, one or the other must go down, either the eagle that soars to the sun, and is the symbol of our liberty, or the black snake, the deadly copperhead. (Great applause.) I remember that when the sister sent to the Great Master that her brother whom she loved was sinking unto death, He strangely delayed two days in the same place; and when He came, Lazarus was dead. But when he commanded in that voice which the dead must obey, Lazarus came forth: he came triggering with the grave clothes binding his head, hands and feet. Then the Master said: "Loose him, and let him go." We have sent up our prayers to the Master, that Liberty was sick unto death, and he has tarried strangely away from us: but even if Liberty should seem to die and be buried, that same Master shall stand by the side of the <illegible> and shall say, "Come forth!" and then she shall arise and come forth, though staggering at first with the grave clothes upon her; and then, pointing to this broad continent, the Master shall say, "Loose her, and let her go;" and thereafter no man shall 
take her life, or restrain her victorious steps. (Great applause.)

MAGIC CURE FOR CORNS,
in five minutes, without pain, but Dr. N. KENNISON'S improved medicines applied only at his rooms, No.21 TEMPLE PLACE, rear of 367 Washington Street, Boston. All troubles of the 
feet treated on scientific principles. April 10.
