THE LIBERATOR
-IS PUBLISHED-
EVERY FRIDAY MORNING,
-AT-
221 WASHINGTON STREET, ROOM No. 6.
ROBERT F. WALLCUT, GENERAL AGENT.
TERMS—Two dollars and fifty cents per annum, in 
advance. 
Five copies will be sent to one address for TEN DOLLARS, if payment is made in advance.
All remittances are to be made, and all letters relating to the pecuniary concerns of the paper are to be directed (POST PAID) to the General Agent. 
Advertisements inserted at the rate of five cents per line.
The Agents of the American, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan Anti-Slavery Societies are authorised to receive subscriptions for THE LIBERATOR.
The following gentlemen constitute the Financial Committee, but are not responsible for any debts of the paper, viz.:—WENDELL PHILLIPS, EDMUND QUINCY, EDNUND JACKSON, and WILLIAM L. GARRISON, JR.
WM. LLOYD GARRISON, Editor.
Our Country is the World, our Countrymen are all Mankind.
J.B. YERRINTON & SON, Printers.
VOL. XXXII. NO. 41. BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1862.
Refuge of Oppression.
<c01>
THE RRESIDENT’S PROCLAMATION.
To the Editor of the Boston Courier:
The President’s Proclamation virtually declares that be shall prosecute the war henceforward, as he professedly has done, for restoring “constitutional relations” that is. for bringing back seceders into the old fellowship with the United States, and the enjoyment of their constitutional! rights, and that he shall do this constitutionally until the first day of January, 1863. Then, if the alienated people do not return to their allegiance, by virtue of his authority as commander-in-chief, he shall dispense with Magna Charta, and assume a military and despotic sway. The necessity of restoring “constitutional relations” will then require the exercise of a higher law. At least, he feels himself bound then to yield to the pressure to which he has been so incontinently subjected.
Meanwhile, if he can persuade Unionists in the slave States to sell out their constitutional rights to slavery to the Government, for a pecuniary consideration, and thenceforth abolish that institution, colonizing the blacks, and raising their cotton, rice and sugar by their own hands; and if the people of the free States will consent to be taxed some thousands of millions of dollars for the production of equality between whites and blacks, hazarding all the consequences of such a stupendous reversal of an order of Providence, which has existed at least ever since the flood, he opines that his hands will be greatly strengthened in reference to the next scene of our civil tragedy.,  to be opened, as aforesaid, on the first,  of January. How the representatives of the Border States treated this theory when proposed to them, the President has forgotten.
Meanwhile, also, and by way of better preparation for the approaching denouement, he calls public attention to certain acts of Congress affirmed by all but a class of exasperated politicians and fanatical reformers, to be unconstitutional, and by some of these to be unconstitutional, yet justifiable by a higher law. He would have the. public mind familiarized and settled to that kind of profligate, though practically inoperative legislation, that it may not be too severely disturbed by his proposed corresponding exorbitant exercise of executive power-all being for the sake of liberty and equality, and the glory of God. 
But after the 1st of January, if the threat of impending vengeance should not previously dispose the seceders to submit to this kind of administration, and to the general policy which it represents-a policy which, as the seceders have steadily believed, and is now made evident, the President was elected by an ill-advised coalition of misguided good men and designing bad men, to carry into effect; and if foreign powers should be discouraged from intervention to stop this fratricidal war, lest they should seem to repudiate their own philosophy, and thereby incur the hazards of new domestic revolutions, then the President will prosecute the war on his own account, with out reference to Congress, though in pursuance of the designs of its late majority, and without reference to the people, whose mouths, of course, if opened in dissent, must then be stopped. In use of all the means which “God and nature” put into his hands, he will then break up the “constitutional relations” of slavery by all “the naval and military forces of the United States." How far he is assured of the subservience of these forces to such an end, or their sufficiency to accomplish it, the public, as yet, have no adequate means of judging.
What ultimate results are to be looked for from these remarkable demonstrations, the President does not condescend to inform us. Doubtless, on such a subject, a mind even more capacious and comprehensive than his own, though aided by his distinguished advisers, would make but a sorry reckoning. But he evidently hopes, against hope, to see a colonial negro paradise organized somewhere on this side of the moon, and the South, if not acquiescent in this method of restoring “constitutional relations." reduced speedily to a state of territorial dependence. Or, if these hopes should be disappointed, and his hyper-constitutional and military abolition of slavery should turn out,  as did the experiment at St. Domingo; or to the entire Africanization of the South; or to the greater degradation of and hasty destruction of the black population; or to its more disastrous overflow upon the cities, villages and plantations of the North; to the demoralization and impoverishment of the whole country; to general anarchy and confusion; and, finally, to a reacting despotism, growing naturally out of such social derangements no matter! He will have liberated a Great Idea. He will have projected a magniloquent philosophy. He will, as the Chief Magistrate of the United States, have put to shame the antiquated dogmas of the family, the State and the church. He will have testified to a more illuminated generation, that Noah was but an intoxicated, or stupid, or fanciful expounder of the will of God in denying social and political equality to the races of Shem, Ham and Japheth; that the institutes of Moses were based upon crude and mistaken views of human rights; that Christ and his Apostles belong not to our present New Era of intellectual and political enlightenment; and that the in the Jerusa'em that is to be, which a more enlarged philanthropy is heralding, and a more refined political wisdom is attempting to inaugurate, and an improved philosophical theology is preparing to adorn and glorify, universal salvation will be accomplished, and great and small, head and tail, will be no longer distinguished, but Gentile and Jew. Pagan and Christian, savage and civilized, besotted and refined, as they are all developments of the Pan-God, will be together reenveloped in  that blessed and glorious-non-entity.
If the country justify such wisdom as this, it will deserve whatever adversities may come upon it, to which, doubtless, the ills that have as yet befallen, are but as a drop in the bucket. 
The Proclamation, so far as it has any force, in itself, to effect the relations of slavery, is of very little consequence. But as the voice of the Chief Magistrate, supposed to represent the effective sentiments and purpose of the people of the North, it is of appalling significancy. Is President Lincoln, however, in this respect, as he assumes to be, truly their representative? Will they sustain the revolutionary and destructive policy which he so authoritatively, and, as he is said to be “honest,” sincerely avows? These questions, decisive of the destiny of the country, hasten to a solution. May God save the people from the madness of trampling on their own Constitution, and putting themselves in opposition to His moral government. L.
DEMOCRATIC METHOD OF STOPPING THE WAR.-John Pettit, Democratic candidate for Congress in the Eighth District of Indiana, says:-
“If Old Abe will just come to me, I’II tell him how to stop this rebellion. Extend slavery over every free State in the Union, and the rebellion will be stopped in sixty days.”
<c02>
THE PRESIDENT'S PROCLAMATION.
The whole country is astir with the President's Proclamation declaring that from the 1st of January next, the slaves of rebels shall be forever free. This is the principal fact of the age. It is a direct formidable stroke at the sugar, rice, tobacco, and cotton supplies of the world, It effects commerce and common labor in a way that cannot be easily measured. The news of it will shake Europe to the depths. Nor are commerce and common labor the only things this tremendous act operates on. The assumption is, that it will have more weight in putting down the rebellion than all the soldiers in the North. But is this true? We doubt it. The hatred of the South to the North has been the soul of the rebellion. But that hatred becomes now a million of times increased. The Act only invigorates the South to renewed energy. It certainly takes away physical means from the South: but this advantage is more than counter- balanced by the new irrepressible hatred it will produce in the rebel mind. The rebellion that has nothing but physical means taken from it is only half conquered. While the spirit of it remains, it is yet alive, and there should be no confidence in it. Certainly, the President's emancipation is a great shock to the Confederate resources; but the Confederate disposition surpasses Confederate resources in importance; and that disposition is now turned away from us forever. The President's Proclamation will be a constant cause of quarrelling between the North and the South. It will never be looked upon as justice, but as tyranny; and as tyranny it will always be rebelliously opposed. Time will verify these remarks. Then, what shall be done with the negroes? Will they accept emancipation? Nineteen out of twenty of them will not, because they love their masters, as dogs do, and servile plantation life is the life nature intended for them. It would be against the laws of nature for the happy slaves of the South to run into certain distress. No matter what emancipation decrees may be published, the Southern slaves will either disobey them at once, or, if they accept them, they will, in a little time, regret their temerity, and slink back. to their natural protectorate, as suspended bodies oscillate to the centre of gravity. The President is full of genuine patriotism, but the sagacity of his recent Proclamation is open to a great deal of doubt. The North and South are now estranged forever. Is there any hope? Yes, the return to power of the Democratic party. That party has been the cause of the greatness of this nation; while it prevailed, there was no rebellion; when it fell, there was. It is now recovering itself, and that constitutionally. Were it in power, there would be no fanaticism in the public counsels,—no questionable proclamations would be issued. Give it power, and every thing will soon be reversed.—Boston (Irish Catholic) Pilot.

Selections.
ADDEESS TO THE PRESIDENT
By the Governors of the Loyal States. 
WASHINGTON, Oct. 2. 
The following is the address to the President of the United States, adopted at a meeting of the Governors of the Loyal States, held to take measures for the more active support of the Government, at Altoona, (Penn.) on the 24th of September, 1862:
After nearly one year and a half spent in a contest with an armed and gigantic rebellion against the National Government of the United States, the duty and purpose of the loyal States and people continue and must always remain as they were at its origin, viz.: to restore and perpetuate the authority of this Government and the life of the nation. No matter what consequences are involved in our fidelity, nevertheless, this work of restoring the Republic, preserving the institutions of democratic liberty, and justifying the hopes and toils of our fathers, shall not fail to be performed; and we pledge, without hesitation, to the President of the United States, the most loyal and cordial support hereafter as heretofore, in the exercise of the functions of his great office. 
We recognize in him the chief Executive Magistrate of the nation, the Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, their responsible and constitutional bead, whose rightful authority and power, as well as the constitutional powers of Congress, must be vigorously and religiously guarded and preserved as the condition on which alone our form of government, and the constitutional rights and liberties of the people themselves can be saved from the wreck of anarchy, or from the gulf of despotism. In submission to the laws which may have been, or may be, duly enacted, and to the lawful orders of the President, co-operating always in our own spheres in the National Government, we mean to continue in the most vigorous exercise of all our lawful and proper powers, contending against treason, rebellion, and the public enemies, and, whether in public life or private station, supporting the arms of the Union until its cause shall conquer, until final victory shall perch upon its standard, or the rebel foe shall yield a dutiful, rightful and unconditional submission; and impressed with the conviction that an army of reserve ought, until the war shall end, to be constantly kept on foot, to be raised, armed and equipped at home, and ready for emergencies, we respectfully ask the President to call for such a force of volunteers for one year's service of not less than 100,000 in the aggregate, the quota of each State to be raised after it shall have filled its quotas of the requisitions already made for volunteers and for militia. We believe that this would be a measure of military prudence, while it would greatly promote the military education of the people. 
We hail with heartfelt gratitude and encouraged hope the proclamation of the President, issued on the 22d inst., declaring emancipated from their bondage all persons held to service or labor as slaves in the rebel States, whose rebellion shall last until the first day of January ensuing. The right of any persons to retain authority to compel any portion of the subjects of the National Government to rebel against it., or to maintain its enemies, implies in those who allowed the possession of such authority, the right to rebel themselves, and therefore the right to establish martial law or military government in a State or Territory implies the right and the duty of the Government to liberate the minds of all men living therein by appropriate proclamations and assurances of protection, in order that all who are capable, intellectually and morally, of loyalty and obedience, may not be forced into treason as the willing tools of the rebellious traitors. 
To have continued indefinitely the most efficient cause, support and stay of the rebellion, would have been, in our judgment, unjust to the loyal people whose treasure and lives are made a willing sacrifice on the altar of patriotism; it would have discriminated against the wife who is compelled to 
<c03>
surrender her husband, against the parent who is to surrender his child to the hardships of the camp and the perils of the battle, and in favor of the rebel masters who are permitted to retain their slaves; it would have been a final decision alike against humanity, justice, the rights and dignity of the Government, and against a sound and wise national policy. 
The decision of the President to strike at the root of the rebellion will lend new vigor to the efforts and new life and hope to the hearts of the people. 
Cordially tendering to the President our respectful assurances of personal and official confidence, we trust and believe the policy now inaugurated will be covered with success, will give speedy and triumphant victories over our enemies, and secure to this nation and to this people the blessing and favor of Almighty God.
We believe that the blood of the heroes who have already fallen, and those who may yet give up their lives to their country, will not have been shed in vain. The splendid valor of our troops, their patient endurance, their manly patriotism and their devotion to duty demand from us, and from all their countrymen, the homage of the sincerest gratitude and the pledge of our constant reinforcement and support. A just regard for these brave men, whom we have contributed to place in the field, and for the importance of the duties which may lawfully pertain to us hereafter, has called us into friendly conference. And now, presenting to our national Chief Magistrate this conclusion of our deliberations, we devote ourselves to our country's service, and will surround the President in our constant support, trusting that the fidelity and zeal of the loyal States and people will always assure him that he will be constantly maintained in pursuing with vigor this war for the preservation of the national life and the hopes of humanity. 
Signed by
A. G. CURTIN, Gov. of Pennsylvania.
JOHN A. ANDREW, Gov. of Massachusetts.
RICHARD YATES, Gov. of Illinois.
ISRAEL WASHBURN, JR., Gov. of Maine.
EDWARD SOLOMON, Gov. of Wisconsin.
SAMUEL J. KIRKWOOD, Gov. of Iowa.
O. P. MORTON, Gov. of Indiana.
WILLIAM SPRAGUE, Gov. of Rhode Island.
F. H. PIERPONT, of Gov. Virginia.
DAVID TOD, Gov. of Ohio.
N. S. BERRY, Gov. of New Hampshire.
AUSTIN BLAIR, Gov. of Michigan.
WM. A. BUCKINGHAM. Gov. of Connecticut.
FREDERIC HOLBROOK, Gov. of Vermont.

SPEECH OF HON. GEORGE S. BOUTWELL AT WASHINGTON.
If anything were needed (says the Boston Traveller) to justify the high estimate we made, in a recent number of our paper, of the capacity of Governor Boutwell for public life in the present disturbed condition of the country, we think it is found in his speech, made at Washington on Saturday night, 27th ult., which we print below. We call attention particularly to the closing paragraphs, and the thoughts they announce. The human imagination can scarcely paint an ideal commonwealth, which might not be more than realized, by the labors of Northern and European arms directed by the brains of Yankees, on the fertile soil and amid the healthful air, and enormous natural resources and advantages of Virginia, Kentucky, and the entire belt of border States. Ohio is but a feeble type of what those States might become. But read the speech:
FELLOW CITIZENS,-I have come here to-night that I might, with you, express the satisfaction I feel that the great State of New York, in the nomination she has made of Gen. Wadsworth for the highest office in her gift, has already indicated her purpose to maintain the Constitution, and to reestablish the authority of this Government over the States which to-day deny it; and I come, too, that I may express the belief  I have founded on an acquaintance somewhat intimate, though not lengthy in its duration, that he whom the people of New York are to elect to the Chief Magistracy is a man worthy in all respects of the suffrages of the people of that great State, and of the confidence of the country. (Applause.) This is a time, gentlemen, when neither in civil life nor in the conduct of armies in the field is it safe to trust to men whose opinions lack earnestness in the discharge of the duties to which they are called. (Cries of “That’s so.”)
And it is the duty of all men who participate at all in the administration of public affairs, in justice to themselves, to their country, and to Heaven, to abandon the positions they hold if they do not believe earnestly, fully, and without wavering, in the great cause to which the people of this country all are called, as the maintenance on this soil of the principles of Freedom, not bounded by color or race, but acknowledging in the Government which we set up, and in the rights which we recognize in all men, that he who has been created by his Maker in the image of his Maker is entitled to equal rights with any other man in the country or upon earth. (Applause.) Now, then, it is the denial of this great right of human equality before the law that has compelled us to taste this cup of humiliation. Yes, it is the denial which forces us to drink that bitter cup of humiliation to the very dregs. But it is only through this humiliation that we can pass to that triumphant glory as a people, when it shall be declared in the face of all despots on this continent, or on the other, that he whom God has created is free-is equal before the law. (Great applause.) 
Now, there is a belief in some quarters that republican institutions on this continent have failed. The despots of Europe are elated with the idea and the hope that what they have professed, viz.: the failure of republican institutions, is to be fulfilled. Gentlemen, republican institutions have not failed. They are put to a severe trial in these days, but republican institutions have not failed. What has failed on this continent in our affairs, is simply this: the attempt, not made by the framers of the Government, but made by men thirty and forty years ago, who had then already abandoned the principles of the Government, and attempted to set up and perpetuate a Government half slave and half free. That attempt has failed. Washington, Jefferson, Madison, and their associates, had no belief in such a Government. The Government which they set up was not of that character.
They knew that slavery existed, but they did not believe that a Government founded on slavery and freedom could stand. They made no attempt to found such a Government. What was their belief? It was this:—That slavery was an evil, that it was temporary, that it was passing away. (Applause.) They believed that Freedom was permanent, that it was aggressive, that it was to continue, and if their belief had continued in the heart and mind of the South, slavery would have passed away, the rebellion would not have come, and the war and its scenes would have been omitted in the history of this Republic. But thirty or forty years ago there appeared a class of men in the South who attempted to set up
<c04>
the opposite doctrine, that freedom was temporary, that it was limited, that it was to disappear, that it was slavery that was a good, that it was slavery that was to be aggressive, and which finally on this continent and in this Government would be supreme. 
But it is this attempt of men, who had already abandoned the doctrines of republicanism, to establish with the forms of the Constitution the doctrine to which the Fathers of the Republic never assented, in which they never believed, that it was safe or possible to establish a Government which should continue half slave and half free,—I say it is this attempt made by Calhoun, Jefferson Davis, and the supporters of this rebellion, which has failed, and not republican institutions. They are strong to-day, and shall be strengthened by this war, and out of this bitter humiliation, this terrible experience in the life of the nation, they shall come forth regenerated and purified, so that generations yet to come shall believe in this as the revolution of Freedom—freedom for the human race, as the revolution of 1776, was the revolution for the freedom of the nation—and inasmuch as the life of the men, inasmuch as the life of the race is worthier of preservation than the life of a mere nation, so shall this revolution shine prominent upon the pages of history as a peer with any other revolution, not in the character of its origin, but in the fact that 20,000,000 of people united with one heart, and with one mind, and placed their sacrifices of blood and of treasure upon the altar of the country for the maintenance of the republican institutions of this continent. Now, gentlemen, this history has continued for a year and a half. Great sacrifices have been made. No man can tell, how long it will continue; but I can tell you what must occur before it closes: the race of slaveholders on this continent must be exterminated. (Vociferous applause.) Not the people of the South, but the race of slaveholders on this continent must be exterminated, before this war can end. (Loud and prolonged applause.)
On the 23d of this month, the first great step was taken toward the extermination of the race of slave-holders by the declaration of the President of the Republic, that in ninety days, if the rebellion had not ceased, slavery in the eleven seceded States should cease. (Applause.) And when that declaration shall have been made a practical fact, as it will be, then the race of slaveholders will have ceased; then the dawn of the day of peace will have appeared, and not before. (Applause.) Now, then, we must gird ourselves anew for the contest, and I have already indicated what the spirit of the men in the council and in the field should be—earnestness of purpose and fidelity to the country—and when such men shall lead armies, when such men shall give direction to public affairs everywhere, in low places as well as high, then the day of triumph will have begun. (Loud applause.)
Now, gentlemen, one word in regard to the great State of New York. No calamity to the country could be greater than the indication, if it were possible that the indication could be given-the indication by the great State of New York that she faltered in this contest. That indication will not be given. But if the great State of New York should fail to give its vote for him whom we here honor tonight, that failure would be taken as an indication by the North, by the South, by all Europe, that the State of New York faltered in her devotion to this cause. I cast no imputation upon the men who oppose us in this canvass in the State of New York. I do not know what their opinions are, but I do know what the opinion of the world would be if any other man than Gen. Wadsworth should be elected to the Chief Magistracy of that State.
It is simply this, that New York faltered in her devotion to this cause, and the result of it would be that every rebel heart throughout the eleven seceded States would be cheered by the announcement that New York had faltered. Such, my friends, will not happen. (Cries of” No, no.") Such cannot happen-never! But I suggest it as indicating the interests the whole country and all mankind have in the result of the contest which is soon to be commenced in that State. (Applause.) And the city of New York, the emporium of our foreign and domestic commerce, with three quarters of a million of people already within her limits, destined long before the close of this century, if the North triumph, as she must in this contest, I say New York city is destined to be the equal centre of the whole civilized world. The city of New York has, indeed, that at stake in this contest which cannot be overestimated. 
Is it for that city to falter in the contribution she makes, either of opinions, of money, or of men, when, by the success of the scheme of the Southern conspirators, the Southern portion of the Republic would be separated from the Northern? Can the city of New York afford the sacrifice that she would be called upon to make, if Secession should accomplish what has been undertaken? Gentlemen, one word more. I have said the race of slaveholders in the South is to be exterminated. (Applause.) What follows? I say to you, knowing, I think, somewhat of the mind of the army, of the men who have already trodden the soil of Virginia, I say of the American people what Seneca said of the Romans,” Wherever the Roman conquers, he inhabits." (Applause.) That wherever the American conquers, be inhabits. (Applause.) From the thousands of men we are sending into the field from the North, I bid the South take warning; for we will pour over the border from; that section during the next ten years a quarter or a half a million, who shall regenerate the whole State of Virginia, so that she shall be, when in the embrace of Freedom, what she could never be while lying under the power of Slavery—the first State in all its industrial resources, not only of this continent, but of the world. With her climate, with her fertile soil, with her inland navigation and her resources in iron, gold, and other minerals of the earth, Virginia shall be the first State of the Republic; and we who to-night proclaim and advocate the extermination of the race of slave holders do it in behalf of the people of the North, of Ireland, of Germany, and of the oppressed all over Europe, because we open to them in fields of enterprise and industry, wealth, work, and domestic prosperity and happiness. (Applause.) 
The people of the North who carry on this war for the maintenance of the nation, do it in behalf of the human race, and it shall, on the page of history, be the reproach of England that in the hour of adversity she looked upon as with hostility, that she was unwilling that a great and free Republic should be established and maintained on this Continent—a country that is to-day to derive from this revolution, next to ourselves, the largest amount of advantage,—because the time will come, and that not far remote, when upon Southern soil the free labor of the North and the free black labor of the South shall increase fourfold the production of cotton—and without cotton, England's prosperity must cease. 
We shall come out of this war a wiser, better, and a more powerful people, with a debt, no doubt, of five or ten hundred millions—possibly fifteen hundred millions of dollars-but with credit unim-
<c05>
paired. And, gentlemen, many of you will live to see the day when that debt shall be paid, because we have in this country elements of wealth which are denied to any other country on the globe. Every acre of the South which we shall redeem from slavery—every acre in the Far West is the basis, when it shall have been occupied by a free laborer, out of which we will at once give security for the payment of the debt, and furnish the means by which it shall be paid.

GEN. WADSWORTH’S SPEECH.
We find in the New York Sunday Herald a full report of the speech of Gen. Wadsworth, at Washington, in response to a serenade on Saturday night. After some appropriate remarks relative to the character of the Convention which had nominated him for Governor of New York, Gen. Wadsworth proceeded as follows:-
"Gentlemen, it would be obviously improper in me to enter into a discussion of the policy of the war, or the conduct of the government in prosecuting it. It is sufficient for me to know that the government has given us the most positive and solemn assurances that they are alive to the importance of the occasion, and that the war shall be prosecuted with the utmost military energy, and all the appliances of honorable war shall be availed of to support it, and bring the struggle to a successful termination. It would be criminal folly in the government, if it had overlooked one great element of Southern society which may be, and will be as we use it, an element of weakness or of strength—to have overlooked or forgotten that we are fighting against an aristocracy supported by slavery; and it would have been worse than folly to suppose that we could suppress the rebellion and yet save that aristocracy. A year and a half of bitter experience has taught us that we cannot do it; that we should fail in our purpose if we attempted it—aye, fail ignobly and deservedly. We have moistened a hundred battle-fields with the blood of our kinsmen; we are surrounded by hospitals full of sick, wounded and dying men; almost every household of the great North is full of gloom and sadness, weeping, may be, for some loved member who has gone forth at his country's call, and returned no more. Gentlemen, secession and war, bloody and relentless war, have changed our relations to that institution which is the cause and source of the war. We have a right—we are bound, moreover, by the most solemn obligations of duty—to use that agency, as far as it can be made available, to put an end to this desperate struggle, and save the precious lives of many hundreds of thousands of white men from perishing in this contest.
How long are we to bear the insolence of this Southern aristocracy! Has it not long enough already disturbed and distracted our counsels? Has it not long enough paralyzed the energies of the country? Aye, has it not long enough, in the eyes of the civilized world, covered us with infamy? Be that as it may, the issue is made up, and there is nothing left us but to meet it. (Enthusiastic applause.) We have got to conquer it or be conquered by it. (Cheers.) We have got to crush it or be crushed by it. (Renewed applause.) This struggle is already far advanced. It is near its end. If we would save ourselves, we must cast off this devil who has disgraced us and dishonored us from the hour of our birth. (Cries of” Good, good," and cheers.) We want peace, gentlemen, but we want a country more. We want an honorable, a permanent, a solid peace. When we have achieved that, we shall commence again a career of prosperity—prosperity the like of which we have never before known, and the world has never before witnessed., We shall spring, as it were by one bound, to be the mightiest, freest, and happiest people on the face of the earth." (Immense cheering.)

"THE UNION AS IT WAS."
We give, below, the concluding portion of a vigorous article in ”The Continental Monthly” for October, entitled” “THE CONSTITUTION AS IT IS-THE UNION AS IT WAS.”
But it is with Northern out-criers for the Constitution and the Union that the present inquiry is chiefly concerned. These men want the Union” as it was." What was it? What was it, in the only thing that is in their thoughts and wishes when they raise the cry? It was a Union controlled by the South through alliance with a Northern party styling itself Democratic. It was the whole power of the Federal Government wielded for the aggrandizement of slavery, its extension and perpetual maintenance as I an element of political domination. This is what the Union was. This is what these Democrats want again—in order that they may again enjoy such a share (never an equal one) in the honors and emoluments of office as their oligarchic masters may allow them. This is all they think of or desire when they cry for the Union as it was—a chance for loaves and fishes again at the hands of those who for thirty years have used them and despised them. They want to be used and despised again. Hence, though they talk about putting an end to the rebellion, they want it put an end to only in such a way as shall secure the restoration of the Slave Power to its old position, and of themselves to their old relations with it. This would set them up in their business again. They are out of business now.
Hence, while Governor Stanley, in North Carolina, is telling the people there that the rebellion must be crushed, though it involve the destruction “of every Southern institution," and that the maintenance of the supremacy of the National Government and the integrity of the national domain is worth more than all the lives and all the property of rebels of whatever sort; and while Andrew Johnson is declaring the same thing in Tennessee, these Northern traitors are speaking tenderly of the rebellion as an “irregular opposition”—excited and almost justified by Northern aggressions on Southern rights—which ought to be so met on our part as not to preclude the South from a return to its ancient dominion. They insist that the struggle shall be conducted with the least possible “irritation” of rebel feelings, and with a sacred regard to their slave rights. They bewail the enormities perpetrated by Congress and the President against the rebels, the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, the receiving and feeding of fugitive slaves, the employment of negroes as Government teamsters, the repeal in the Senate of the law prohibiting free negroes to carry the mail, the legalizing of the testimony of blacks, the attempt “to create an Abolition party in the Border States," by the offer of compensation to the owners in such States as may adopt the policy of emancipation, and lastly, the Confiscation Act, which takes away the property of rebels, and sets free their slaves. These things they denounce in the bitterest terms—some of them as “wounding to the sensibilities of the South," and some of them as atrocious outrages on the rights of the rebels, calculated to drive them to such “des-
<c06>
peration” that they will never consent, on any entreaty of their Northern friends, to accept their old position of political control in the “Union as it was.”
Some of these men talk, indeed, of putting down the rebellion by the strong arm; but they talk a great deal more of putting down Abolitionism—which with them means not only hostility to slavery, but even the disposition to acquiesce in the military necessity of its extinction. They sometimes go to the length of talking of “hanging the Secessionists;” but then, you will observe, they always talk of hanging the “Abolitionists" along with them. They want them to dangle at the other end of the same rope. It is easy, however, to perceive that the hanging of the Secessionists is not the emphatic thing—with many not even the real thing, but only an ebullition of vexation at them for having spoiled the old Democratic trade—a figurative hanging—often, indeed, only a rhetorical tub thrown out prudentially to the popular whale, who might not be quite content to hear them talk of hanging only on one side: but the hanging of the Abolitionists, there is no mistaking their feelings about that; there is a hearty smack of malignant relish on their lips when they speak of it.
These men are as foolish as they are traitorous in their cry for the Union as it was. The Union “as it was” is a thing that never can be again. They say the South wants nothing but guarantee for the security of its constitutional slave rights—if that had been given they would never have taken up arms; give them that and they will lay them down. Nothing more false. Just before the secession of South Carolina, Pryor telegraphed from Washington “We can get the Crittenden Compromise, but we don't want it.” “No matter what compromise the North offer,” said Mason, “the South must find a way to defeat it." These are facts undeniable and undenied. They demonstrate the falsehood and felly of the men who talk of bringing the rebels back into the Union by concessions. The South did not want guarantees; it wanted separation. It determined to set up an independent slave empire, and no concession you can make will lead them to abandon their determination. Undo the recent legislation of Congress, reestablish slavery in the District of Columbia, and repeal the prohibition of slavery in the Territories, and you make the Union “as it was," so far as the North is concerned; but will that bring back the South? No. Go still further, and make the Union more than “it was” for them; yield them the principle of the Lemmon Case, and so allow them to call the roll of their slaves under the shadow of Bunker Hill, and to convert New York Battery into a slave-mart for the convenience of slave-breeding Virginia and the slave-buying Gulf States; and will these concessions lead the rebels to lay down their arms and return into the Union? No. They will never lay down their arms until they are conquered by overwhelming military force. They will never be in the Union until subjugated. And I think the rebellion will never be extinguished without extinguishing slavery. Then, and not before, will the conditions begin to exist of lasting peace and true union between the South and the North. Then, and not before, will there be genuine prosperity, a true social order, and a decent civilization in the South.
And since “the Union as it was” is a thing that never can be again, it is not worth while to concern ourselves overmuch about “the Constitution as it is," so far as those who raise the outcry for it have any determinate meaning in their cry. For here, too, the reestablishment of the political power of slavery is the only point in their view.
The Constitution—in its great substance, in its essential principles, in the general frame of government it establishes, in its organization of powers, in its main provisions, and in most of its details—is an instrument which probably few wise and patriotic Americans would care to see altered, and none would wish to see subverted. But the constitutions of all governments, written or unwritten, (and each sort has its special advantages and disadvantages,) are more or less subject to change—must change and should change—with the progress of society. The Constitution of the United States provides for its own amendment by the people by whom and for whom it was framed. Many amendments have already been made; more are likely in time to be found needful. And no one but a fool will swear blindly by “the Constitution as it is," if he is thereby to be precluded from voting for such improvements as time and circumstances may make important and desirable.
But these traitorous traders in the phrase have (as before said) but one single point in view. In the whole compass of the Constitution their devotion embraces nothing in their vows for its unchangeable sacredness except its recognition of slavery, its provisions for the rendition of fugitive slaves, and for counting five Southern chattels as three white citizens in the basis for Federal representation. These are provisions that must not be changed. This is what they mean, and all they mean, when they shout for “the Constitution as it is." So sacred is the Constitution in this one sole respect, that they have rung every change of protest-from solemn remonstrance to frantic bowl of wrath-against the recent law for taking from rebels the slaves that dig trenches and grow food for them while they are fighting for the overthrow of the Constitution. And the only vision of a Constitution “as it is” which looms up to their views and wishes in the future-“the Mecca of their hearts' fond dream"—is the overthrow of this legislation, and the reinstatement of slaveholders in their old rights fortified and extended by Supreme Court decisions carrying slavery and their slave laws into all the Territories, with the right of transit and sale for slaves in all the free States.
But most wise men believe that in the end of the war there is not likely to be much slavery to need constitutional protection. And since our nation at its very birth solemnly proclaimed the doctrine that of right “all men are born free and equal” as before the law, and have an equal right “to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," perhaps these Democrats may be willing to let the provisions in behalf of slavery be dropped out of the Constitution when they shall have become no longer any thing but a dead letter—with no power of political victory and reward in them. As a living contradiction to the Declaration of Independence they have been the source of all our woes. It is not necessary to blame the framers of our Constitution for introducing them. They did it for the best, as they thought. They themselves hoped and believed the necessity for such provisions would long before this time cease to exist. They little dreamed what mighty mischiefs, what long contentions, what bitterness, what crimes, what bloody horrors they were entailing on their descendants. They little dreamed what a terrible Nemesis would so soon avenge the expedient and temporary introduction (as they thought) of a contradiction to the principles of liberty into the organic law of a free nation whose first foundations they themselves had laid in the solemn proclamation of man's inalienable rights.
Is it too much to hope that, by and by, when there
“Proclaim Liberty throughout all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.”
“I lay this down as the law of nations. I say that military authority takes, for the time, the place of all municipal institutions, and SLAVERY AMONG THE REST; and that, under that state of things, so far from its being true that the States where slavery exists have the exclusive management of the subject, not only the PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, but the COMMANDER OF THE ARMY, HAS POWER TO ORDER THE UNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION OF THE SLAVES. From the instant that the slaveholding States become the theatre of a war, CIVIL, servile, or foreign, from that instant the war powers of CONGRESS extend to interference with the institution of slavery, IN EVERY WAY IN WHICH IT CAN BE INTERFERED WITH, from a claim of indemnity for slaves taken or destroyed, to the cession of States, burdened with slavery, to a foreign power. It is a war power. I say it is a war power; and when your country is actually in war, whether it be a war of invasion or a war of insurrection, Congress has power to carry on the war, and MUST CARRY IT ON, ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF WAR and by the laws of war, an invaded country has all its laws and municipal institutions swept by the board, and MARTIAL POWER TAKES THE PLACE OF THEM. When two hostile armies are set in martial array, the commanders of both armies hare power to emancipate all the slaves in the invaded territory.”-J. Q. ADAMS.
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_002">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 2.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
shall (as God grant) no longer be any slavery to need protection, these Democrats will be willing that this contradiction should be removed, by making a slight alteration in “the Constitution as it is”? Let us trust they will. It is true the Democratic party for twenty years has had but one single principle. Its whole life, activity, object, and occupation have centred and turned on the one sole point of upholding slavery, echoing its doctrines, asserting its rights, obeying its behests, extending its area, and aggrandizing its power; and so thoroughly imbued with the spirit of their Southern masters became the members of the party, that in ten years past I have found but few men calling themselves Democrats and acting with the party who were not in mind and heart, in principle and feeling, pro-slavery men! Pro-slavery Democrats! Four-cornered triangles! Square circles! So the sense of contradiction always struck me. Yet for most of them I could not feel any thing of that intense scorn with which John Randolph of Roanoke more than thirty years ago branded the Northern “doughface” in Congress, when, pointing his skinny finger at his sneaking victim, he exclaimed: “Mr. Speaker, I envy neither the head nor the heart of the Northern man who rises here to defend slavery on principle.” I remembered the prodigiously demoralizing effect of slavery on the moral sense and sentiments. I remembered that the present generation of Democrats have been subjected to the influence of Southern masters who long ago out-grew and renounced the sentiments prevalent in the early days of John Randolph: and I have been charitable in most cases (not in all) to their inability to see the contradiction between the ideas of Democracy and Pro-Slaveryism. Let us hope for better things in time to come. With their bondage, their love of bondage will go. It has been passing from the hearts of the great, honest masses of them ever since Saint Sumter's Day.

EMANCIPATION.
Its Policy and Security as a War Measure.
Hon. CHARLES SUMNER delivered another of his fearless and masterly speeches at Faneuil Hall on Monday last, to a crowded and enthusiastic audience. The speech bears the title given above. We regret that our limited space forbids our printing it entire, but we give below a number of extracts sufficient to show its ability and its author's uncompromising fidelity to the sublime cause in which he has so long and so earnestly labored.
PROCLAMATION OF THE PRESIDENT.
Thank God, that I live to enjoy this day! Thank God that my eyes have not closed without seeing this great salvation. The skies are brighter and the air is purer, now that slavery has been handed over to judgment.
By the proclamation of the President, all persons held as slaves January 1st, 1863, within any State, or designated part of a State, the people whereof shall then be in rebellion against the United States, shall be then, thenceforward, and forever free; and the Executive Government of the United States, including the military and naval authority thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons, and will do no act or acts to repress such persons or any of them in any efforts they may make for their actual freedom. But beyond these most effective words, which do not go into operation before the new year, there are other words of immediate operation, constituting a present Edict of Emancipation. The President recites the recent Acts of Congress applicable to this question, and calls upon all persons in the military or naval service to observe, obey, and enforce them. But these acts provide that all slaves of rebels, taking refuge within the lines of our army, all slaves captured from rebels or deserted by them, and all slaves found within any place occupied by rebel forces of the United States, shall be forever free of servitude, and not again held as slaves; and these acts further provide, that no person in the military or naval service shall, under any pretence whatever, assume to decide on the validity of any claim to a slave, or to surrender any such person to his claimant on pain of being dismissed from the service; so that by these acts now proclaimed by the President, Freedom is practically secured to all who can find shelter within our lines, and the glorious flag of the Union, wherever it floats, becomes the flag of Freedom.
Thank God for what has been already done, and let us take heart as we go forward to uphold this great edict. For myself, I accept the Proclamation without note or comment. It is enough for me, that in the exercise of the war power it strikes at the origin and mainspring of this rebellion, for I have never concealed the conviction that it mattered little where we struck slavery, provided only that we struck sincerely and in earnest. So is it all connected, that the whole must suffer with every part, and the words of the poet will be verified, that in striking “tenth or ten thousandth we strike the chain alike.”
PERSONAL-CHALLENGES SCRUTINY.
On this most interesting occasion, so proper for gratitude, it is difficult to see anything but the cause; and yet, appearing before you on the invitation of a Committee of the Commonwealth, I must not forget that I owe this privilege to my public character as a Senator of Massachusetts. It is in this character that I have been often invited before; but now the invitation has more than its accustomed significance, for, at the close of a long period of public service, it brings me face to face with my constituents. In a different condition of the country, I could not decline the opportunity which is afforded of reviewing the relations between us; of showing, at least, how you took me from private station, all untried, and gave me one of your highest trusts, and how this trust was enhanced by the generosity with which you sustained me against obloquy and vindictive assault, especially by your unparalleled indulgence to me throughout a protracted disability; and, perhaps, might I be so bold, of presenting for your consideration some sketch of what I have attempted, conscious that, if not always successful. I have been at all times faithful to my convictions, and faithful, also, to your interests, sparing nothing of time or effort, and making up by industry for any lack of ability, so that during a service of more than eleven years I have never once visited home while Congress was in session, or been absent for a single day, unless when compelled by illness, and during the session which has just closed, filled with most laborious duties.  I was not out of my seat, from beginning to end, for a single hour. But this is not the time for such a review. I have no heart for it while my country is in danger. And yet I shall not lose the occasion to challenge the scrutiny of all, even here in this commercial metropolis, where the interests of business are sometimes placed above all other interests. Frankly and fearlessly I make my appeal. In all simplicity I ask you to consider what I have done, as your servant, whether in the Senate or out of the Senate, in matters of legislation or in matters of business. If there is any one disposed to criticise or complain, let him be heard. Let the whole record of my public acts be opened and let any of the numerous persons who have come to me on business testify. I know too well the strength of my case to shrink from any inquiry, even though stimulated by the animosity of political warfare.
DEFENDS HIMSELF AGAINST TWO ACCUSATIONS.
But there are two accusations, often repeated, to which I reply on the spot, and I do so with less hesitation because the topics are germane to this occasion. The first is, that from my place in the Senate I early proclaimed slavery to be Barbarism. Never shall the cause of Freedom go by default, if I can help it; and I rejoice that, on that occasion, in presence of the slaveholding conspirators, vaunting the ennobling character of slavery, I used no soft words. It is true that, in direct reply to most offensive assumptions, I proclaimed slavery barbarous in origin; barbarous in law; barbarous in all its pretentions; barbarous in the instruments it employs; barbarous in consequences; barbarous in spirit; barbarous wherever it shows itself, while it breeds barbarians and develops everywhere, alike in the individual and in the society to which he belongs, the essential elements of barbarism. It is true that, on the same occasion, I portrayed slavery as founded in violence and sustained only by violence, and declared that such a wrong must, by a sure law of compensation, blast the master as well as the slave; blast the land on which they live; blast the community of which they are a part; blast the government which does not forbid the outrage; and the longer it exists, and the more completely it prevails, must its blasting influence penetrate the whole social system. And was I not right? Since then the testimony has been overwhelming. A committee of the Senate has made a report, which has been extensively circulated, on the Barbarities of this Rebellion.
<c02>
You know the whole story to which each day testifies. It is in some single incident that you may see the low-water mark of social life, and I know nothing in which the barbarism of slavery is more completely exhibited than in the fate of our brave soldiers, dug up from honorable graves, where at last they had found rest, that their bones might be carved into keepsakes and their skulls into drinking-cups to gratify the malignant hate of slave-masters.
The other accusation is similar in character. It is said that I have too often introduced the Slavery Question. At this moment, seeing what slavery has done, I doubt if you will not rather say, that I introduced it too seldom. If on this account I had neglected any single interest of my constituents; if I had been less strenuous whenever the foreign relations, or manufactures, or commerce, or finances of the country were involved; if I had failed to take my part in all that concerns the people of Massachusetts and in all that is embraced within the manifold duties of a Senator; then, indeed, I might be open to condemnation. But you will not regret that your representative, who has been faithful in all other things, has been always constant and earnest against slavery, and that he announced from the beginning the magnitude of the question, and our duties with regard to it. Say what you will, the slave is the humblest and grandest figure of our times. What humility! What grandeur! both alike illimitable. In his presence all other questions are so petty that for a public man to be wrong with regard to him is to be wholly wrong. How then did I err? The cause would have justified a better pertinacity than I can boast. In the Senate of Rome the elder Cato, convinced that peace was possible only by the destruction of Carthage, concluded all his speeches, on every matter of debate, by the well known words, “But whatever you may think of the question under consideration, this I know, Carthage must be destroyed.” I have never read that the veteran senator was condemned for patriotic ardor. With better reason far, I too might have cried always, “this I know, slavery must be destroyed”-Delenda est servitudo. But while seeking to limit and constrain slavery, I never have proposed anything except in strictest conformity with the Constitution, for I have always recognized the Constitution as my guide, which I was bound in all respects to follow.
Such are the accusations to which I now thus briefly reply. Now that we are all united in the policy of emancipation, they become of little consequence; for even if I were once alone I am no longer so. I place myself with the loyal multitudes of the North, firmly and sincerely by the side of the President, where, indeed, I have ever been.
If you will bear with me yet longer in allusions which I make with reluctance, I shall quote as my unanswerable defence the words of Edmund Burke, when addressing his constituents at Bristol:-
“And now, gentlemen, on this serious day, when I come, as it were, to make up my account with you, let me take to myself some degree of honest pride on the nature of the charges that are made against me. I do not stand here accused of venality or of neglect of duty. It is not said that, in the long period of my service, I have in a single instance sacrificed the slightest of your interests to my ambition or to my fortune. It is not alleged, that to gratify any anger or revenge of my own or my party, I have had a share in wronging or oppressing any description of men, or any one man, of any description. No! the charges against me are all of one kind, that I have pushed the principles of general justice and benevolence too far; farther than a cautious policy would warrant, and farther than the opinions of many would go along with me. In every accident which may happen through life, in pain, in sorrow, in depression and distress, I will call to mind this accusation, and be comforted.”
Among the passages in eloquence which can never die, I know of none more beautiful or heroic. It I invoke its protection, it is with the consciousness, that, however unlike its author in genius and fame, I am not unlike in the accusations to which I am exposed.
THE REBELS MUST BE SUBDUED; THEN CONCILIATED.
The rebels are in arms-aroused-at home-on their own soil, and resolved not to yield. Nothing less than independence will satisfy them; if the war continues. I know not that they will be content with this. Two policies are presented on our side-one a policy which looks primarily to rebel conciliation, and the other a policy which looks primarily to rebel submission. And yet both of these have the same elements, although in inverse order. The first begins with conciliation in order to end with submission which is the cart before the horse. The second begins with submission in order to end with conciliation. The question between them is whether conciliation shall precede or follow submission. Conciliation is always proper where it is possible; but it is now obviously impossible. If anybody believes, at this stage, that any words or acts of conciliation any forbearance on our par any hesitation in the exercise of the sternest rights of war will help us to victory or contribute to put down the rebellion, let me not enter into that man's councils, for they can end in nothing but shame and disaster. I find that they who talk most against the coercion of rebels, and the coercion of States, are indifferent to the coercion of four millions of people, men, women and children, to work without wages under the discipline of the lash. Without hesitation I say that the rebels are to be subdued call it coercion, or subjugation, which you will; and our war has this direct object. With victory will come conciliation, clemency, amnesty. But first victory.
To obtain a victory, two things are needed; first, a precise comprehension of the case, and, secondly, vigor of conduct. One will not do without the other. It will not be enough to comprehend the case, unless you are ready to treat it with corresponding vigor. And it will not be enough to have vigor, unless you discern clearly how the case will be treated. To this end there must be statesmen as well as generals.
THE AFRICAN RACE.
Wherever I turn in this war, I find the African. If you ask for strategy. I know nothing better than that of the slave. Robert Small, who brought the rebel steamer Planter with its armament out of Charleston, and surrendered it to our Commodore as a prize of war. If you ask for successful courage, I know nothing better than that of the African Tillman, who rose upon a rebel prize crew, and, overcoming them, carried the ship into New York. If you ask for heroism, you will find it in that nameless African, on board the Pawnee, who, while passing shell from the magazine, lost both his legs by a ball, but still holding the shell, cries out: “pass up the shell-never mind me; my time is up.” And if you ask for fidelity, you will find it in that slave, also without a name, who pointed out the road of safety to the harassed, retreating army of the Potomac. And if you ask for evidence of the desire for freedom, you will find it in the little slave girl, journeying North, whom Banks took on his cannon.
SLAVES MUST HELP.
Not now for the first time do I make this appeal. As early as May 28, of this year, I offered the following resolution in the Senate:-
Resolved, That in the prosecution of the present war for the suppression of a wicked rebellion, the time has come for the government of the United States to appeal to the loyalty of the whole people every where, but especially in the rebel districts, and to invite all, without distinction of color or class, to make their loyalty manifest by ceasing to fight or labor for the rebels, and also by rendering every assistance in their power to the cause of the Constitution and the Union, according to their ability, whether by arms, or labor, or information, or in any other way; and since protection and allegiance are reciprocal duties dependent upon each other, it is the further duty of the government of the United States to maintain all such loyal people, without distinction of color or class, in their rights as men, according to the principles of the Declaration of Independence.
I do not stop to discuss this resolution. You know my opinions, and how I have pressed them in debate.
But you do not know that I have never failed to present them in that quarter where it was most important that they should prevail. On the 4th July, in a personal interview with the President, I said: “You need more men, not only at the North, but at the South, in the rear of the rebels; you need the slaves. Say the word, and you can give to our armies this invaluable alliance; you can change the rear-guard of the rebellion into the advance-guard of the Union. It is now 4th July. You can make this day more sacred, and more historic, and do for it better than the Continental Congress.” Had that word been spoken at that time. I cannot doubt that the salvation of our country would have then begun.
Of course such a word would have been a blast from the war trumpet, justified as a military neces-
<c03>
sity, according to the examples of history and the heart of man. And such a blast the President has now blown.
HELP FROM SLAVES CONSTITUTIONAL.
But it is said that all appeal to the slaves is unconstitutional; and it is openly assumed that rebels who make war on the Constitution are not, like other public enemies, beyond its protection. But why this peculiar tenderness whenever slavery is in question? Battalions may be shot down, and property may be taken without due process of law, but slavery must not be touched. The ancient Egyptians, when conquered, submitted easily to the loss of life and property; but when a Roman soldier happened to kill a cat in the streets, they rose on him and tore him limb from limb, and the excitement was so violent that the generals overlooked the outrage for fear of insurrection. Slavery is our sacred cat, which cannot be touched without fear of insurrection. Sir, I am tired and disgusted at hearing the Constitution perpetually invoked for slavery. According to certain persons, the Constitution is all for slavery and nothing for freedom. I am happy to say that with me just the reverse is the case. There are people who keep apothecaries' scales in which they nicely weigh everything that is done for freedom. I have no such scales where freedom is in question; nor do I hesitate to say, that in a case of freedom all such nicety is unconstitutional. The Constitution is not mean, stingy, and pettifogging, but it is open-handed, liberal and just, inclining always in favor of freedom, and enabling the government in time of war, not only to exercise any of the rights of war, including the liberation of slaves, but also to confer any largess or bounty, it may be of money, or better still of freedom, for services rendered. I do not dwell now on the unanswerable argument by which John Quincy Adams has placed this power beyond question. Whatever may be the provisions of the Constitution for the protection of the citizen, they are inapplicable to what is done against a public enemy. The law of an Italian city prohibited the letting of blood under penalty of death; but this was not held to apply to the surgeon, who opened a vein to save the life of a citizen. In war there is no constitutional limit to the activity of the Executive, except the emergency. The safety of the people is the highest law. There is no blow which the President can strike there is nothing he can do against the rebellion, which is not constitutional. Only inaction can be unconstitutional.
SUCCESS ONLY THROUGH EMANCIPATION.
Without the aid of the slaves this war cannot be ended successfully. Their alliance is, therefore, a necessity. In making this assertion, I know well the responsibility I assume; nor do I assume it lightly. But the time has come when the truth must be told. Let me be understood. War is proverbially uncertain, and I will not doubt that fortune will again light upon our arms. The force of the rebellion may be broken, even without an appeal to the slaves. But I am sure that with the slaves our victory will be more prompt, while without them, it can never be effectual completely to crush out the rebellion. It is not enough to beat armies. Rebel communities, envenomed against the Union, must be reclaimed, and a wide-spread region must be pacified. This can be done only by the removal of the cause of all this trouble, and the consequent assimilation of the people, so that no man shall call another master. If slavery be regarded as a disease, it must be extirpated by the knife and cautery, for only in this way can the healthful operations of national life be restored. If it be regarded as a motive, it must be expelled from the system, that it may no longer exercise its disturbing influence. So long as slavery continues, the States in which it exists will fly madly from the Union; but with the destruction of slavery, they will lose all such motive and will rather prefer to nestle under its wing. The Slave States, by the influence of slavery, are now centrifugal; but with slavery out of the system these same States will be centripetal. Such is the law of their being. And it should be the policy of the government, at this time, to take advantage of this law for the benefit of the Union. Nay, from the necessity of the case this should be done.
FIRE IN THE REAR.
A united people cannot be conquered. Defeated on the battle-field they will remain sullen and revengeful, ready for another rebellion. This is the lesson of history. Even Hannibal, after crushing in the field all the armies of Rome and ranging at will throughout Italy, was obliged to confess the inadequacy of his triumphs, and he appealed for help to the subjects of Rome, exciting them to insurrection, and arousing them against the Roman power. To this long cherished plan were directed all the energies which he could spare from battle; believing that in this way his enemy could be brought under a double fire. From the beginning of our war we have assumed, as an element of strength, the presence in the Slave States of large numbers devoted to the Union, who would be ready at the proper moment to co-operate with the national forces. It is true that the people of the Slave States are not united, and that among them there are large numbers ready at call to uphold the Union; but these faithful Unionists are not white. The Unionists of the South are black. Let these be rallied, and the rebellion will be exposed, not only to a fire in front, but also to a fire in the rear. The two together are necessary to success. The two together are necessary to the operations of war. The Union army, thus far, is like a single blade of a pair of scissors, which though of choicest steel with sharpest edge, must be comparatively useless. Let the other blade be conjoined, and the instrument will be perfect, warranted to cut. The Scissors of Fate could not. cut more surely.
FORCE ALONE CANNOT CONQUER WITHOUT IDEAS.
It is common to speak of God as on the side of the heavy battalions. Whatever may be the truth of this saying, it does not contain the whole truth. Heavy battalions are something; but they are not everything. Even if they prevail on the battlefield, which is not always the case, the victory which they compel is not final. It is impotent to secure that tranquillity which is essential to national life. Mind is above matter; right is more than force; and it is vain to attempt to conquer merely by matter or by force. If this can be done in small affairs, it cannot in large affairs, for these will yield only to moral influences. Napoleon was the great master of war, and yet from his utterances at St. Helena, the legacy of his transcendant experience, comes this confession: “The more I study the world, the more am I convinced of the inability of brute force to create anything durable.” And another Frenchman of subtle thought and perfect integrity, whose name is linked forever with American institutions, de Tocqueville, has paid a similar tribute to truth. “Force,” says he, is never more than a transient element of success. A government which should only be able to crush its enemies on the field of battle would very soon be destroyed.” Surely, in these authoritative words of the warrior and the thinker, there is a warning to us not to put trust in batteries or bayonets, while an unconquerable instinct makes us all confess that might does not constitute right.
Let the war end on the battle-field alone, and it will be only in appearance that it will end; not in reality. Time will be gained for new efforts, and Slavery will coil itself to spring again. The Rebellion may seem to be vanquished; and yet it will triumph. The Union may seem to conquer, and yet it will succumb. The Republic may seem to be saved, and yet it will be lost, handed over a prey to that injustice, which, so long as it exists, must challenge the judgments of a righteous God. 
PEACE THROUGH FREEDOM.
Thus, for the sake of Peace, which we all desire, do I now plead for Freedom, through which alone Peace can be secured. Are you earnest for Peace, then must you be earnest for Freedom also. Would you uphold the Union against treason, then must you uphold. Freedom, without which bloody treason will flourish over us. But Freedom has been adopted by Congress and proclaimed by the President as one of the agencies in the prosecution of the war. Therefore it must be proclaimed with all our hearts and all our souls and all our minds. The hour of debate has passed; the hour of duty has come. In opposing solemn acts of Congress, which, according to the Constitution, are now the supreme law of the land, passed for the national defence; in opposing the Proclamation of the President, nay in discouraging Freedom, you are as bad as if you discouraged enlistments. It is through Freedom, as well as the arms of our soldiers, that the war will be waged; and the same loyalty which supports the one is now due to the other. The discouragement of enlistments is recongnized as seditious and traitorous; but the discouragement of this other force adopted by the Government for the suppression of the Rebellion is only another form of sedition and treason, which an in
<c04>
dignant patriotism will spurn. Emancipation is now a war measure, and it must be sustained as you 
sustain an army in the field.
" LET MY PEOPLE GO."
If the instincts of patriotism did not prompt this support, I should find sufficient motive in that duty which we all owe to the Supreme Ruler, God Almighty, whose visitations upon our country are now so fearful. Not rashly would I make myself the interpreter of His will; and yet I am not blind. According to a venerable maxim of jurisprudence, Whoso would have Equity must do Equity; and God plainly requires Equity at our hands. We cannot expect success while we set at nought this requirement proclaimed in his divine character, in the dictates of reason, and in the examples of history; proclaimed also in all the events of this protracted war. Great judgments have fallen upon the country; plagues have been let loose; rivers have been turned into blood, and there is a great cry throughout the land, for there is not a house where there is not one dead; and at each judgment we seem to hear that terrible voice” which sounded in the ears of Pharaoh: “Thus saith the Lord God of the Hebrew's, Let my people go, that they may serve me.” I know not how others are touched; but I cannot hear of a calamity to our arms of a noble soldier lost to his country of a bereavement in a family of a youthful son brought home dead to his mother, without catching the warning: “Let my people go.” Nay, every wound, every sorrow, every hardship all that we are compelled to bear in taxation, in want, in derangement of business, has a voice saying, “Let my people go.”
WAR FOR ALL MANKIND.
But, fellow-citizens, the war which we wage is not merely for ourselves; it is for all mankind. Slavery yet lingers in Brazil, and beneath the Spanish flag in those two golden possessions, Cuba and Porto Rico; but nowhere can it survive its extinction here. Therefore we conquer for Liberty everywhere. In ending slavery here, we open its gates all over the world and let the oppressed go free. Nor is this all. In saving the Republic we shall save civilization. Man, throughout his long pilgrimage on earth, has been compelled to suffer much; but slavery is the heaviest burden which he has been called to bear; it is the only burthen which our country has been called to bear. Let it drop, and our happy country, with Humanity in its train, all changed in raiment and in countenance, like the Christian Pilgrim, will hurry upwards to the celestial gate. If thus far our example has failed, it is simply because of slavery. It was vain to proclaim our unparalleled prosperity, the comfort diffused among a numerous people, resources without stint, or even the education of our children; the enemies of the Republic simply said, “There is slavery,” and our example became powerless. But let slavery disappear, and this same example will be of irresistible might. Without firing a gun, or writing a dispatch, it will revolutionize the world.
Therefore, the battle which we now fight belongs to the grandest events of history. It constitutes one of those epochs from which humanity will date. It is one of the battles of the ages;-as when the millions of Persia were driven back from Greece, or when the Mohammedans, victors in Africa and Spain, were arrested in France by Charles Martel, and Western Europe was saved to Christianity. In such a cause no effort can be too great, no faith can be too determined. To die for country is pleasant and honorable. But all who die for country now, die also for humanity. Wherever they lie, in bloody fields, they will be remembered as the heroes through whom the Republic was saved and civilization established forever.
But there are duties elsewhere than in bloody conflict. Each of us in his place at home by his best efforts can do something, not only to sustain the soldier in the field, but also to sustain that sublime edict which will be to the soldier both sword and buckler, while it gives to the conflict all the inspiration of a great idea. In this hour of trial, let none of us fail. Above all, let none of us go over to the enemy, even should his tents for a moment be pitched in Faneuil Hall; and do not forget that there can be but two parties, the party of the country, with the President for its head, and with Emancipation for its glorious watchword; and the party of the rebellion, with Jefferson Davis for its head, and no other watchword than slavery.
The Liberator.
No Union with Slaveholders!
BOSTON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1862.
A NEW-OLD PARTY A CHEAT EXPOSING ITSELF.
The party last formed in this State (before the election of President Lincoln) paraded itself before the eyes of men as specially devoted to “the Constitution, the Union, and the Enforcement of the Laws.”
At the time when this party was formed, the laws favored slavery, a few phrases in the Constitution gave countenance to this injustice, and the power of the Union was bent towards the extension and fortification of slavery.
Sometime afterwards, Congress, acting in conformity with the Constitution, and for the sake of strengthening the endangered Union, passed laws prohibiting military slave-hunting, and freeing the slaves of traitors in arms against the Union. The President, how ever, showed no zeal in executing those laws, and, through his inaction, and the consequent inaction of his subordinates, these laws remained nearly inoperative.

These things being so, the party above referred to made a new move. They caused Judge Abbott of Boston to write an Address to the people of Massachusetts, urging men to stand by the President uphold the President strengthen the hands of the President. And, through this Address, they called a Convention of Massachusetts men, to assemble on the 7th inst., for the purpose of sustaining the President. Their language upon this point is so strong that a paragraph from it is worth quoting:-
“The hands of the President, the chosen and only head of the nation, must be strengthened by the People. He is striving, in this hour of peril, with all his strength, to save the country. Let the People pledge to him their most generous confidence and support and not turn from him in coldness, or palsy his efforts with a feeble and half confidence. Pledge, then, to the President, the lives and fortunes of a united people. Let him be sustained and carried in triumph through the struggle. His patriotism and self-sacrifice deserve it-our duty demands it.”
Two or three days after the publication of this Address, the President issued a Proclamation. Seeing that his past policy had lacked efficiency, and that the maintenance of the Union and the Enforcement of the Laws required stronger measures on his part, he issued special orders to his subordinates to notice and obey the Laws of Congress above referred to, and declared freedom to the slaves of all those who, on the 1st of January, should continue in rebellion against the Government.
Under these circumstances, what did these zealous supporters of the President do? For one day, the presses representing them observed a stupefied silence. Ever since that, they have been talking (in effect) against the President, and plotting to defeat those Governors and Congressmen who are upholding his measures for the maintenance of the Union and the Enforcement of the Laws.
The Convention, which was summoned by the Address above referred to, met in this city, in Faneuil Hall, on Tuesday last. They were specially desired to meet “without distinction of party;” and their resolutions, and their speakers, boasted of eminent purity in their combination, as a body free from the influences and limitations of party. They did in fact unite persons heretofore acting separately as hunker Whigs, Democrats and Belleverett men. That is to say, men of all the parties which formerly exerted themselves to prevent all interference with slavery have agreed to sink, for the present, their differences of opinion, and concentrate their energies upon this one point wherein they agree, the effort that slavery may receive no detriment from the existing war, and may continue undisturbed after the suppression of the rebellion. Thus, while there is a measure of truth in the statement that those people came together irre-
<c05>
spective of party differences, it is equally true that they met as a party for the maintenance of slavery, and that they are “proceeding towards this end by movements, not only of a partisan character, but eminently distinguished by sophistry, calumny, and falsehood.
But times have changed, and men must change with them. A vast number of people have been forced, by the events of the last year, to see the pernicious influence of slavery, not only upon Northern men and interests, but upon all the interests and institutions of the country. It is no longer so fashionable as it was to talk directly in favor of slavery, and the phrase formerly so common in these men's mouths, “our Southern brethren,” has become so damaged as no longer to be worth using. Moreover, the stand taken by the President against slavery embarrassed this “People's Convention” alike in their support of slavery their chief end, and in that support of the President which they hoped to make an effective means towards that end.
There was another difficulty in the way of these worthy people. The organs of the three old parties which we now see fused into one have of late raised an unanimous cry against “conditional loyalty,” hoping thus to embarrass their common enemy, the Republican party. And when Judge Abbott wrote the nice little paragraph which we have copied above, invoking the most thorough and unconditional support of the President, it really seemed as if he had materially helped his friends and damaged his enemies. Meantime the President's Emancipation Proclamation appears, and, “Presto, change!” the situation of both sides is reversed. The Republican party, (represented on Monday in the Faneuil Hall meeting addressed by Charles Sumner,) declares its determination to support the President in everything, without any reservations or conditions. The “No-Party” party meeting the very next day, is compelled to be very precise and careful in its language, to stammer, and boggle, and beat about the bush to avoid self-exposure, and yet, unless by leaving unsaid and undone the things they had come together to say and do, there was no way to avoid betraying their dishonest purposes.
Judge Abbott is a fluent and plausible man, but he cannot change the nature of things. He was in a very tight place, but it was indispensable either to go through or to give up. It was necessary to lie if he would represent the Republicans as now manifesting “conditional loyally  .” It was necessary to use either falsehood or transparent sophistry if he would represent his own party as supporting the President unconditionally. He marched up resolutely to both these necessities, and got through with as little stammering and blushing as could possibly be expected. The latter of these two points was managed by a self-contradictory sentence, declaring the conditions on which he and his friends would support the President unconditionally, thus; In whatever the President shall do
UNDER THE CONSTITUTION, and IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE USAGES OF CIVILIZED WARFARE, we pledge to him our unconditional support.
To be sure, this presents a strange contrast with the paragraph of his own “Address” above quoted. But what else could the man do?
The Convention of the No-Party party gave hearty applause to their orators, but two things called out preeminently vociferous cheering. First, the name of George B. McClellan, next, the various periphrastic phrases by which they announced favor and support to slavery. The President's Proclamation has prevented them from using the short and plain word to express this idea; but whenever the resolutions or the speakers mentioned “the rights or established institutions of the Southern States”-or “the constitutional rights of the people”-or “the limits and bounds set by the fathers”-or “the preservation of our chartered rights”-or “the Constitution and the laws made under the Constitution”-it seemed as if the roof would come down. And under the inspiration of these reminders of the importance of sustaining slavery, they agreed that Sumner and Andrew must, if possible, be defeated, and that General Charles Devens must, if possible, be made our next Governor.
It now appears that the one thing for which these Conventionists were anxious, alike in their original party motto, in their subsequent cry raised for the President, and in their present outcry against all direct or indirect interference with slavery by the President, is the maintenance of slavery. To them, “the peculiar institution” is the one of all our institutions most desirable. And they seem to value “the Union, the Constitution, and the Enforcement of the Laws,” only as these may be twisted to the perpetuation of slavery.-C. K. W.
THE DEATH-STAKE OF "DEMOCRACY."
Mr. John Pettit, Democratic nominee for the Eighth Indiana Congressional District, and Mr. Patrick Donahoe, editor of the Boston Pilot, are, corporeally speaking, some little distance apart; but, in a political point of view, they ride side by side in the team which had the misfortune to be upset two years ago by collision with an express train bound for Washington. It will probably ever be cause of astonishment to these gentlemen how they happened to be spilled on one side of the track, and certain of their bosom friends, including their principal drivers on the other; still more, how, when the latter had taken up arms to enforce their right of way, Messrs. Pettit and' Donahoe found themselves ranged in behalf of the railroad. We hope posterity will explain it for them. Meanwhile it be hooves us to record, that, having bound up their bruises, and outlived the mortification of being for once on the side of right, they are looking with longing eyes to their former partners, with whom they have all the time been in sympathy, and now begin openly to cooperate. We say openly, and refer to their position as defined in our “Refuge of Oppression” for this week. Mr. John Pettit says his way of stopping the rebellion in sixty days,-and he offers his recipe to the President gratis,-would be to “extend slavery over every free State;” while Mr. Donahoe declares “the return of the Democratic party to power” to be the only remedy for the estrangement of North and South. “While that party prevailed,” he adds, with a frankness worthy of the confessional, “there was no rebellion.... Give it power, and everything will soon be  reversed.”
Messrs. Pettit and Donahoe spoke at different times, in different places, and in very different terms, but no intelligent mind can detect the slightest essential variation in the idea which animates the utterance of each. If the saying of the one seems the exegesis of that of the other, it is because the naked advocacy of universal slavery in this so-called Republic is beyond the courage of the editor of the Pilot, bold, bad man as he is. But the same thought possessed his mind. “Give it power, and everything will soon be reversed.” No need to be more explicit. The reverse of liberty at the North is “the extension of slavery over every free State.” The reverse of a war against slaveholding traitors is bloody persecution of loyal Abolitionists and Republicans. The reverse of a government and an administration chosen by and representing the people, is the rule of an oligarchy of slaveholders irresponsible and self-creating. The reverse of Abraham Lincoln is Jefferson Davis.
Such being the programme of the Democratic party in their present efforts to regain their ascendancy, we may congratulate ourselves that the issue is thus' fairly and squarely presented, that honest men may go to the polls next month with clear heads and a determined purpose. Long ago it was settled that the conflict of arms is for the unconditional submission of either slavery or freedom. To-day the conflict of party confessedly bears the same interpretation. Those specious pretexts for a change of administration, which will every day be more loudly advanced,-the suspension of habeas corpus, the restriction of the liberty of the press, the burden of direct taxation, the involved finances, nay, even, the very fact of war,-all these must not be allowed to hide the object of the party which
<c06>
parades them. The party which alone has filled Fort Warren and Fort Lafayette which alone has suffered popular and official suppression of its newspapers which alone has furnished spies on this side and combatants on the other of the lines of war which alone in the Southern half of this country rose in armed rebellion, and in the Northern half has intrigued against a vigorous prosecution of the war in short, the Democratic party can as little disguise its intentions and desires as it can the character of its supporters. It means to work with the rebels and for the rebels. Unblushingly it announces as the consequence of its restoration that peace which existed before the rebellion the peace of Brooks and Floyd and Buchanan the peace of Northern slaves and Southern masters. It clamors for  “the Constitution as it is,” and knows, that, unfettered by that instrument, the North would have subjugated the South in ninety days; for “the Union as it was,” which is simply “the War as it is.”
The Democratic party is like the hero in the fable whose days were determined by a brand plucked from the burning. So long as the wood remained unconsumed, so long might he live, but no longer. The pro-slavery compromises of the Constitution were that brand for the Democracy. With more than a mother's solicitude did the President lock them up from harm upon his entrance into office. At last he has opened the casket and flung the half-burnt torch to the flames. Democracy feels of a sudden a sinking at its heart. The consumption goes on; life flickers; the party gasps for breath. In vain! The fire creeps slowly but steadily along. There will be nought but ashes, in three months, doomed party!-W.P.G.
A CHANGE OF BASE.
Strict probity can hardly be considered  an American characteristic. The national habit of attempting to hide the hideous infernalism of Slavery by ambiguous phrases and soft names has become chronic from long usage. Representative men, the pulpit and the press have all encouraged and shared in the deceit.  “The peculiar institution,” a different system of labor,” “the patriarchal institution,” and the like, were the virtuous shields with which conscious hypocrisy used to conceal the “sum of all villanies.” As a natural consequence, public morality has been debauched. Neither an individual nor a nation can long persist in prevarication without losing entirely the power of distinguishing truth from falsehood.
Our national appetite, accustomed for so many years to be satisfied with Fourth-of-July orations and Union-saving speeches, is not yet able to find truth palatable. When McClellan, outgeneralled and outnumbered, was forced to retreat from the cemetery of the Chickahominy and take refuge in the torrid region of Harrison's Landing, we were jubilant over that successful strategic  “change of base.”  To call that costly manoeuvre by its true name required some moral courage. We have a vivid recollection of reading, in the various papers of that time, of the summary knocking-down of a gentleman on a Brooklyn ferry boat, who had the audacity to express doubts concerning the military genius of the “little Napoleon.” More than this, the papers mentioned the brutal act approvingly.
In the whole history of the war, we cannot remember an instance where the commanding general has acknowledged a defeat. The bulletin of an unsuccessful battle reads like a prize-fighter’sstory: “I struck the fist of my opponent so hard a blow with my left eye that I fell to the ground.”
The last fortnight has witnessed a marvellous revolution in the newspaper world. Conservative Republican sheets like the Boston Advertiser, Journal, and Springfield Republican, have been busy for the last year proving the worthlessness of a proclamation of emancipation. They have denounced it as the vision of impracticable theorists, and have praised the President for refusing to pronounce this “brutum <Illegible>. But the President has done the deed, and, press change! the party barrel-organs play new tunes. Not Saul's conversion was more instantaneous. They now advocate, in labored columns, the wisdom and necessity of a proclamation. Has either of them a word of regret for past opposition, or acknowledgement that the emancipationists were right? Why, bless you! no. This is not a conversion. Only “change of base.” Sumner and Phillips are as objectionable as ever.
Another “change of base,” or we might more <illegible> term it “base change,” is illustrated by the New York Herald, Boston Courier and Post. <illegible> State policy paralyzed the government, “they clong to Lincoln as a stedfast maste,” and declared unqualified approval of the President the test of loyalty. The proclamation has unmasked them. Their present rebellious attitude shows the hollowness of their former professions. Let the measure which they meted out to others be faithfully meted out to them again. They furnished the yardstick, let them be tested by it.
The friends of freedom, though recognizing the advance of the government as a cheering sign of the times, are not satisfied. They demand another ”change of base”; a change from the false base of expediency to the everlasting base of justice. Emancipation as a motive of humanity, of absolute right of atonement to an injured and long-suffering race, will place us in harmony with the Divine laws. Obscurity of moral vision will be removed, and with anointed eyes the nation will see, as never before, the fair and glorious proportions of neglected Truth-W.L.G., JR.
THE FRATERNITY LECTURES.
The opening lecture of the Fifth Fraternity Course was delivered in the Tremont Temple, on Tuesday evening last, by Hon. HENRY WILSON. A very large intelligent and appreciative audience greeted the Senator with hearty applause as he entered, which was again renewed upon the appearance, among the gentlemen who accompanied Mr. Wilson to the platform of the other Senator of Massachusetts, Hon. CHARLES SUMNER.
CHARLES W. SLACK, Esq., the Chairman of the Lecture Committee, thanked the company present for their generous support, the more to be valued at a time when the means of so many are greatly lessened, and all are called upon for frequent and unusual contributions.
In truth, we doubt not that it is the feeling of very many that this annual Fraternity course is an intellectual and spiritual necessity to them,-one which can by no means be dispensed with. It has a living purpose, it stands before the community with a most Catholic spirit, it welcomes the highest truths from the deepest and most living sources, and pours them forth in liberal streams to make glad both city and surrounding country. Indeed the influence of these lectures is bounded by no narrow limits. We think the Committee extremely fortunate in the lecturers whose names they have been able to announce for the present course.
The lecture of Mr. Wilson was written through out, and was evidently prepared in the most careful and thorough manner, and is of that value, as an historical document to be consulted and preserved, that we hope to see it printed in full. It was a masterly sketch of the progressive history, the claims, encroachments, and usurpations of slavery, up to the time when these became so bare-faced, so flagrant, so audacious, so infamous, that even long usage and the habit of humiliation could endure them no longer. Mr. Wilson showed how slavery then lifted its hand to smite down and ruin the country and government it could no longer control and use for its hateful purposes, and set before the audience the prominent conspirators and villains of the plot, each in his appropriate likeness and character. Slavery he pronounced and proved the sole cause, author, and support of the rebellion, and adjured the audience to spare no prayers or labors for its utter overthrow.
At the close of Mr. Wilson's address, which had been heard with steady attention, and often applaud-

<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_003">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 3.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
<illegible> loud calls were made for Mr. SUMNER, and that gentleman came forward and very briefly addressed the meeting, presenting two ideas which he said he regarded as now of the utmost importance. The first is, that the President's Proclamation is not, as <illegible> would have us believe, merely prospective in its character, but in several important particulars (which) <illegible> is immediate in its operation, and carries IMMEDIATE FREEDOM with it as the flag of the country advances. The second fact is, that Freedom and Emancipation have now become the declared policy of the President and the country, and that whoever opposes these opposes the President and Government, and gives aid and comfort to the rebellion, as much as does be who discourages and prevents enlistments, and, at least equally with the latter, is a TRAITOR to the country. And this, Mr. Sumner doubted not, would be the general opinion of the country before another month had passed.
—The omens for our country are all good-God be thanked. Still may He be with us, as with our fathers, and, in this great and fearful contest, be our constant leader to the end.-M.

DEATH OF COL. WILLIAM WHITING.
Died in Concord, Sept. 29th, WILLIAM WHITING, Esq., in the 74th year of his age.
Thus we are again called-how frequent these calls are coming-to record the departure, and lament the loss, of one of the early, steadfast, brave and single-minded friends of the Anti-Slavery cause.
Col. Whiting was one of those Abolitionists on principle, who could always be trusted, of whom you might always be sure where they stood, where they could be found. Always modest and courteous, remarkably gentle in manner, and with a most tender and sensitive heart, he was in his devotion to the anti-slavery cause as firm as a rock, and ever at the post of duty. For many years a Vice President of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society, and for at least an equal period the President of the Middlesex Country Anti-Slavery Society, he rendered to them the firm support of an honest and high-souled man. "The memory of the just is blessed," and leaves the richest blessings after it. Even the great cause of Justice, Humanity and Freedom seems to become dearer to us, as we link with it the memory of such faithful and disinterested lovers. God be thanked for the great consolation we have in their death. They "fought a good fight and kept the faith.."
We regret the absence of Mr. Garrison, who would gladly have used this opportunity to testify to the sincere and upright life of his friend, and to the value of his long and never-wavering services to the Anti-Slavery cause. Instead of this, we are fortunate in being able to give the words of one who knew Mr. Whiting intimately, and who, in writing to Mr. Garrison, speaks as follows:-
"I hardly know how to do justice to the peculiar respect and tenderness with which Col. Whiting always spoke of you. Your portrait hung over his couch, in his sickness, and after death. He talked about you frequently, and I have often heard him say, "If there is a man on earth I truly love, it is William Lloyd Garrison.’ His disease (of the heart) has rendered it absolutely necessary to keep him, for many months, free from all excitement. To so great a degree did nervous excitability increase, as the disease advanced, that common conversation produced a painful and even dangerous excitement, and not only friends and neighbors, but some of his own relations, were obliged to refrain from visiting him. But he had periods of comparative rest; and in these tranquil times- he was so cheerful, and enjoyed so much what friends could do for him, that he often said these last two months were the happiest he ever spent. Uniform patience and self-control prevailed over all his bodily discomforts; the idea of duty triumphed over all the moods of sickness, and he rendered the care of him a pure pleasure by his genial appreciation of every service. For the last five weeks he did not lie down at all, and died in the same chair where he had sat all that time. Though lingering, his death was not painful, and his consciousness was manifest to the last.
During the whole of his sickness, his mind seemed entirely occupied with the subjects of highest importance to one in his condition. He made, no allusion to his worldly affairs, but used the opportunity to review his life, and give his last testimony as to what appeared most valuable in it. He referred to his early connection with the Lodge of Free Masons in Concord, and attributed to its influence on his habits and principles much of the moral progress of his later years. He rejoiced in having given his whole influence in favor of Total Abstinence, by an example whose peculiar significance was in the fact that he signed a pledge to himself, years before a Temperance society was thought of, while yet a young man, making it known to no one but his wife, and never violating it, by tasting even a drop of beer or cider, even when the general ideas of hospitality required him to keep these, and offer them to guests.
When about forty years old he joined the Unitarian church, and took part for many years in the Sunday School, which he greatly enjoyed. He loved liberal Christianity, he said, because it seemed to him to include the idea of progress. He often repeated in the most earnest way his belief in the goodness of God, in the tender love of Christ, and his affection for all who showed their love of Him by working for their fellowmen.
But more than all, he rejoiced in having been a thorough-going and out-spoken Abolitionist, before it was popular to be so, even when his closest personal friendships were endangered by this faithful adherence to his own convictions. His love for his associates in this work increased with every year of his life, so that the Anti-Slavery meetings were the only recreations he cared for. He always found in them new impulse in the right direction, and such interchange of friendly affection as warmed and cheered his heart.”
To each and all of the surviving family of our much esteemed friend and fellow-worker, and in behalf of a wide circle of those who have long been accustomed to welcome his face in the Anti-Slavery gatherings, we offer our respectful sympathies.-M.

MR. FOSS’S REPORT OF AGENCY IN VERMONT
BARRE, Vt., Oct. 2, 1862
DEAR MR. MAY,-I commenced my present tour in Vermont on the seventh day (Sunday) of September, at Mcludoes Falls. On arriving at the depot there, I met our faithful friend ALEXANDER GILCHRIST, ready to take me to his quiet and hospitable home. Such a reception is most cheering to the spirit of the anti-slavery agent. He meets everywhere the hatred of the unthinking, pro-slavery, negro-despising multitude. Therefore to him such a friendly welcome is as a gleam of sweet sunshine through the rift in the dark storm-cloud.
I found that all the preparations for my meeting had been early and faithfully made, and that, too, was a great source of comfort. The congregations of the place united and gave me a large and appreciative audience in the Orthodox meeting-house. I met with no opposition, and with some encouraging expressions of approval. The Methodist clergyman was especially kind, and ready to put forth a helping hand to aid the good work.
That venerable and good man, Rev. JOHN E.—PALMEE, -who, by common consent, is called by all the good in this vicinity, Father PALMER, and who is near eighty years of age,-came fourteen miles to meet me, and make some sure arrangements in reference to meetings in his neighborhood.
On Tuesday evening, September 9th, I spoke at St. Johnsbury. Here, too, the meeting had been well notified by my friend LUKE BUZZELL. The meeting was in the large Town Hall, which was well filled. In the beginning of the meeting there was some disturbance, which, however, wholly ceased before I had proceeded very far, and the meeting ended quietly, and, at least to me, very satisfactorily. When, near the close of my remarks, I referred to the rowdy element present, and expressed the belief that the audience did not sympathize with it, I was most heartily cheered. One of the principal lawyers in the place spoke at some length in rebuke of the mob spirit, and was responded to by the audience in a very earnest manner.
The next day FATHER PALMER came and took me to his house in LOWER Waterford. Here I spoke in the evening to a small audience.
On the morrow FATHER PALMER took me to West Concord, where I met a good audience, and enjoyed the hospitality of Rev. L. H. TABOR. He is an earnest,
<c02>
working Abolitionist. I here took leave of FATHER P., not expecting to meet him again on the mortal shores. His memory will be a benediction to all who have truly known him.
I next went to Sheffield Hollow. Here I had a very large meeting in the evening. Elder J. WOODMAN, an old friend, and a good, earnest anti-slavery man,; was present, and gave his influence for the slave. So likewise was the Wesleyan minister. I noticed in the; commencement of the meeting that, the mob spirit was there. I was much annoyed throughout the whole speech by a perturbed, muttering spirit, which seemed to have possessed some in the remote parts of the house. When the meeting had closed, I passed out through the crowd, and an attempt was made to assault me,. but it failed. I passed round the corner of the house to where my friend was getting his horse and carriage ready to take me to his home, and as I got more into the dark, the cowards followed me, and flat a safe distance commenced throwing stones, one of which hit me with some violence. I immediately made a reconnoissance, but found no enemy in force. In this same place, twenty-seven years ago, I delivered a Temperance address, and the rummies, to show their independence, retired to the whiskey shop,; and spent the night in a drunken brawl. I do not think the people generally were pleased with the demonstrations of the last evening. Some there were, I am sure, whose sympathies were with the slave.
On Monday evening, Sept. 15th, I spoke in the Union meeting-house in Sheffield. In consequence of rain the audience was small, but very attentive, and seemed much interested.
On Thursday evening, I spoke in Barton to a very large and enthusiastic audience. Here was a company of soldiers of over one hundred in number. Their captain marched them in with the beat of drum. This called out the citizens, and filled the house.
On Friday I spoke in Sutton, in the Baptist meeting-house. It was a rainy evening, and the audience was small.
On Saturday I came to Danville, where I found no preparation had been made for a meeting. With the assistance of our friend HAZLETINE, some bills were got out, and preparations made for lighting the old Court House, which is the most dreary looking and dirty apartment my eyes almost ever beheld. If it ever had any friends, it would seem they are gone to jail, or have been hung, or disposed of in some other manner. A few unruly boys, and three or four decent men, (not a woman,) were my audience. I commenced speaking, and somebody commenced ringing the bell. I requested that some one would stop the ringing; but the bell only rang the harder. In the circumstances, I declined to speak, and closed the meeting. Here is plenty of meeting-house room, but no place for the slave. The principal clergyman of the place finds enough to do to vote the hunker ticket, and preach on the Millennium! Our friend LEONARD JOHNSON, of Peacham, was there, and took me to his dear home. Oh! how sweet is friendship's home, coming next to such an experience as that at Danville! Friend JOHNSON told this Danville minister a few days after, that he thought, from what he saw, the Millennium would not commence for some time yet in Danville!
I had a large meeting in Peacham on Sunday evening, both congregations, Orthodox and Methodist, uniting. The large chapel was well filled, and I thought it a good meeting. So said friend JOHNSON and other friends. On Monday evening, I spoke in a school-house in friend JOHNSON’S district to a small audience. Tuesday evening I spoke in Peacham Hollow to a somewhat larger number. Of other meetings; and other fortunes I will inform you in a future communication.
I congratulate you upon the President's Proclamation. It comes very late-puts off the redemption too long-invites the Rebels to place themselves in such a imposition that the Government may still continue to continue to unite with them in making the doom of the slave hopeless and eternal. Yet I am glad of it, and place my hope in the terrible villany of the rebels, who will most certainly drive the Government to strike, though with much reluctance, the fetters from the limbs of their slaves. So mote it be; for it can come in no other way.
Yours, for Freedom at any cost and at all hazards,
A. T. FOSS.

THE PROCLAMATION.
No one who has been at all conversant with the critical condition of our country during her present politico-military travail but must have trembled for the safety of the nation's life, as he observed the unskillful use of the means administered for her "recovery. Our political and military doctors have persistently ignored all custom, authority and experience, have pursued no acknowledged system, no graduated order or regularity, nothing but a general confusion and indiscriminate mixing up of all systems-the peculiar characteristic of quacks! Homeopathic pills ordered, when the largest allopathic doses were indispensably necessary; cold water externally applied, when the unfortunate sufferer needed something internally, hot, peppery and stimulating; unnatural bleeding resorted to whenever strength was particularly required; if vigorous action was demanded, powerful narcotics would be administered, producing, of course, only temporary stupor. And so every blundering attempt of the faculty to restore the health of the patient has inevitably caused a proportionate loss of the patient's natural vitality.
“Throw such physic to the dogs, we’ll none of it."
No one who has been alive to the needs and necessities of our country, or watchfully jealous of the encroachments upon the inalienable rights of man, by those under the baneful, insidious, subtle influence of human slavery, but must have sometimes felt personally outraged, severely sickened with doubts and distrust as to the certainty of having the primal cause of Four convulsion successfully removed. In view of our constant refusal to energetically prosecute the war-in which sad particular alone have we shown any consistency—-in the general mismanagement of affairs, in, those inexcusable blunders which partake so largely of the nature of crimes, in the apparent, if not open dereliction of duty,-in view, I say, of the long catalogue of our national sins of omission and commission, who has not felt, during all these weary months, the bitterness of despair possess him-the angel of Hope gradually withdrawing her charmed presence? The fearful responsibility must sooner or later come home to the consciousness of those who have caused this terrible waste of human life, which has been so needlessly sacrificed-so many unnecessary deaths, and each no better than a murder. Though it is comparatively easy to escape the merited punishment of man, the retributive justice of Almighty God is sure: and complete. Seemingly, no greater chastisement could be inflicted upon those most responsible for our present deplorable state of affairs, after nearly eighteen months of military rule, than to justly realize, with all the force of truthful conviction, the exact condition of our country to-day, in contrast with what it would be naturally, had not duty been repeatedly surrendered to expediency; a false forbearance substituted for the principles of equity; an overstrained cautiousness, not to disturb the feelings of those who are only halfhearted-pocket-hearted and lip-loyal; appointments I made and adhered to through prejudice, irrespective of the higher considerations of impartiality, integrity and capability; and, finally, had not an unpardonably temporizing policy been preferred, to the plainest dictates of universal justice and right.

The President's Proclamation has measurably checked-that general feeling of despondency, which, up to the date of its promulgation, was steadily increasing; day by day. Hope again revives; confidence is at once partially restored. Throughout the land, the people everywhere feel sensibly relieved; the only regret is, that this action of the President has been so long; delayed; the only drawback, a fear that this tardy justice comes too late. Where is the wisdom; of post-
<c03>
poning its usefulness till three months hence, rather than let it take immediate effect?
If this Proclamation of President Lincoln is right and necessary to-day, what substantial reasons exist that it was not right and necessary, when, every principle of expediency, necessity and justice equally demanded it more than a year ago? Had it been issued then, we should now be practically enjoying the full benefit of a "military necessity." As it is, wherein is the status of slavery virtually changed from where the last Congress left it, provided the existing laws of that Congress were rigidly enforced?
While desirous of doing full justice to the good sense and good intentions of President Lincoln, truth constrains me to say, that I find such an apparent want of heart in his last Proclamation, that it effectually chills my individual enthusiasm.
Boston, Oct. 1,1862.

ASTREA.
INTERESTING LETTER FROM THE ATLANTIC SQUADRON.
AUGUST 20,1862.
MY DEAR FRIEND,-Since I wrote you last, I have been fairly in the land of darkies. We went up the Santee River, and while passing “Blaker” Plantation, the rebels fired upon us with cannon in ambush. We immediately opened fire upon them and made them scatter. We pursued them into the woods, but they retreated to an entrenchment too strong for us to take. As soon as we landed, their slaves flocked to the banks of the river in such numbers that, at the landing from which I took them, I was obliged to load a scow with them, and tow them on board—-men women and children. I afterwards took boat-load after boat-load; and such expressions of grateful acknowledgment as came from their lips you never heard. And yet it was a sad sight to witness their destitution, many being half naked, as they had run for their lives and left everything behind. My God! what a spectacle, to behold husbands without their wives, and wives without their husbands; tender and affectionate mothers without their children, and children without their parents! And while engaged in the philanthropic work of their removal, I could hear from officers as well as crew the mutterings of" nigger-catching," and the like, but I did not allow their fault-finding to disturb my equilibrium. I rebuked the murmurers, and silenced the enemies of such a righteous work. I delight to strip from the rebels everything, of whatever name or nature, and have taken in my vessel hundreds of contrabands, besides clothing, bedding, crockery, glass, iron and other wares, from rebel slaveholders' plantations, which I have turned over to the blacks for their comfort. I have helped feed thousands from corn, rice, &c., taken from their masters. I have missed no opportunity to afford the poor suffering and destitute ones all the aid and comfort in my power. I have not only sent my boats, but have been repeatedly in my gig, morning, noon, and night, to take them from the shores, whenever they would present themselves, no matter how great the distance or risk; and in all this, I feel that I have done no more than my duty.
While we were at Winyaw Bay, near Georgetown, S. C., we made a trip to Polly's Island, to destroy salt works. While engaged in this pleasant work to us, but destructive work to them, the rebels attacked us, shooting two of our men. We immediately drove them off, took care of our wounded men, and completed the destruction of the works, mules, carts, boats, &c., and took clothing enough to cover the nakedness of a hundred blacks. We took all the overseers' clothing,-some of it partly made up,-and bedding, and gave the same to the contrabands.
There are about three hundred contrabands on St. Simon's Island, in the river of that name, Georgia, where we now are, and we have two schools regularly attended, furnished with books, teachers, &c. I examine the school near my residence every two or three days, and am delighted with its progress. Many of the blacks can learn as fast as any of the whites, and I am amused at the native commonsense, which many of them possess. I lecture to them twice a week, and if one ever heard grateful expressions, it is when I get through. They declare it to be a message from God, and me the instrument 
through which it is sent. I tell them that education is the death-blow of slavery, and that Washington, Jefferson and Franklin had to learn their letters; also, that freedom is not laziness, nor indolence, but that the man who would be great must be industrious, energetic and persevering, whether black or white; and that learning, like the pearl of great price, when once obtained, cannot be taken away from them, but that its advantages will last and benefit them beyond the bounds of this transitory world.
I wish I had taken another sheet, for I have not room for more than, half I wish to say to you; but I fear I may tire you. I have a gig's crew of black men, and no white men can beat them. I had them with me, armed, when we fought the rebels at Polly's Island. They are true. I have books for them, and mean to teach them all I can. They say they were, never so happy before, and declare that when I go home, they must go with me, and live with me forever. Poor creatures! what gratitude they manifest! May they all be free!
Your friend,

GREAT MEETING IN FANEUIL HALL.
The able and excellent speech of Charles Sumner, a large portion of which appears elsewhere in this paper, was delivered on Monday noon at a meeting in Faneuil Hall, held to express the people's satisfaction at President Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, and to pledge him their hearty and active support in the vigorous prosecution of the war. The vast audience listened for two hours to this address, and responded most enthusiastically to the strongest portions of it, as well as of the resolutions there presented and passed. Both speaker and hearers went for unconditional Unionism, and unconditional support of the President. The galleries were crowded with ladies, the Brigade Band lent its aid, and the occasion showed the intense interest and enthusiasm of a loyal people in regard to a President who has fulfilled their expectations. We append the resolutions:
Resolved, That the people of Boston and of Massachusetts, assembled in Faneuil Hall, pledge to the President of the United States their undivided, unqualified and enthusiastic support and confidence in all the measures which the Government may judge it expedient to take for the suppression of the rebellion and the restoration of peace and order in the revolted, States. In return, we ask only for the most prompt, energetic and economical use, by the Government, of all the resources, which the people so freely yield to its demand.
Resolved, That we rejoice with the most unspeakable joy that the cause of the country is now seen to be the cause of universal and impartial freedom: that Liberty and Union are henceforth and forever made one and inseparable by the glorious Proclamation of the 22d of September; that the edict which gives freedom to three millions of enslaved men, strikes, at the same moment, a fatal blow at the most wicked rebellion ever known in history. We thank the President for this great act, which is not less one of statesmanship and justice than, of the. most imperative military-necessity. God bless Abraham Lincoln!
Resolved, That we call upon the people of this Commonwealth and of the loyal States to stand by the President to the end. His policy has been cautiously and deliberately chosen, and must now be firmly maintained by the government, and unanimously and cheerfully supported by the people. That opposition which takes the shape of an attempt to divide the people into political parties,; in relation to it, to array Congress against it, and to break it down, by withholding from it moral and political support, is absolutely incompatible with the unconditional support of the public authorities, which; is the first duty of every good citizen. In this crisis of the country, let partisanship, prejudice and hatred give way before a united purpose to strengthen and encourage the President in his efforts to maintain the integrity of the nation, and preserve the principles of liberty.
The famous English joker, Theodore Hook, was once taking a drive with a friend in the country. The horse was spirited, the day fine, the prospect enchanting. The friend, who afterwards told the story, was in high enjoyment of the excursion. But, as they
<c04>
were approaching a village, Hook said, This is all very well, as far as it goes, but we must have a little more of the digito monstrari, we must excite attention. So saying, he stopped the chaise, got out, took a box from his pocket, and spotted the white horse over with wafers of the largest size, and then slowly drove through the village, enjoying the stares of the country bumpkins.
There is just now an unhappy individual in Boston who seems affected with just such an itch for notoriety. George Francis Train seems unable to live contentedly without being conspicuous. Having made various attempts to placard himself into connection with the names of eminent men, and provoke them to descend to personal controversy with him, he undertook last Monday to gain the notice of a great assembly in Faneuil Hall. Sundry of his associates commenced by interrupting Charles Sumner, the principal speaker on that occasion. Mr. Sumner indulged them by answering two or three questions; but when it appeared that the questions were designed, not to elicit information, but to insult both the speaker and the audience, Mr. Sumner very properly requested that he might be allowed to proceed without further interruption.
After the meeting was adjourned, and the Hall delivered by those who had engaged it into the hands of the police, the energetic George Francis forced his way to the platform, and insisted on holding another meeting, without the customary preliminary of application to the city government, by the signatures of a hundred citizens, for permission. The police, of course, fulfilled their duty, and the intruder, who proposed to maintain his position by force, was marched off to the station-house in double quick time. It is said that some of his backers tried to revenge themselves by insulting and assaulting some of the audience as they retired.-C. K. W.
We take pleasure in informing our readers, at the request of the Editor of the Banner of Light, of this city, that the author of the beautiful lines in our last issue, entitled " En Avant!" is Mr. WILLIAM M. ROBINSON, for several years a reporter in the office of that paper, but now attached to the 8th Massachusetts Battery, Capt. Cook. Mr. R. has just been promoted for bravery in the late battles, and may well be proud of his two-fold laurels.

THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION AND
THE ARMY.
IMPORTANT ORDER BY GEN. M'CLELLAN.
HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, CAMP NEAR SHARPSBURG
GENERAL ORDER 163. The attention of the officers and soldiers of the Army of the Potomac is called to General Order No. 139, War Department, Sept. 24th, 1862, publishing to the army the President's Proclamation of September 22d.
A proclamation of such grave moment to the nation, officially communicated to the army, affords to the general commanding an opportunity of defining specifically to the officers and soldiers under his command the relation borne by all persons in the military service of the United States towards the civil authorities of the government. The Constitution confides to the civil authorities, legislative, judicial and Executive, the power and duty of making, expounding and executing the ordered laws. Armed forces are raised and supported simply to sustain the civil authorities, and are to be held in strict subordination thereto in all respects. This fundamental rule of our political system is essential to the security of our republican institutions, and should be thoroughly understood and observed by every soldier. The principles upon which and the objects for which armies shall be employed in suppressing rebellion, must be determined and declared by the civil authorities; and the Chief Executive, who is charged with the administration of the national affairs, is the proper and only source through which the views and orders of the Government can be made known to the armies of the Union.
Discussion by officers and soldiers concerning public measures determined upon and declared by the Government, when carried at all beyond the ordinary temperate and respectful expression of opinion, tend greatly to impair and destroy the discipline and efficiency of troops by substituting the spirit of political faction for that firm, steady and earnest support of the authority of the Government, which is the highest duty of the American soldier. The remedy for political errors, if any are committed, is to be found only in the action of the people at the polls.
In thus calling the attention of this army to the true relation between the soldiers and the Government, the general commanding merely adverts to an evil against which it has been thought advisable during our whole history to guard the armies of the Republic, he will not be considered by any right-minded person as casting any reflection upon that loyalty and good conduct which has been so fully illustrated upon so many battle-fields.
In carrying out all measures of public policy, this army will of course be guided by the same rules of mercy and Christianity that have ever controlled its conduct towards the defenceless.
By command of Major General MCCLELLAN.
JAMES A. HARDEE,
Lieut. Col. Aide-de-camp, Acting Asst. Adjutant General.
UNION VICTORY AT CORINTH. A great victory has been won by Gen. Rosecrans over the rebel Generals Price, Van Dorn and Lovell. Skirmishing began on Tuesday, Sept. 30, and there has been fighting ever since. The rebels attacked Corinth on Saturday, Oct. 4, were repulsed, and pursued five miles on Sunday by Gen. Ord. The rebel loss is estimated at 800 killed, and 1500 or 1800 wounded; and we have as many prisoners. Our loss is 300 killed, and 1000 wounded. The rebel Gen. Rodgers was killed, like wise the Federal Generals Hackleman and Ogleby; Gen. Ord is slightly wounded.
THE RICHMOND PAPERS AND THE PROCLAMATION. The President's proclamation has fallen like a fire brand in camp and Senate. The rebel Congress, in debating retaliatory propositions, indulged in much billingsgate. The newspapers also share in the excitement. The Richmond Dispatch says the proclamation is nothing more than an authoritative declaration of the truth that the war has all along been an abolition one. The Enquirer insists that the document "ordains a servile war," and abuses President Lincoln, styling him "a savage," and recalls the history of negro insurrections in the South to fire the Southern heart against him.
GEN CURTIS ON THE WAR. Gen. Curtis was recently invited by his old friends at Keokuk to accept of a public reception. In his letter of reply he says:
"Break down the rebel armies, confiscate property of their supporters, deprive the rebels of their slaves and their substance, prostrate foes and elevate friends; and the Union men in thousands, who now tremble in the presence of the apprehension of its return, will proclaim their devotion to our Government, and unite with us heartily in restoring peace and prosperity to our once happy country.
I have campaigned through three of the so-called Confederate States, and express to you my observations and convictions."
General Curtis was greeted with a serenade at the Planter's House, last night, in honor of his taking command of this Department. Frank Boehm's band discoursed the music, and a very numerous crowd had collected on the spot. The Major-General "mounted the stump" in the shape of a bench on the sidewalk, in order to express his thanks in simple and comely language, in which he gave utterance to his hope of a speedy termination of the war, and declared that he was in favor of the Union, not "as it was," but as it ought to be. This is a word at the right time. For the rest, we knew already that we had gained in him a commander who supports the policy of the President's proclamation, not merely with half-heart and half by constraint, but with all the joy of his soul. Hurrah for Freedom!—Die (St. Louis) Neue Zeit, Sept. 26th.
Less than two weeks ago, exchanging shots between the army of Slavery and the army of Freedom flew shrieking and screaming over the engine house where, for two days, old John Brown held the State of Virginia at bay. A week ago, its walls were again shaken by the thunders of cannonade, when those armies met in the greatest battle of the continent-; On Tuesday night, within rifle shot of it, the proclamation of Emancipation was heard gladly among thirty thousand soldiers. His soul is marching on.-Correspondence of the New York Tribune.
The N. Y. Times says that Gasparin, whose death in France is announced, is not Count Agenor de Gasparin, the distinguished defender of our Republic and, of our free institutions, but his father, Adrien-Etienne-Pierre, Comte de Gasparin, an old man, eighty years of age, who formerly figured somewhat in French politics, and wrote various works on agriculture, rural, veterinary and cognate matters.
<c05>
ASSOCIATION FOR THE RELIEF OF DESTITUTE CONTRABANDS.
A few evenings since, Rev. Mr. Grimes, who has recently been in Washington to inquire into the condition of the freed men and women in that city, made a. very interesting though painful statement of their condition and wants. He said that many of the poor women and children who flew to our flag for refuge, came with bare and bleeding feet, and were in many instances half starved and nearly naked. Hundreds had arrived during the recent battles, and nearly all came destitute. The government had kindly provided; them with food, and Mrs. Lincoln had contributed something from her private purse, and had sent a box containing some jellies and other things for the sick. They are coming; in continually, and are in need of almost every thing. On motion of John S. Rock, a union public meeting of all the colored churches in the city was called to see what could be done. The meeting was held, and largely: attended. It was then agreed that the ladies should form a permanent organization for the relief of those destitute persons. Last evening an adjourned meeting was held to hear the report of the Committee on Constitution and Officers, and receive contributions and clothing. John S. Rock was chosen Chairman, and E. M. Bannister, Secretary. The Constitution reported by Mrs. Rock was adopted,; and the following permanent officers were chosen: President, Mrs. O. J. Grimes; Vice President, Mrs. Coburn; Secretaries, Miss R. M. Washington and Mrs. Wisher; Treasurer, Mrs. M. Stewart; and a Finance Committee of one from each of the colored churches in the city, who are authorized to solicit contributions for the society: Mrs. Rachel Lewis, Southac street; Mrs. S. Hawkins, Milton street; Mrs. H. E. Potter, Anderson street; Mrs. Dorsey, Southac street, and Mrs. Hayden, Southac street. Clothing enough to fill about twenty barrels was contributed, and twenty-five dollars in money. The society will meet every Tuesday evening, in the vestry of the Twelfth Baptist Church.-Boston Transcript.
A BENEVOLENT OBJECT. The Fugitives’ Aid Society of Boston, an association of colored ladies, called a meeting of the colored people Tuesday night at Rev. J. Sella Martin's church, for the purpose of responding, to an appeal made to them, by the National Freedman’s Relief Association of Washington, for help in their labors. Four or five barrels of goods were contributed, and twenty-five dollars in cash were collected for this purpose. The church and society seem to be in earnest about supporting the war and aiding its victims, whether white or colored, as beside what they did Tuesday night, they have contributed forty-five dollars in aid of our wounded soldiers. Any donations of money, or clothing of any kind, may be sent to Mrs. J. Sella Martin, the President, at 26 Myrtle street, or to the Treasurer, Mrs. Lockley, 31 Garden street. -Boston Journal.
SLAVES LIBERATED. The following order liberated the first slaves under the President’s Proclamation:—
HEADQUARTERS MILITARY COMMANDANT, 
COVINGTON AND NEWPORT, KY., 
September 23, 1862. 
Whereas, John, a colored man, aged 52 years, representing himself as having been a slave of Robert Barnham, in Henderson county, State of Tennessee, and impressed into the rebel army as a servant to Robert Barnham, on or about the 15th day of March, 1862, did escape from the aforesaid army when at Williams-town, Ky., and voluntarily come into the lines of the army of the United States, and surrender himself up to the same; I do, therefore, in obedience to the acts of Congress, approved the 13th day of March, A. D., 1862, and the 17th day of July, A. D., 1862, and in compliance with the Proclamation of the President of the United States, dated the 22d day of September, A. D., 1862, declare the said John a free man, and entitled to protection as such.
WM. B. SIPES, Lieut. Col. Commanding.
N. B. Emanuel and Thomas were also liberated as above, doubtless the first contrabands who have gained their freedom under the last Proclamation of the President.
Brigadier General Phelps publishes in full the correspondence between himself, Gen. Butler, and the Government, which led to his resignation. The most important point upon which he insisted, and upon which he was overruled, was that the military service could not be successfully carried on if conducted in subordination to the laws of an institution which caused the war. To assert the principles of liberty by force of arms, and still respect the institution of slavery, was simply a military impossibility. The alternative was presented to Gen. Phelps to perform duties forbidden by the new law of Congress, as well as repugnant to his honor and self-respect, or to resign. He chose the latter, and is now without a command, though his policy has triumphed.
A DESERVED COMPLIMENT. The New Orleans Sunday Delta of the 31st ult., after speaking a little sharply of army chaplains, thus makes an exception:
“The amiable and cultivated Christian who has the spiritual charge of the fine 26th Massachusetts regiment, (formerly Col. Jones's, now Col. Farr's,) is a clergyman with whom it is edifying to walk and elevating to talk. Goldsmith's Parson was not more pure and good. We do not know his name, though his face is as familiar and interesting as a sister's. We meet him occasionally in our hot streets, and he is always cheerful, always good, and always praising some one. How refreshing it is to meet such a man!"
The gentleman referred to is the Rev. Charles Babbidge, of Pepperell, Mass., a native of Salem, who, many of our readers will remember, accompanied the 6th regiment, to which he was attached, on the march to Washington in April, 1861, and was among those assaulted by the mob in Baltimore.
"GOD BLESS ABRAHAM LINCOLN!" has been heard from hundreds of lips, even in the divisions which formerly belonged to the old army of the Potomac. My blood fairly jumped in my veins and choked my heart last night, to hear that grand old song:
"John Brown's body lies a-mouldering in the grave,
But his soul is marching on! marching on!”
sung by 2000 strong lungs just formed into regiments from this loyal State of Maryland.
Who would have believed it? and yet it was so, and sung in the evening, in the main street of Williamsport, as the troops were marching through the city to do picket duty at the fords of the Potomac.
But a short time ago, and but a little distance from here, John Brown hung between heaven and earth, and went to his account amid the oaths, the jeers, and the scoffs of the very men who now hear nightly the tread of armed thousands who sing to his memory. Truly, the world moves, and the people move with it.-Corr. N. Y. Tribune.
A despatch from San Francisco says that President Lincoln's proclamation of emancipation is commended in favorable terms by the press generally-the leading journals heartily endorsing his policy.
The official reports of the killed and wounded in the late battle of Antietam are telegraphed from Sharpsburg to Baltimore. The total loss of the Union army may be divided as follows:-
Loss in Gen. Sumner's corps, 5,209
Loss in Gen. Hooker’s corps, 2,619
Loss in Gen. Burnside's corps, 1,600
(Estimated) in Gen. Banks' and Franklin's corps, l,572
Total, 11,000
FRATERNITY LECTURES.
FIFTH COURSE.
The public of Boston and vicinity are respectfully informed that the FIFTH COURSE OF LECTURES under the auspices of the Fraternity of the Twenty-Eighth Congregational Society will be continued on
TUESDAY EVENING, October 14,1862,
at TREMONT TEMPLE, when an address on the State of the Nation will be made by
REV. HENRY M. DEXTER.
To be followed on successive Tuesday evenings by lectures from the following persons:-
October 21.- ROBERT COLLYER.
“ 28. -THEODORE TILTON.
November 4. -MONCURE D. CONWAY.” 
“11. -ANNA E. DICKINSON.
“18. -HENRY WARD BEECHER.
“25. –OWEN LOVEJOY.
December 2 -B. GRATZ.BROWN.
“9. -WENDELL PHILLIPS.
“16. -RALPH WALDO EMERSON.
“23. -JACOB M. MANNING.
“30. -GEORGE WM. CURTIS.
Lectures to commence at half-past 7 o’clock.. Course Tickets, admitting the Bearer and Lady, at $2 each, may be obtained at Williams & Everett's, 234 Washington St.; Oliver Ditson & Co’s. 277 Washington St.; of Solomon Parsons, Esq., Superintendent of Temple; and of either member of the Lecture Committee, who in former years have had the disposal of tickets. Sept. 26tf
NOTICE-The appointments for ANDREW FOSS'S meetings in Vermont are withdrawn for the president. His letter in another column, dated, Manchester, 7th Oct., sufficiently explains the reason.
<c06>
CIRCULAR.
A Hospital, for women and children, was established three years ago, in connection with the New England Female Medical College. This connection being dissolved, the friends of this Hospital appeal to the public to aid them in carrying forward its important objects, on an independent basis.
Our Hospital affords to those women especially needing the care and advice of their own sex, during sickness. or in child-birth, the comforts of a home, and faithful attendance, at a moderate price.
To the friendless and needy we hope to offer the greatest of all charity; not only care for their physical wants, but sympathy and Christian love. It is our cheering conviction, that many a woman looks back to her brief stay in the Hospital as the best influence of her life.
We offer peculiar advantages for training nurses for their important duties, under the superintendence of a physician.
We shall continue our Dispensary, which is visited chiefly by respectable families of soldiers, and that class of poor women, whose delicacy prompts them to seek consultation among their own sex, while too poor to pay physicians’ fees.
Since July 1st, we have had two hundred and twenty-nine patients, and have given away medicines, prescribed three hundred and ninety-five times, besides (what is often more needed) advice and instruction how to preserve health. In twenty-one cases, the patients, too sick to appear at the Dispensary, have been treated at their own homes.
Dr. MARY E. BREED, Resident Physician.
Dr. MARIE E.ZAKRZEWSKA, Attending Physician.
DR. JOHN WARE Consulting Physicians 
DR. SAMUEL CABOT Consulting physicians
A sunny, and well ventilated house, with a large yard, at the corner of Pleasant and Porter streets, has been hired and made ready for patients. To furnish it, and meet the expenses of the coming year, will require, at least, two thousand dollars, which, it is hoped, will be promptly supplied, by donations and subscriptions.
As many free patients will be received as our funds will allow.
True, it is in the midst of terrible civil war, which drains our resources, that we make this appeal; but never has it been more necessary. While the soldier has been fighting, our battles on distant fields, how often has his wife come pleading at our doors for that help, in her hour of need, which, thank God, through the kindness of friends, we have not yet been forced to refuse her!
Donations and subscriptions may be forwarded to any of the undersigned. All articles of use in a Hospital will be gladly received.
Subscribers of five dollars will be entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting, which takes place on the first Tuesday in November.
Samuel E. Sewall, Mary C. E. Barnard,
James Freeman Clarke, Mary J. Ellis,
F. W. G. May, Anna H. Clarke,
Geo. Wm. Bond, Sarah D. C. Lane,
Abner Kingman, Louisa C. Bond,
Jonathan A. Lane, Mary A. S. Palmer,
Edward E. Hale, Sarah Jane Kingman,
Otis Everett, Marie E. Zakrzewska,
Lucy Goddard, Caroline M. Severance,
Ednah D. Cheney, Elizabeth L. Everett.
Boston, Oct. 1, 1862.
DIED-In this city, Sept. 23, OLIVER NASH, aged 65.
Sept. 28, SUSANNA L. COLE, aged 50.
In Somerville, Mass., Sept. 28, ANN HALL, widow of the much-respected Boston citizen, Primus Hall, aged 71.
In Manchester, N. H., very suddenly, on Sunday, Oct. 5th, KINCAID Foss, son of ANDREW T. Foss of that place, aged 26 years.
We hear of this event with deep sorrow, and with heartfelt sympathy with our friend and fellow-laborer, the father of the deceased, and with his family. We believe that in this bereavement he loses his only son; a grievous loss indeed to parents, especially when themselves past the prime of active life. Very many will tenderly feel for the affliction of our friend; and we are impelled to print the letter in which he conveys to us the intelligence of his great loss, that they may recognize the heroic spirit in, which he meets and strives to bear it:-
MANCHESTER, Oct. 7, 1862.
DEAR MR. MAY: Yesterday, at 2 o’clock, in Braintree, Vt., I received a telegraphic dispatch announcing the death of my son.
He returned from the army one week last Thursday. He was out of health, but not seriously so, to all appearance, and was able to be about till a few days before his death. His physician assured his mother that he was not in danger. Sunday morning last, he was taken suddenly worse, and died in a few minutes. He had brought the Southern fever home with him.
I regret exceedingly that we could not have Mr. Garrison to speak on the occasion of the funeral. But I know his absence would prevent. If it were possible to keep the body, I should delay till to-morrow, and ask you to come up and say the word I desire to have said,-That slavery has slain my son. O, how many it has slain! But its reign will soon be over. And terrible as the penalty is which we must pay, it is a just one. And if freedom is born of this terrible travail of sorrow and pain, we will with resignation endure the sorrow, and greatly rejoice in the glorious deliverance.
My dear brother, I have tried to do all I could during all the days of my fresh manhood; and now that, when I am growing old, this last and costliest sacrifice is demanded, I only wish I could have paid it in my own person, and my son could have been spared for days of usefulness to our suffering humanity.
Yours, in deep affliction, A. T. FOSS.
P. S. Please insert my son's death in this week's liberator, that the friends in Vermont may know the reason that I fail to fulfil appointments.

600,000 Male or Female Agents,
TO SELL
Lloyd's New Steel Plate Country Colored Map of the United States, Canadas, and New Brunswick,
From recent surveys; completed August 10, 1862; cost $20,000 to engrave it, and one year's time.
Superior to any $10 map ever made by Cotton or Mitchell, and sells at the low price of fifty cents; 370000 names are engraved on this map.
It is not only a county map, but it is also a
COUNTY AND RAILROAD MAP
of the United States and Canadas combined in one, giving
EVERY "RAILROAD STATION,
and distances between.
Guarantee any woman or man $3 to $5 per day, and will take back all maps that cannot be sold, and refund the money.
Send for $1 to try.
Printed instructions how to canvas well furnished all our agents.

Wanted-Wholesale Agents for our Maps in every State, California, Canada, England, France, and Cuba. A fortune may be made with a few hundred dollars capital. No competition. J. T. LLOYD,
No. 164 Broadway, New York.
The War Department uses our Map of Virginia, Maryland and Pennsylvania, cost $100,000, on which are marked Antietam Creek, Sharpsburg, Maryland Hights, Williamsport Ferry, Rhorersville, Noland's Ford, and all others on the Potomac, and every other place in Maryland, Virginia and Pennsylvania, or money refunded.
LLOYD'S
TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP OF KENTUCKY, OHIO, INDIANA and ILLINOIS,
is the only authority for Gen. Buell and the War Department. Money refunded to any one finding an error in it. Price 50 cents.
From the Tribune, Aug. 2.
"LLOYD'S MAP OF VIRGINA, MARYLAND and PENNSYLVANIA This Map is very large; its cost is but 25 cents, and it is the best which can be purchased.”
LLOYD'S
GREAT MAP OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER
From actual surveys by Capts. Bart and Wm. Bowen, Mississippi River Pilots, of St. Louis, Mo., shows every man's plantation and owner's name, from St. Louis to the Gulf of Mexico-1350 miles-every sand-bar, island, town, landing, and all places twenty miles back from the river- colored in counties and States. Price, $1 in sheets, $2, pocket form, and $2,50 on linen, with rollers. Now ready.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, Washington, Sept. 17, 1862
J. T. LLOYD: SIR-Send me your Map of the Mississippi River, with price per hundred copies. Rear Admiral Charles H. Davis, commanding the Mississippi squadron, is authorised to purchase as many as are required for use of that squadron. GIDEON WELLS,
Secretary of the Navy.
Oct. 3. 3w
<C01>

<div1 type="page-image">
<head></head>
<p><figure entity="NW_Liberator_vvv_nnn_004">
<figDesc>Page image of the Liberator, Volume vvv, Number nnn, page 4.
</figDesc>
</figure></p>
</div1>
Poetry.
For the Liberator.
TWICE THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND MEN.
Call twice three hundred thousand men, our President has said;
Our ranks are sadly growing thin, and rebels hope for aid;
Long have we halted, half afraid to strike the vital part-
We dared not speak the magic word that reaches to the heart.
Bring twice three hundred thousand men, with Saxon features made;
Our childhood's early lessons were to scorn the black man's aid;
We grant him place to hew and dig, and menial service give,
But never call him quite a MAN, on equal terms to live.
Ask twice three hundred thousand men, complete in health and limb,
Of mothers, sisters, wives at home, whose eyes with tears are dim;
Their patriot hearts with joy would thrill to hear our rulers speak
The rallying word of LIBERTY, not doubtful, or in Greek.
Not twice three hundred thousand men with cheerfulness we grant
To bleach upon the Southern soil, and leave their friends in want,
Till full the thrilling blast we hear, "ALL MEN ARE RIGHTLY FREE,"
Inspiring all our hearts with hope of certain victory.
Full twice three hundred thousand men huzza for Freedom loud,
And full of faith, and hope, and zeal, along the road would crowd;
This watchword grant, you need not draft, nor bounty large bestow;
You kindle fires within our souls, again our bosoms glow.
And twice three hundred thousand men, yes, more we offer up,
A cheerful sacrifice, and feel the buoyant power of hope;
The truth we're not ashamed to own, self-evident and plain,
"All men are born with equal rights," our rock mid surging main.
We build thereon, and will not fear, though mountains should remove;
Amid the raging elements we trust a God of love.
We give the men our nation calls, though fast our tears do rain,
The watchword "LIBERTY TO ALL!" shall calm our souls again.
But few of those who now go forth shall e'er to us return;
We read their names, and drop a tear beside the mouldering urn;
May God console our hearts, and make the sacrifice avail,
And give our leaders faith in RIGHT-'tis then we shall prevail.
August, 1862.
Added since Lincoln's Proclamation of Sept. 22d.
O, praise the Lord with thankfulness! the word has come at last!
The morning star appears in sight, the time for doubt is past;
The goal we've long been striving for has risen to our view- 
Though sad and bloody is the way, we'll fight the passage through.
Let there be found no cowards now, in Freedom's valiant band,
The moral weapons we have used are changed within our hand;
We grasp the sword in confidence that God will bless our cause,
And give us peace while we obey His higher code of laws.
Spring, (Pa.) Sept. 29, 1862. J. B. 

RESTITUTION.
BY MRS. M. F. TUCKER.
When last year's June, with queenly grace,
Put on her raiment bright and fair,
Her roses blushed into his face,
Her sunshine lit his hair.
His dear voice, like a dulcet chime,
Made music ripple through his words;
His smile was born of summer-time,
His laughter woke the birds.
The regal summer comes again,
With all her tender heart aglow,
Comes with her sunshine and her rain,
Yet he who loved her so,
Makes nevermore a dulcet chime
With the sweet music of his words;
Nor smiles the smile of summer-time;
Nor wakes the singing birds.
Though all the woods are waving green,
And all the fields are fair with flowers,
The heavy clods do lie between
His loving heart and ours!
Where war's terrific thunder pealed,
Where foes an awful carnage make,
He perished on the gory field,-
Died for his country's sake!
Bowed low beneath this heavy cross,
Our souls cry out in dreadful pain,
For restitution for our loss-
In anguish for our slain!
Yet God knows best! The Nation's breath
Is troubled-and her life in doubt;
And heroes, through the gates of Death,
Must cast her devils out!
And when Oppression's upas tree
Lies stricken at its deepest root,
Then shall we say thy martyr blood,
Beloved, beareth fruit!
O, God! above his early grave
Send forth the waited-for decree;
Unloose the fetters of the slave,
Bring in the year of jubilee!
Macon, Mich. -Trumpet and Freeman.
AUTUMN.
Now sheaves are slanted to, the sun
Amid the golden meadows,
And little sun-tanned gleaners run
To cool them in their shadows;
The reaper binds the bearded ear,
And gathers in the golden year;
And where the sheaves are glancing,
The farmer's heart is dancing.
There pours a glory on the land,
Flashed down from Heaven's wide portals,
As Labor's hand grasps Beauty's hand
To vow good-will to mortals:
The golden year brings Beauty down,
To bless her with a marriage crown,
While Labor rises, gleaning
Her blessings and their meaning.
The work is done, the end is near,
Beat, Heart, to flute and tabor,
For Beauty, wedded to the Year,
Completes herself from Labor;
She dons her marriage gems, and then
She casts them off as gifts to men,
And sunbeam- like, if dimmer,
The fallen jewels glimmer.
There is a hush of joy and love,
Now giving hands have crowned us;
There is a heaven up above,
And a heaven here around us!
And Hope, her prophecies complete,
Creeps up to pray at Beauty's feet,
While with a thousand voices
The perfect earth rejoices!
When to the Autumn heaven, here
Its sister is replying,
'Tis sweet to think our golden year
Fulfils itself in dying;
That we shall find, poor things of breath,
Our own Soul's loveliness in death,
And leave, when God shall find us,
Our gathered gems behind us.
London Athenoeum
<c02>
The Liberator.
SLAVERY, AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS.
No. V.
BY JOSEPH F. BRENNAN, OF LOUISVILLE, KY.
In his speech in the Senate, on the 19th of May last, the Hon. Charles Sumner said, "God, in his beneficence, vouchsafes to nations as to individuals, opportunity, opportunity, opportunity, which, of all things, is most to be desired." We have arrived at a point in the history of this nation when the life or death of it is supended in the balance, and the solution we give, and give now, to the question of slavery, may turn the scale. It is not a question, therefore, to be postponed. God has now offered this nation the opportunity to settle it forever. There is a moral law in the universe stronger than the Constitution, even if it was all for slavery, against which neither the devices of politicians nor the strategy of Generals, neither armed hosts nor newly-invented artillery will prevail. They war in vain who war against opinion. No despot, even though backed by a million of bayonets and ten thousand siege guns, will finally prevail against the laws of God, or against the moral convictions of mankind. Those who want agitation to cease on this question, and who say, "Let us crush the rebellion first, and then settle the slavery question afterwards," might as well reason against the ceaseless ebb and flow of the sea and tides. It is not the few men who have for years spent themselves upon this question who agitate or convulse the nation. Save in the ideas they advocate, the most mighty orators would be powerless. It is God, the moral law of the universe, the awakening power of justice, the very logic of this Republic, that keeps up this agitation. You who would silence it might as well point your artillery against the red lightnings of heaven. Silence in any way you please the voices of those you call Abolitionists and abolition fanatics, and you will have done nothing to suppress agitation. Were these to hold their peace, the very stones would cry out. This spirit pervades this day the minds of three- fourths of the people of America. It cannot be restrained any more than the unborn child knocking at the door of its mother's womb, because the time for its deliverance has, in God's providence, come, and there is no alternative but to lighten the load of the oppressed and let the bond go free.
Now, as this spirit affects the disposition of the Border Slave States to be loyal or disloyal, their weight ought not to be thrown against it. The Government has been sufficiently embarrassed by its concessions to these States, and we shall consider it a cause of abundant thankfulness if its efforts to keep them in the Union do not involve the ultimate dismemberment of the Republic, and the acknowledgment of the independence of the Southern Confederacy. If these States were really loyal, the measure of emancipation, as it affects them only in the market for the future produce of slaves, should not drive them out of the Union; while, if they are at heart disloyal, and willing to stay in the Union only on condition that it adopt no measure not approved by them, the sooner they openly secede, the sooner would the people of the Free States believe, and be united in the belief, that slavery alone was at the bottom and top of the rebellion, and that only by abolishing slavery can the rebellion be crushed. The Government is either strong enough to maintain itself against any domestic combination, or it is not. If it is, these States can be subdued along with the other seceding States; if it is not, then let the government perish, for it is not worth sustaining. A government that, based upon the rights of man, can maintain itself only at the mercy or forbearance of a portion of its subjects, is no government at all. Its stability, its permanence, and its consistency depend on its ability to maintain itself according to its own Constitution and the rules of war, against every combination or domestic enemy that can possibly be armed for its destruction. These Border Slave States seem to imagine that the nation owes them a special debt of gratitude, because they did not openly secede with the other Slave States, and seem to forget that they stand upon the footing of all the States. They have been saved thus far by the arms of the States they by their assumption and arrogance insult, and if saved again, it will possibly be at some greater cost to themselves.
But we who hold and advocate emancipation as necessary to salvation are told that such a proposition will irritate the rebels, the slaveholders and their sympathizers., Granted. Then the more reason for having it effective. You might as well make a man your enemy at once as to prove to him you would do so, if you did not fear him. His pretensions will rise just as yours sink; and as for irritating Jeff. Davis & Co., you cannot do it. The firm is as mad now as it can be-so mad that they cannot discriminate between murder and the usages of war. There need be no fear of making them any more savage in their anger than they have proved themselves to be, and the only way of conciliating them is to do to them as they do to their own slaves, when they are sullen, spiteful or sulky-flog them, and flog them soundly. The law of force is the only law they respect; the only God they believe in, and the only God they have yet invoked, is the God of Battles. Leniency, forbearance, and the other evidences of a Christian spirit, are thrown away upon them, for they judge us by themselves, and they never coax when they can coerce. Our Government has from the start mistaken the nature of its enemy, and in endeavoring to conduct the war on humane principles, has been guilty of great inhumanity. Nothing would so much command the respect of the rebels, and dispose them to live upon terms of peace hereafter with us, as the immediate emancipation of their slaves. They know our principles require us to do it, and they despise us for not having the courage to act up to our principles.
But, it is said, many of our army, both officers and privates, would refuse to fight, if the Government was to free the slaves, as they would look upon the act as unconstitutional. Then, I say, let such officers resign and such privates be discharged. The duty of a soldier is to obey the law, and not to expound it. Fremont did not throw down his sword, when, after doing what he believed was right, he was rebuked, and his act annulled. Hunter did not resign, when, by the President's proclamation, his order was disallowed. No such anticipated result would follow. It is only men who are not soldiers, and who know nothing of the rules and discipline of war, who would believe or say such a result would follow the act of the Government declaring the slave free throughout the length and breadth of the land. Such an act would secure the aid of between two and three millions of people in the heart of the enemy's country, and thus withdraw that assistance from the rebels which is at present far more effective in their support than is our army in its attack. It would be striking a blow where there was no guard up, and that, too, in a vital point, and not at all calculated to result in the barbarous cruelty so confidently predicted by pro-slavery sympathizers and slaveholding Union men. An edict of emancipation reaching the slave only secures him his freedom upon his reaching the nearest line of the Union army. To leave his master's house and get to that line would be his first consideration, and his flight would be resisted but by the men, overseers or others, entrusted with the duty of preventing his running away. The dread of women and children being slaughtered, as the result of an edict of general emancipation, exists only in the brain of its opponents. A black man is no fonder of slaying women and children, for the mere love of seeing blood flow, than a white man, and certainly not so fond of it as some of the Southern white men Parson Brownlow tells about.
Finally, it is absolutely necessary that a distinct and unmistakable reason for this war on the part of our Government be announced, to prevent intervention by foreign powers. The object we are fighting for is not understood by foreign powers. They cannot see any sense in a war having for its object the forcing
<c03>
the people of nearly one half the States of America to accept, at the bayonet's point and the cannon's muzzle, a proposition of Union. But let our Government at once declare and prove by its declarations, that the war on its part is a war for the perpetuity of Republican institutions, and that its embattled hosts are fighting for freedom, liberty, and the rights of man, against anti-Republican and anti -Democratic institutions, the perpetuation of slavery, and the division of the territory of the United States, and the whole world will at once understand and rejoice, the oppressed and down-trodden of every land will cry, "God speed the right!" Such an annunciation as the reason for the blood shed and treasure wasted on our side would be acknowledged by the people every where as a just and good and sufficient cause for the present war; and no nation of the earth would dare interfere, as a nation, to assist, sanction and support the inhuman and unjust cause of our enemy.
We Americans call ourselves Christians. It is our boast. "Christianity," say the courts, "is the common law of the land." We have a religion which tells us God is the Father of all,-equal, just and loving to all mankind; to the red man whom we have driven from his home in the savannahs and everglades of the Southern land-to the black man, whom we have laid in irons, hurting his feet with fetters, and bowing his neck as that of a beast to the burden. This religion tells us all are brothers in the eye of God-all his children-African, American, red man, black and white. It tells us our highest duty is to love God with all our hearts, and all mankind, our neighbors, as ourselves; the more they need love, to love them yet the more; that without such love for men, there is no love for God. Such are the tenets, the great landmarks of our religion. What is a natural action in a savage, a mere mistake in a despot, with us becomes a conscious and a fearful wrong. When we remember the intelligence of this age, its accumulated stores of learning, science, art, wealth of matter and of mind, its knowledge of justice, and the unwavering certainty of God's laws,-when we consider that in political ideas we are looked upon as the vanguard of humanity,-when we bring home to our hearts the religion just enunciated and taught, as it is in that Bible which is laid up in our churches and closets, reverently sworn upon in our courts of justice, multiplied by millions by our Tract and Missionary Societies, and spread throughout the peopled world in every barbarous and stammering tongue,-and then remember that in the perpetuation of slavery, we practically deny the very landmarks of our religion, that here, right in our midst, between three and four millions of human souls are by Christian, Republican America held in bondage worse than pagan, ignorance worse than Egyptian, bodily servitude lifelong, and hopeless as hell, we must confess American slavery the most hideous and detestable sin ever perpetrated against God's law-the foulest wrong man ever did to man.
I am but a plain man, pretending to no knowledge beyond that accessible to all, nor gifts beyond those with which every man is endowed; but as a Christian, and believer in the truth of the promises and threatenings of God made known to us through His word, it is my solemn conviction, that if there ever was a war ordained of God for the punishment of a portion of his people who had grievously sinned before him, it is the American war of the present day. For eighty years, as an independent nation, we have been nursing a viper in our bosom; we have ignored religion, humanity, justice, that he might fatten upon the sweat and blood of the poor, the helpless and the oppressed. We have stood up in the face of the universe and defied the anger of the Almighty Jehovah to avenge this our sin, and we have found, at last, that God is not mocked. That viper has risen in his strength and attacked our very heart, and if we do not destroy his life, he will certainly destroy ours.

PRESENTATION OF A PORTRAIT TO A MASONIC GRAND LODGE.
The presentation of the portrait of JOHN T. HILTON to the Prince Hall Grand Lodge was an interesting occasion, and the following sketch of some of its features will, it is thought, prove acceptable to the readers of the Liberator.
The presentation took place on the evening of Sept.18th, in the Twelfth Baptist Church in this city, in the presence of a very large and intelligent audience. The exercises consisted of speeches, interspersed with prayers by the Chaplains, and select music by the Boston Quartette Club. Miss Rachel Washington acted as organist. The presentation speech was made by the Grand Treasurer, THOMAS DALTON, between whom and Mr. HILTON there has existed an uninterrupted friendship for many years, which pleasing fact furnished the speaker with a chain of reminiscences of the rare fidelity and sagacity which have adorned his Masonic and public career. At an appropriate stage in his remarks, a curtain was drawn aside, revealing to the audience a handsome and faithful portrait, executed by the young colored artist, WILLIAM H. SIMPSON, adorned with an elegant frame, the handiwork of a young colored gilder, JACOB R. ANDREWS, both of this city, which was greeted by the audience with a demonstration gratifying to all the parties concerned.
DR. JOHN V. DEGRASSE then delivered the reception speech, abounding with fine passages, from which we select the following:-
"I accept this very appropriate and to us invaluable gift in behalf of our Grand Lodge; a gift which reflects credit upon the good taste and judgment of the donors, and cannot but be complimentary to him whose lineaments the artist has so truthfully traced upon the canvas.
"With nations and societies, as with individuals, the portraits of those we love who have been most useful, and who have held our interests most dear, have always been cherished and esteemed. They are our Penates, to be preserved from generation to generation, and the first to be rescued in time of danger. Scarcely is there a house, a public hall, or a temple dedicated to our mystic art, that does not bear upon its walls the portraits of the great and good, who have been of greatest usefulness.
"To us, this portrait is invaluable, not only to remind us of the man whom we all esteem, and with whose life and character we are conversant, but to the young men who may have the good fortune to enter our sanctum sanctorum in after years, this picture can be pointed out, and we can tell them how faithful our friend and brother JOHN T. HILTON, was to the order for more than forty years, and urge upon them the ardor, zeal and constancy that characterized him, not only for what would benefit the craft, but the community at large."
Dr. DeGrasse was followed by ROBERT MORRIS, Esq., who, in addition to what specially concerned the Order, submitted these remarks, which found ready acceptance with the audience:-
"This is our first effort to transmit to posterity a portrait of any of our public men; I trust it may not be the last.
"I wish we could point to well executed likenesses of those old colored heroes of revolutionary memory, who so nobly, patriotically and willingly, side by side with their white brethren, fought, bled and died to secure freedom and independence to America.
"It would be a source of continual pleasure could we have in some public room pictures true to life of those intrepid heroes, Denmark Veazie and Nat. Turner, whose very names were a terror to oppressors; who, conceiving the sublime idea of freedom for themselves and their race, animated by a love of liberty of which they had been ruthlessly deprived, made an attempt to sever their bonds; and though in such attempts to open the prison doors of slavery and let the oppressed go free, they were unsuccessful, their efforts and determination were none the less noble and heroic. In the future history of our country, their names to us will shine as brightly as that of the glorious old hero who with his colored and white followers so strategically captured Harper's
<c04>
Ferry, and touched a cord in the life of our country that will vibrate throughout the land, and will not cease until the last fetter has been struck from the limbs of the last bondman in the nation; and though the bodies of these heroes lie mouldering in the clay, their souls are marching on.
"I never visit our 'Cradle of Liberty,' and look at the portraits that grace its walls, without thinking that the selection is sadly incomplete, because the picture of the massacred Crispus Attucks is not there. He was the first martyr in the Boston Massacre of March 5th, 1770, when the British soldiers were drawn up in line on King (now State) street, to intimidate the Boston populace. On that eventful day, a band of patriots, led by Attucks, marched from Dock Square to drive the red coats from the vicinity of the old State House. Emboldened by the courageous conduct of this colored hero, the band pressed forward, and in attempting to wrest a musket from one of the British soldiers, Attucks was shot. His was the first blood that crimsoned the pavement of King street, and by the sacrifice of his life, he awoke that fiery hatred of British oppression which culminated in the Declaration of American Independence. At this late day, a portrait of this hero cannot be had, but our children will live to see the day when the people of this Commonwealth, mindful of their deep and lasting obligation, will through their Legislature appropriate a sufficient sum wherewith to erect a suitable monument to preserve the memory of Attucks, and mark the spot where he fell.
"It is a fact worthy to be noted and remembered, that as at the commencement of the war with Great Britain, the first blood shed was that of a colored man, so the first person wounded in the present rebellious contest was a colored man, a cook in the employ of one of the military companies from Pennsylvania, who was hit on the head by a brickbat with such force as to draw blood, in Baltimore, twenty-four hours before our glorious Massachusetts Sixth passed through that city on its way to Washington; and when this man arrived at our national capital, his face was covered with blood; and as in every truthful picture of the Boston Massacre, a black man must be placed in a conspicuous position, so in every faithful representation of the Baltimore Massacre, on the 19th of April, 1861, a colored man must be placed in the foreground,-thus proving the negro's omnipresence in these historical scenes which make the country great and reflect credit on its national character."
"Twenty-five years ago, I was an office-boy in the employ of Ellis Gray Loring, Esq., one of the firmest and most consistent anti-slavery men this country has produced. He did not content himself with merely talking against slavery, but deemed it necessary to go further and practise what he preached-to prove his faith by his works. In those dark and troublous times, when but few men or women had the moral and physical courage openly to declare themselves Abolitionists, when their peaceful meetings were disgracefully mobbed, their printing-offices forcibly entered and their property destroyed, by men of wealth, influence and power, and our great pioneer in the Anti-Slavery cause in America was, like a more ancient worthy, let down from his office window in a basket, and compelled to seek an asylum within the walls of our common jail, as the only safe refuge from an infuriated mob,-at a time when it was dangerous for a white man to utter a word of sympathy for a brother with a skin not colored like his own, this good man showed his firm adhesion to principle by placing a colored boy in his office, to fit him for those pursuits from which public opinion had proscribed him. His work is completed. He manfully performed his duty, and has gone to enjoy the reward of the faithful prepared for them above.
"In our outside office, for years, the Board of Managers of the Massachusetts Anti-Slavery Society held their business meetings. Among the faithful leaders of the cause at that day-Garrison, Jackson, Loring, Phillips, Quincy, Philbrick, Mrs. Chapman, Mrs. Child, and others-always appeared another, whose counsel was sought and appreciated, and who discussed the very difficult phases of the question then involved in their arrangements. No one shrank from him; but, on the contrary, several times, when some most important measure was under consideration, I well remember being sent to Brattle street to request his presence, that his opinion might be obtained prior to a final decision. This man was our brother, JOHN T. HILTON. By his unassuming manners, dignified and manly character, he won the esteem and confidence of those anti-slavery leaders, upon whose wisdom we can always rely, and to whom, in cases of difficulty and doubt, we never apply for aid or counsel in vain."
Mr. Morris also referred in fitting terms to the efforts of Mr. Hilton in the Equal School Rights movement, and his promotion of various literary and benevolent organizations.
The response of Mr. Hilton conferred honor upon his head and heart. He reciprocated the fraternal expressions of the several speakers, and reviewed the history of that struggle with American colorphobia which as Masons they had been subjected to from those whose professions of the mystic tie should have made them one in fellowship. His acknowledgment of the prominence assigned him in the exercises was hearty and eloquent, his allusions to the portrait and the artists very happy, and, indeed, his entire address was beautiful in conception and most felicitous in delivery.
While the audience were manifesting their approval of the tribute, Mr. FRANCIS P. CLARY arose, and, in behalf of several brethren, presented a valuable Masonic jewel to Mr. LEWIS HAYDEN, who, both by his speech and manner of acceptance, gave proof that the donor's intentions were realized in having caused him an agreeable surprise.
This mental feast having been concluded, a large portion of the audience repaired to the vestry, where an excellent entertainment contributed its quota towards a happy finale to the programme; and the Committee of Arrangements, of which Mr. Nelson L. Perkins was Chairman, must have felt satisfied with the success which crowned their efforts.
Boston, Sept. 20th, 1862. W. C. N.

LECTURES BY JEFF. DAVIS'S COACHMAN.
FRIEND GARRISON,-Wm. A. Jackson, formerly the coachman of Jefferson Davis, who made his escape from Richmond a short time since, spoke in the Salem Baptist meeting-house on Friday evening last. Owing to the very short notice of the meeting, the attendance was not large, but all who favored him with their presence on that occasion were very highly pleased with the address.
On Sunday evening, the 21st inst., Mr. Jackson spoke at Fairhaven, in the Rev. Mr. Willard's church, which is the largest church in the town. Long before the appointed hour for the meeting, the house was filled to overflowing. The Reverend gentleman introduced Mr. Jackson .to his congregation in such praiseworthy manner as I presume never will be forgotten by the speaker or those who heard him. Mr. Jackson commenced speaking about 7 ½ o'clock, and continued until 9. During the whole time, not one person left the house. No better attention could have been paid to the most profound speaker of the age; and, to prove how highly his address was appreciated, after it was concluded, a large contribution was taken up and presented to the speaker.
Mr. Jackson, with a little instruction, cannot fail to be of great service in helping forward the accomplishment of that glorious victory for which you and your coadjutors have been so long contending. He wants education to make him a very useful man among his colored brethren. He was not at all backward in telling the people, on Sunday evening last, why this rebellion was not put down: because, he said, we will not do the will of God. Until that is done, we may never hope to accomplish any great, good or glorious result. He says the slaves down South had been waiting for the Proclamation of Emancipation long
<c05>
before he left the South, and when that was issued, the slaves were ready to a man to put their shoulders to the great Union wheel of this nation, which would result in the utter destruction of the rebellion before the new year should dawn upon the heads of this guilty people.
Mr. Jackson has left a good impression both in New Bedford and Fairhaven. God speed him in this great and glorious cause, until peace and union shall be established upon the fundamental basis of liberty to every man, woman and child throughout the land!
WM. H. JOHNSON.
New Bedford, Sept 24, 1862.
TO ABRAHAM LINCOLN,
ON HIS DEMAND FOR 300,000 MEN.
We're coming, Father Abraham, we're coming all along-
But don't you think you're coming it yourself a little strong?
Three hundred thousand might be called a pretty tidy figure-
We've sent you nearly white enough; why don't you take the nigger?
Consider, Father Abraham, and give the thing a thought-
This war has just attained four times the longitude it ought;
And all the bills at ninety days as you have draw'd so free,
Have been dishonored, Abraham, as punctual as could be.
We've fought, old Father Abraham, and fought uncommon bold,
And gained amazing victories, or so at least we're told;
And having whipped the rebels for a twelvemonth and a day,
We nearly found them liquoring in Washington in May.
Now, really, Father Abraham, this here's the extra ounce,
And we are almost sick, you see, of such almighty bounce;
We ain't afraid of being killed at proper times and seasons,
But it's aggravating to be killed for Mac's strategic reasons.
If you'd be so obliging, Father Abraham, as to write 
To any foreign potentate, and put the thing polite,
And make him loan a General as knows the way to lead,
We'd come and list. Jerusalem and snakes! we would, indeed.
But as the matter stands, Old Abe, we've this opinion, some,
If you say " Come," as citizens of course we're bound to come;
But then we want to win, you see: if strategy prevents,
We wish you'd use the nigger for these here experiments.
Hereditary bondsman, he should just be made to know
He'd convenience us uncommon if he' take and strike a blow;
The man as will not fight for freedom isn't worth a cuss,
And it's better using niggers up than citizens like us.
So, Father Abraham, if you please, in this here game of chess,
You'd better take the black men against the white, I guess;
And if you work the niggers off before rebellion's slain,
Which surely ain't expectable, apply to us again.
-London Punch.
Mr. Punch will rejoice to learn that Mr. Lincoln, (his fellow-joker,) seeing he cannot put down the rebellion without, has resolved to "take the nigger."

TRAIN'S TROUBLES.
One of the most painful delusions of the day is that of Mr. George Francis Train, who imagines that the restoration of the American Union depends upon his eloquence. He isn't the first man who has mistaken volubility for value, and a flux of words for cogency of argument. A mountebank may prattle in a fair from morn till dewey eve, but it is only to fools that he sells his corn-plasters and cough-drops. He may, no doubt, be overheard by many wise men, but that does not make his medicines infallible, as he would have you believe; nor does the fact that Mr. Train writes to the newspapers prove that he is a statesman, for men who are forever writing to the newspapers are always in danger of bringing up in a mad-house. If Mr. Train could only for a moment comprehend how infinitely silly his productions appear to sensible men, he would, we think, be mortified into something like reason, and would write no more letters like this absurd one now before us, which is addressed to Charles Sumner and others, and which begins fiercely: "Conspirators!" As a general rule, we suspect that a man who writes confirmed slip-slop, and is never easy unless he is gyrating absurdly through all the gymnastics of rhetoric, is hardly a safe person to call to the rescue of an empire. It may be prudently presumed that a Senator of the United States is in no need of Mr. George Francis Train's instruction, and is quite above his reprehension-and, for that matter, of his comprehension also. Mr. Train's only retort must be, "Well, neither does the Honorable Senator comprehend me!"-and, for Mr. Train, the reply would be uncommonly just and sensible.
Mr. Train charges the gentlemen to whom he addresses this lurid letter with " a damnable conspiracy against three races of men "-against the Irish," by placing an inferior race alongside of them in the cornfield," and against the negroes, who will all be murdered by their masters, according to G. F. T., unless the Abolitionists cease their provocations. But one of Train's vaticinations fortunately knocks the other in the head. If the negroes are all to be murdered by their desperate masters, may not the fastidious George spare himself all painful apprehensions of anybody being compelled to work alongside the black in any cornfield or other field in this hemisphere? Massacred negroes don't dig, to the best of our knowledge, Mr. Train!
There is a race of men-it is that to which Mr. Train belongs-who make a living, not by hoeing and digging, but by gabbling about the infinite superiority of being white-by denouncing those who cannot see the exquisite equity of human servitude- by lecturing on Politics as other men lecture on Mesmerism and Table-Tipping-who convert their country's agony into a raree-show, and go about entertaining people with the public misfortunes-who achieve notoriety by rehashing stale platitudes and rejuvenating venerable libels-who were unknown yesterday, are only notorious to-day, and will be forgotten to-morrow-and to this race, negro emancipation will prove fatal, for it will ruin their business, which is that of frightening honest folk and manufacturing bugbears. Mr. George Francis Train must not think that we mean to be disrespectful. On the contrary, when we put him in this race, we are paying him the greatest compliment of all he ever received in his life, if we except those which he has paid to himself. We are ranking him with Doctors of Divinity and Members of Congress, and Ethnologists and Politicians of the most venerable variety, who, when Emancipation has finished them, will hail him as a humble brother in misfortune, and will go hand in hand with him to oblivion!
It may be a satisfaction to the Cabinet to know that Mr. Train, in this very letter, announces his generous attention of standing by it to the end. He professes the most unbounded affection for Mr. Seward; but if that gentleman be as shrewd as he has the reputation of being, he will hasten to beseech Mr. Train to write no more letters. It isn't every Administration that can stand Mr. Train's admiration. And so much for George Francis!
Mr. George Francis Train, in his very dignified and eloquent address at the Academy of Music, has ruined the reputation of the English nation, beyond possibility of recovery. What Emerson, Margaret Fuller, Hawthorne, Longfellow, and hundreds of other prejudiced: observers, failed to perceive, Mr. Train's eagle eye discovered, and his eloquent mouth proclaims,-the barbarism of a people who have the greatest living literature of the world, the rottenuess of a nation whose power; is felt on every sea, whose commerce embraces the earth!
The attitude of England towards the United States did not predispose us to look kindly on her institutions; but we really had no idea that any civilized nation could be so utterly corrupt as England must be, if all that Mr. Train says be true. That it is true, how can we doubt? for did not the Londoners refuse to accept Mr. Train's system of passenger -
<c06>
railroads, and was not Mr. Train arrested for debt on British soil? It is possible that Mr. Train himself was not fully aware of the rottenness of the nation, till it was revealed to him through it base ingratitude.
However this may be, Mr. Train is entitled to the fame of a discoverer. It is no matter how he found out that England is a "gigantic sham; that her people have neither brains, pluck, nor money;" it is enough that he asserts this, and proves it to his own satisfaction by asserting it again and again.
Reading over Mr. Train's speech, we find that the gist of it may be thus summed up:-
"England is a sham, a gigantic sham. Her people have neither brains, pluck, nor money, and I can prove it."
"The English are a nation of cowards, and have been all along. I have discovered it. "
"We are the most unassuming people in the world."
"The Church of England, I believe, exhibits lower grade of morality than can be found in <illegible> other class of men on the face of the globe."
"The English are the most immoral race on the face of the globe, and how they dare to mention even the name of virtue, I do not understand. The whole marriage form in England is a sham. Their system is neither more nor less than legal prostitution. How dare such a people talk of virtue? We are the most virtuous race on the face of the world."
"One of the hopes of my life is to see an Irishman on the throne of England."
"The English are a nation of drunkards. The Englishman is made up of so many cubic inches of mutton chops and so many quarts of beer."
"We are a superior race. Our men are more <illegible> and moral, our women more virtuous and beautiful. On arriving here, I could hardly resist the temptation of kissing almost every woman I met. Although I am a married man, "my enthusiasm almost boiled over, I was so delighted to get among a nation whose women have little hands and little feet. I had got tired of seeing so much beer walking the streets on the other side of the water."
"I recommend that for the next six months the newspapers exclude all English articles and all English news."
"I have come back from England with a magnificent idea of my own abilities, and I am going to take the field against Wendell Phillips, if he is willing to risk the encounter. Charles Sumner shall not go back to the United States Senate, if my efforts can prevent it."
This is an able speech, and it is gratifying to know that its author has a magnificent idea of his own abilities. America has been fortunate in having Mr. Train in England as a self-constituted representative of her intelligence and refinement. It is a pity that we have not two such men; but perhaps Providence is of opinion that one is as many as we deserve. But let us all rejoice that the country which has given the world Shakespeare. <illegible> Newton, Burke, Goldsmith, Carlyle, and hundreds of other men great in literature, science and politics, is at last so low. The disgraceful ambition of England to lead the civilization of the world has men the reward of all selfishness, and the countrymen of Cromwell have become a nation of cowards, <illegible and drunkards. The men are idiotic paupers and the ladies big-footed beer barrels. "I tell you so," says Mr. Train.- Philadelphia City Item.
$40 PARKER $40
Sewing Machines,
PRICE FORTY DOLLARS.
THIS is a new style, first class, double thread, <illegible> Machine, made and licensed under the patents <illegible> Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, and in construction is the best combination of the various patents owned and used by these parties, and the patents of the Parker Sewing Company. They were awarded a <illegible> Medal at the last Fair of the Mechanics' Charitable Association, and are the best finished and most substantially made Family Machines now in the market.
Sales Room, 188 Washington street.
GEO. E. LEONARD, Agent.
Agents wanted everywhere.
All kinds of Sewing Machine work done at short <illegible>
Boston, Jan. 18, 1861. 3m.

IMPORTANT TESTIMONY.
Report of the Judges of the last Fair of the massachets.
Charitable Mechanic Association.
"F OUR PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES. This Machine so constructed that it embraces the combinations of the various patents owned and used by Elias Howe., Jr., Wheels<W> & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, for which these parties <illegible>. These together with Parker's improvements make it a beautiful Machine. They arc are .sold from <illegible> $120 each. They are very perfect in their mechanism being adjusted before leaving the manufactory, in such a manner that they cannot get deranged. The feed, which is a very essential point in a good Machine, is simple, <illegible> and complete. The apparatus for guaging the length of stitch is very simple and effective. The tension, as well as other parts, is well arranged. There is another features which strikes your committee favorably, viz: there is <illegible> wheel below the table between the standards, to come in contact with the dress of the operator, and therefore no danger from oil or dirt. This machine makes the double lock-stitch, but is so arranged that it lays the ridge upon, the back quite flat and smooth, doing away, in a great measure, with the objection sometimes urged on that account."

PARKER'S SEWING MACHINES have many qualities that recommend them to use in families. The several parts are pinned together, so that it is always adjusted and ready for work, and not liable to get out of repair. It is the best finished, and most firmly and substantially made machine in the Fair. Its motions are all positive, its <illegible> easily adjusted, and it leaves no ridge on the back of the work. It will hem, fell, stitch, run, bind and gather, and the work cannot be ripped, except designedly. It sews from common spools, with silk, linen or cotton, with equal facility. The stitch made upon this machine was recently awarded the first prize at the Tennessee. State Fair, for its superiority.-Boston Traveller.
We would call the attention of our readers to the advertisement, in another column, of the Parker Sewing Machine. This is a licensed machine, being a combination of the various patents of Howe, Wheeler & Wilson, and Grover & Baker, with those of the Parker Sewing Machine Company: consequently, it has the advantage of such machines-first, in being a licensed machine; second, from the fact that it embraces all of the most important improvements which have heretofore been made in Sewing Machines; third, it requires no readjustment, all the various parts being made right and pinned together, instead of being adjusted by screws, thus avoiding all liability of get- ting out of order without actually breaking them; and also the necessity of the purchaser learning, as with others, how to regulate all the various motions to the machine. The favor with which the Parker Sewing Machine has already been received by the public warrants us in the belief that it is by far the best machine now in market. South Reading Gazette, Nov. 24, 1860.
THE PARKER SEWING MACHINE is taking the lead in the market. For the beauty and finish of its workmanship, it cannot be excelled. It is well and strongly made-strength and utility combined-and is emphatically the cheapest and best machine now made. The ladies are delighted with it, and when consulted, invariably give Parker's machine the preference over all others. We are pleased to learn that the gentlemanly Agent, GEORGE E. LEONARD, 188 Washington street, Boston, has a large number of orders for these machines, and sells them as fast as they can be manufactured, notwithstanding the dullness of the times, and while other manufacturers have almost wholly suspended operations. This fact, of itself, speaks more strongly in its favor than any thing we can mention; for were it not of its superior merits, it would have suffered from the general depression, instead of flourishing among the wrecks of its rivals. What we tell you is no fiction; but go and buy one of them, and you will say that "half of its good qualities had never been told you." Every man who regards the health and happiness of his wife should buy one of these machines to assist her in lessening life's toilsome ask.-Marlboro' Gazette, July 13, 1861.

ICH DIEN
GLOBE HOTEL,
WILLIAM P. POWELL, PROPRIETOR,
2 DOVER STREET (near Franklin Square)
NEW YORK
